BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                         10-707

                                                                          13 SEPTEMBER 2013
                                                                 Certified Current 16 May 2014
                                                                                     Operations

                                                          AIR COMBAT COMMAND (ACC)
                                                    ELECTRONIC ATTACK TRAINING AND
                                                         EMISSIONS CONTROL (EMCON)
                                                                       PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A3IE                                                      Certified by: HQ ACC/A3I
                                                                    (Colonel Steven E. Erickson)
                                                                                       Pages: 30
Supersedes:    ACCI 10-707, 4 August 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-7, Information Operations,
and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-706, Electronic Warfare (EW). It defines and establishes
procedures for accomplishing electronic attack (EA) training activity. This instruction defines
and establishes procedures for accomplishing electronic attack (EA) training activity. It outlines
Air Combat Command's (ACC) EW Emissions Control (EMCON) policy (Chapter 5) which
applies to all ACC wings and gained units accomplishing active EA training. This instruction
applies to all ACC wings, gained units, Electronic Scoring Sites (ESSs), other Electronic Combat
(EC) ranges, and operating locations. It is applicable to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members. This instruction is applicable to Air Force
Global Strike Command (AFGSC) and Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) units
and aircraft operating over ACC ESS, EC ranges and operating locations. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them according to
the AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS). The reporting requirements in this publication are exempt from licensing in accordance
with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms
847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command (HQ ACC/A3IE, 205
 2                                                                            ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


Dodd Blvd, Suite 101, Langley AFB VA 23665-2789). Wings may supplement this instruction.
Send proposed supplements to this instruction to Headquarters (HQ) Air Combat Command
(ACC) Information Operations Division, Electronic Warfare Branch (ACC/A3IE) Joint Base
Langley-Eustis, VA 23665; E-mail to acc.dozo.iwo@langley.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes to this
Instruction includes the updated change to the Combat Shield Mission changing from an
assessment to an evaluation per ACC/CC direction (Chapter 6). Additional changes from
bottom-line coordination have been incorporated.


      1.     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                    3
      2.     ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW) TRAINING. ...................................................                               9
      3.     PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCTING EA TRAINING. ......................................                                      10
      4.     PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCTING EXPENDABLE ACTIVITY. .................                                                   15
      5.     PEACETIME ELECTRONIC ATTACK EMISSION CONTROL (EMCON)
             PROCEDURES. ....................................................................................................   17
      6.     COMBAT SHIELD ELECTRONIC WARFARE EVALUATION PROGRAM.                                                               19
      7.     EA TRAINING POD EMCON PROCEDURES. ..................................................                               21
      8.     MOVEMENT OF ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS. ................................                                           23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                  26

Attachment 2—EW EQUIPMENT CHECK GUIDANCE (CAF AIRCRAFT)                                                                         29
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   3




1. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
  1.1. General. This chapter defines the requirements and responsibilities of those responsible
  for all levels of Electronic Warfare (EW) operations.
  1.2. Commanders at All Levels:
     1.2.1. Maintain EW combat readiness by ensuring their personnel receive realistic,
     recurring training on EW equipment, EW equipment operations, in-flight and ground
     simulator EW focused scenarios. Also, commanders shall attend the EW portion of the
     annual Weapons and Tactics (WEPTAC) conference and obtain exercise
     commander/staff experience in areas emphasizing the employment of EW.
     1.2.2. Deploy available EW assets to include training support equipment and
     expendables on unit deployments, when possible.
     1.2.3. Identify intelligence requirements and integrate them into EW training programs.
  1.3. Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Operations Directorate (HQ ACC/A3): A3
  retains oversight over all operational and training requirements for EW but has delegated the
  specific duties to ACC/A3A, ACC/A3I and ACC/A3T.
     1.3.1. HQ ACC/A3A will:
         1.3.1.1. Provide administrative and management guidance to MAJCOM EW ranges
         to ensure they provide a realistic environment that supports combat readiness training
         requirements.
         1.3.1.2. Initiate an overall EW range development strategy that will:
             1.3.1.2.1. Ensure EW range capabilities will meet CAF long-term training
             objectives.
             1.3.1.2.2. Prioritize and align EW range improvements to stated objectives.
             1.3.1.2.3. Include a mission statement for each EW range.
             1.3.1.2.4. Direct the movement and control of EW range threat systems to meet
             operational training requirements.
             1.3.1.2.5. Ensure procedures are established and published for conducting and
             providing feedback for EW training on MAJCOM ranges (as applicable).
     1.3.2. HQ ACC/A3I will:
         1.3.2.1. Develop concepts and procedures for the command and control of Electronic
         Attack (EA)/Electronic Protection (EP) assets.
         1.3.2.2. Direct the movement and control of EA/EP equipment/systems and support
         equipment to meet operational and test requirements.
         1.3.2.3. Identify, document and correct EW system deficiencies.
         1.3.2.4. Direct the appropriate EA/EP capability when coordinating requirements for
         electronic, radar, communication, and weapon system training and testing.
4                                                     ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


       1.3.2.5. Ensure EA/EP is an integral part of combat operations, contingency plans,
       and training exercises.
       1.3.2.6. Establish ACC Emission Control (EMCON) procedures to prevent the
       interception and exploitation of ACC aircraft EA/EP radiations and tactics.
       1.3.2.7. Direct and approve the use of operational and training EA/EP software and
       mission data for training, exercises, and operational missions.
       1.3.2.8. Direct inputs for EA/EP tactics development to the appropriate center.
          1.3.2.8.1. Ensure EA/EP tactics are adequately tested and integrated into training
          and combat plans.
          1.3.2.8.2. Ensure tactics are incorporated in applicable volumes of the Air Force
          Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1 volume set.
       1.3.2.9. Ensure allocation of EA training pods to enable ACC flying units to
       accomplish required EA/EP training during air-to-air sorties.
       1.3.2.10. Ensure EW training and assessments are incorporated into RED FLAG
       exercises to the maximum extent possible.
       1.3.2.11. Ensure CAF frequency clearance requests for operational checks of EW
       equipment are submitted IAW CJCSM 3212.02.
       1.3.2.12. Solicit quotas for ACC, AETC, Joint, and Combined EW training courses,
       as applicable. Distribute schedule and course allocations.
       1.3.2.13. Ensure EW is integrated into the annual WEPTAC conference.
       1.3.2.14. Act as lead command for the sustainment of multi-platform common EW
       systems.
       1.3.2.15. Oversee Combat Shield Electronic Warfare Evaluation Program.
    1.3.3. HQ ACC/A3T will:
       1.3.3.1. Ensure EW training requirements are incorporated in applicable publications
       to include course syllabi and 10/11-series publications.
       1.3.3.2. Coordinate and review ground and airborne EW training programs.
       1.3.3.3. Determine EW training deficiencies and formulate solutions.
       1.3.3.4. Develop EW training concepts to support weapon system training programs
       and ensure EW configuration in aircrew training devices are compatible with aircraft
       configurations.
       1.3.3.5. Ensure part-task trainers, aircrew training devices, range threat simulators,
       MAJCOM EW ranges, and all Air Combat Maneuverability and Instrumentation
       (ACMI) ranges are integrated into a cohesive EW training system.
       1.3.3.6. Coordinate with 53 EWG, 16 EWS Combat Shield leadership on training and
       exercise results for annual WSEP brief to COMACC. Coordinate with ACC/A3I, HQ
       ACC Combat Shield Program office,.
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 5


        1.3.3.7. Manage and allocate CAF expendables for training, testing, and operational
        use.
        1.3.3.8. Acting as lead organization for ACC WEPTAC, incorporate EW Mission
        Area Working Group (MAWG) into annual conference.
  1.4. HQ ACC Directorate of Logistics (HQ ACC/A4):
     1.4.1. Provide a continuing maintenance capability to support unit allocation of EW
     equipment to include deployed and bare base operations.
     1.4.2. Ensure maintenance personnel are adequately trained.
  1.5. ACC Plans,      Requirements,    Programs,    and    Assessments      Directorate   (HQ
  ACC/A5/A8/A9):
     1.5.1. Plan, program, and coordinate EW equipment into the CAF inventory.
     1.5.2. Document EW system deficiencies during the acquisition process and take action
     to correct deficiencies in conjunction with A3.
     1.5.3. Lead command representative for the acquisition and upgrade of EW systems for
     multiplatform common EW systems. This ensures interoperability and standardization in
     training concepts or materials, requirements for acquisition or modification of systems,
     and reprogramming efforts.
     1.5.4. In coordination with A3 and A4, develop, evaluate, and monitor requirements
     documents for ACC EW systems, support equipment, range threat simulators and all
     ACMI ranges, and EW simulation/training equipment.
     1.5.5. Ensure requirements for new simulators and other training devices include EW
     equipment and manpower.
     1.5.6. Define, advocate, and direct the acquisition, sustainment, and modernization of
     EW systems, platforms, equipment, and support assets. Ensure those systems are
     included in, and funded through, the Core Function Master Plan process.
  1.6. Component Numbered Air Forces (NAFs):
     1.6.1. Act as the focal point for Joint Suppression of Enemy Air Defense (JSEAD),
     Information Operations tactics, concepts of operation, campaign plans, and air tasking
     order development efforts for their Area of Responsibility (AOR).
     1.6.2. Manage EW aircraft and self-protection system deployment/support issues for
     their AOR.
     1.6.3. Oversee operational and exercise EW system reprogramming efforts for units
     deployed to their AOR.
     1.6.4. Coordinate frequency de-confliction efforts for their AOR.
     1.6.5. Provide inputs to Exercise/Operational Plan EW appendices for their AOR.
     1.6.6. Coordinate intelligence support for EW planning for their AOR.
     1.6.7. Identify EW manpower requirements for deployment manning documents.
6                                                       ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


       1.6.8. Coordinate EW activities with allied nations in support of exercises and
       contingency operations within their AOR.
       1.6.9. Submit requests for allocations of ACC and AETC EW course quotas for NAF
       headquarters personnel to ACC.
    1.7. United States Air Force Warfare Center (USAFWC):
       1.7.1. Obtain and coordinate ground and air frequencies clearance for EA activity and
       chaff clearances for center flying operations and maintenance programs IAW CJCSM
       3212.02.
       1.7.2. Identify potential EW equipment requirements to ACC.
       1.7.3. Conduct EW testing as directed by ACC. These tests will be tasked via ACC’s
       Test Prioritization List (TPL) or via direct taskings from ACC.
       1.7.4. Conduct RED FLAG exercises and ensure EW training and evaluations (EWEP)
       are incorporated into every exercise.
       1.7.5. Develop, evaluate, document, and disseminate EW employment tactics/techniques.
       1.7.6. Manage the range assets in support of unit and HQ ACC training, testing,
       competition, and exercise requirements.
       1.7.7. Manage and conduct ACC-directed EW Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E)
       and Test Design and Evaluation (TD&E) programs.
       1.7.8. Submit requests for allocations of ACC and AETC EW course quotas for center
       personnel.
       1.7.9. Provide EW academic training.
    1.8. 53d Electronic Warfare Group (53 EWG):
       1.8.1. Program, test and field mission data (MD) for CAF EW systems IAW AFI 10-703.
       1.8.2. Serve as the CAF EW subject matter expert and focal point for mission data
       related issues.
       1.8.3. Manage the COMBAT SHIELD Electronic Warfare Evaluation Program (EWEP).
       1.8.4. Provide an EW assessment team for RED FLAG exercises.
    1.9. Wing Electronic Warfare Officer:
       1.9.1. The Wing EWO position is the term used for those officers fulfilling the role as
       their Wing/Group/Squadron’s EW point of contact.
       1.9.2. The Wing EWO duty will be performed by an Electronic Warfare Officer (EWO),
       a Weapons Systems Officer (WSO), a Combat Systems Officer (CSO), an Electronic
       Countermeasures Pilot (ECP), an Air Battle Manager, a Navigator or an Air Surveillance
       Officer/Technician.
       1.9.3. The Wing EWO is the best-qualified individual to fulfill the duties of
       implementing AFI 10-706, AFI 10-703, aircraft-specific series EW requirements, and this
       instruction.
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                7


     1.9.4. The Wing EWO will be the graduate of the appropriate training course(s) (Air
     Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA):
        1.9.4.1. Fighter Wing EWOs will be a graduate of the Fighter Electronic Combat
        Officer Course (FECOC) and should be a graduate of the EWCC (SV8ES).
        1.9.4.2. Wing EWOs will be a graduate of the EWCC (SV8ES).
        1.9.4.3. Compass Call Wing EWOs will be EWOs and should attend EWCC
        (SV8ES).
        1.9.4.4. Theater Air Control System (TACS) Wing/Group EWOs should attend
        IEWC (BV7CE).
        1.9.4.5. TACS and CC Wing EWOs should attend Weapons Controller EP
        Operations or EWCC.
        1.9.4.6. Rescue Wing EWOs shall attend the IEWC (BV7CE).
        1.9.4.7. The Mobility Electronic Combat Officer Course (MECOC) is an acceptable
        substitute for IEWC, if IEWC is unavailable.
        1.9.4.8. Airborne Warning and Control Systems (AWACS)/Joint Surveillance Target
        Attack Radar Systems (JSTARS) Wing EWOs will be a graduate of the EWCC
        (SV8ES).
  1.10. ACC CAF Wings/Groups:
     1.10.1. Where authorized manpower positions, or authorized variances exist (i.e.,
     bomber, fighter, and rescue wings/groups); establish a Wing EWO office with a full time
     Wing EWO within the operations support squadron (OSS), tactics and training flight
     (OSK or equivalent), which will be the unit's single point of contact for EW matters.
     Where authorized manpower positions or authorized variances do not exist; a
     Wing/Group EWO should be assigned as an additional duty within the OSS to act as the
     unit's single point of contact for EW matters until a manpower position is authorized, if
     required by workload. If assigned as an additional duty, the Wing EWO should be the
     only additional duty performed by this individual.
     1.10.2. Where possible, an alternate Wing EWO should also be assigned to ensure
     continuity during deployments, contingencies, exercises, etc. Where no Wing structure
     exists, a Group or Squadron EWO will assume Wing EWO responsibilities.
     1.10.3. Wing/Group shall enable EWOs to attend the annual CAFEWC that is
     administered by the 53d EWG, 68th EWS.
     1.10.4. Submit requests for allocations of ACC and AETC EW course quotas for
     Wing/Group personnel IAW AFI 36-2201 Vol 2_ACCSUP, Air Force Training
     Program. ACC Wing Training Managers should submit a prioritized list of their
     respective Wing's nominations to HQ ACC/A3I. Submit nominations by message to HQ
     ACC LANGLEY AFB VA//A3IX//, FAX DSN 574-7926, or e-mail to ACC/A3I
     Information Operations (accdoz@langley.af.mil).
  1.11. Wing EWO Duties:
8                                                      ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


    1.11.1. Establish guidelines and directives governing procedures, training, and
    administration of EW programs.
    1.11.2. Establish EW programs closely associated with the unit's weapons and tactics
    program.
    1.11.3. Monitor and identify all deficiencies particular to EW.
    1.11.4. Manage and prepare guidance for the unit EW programs to include applicable
    training, tactics development, and employment IAW AFI 11-2MDS volume sets and this
    instruction.
    1.11.5. Conduct the unit EW program. Overall program management will be the
    responsibility of the OSS. A continuity book will be developed and maintained to allow
    seamless assumption of duties due to deployments or PCSs.
    1.11.6. Maintain a reference library of applicable manuals, instructions, tests, EWIR
    message traffic, IG reports, and a current list of operations and training for each
    wing/group/squadron assigned EW system.
    1.11.7. Ensure aircrews are informed of current EW equipment capabilities via all source
    materials (i.e. Pacer Ware messages, test plans/reports, EC Mission Guides, System
    Handbooks, and AFTTP publications).
    1.11.8. Coordinate with the unit training officer and unit intelligence to develop lesson
    plans for EW academic, simulator, and flying instruction for initial qualification,
    continuation/refresher, instructor upgrade, and verification/certification training IAW
    AFI 11-2MDS volume sets.
    1.11.9. Establish and coordinate unit weapons and EW range flight profiles with other
    staff agencies and range operations personnel.
    1.11.10. Monitor the progress of EW academic, simulator, hands-on, and flying training.
    Ensure adequacy of training and the appropriate documentation is accomplished.
    1.11.11. Coordinate requirements for EW clearances                and   aircraft   equipment
    configurations with staff agencies for EW training programs.
    1.11.12. Assist sponsored ANG/AFRC units to conduct EW training, as required.
    1.11.13. Coordinate COMBAT SHIELD EWEP visit’s to support Wing/Group
    requirements.
    1.11.14. Ensure all available training assets (internal, ranges, ALQ-188, ACaP and
    "FLAGs") are utilized to the maximum extent possible.
    1.11.15. Act as the Wing focal point for Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming
    (EWIR) procedures IAW AFI 10-703. Develop and implement local procedures for
    alerting appropriate personnel of reprogramming changes and for coordinating and
    implementing those changes.
    1.11.16. Ensure ACC and reprogramming centers are updated annually on current POCs
    for EWIR (PACER WARE/SERENE BYTE) message traffic and data. Develop and
    implement procedures for use of the Multi-Service Data Distribution System (MSDDS),
    ensuring that EWIR data is updated weekly
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 9


     1.11.17. Monitor operational/maintenance status of unit possessed EW equipment.
     Report discrepancies via RAMPOD, as applicable . In conjunction with maintenance,
     develop local tracking procedures to document current EW equipment status and required
     interval checks.
     1.11.18. Ensure aircrew participation in maintenance-established jammers/EA
     pods/RWR/Mode IV pre-launch checks. Coordinate the development of checklists with
     operations and maintenance groups.
     1.11.19. Maintain EW equipment fault trend analysis in coordination with avionics
     maintenance personnel and brief aircrews on corrective operational procedures. Identify
     and report deficiencies in EW equipment and normal operation procedures to HQ
     ACC/A3I. HQ ACC/A3I will forward applicable maintenance trend analysis data to HQ
     ACC/A4 Workflow for dissemination to their appropriate divisions.
     1.11.20. Interact with scheduling and maintenance to ensure aircraft reflect required
     configurations for EW training/ranges, in-flight equipment checks, and training exercises.
     1.11.21. Ensure unit electromagnetic interference (EMI) incidents are investigated and
     reported. Accomplished reports IAW AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution
     Program, and coordinate with the installation spectrum manager.
     1.11.22. Ensure requests for jamming and chaff clearances for operational checks of EW
     equipment are submitted through HQ ACC/A3I IAW CJCSM 3212.02, Performing
     Electronic Attack in the United States and Canada for Tests, Training, and Exercises. For
     OCONUS operations, in addition to CJCSM 3212.02, ensure theater-specific procedures
     are followed
     1.11.23. Wing/Group EWOs shall attend the annual CAFEWC that is administered by
     the 53 EWG, 68th EWS.
2. ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW) TRAINING.
  2.1. General. This chapter delineates EW training requirements for all ACC CAFs.
  2.2. EW Operational Training Concept. The primary goal for EW operational training is to
  TRAIN LIKE WE FIGHT by maintaining a high state of readiness through active and
  integrated EW training programs. This applies to all aircrews, logistics support, and TACS
  personnel assigned to ACC, the ANG, and the AFRC units. Airpower will be tasked into
  threat environments ranging from permissive to intensely hostile. Our EW capabilities must
  be available to deny, disrupt and degrade hostile command and control, air defense systems,
  and provide self-protection survivability of personnel and aircraft systems. We must also be
  able to operate in the face of an adversary who is employing EW (EP and/or EA) against our
  forces.
     2.2.1. "TRAIN LIKE WE FIGHT" by using all forms of electronic warfare (i.e., pods,
     chaff, flares, IR jammers, RWRs, etc.) on every combat training sortie.
     2.2.2. Where shortfalls exist (i.e., training requirements, ranges, EW equipment, EW
     software/Mission Data (MD), etc.) that do not allow the performance of EW training
     activity, identify and send these shortfalls to ACC for resolution.
10                                                         ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


        2.2.3. Initial and continuation EW training will be incorporated into peacetime training
        programs and exercises at all levels of command to ensure the maximum degree of
        readiness.
        2.2.4. The unit commander is responsible for the unit's EW training program, to include
        academic instruction, controlled hands-on environment training (e.g., simulators, part-
        task trainers, training aids, etc.), deployment preparation training, and flying training.
        2.2.5. Specialized EW courses should be used to ensure the standardization of EW
        instruction at the wing, group and unit levels.
     2.3. Aircrew EW Training:
        2.3.1. All aircrews will be trained in enemy threat environment capabilities and maintain
        proficiency in the operation of EW equipment tactics, techniques, and procedures
        (TTPs).Training will consist of a mix of ground, simulator, and flying training (focused
        on as the unit’s mission and wartime OPLAN taskings).
        2.3.2. EW training programs must be conducted on a regular basis. Training
        requirements will be as directed in aircraft specific 11-series publications and Ready
        Aircrew Program tasking.
        2.3.3. EW Instructors. The Wing or Group/Squadron EWO is responsible for ensuring
        EW academics are taught by only the most highly qualified instructors in that EW area of
        expertise. EWOs/WSOs/CSOs identified as academic instructors will be upgraded
        according to the appropriate procedures in the aircraft-specific AFI 11-2MDS volume set
        and applicable MDS syllabi. Personnel other than EWOs identified as unit EW academic
        instructors should be fully qualified IAW this instruction.
     2.4. TACS Unit EW Training:
        2.4.1. EW training will be conducted IAW AFI 13-113 Vol 1, Tactical Air Control Party
        (TACP) and Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) Training Program; and this
        instruction.
        2.4.2. EW Instructors. The Wing EWO is responsible for ensuring EW academics are
        taught by knowledgeable instructor.
     2.5. Commander EW Training:
        2.5.1. Commanders should attend or have attended the Introduction to Electronic
        Warfare Course (IEWC) (BV7CE).
3. PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCTING EA TRAINING.
  3.1. General. This chapter establishes procedures for accomplishing EA activity against
  Electronic Scoring Site (ESS) facilities and Electronic Combat Ranges (ECR). It applies to
  all ACC wings, gained units, and using CAF aircraft participating in active EA training
  activity.
  3.2. Responsibilities:
        3.2.1. Wing/Groups/Squadrons must ensure that:
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                11


         3.2.1.1. All crew members conducting EA are familiar with CJCSM 3212.02,
         AFTTP 3-1 (appropriate volumes), AFI 11-215, AFI 11-2MDSV1, this instruction,
         applicable ACC supplements, and applicable EA system handbooks.
         3.2.1.2. EA activity is conducted according to this instruction.
     3.2.2. ESS/ECR. Each ESS and ECR will:
         3.2.2.1. Ensure EA activity is conducted IAW this instruction and other ACC
         directives.
         3.2.2.2. Ensure facilities are maintained to conduct the activity described in this
         instruction.
         3.2.2.3. Provide aircrew EA training that simulates actual threat engagements as
         closely as possible by following prescribed actual threat engagement procedures and
         tactics.
         3.2.2.4. Submit frequency clearance requirements to the cognizant frequency
         manager for EA activity conducted at ESS / ECR facilities. Once approved,
         authorized air frequencies for individual ESS facilities must be made available to all
         flying units that conduct active EA.
  3.3. Terms and Equipment:
     3.3.1. ESS Activities:
         3.3.1.1. A run accomplished at an ESS or Primary Training Range (PTR) equipped
         with MUTES, JTE, or any system designed to emit multiple signals at the same time;
         designed to provide aircrew training against airborne interceptors, SAMs, AAA,
         EW/GCI, naval threats, U.S. and western threats in a dense threat environment.
         3.3.1.2. Multiple Threat Run (MTR). A run at any appropriate equipped range
         designed to train aircrews to penetrate a dense threat area defended by various
         combinations of Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM), Anti-Aircraft Artillery (AAA), and
         Airborne Interceptor (AI) defenses. An MTR will have several threats of various
         types.
         3.3.1.3. Passive EA Runs. EA activity for an aircraft that may or may not be capable
         of conducting actual EA. It provides a flexible signal environment for signal
         recognition. No later than the IP, aircrews should request a passive EA run with
         individual signals or a precoordinated scenario.
     3.3.2. Simulated Equipment Malfunction Runs (SEMR). Wings are highly encouraged to
     conduct EA activity with simulated EW system malfunctions. SEMRs will not be
     scheduled on higher headquarters directed (HHD) missions or accomplished on in-flight
     evaluations - scheduled or no-notice. The ESS must be advised of SEMR no later than the
     IP call if not previously pre-coordinated.
  3.4. General Procedures:
     3.4.1. Command procedures described in applicable volumes of AFTTP 3-1, EA Mission
     Guides, and EA system handbooks provide aircrews with the best possible information
     available for countering threats. These procedures and tactics must be continually
12                                                        ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


     emphasized and used within peacetime constraints. The use of unproven or unauthorized
     guidance jeopardizes training effectiveness and negatively reinforces the application of
     these guidelines in a combat environment.
     3.4.2. Aircrews should attempt EA runs concurrent with bomb runs when possible.
        3.4.2.1. EA scenario descriptions can be found at the following web site:
        https://wwwmil.nellis.af.mil/units/range/default.htm . Click on EW scenarios
        hyperlink. If the NIPRNET site is down, the scenarios can be found on the SIPRNET
        at http://www.nellis.af.smil.mil/units/range/riis and assistance can also be obtained
        by calling the NTTR/DOOS RIIS Operations Center at DSN 348-5604 / 5601.
        3.4.2.2. When EA runs are performed in formation, all aircraft will be subject to
        threats. Aircraft will counter all non-restricted threats provided by the site. All aircraft
        may take credit for the run providing each aircraft detects and counters (as
        appropriate) the signal environment.
        3.4.2.3. Non-concurrent high altitude EA runs must start from an IP of not less than
        50 NM from the ESS and should continue to within 5 NM for fidelity but no closer
        than 3 NM of the site due to site aircraft tracking limitations.
     3.4.3. Crews will plan each training run as if they are conducting the attack in a combat
     situation. Transmitters will be preset, search procedures in place, EW transmitter
     allocation applied, crew coordination conducted, and Fence Checks complete along with
     employing tactics that must simulate combat conditions. Aircrews will preset equipment
     and react to simulated threat signals according to applicable volumes of AFTTP 3-1,
     appropriate technical orders, applicable EA Mission Guides, and/or EA system
     handbooks, and local directives. Low level EA training tactics will reflect terrain
     following procedures, regardless of actual altitude flown by aircrews during the training
     mission.
     3.4.4. EA run vulnerability will be from initial engagement until site and/or aircraft
     termination and will be based on current frequency clearance restrictions.
        3.4.4.1. Aircrews will provide the site with sufficient notice and information to
        ensure the proper feedback of EA activity.
        3.4.4.2. EA requests should be passed to the site via electronic means during mission
        planning.
        3.4.4.3. Attempt to contact the site and confirm requested activity prior to the IP.
        3.4.4.4. For RI/NORIs, specific EA activity will not be requested.
     3.4.5. If EA is not requested in advance, the site may determine the band and type of
     activity to be conducted, depending on the equipment available, and according to the
     following instructions:
        3.4.5.1. MUTES capable sites will provide a scenario other than maximum
        proficiency and practice RI/NORI scenarios. The scenario will start once the MUTES
        acquire the aircraft. If the site controls Mini-MUTES pedestals, its personnel will
        select Mini-MUTES scenarios compatible with the MUTES scenario selected.
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 13


        3.4.5.2. Sites equipped with Mini-MUTES only will select any scenario other than a
        maximum proficiency scenario. The selection will be based on the operational
        capability of the site.
     3.4.6. Aircrews will counter appropriate EW, GCI, and acquisition signals (if capable) in
     conjunction with the threats. Active countermeasures will be initiated against signals per
     the EA system handbook, applicable volumes of AFTTP 3-1 volume set, and airborne EA
     frequency authorizations. Terminate any acquisition jamming interference which causes
     ineffective communications.
     3.4.7. When the aircrew establishes radio contact, they will confirm the activity
     previously scheduled via electronic means.
        3.4.7.1. Feedback recording begins when both any threat radar in the scenario first
        becomes a threat to the aircraft, and the aircraft is within the site's frequency
        clearance range.
        3.4.7.2. Termination will be before the IP of the next inbound EA run. Aircrews
        should be aware EA runs may be compressed or terminated early to allow site to set
        up for subsequent runs.
            3.4.7.2.1. Aircrew will not radiate until within the frequency-cleared area around
            the site. Refer to each site's specific frequency clearance. Exception: Radiation
            outside site-specific cleared area is authorized provided cleared frequencies exist.
            Refer to ACC/A3I guidance for current clearances.
        3.4.7.3. MUTES/TRAINS-equipped sites will not engage the aircraft until an EA
        request is received from the aircrew. The site will make every effort to provide
        feedback for the EA run.
     3.4.8. During EA runs, IFF/SIF modes and codes must be used in accordance with ATC
     instructions or as directed by the site or communications plan. Specific EA requests and
     coordinated Mode 3 codes, made in advance, are especially important at Mini-MUTES
     equipped sites, since Mini-MUTES pedestals can engage the aircraft long before the IP or
     UHF radio range. The site needs valid Mode 3 to provide feedback to the aircrews. Other
     aircraft in the formation may squawk Mode 3 STBY if authorized by ARTCC.
     3.4.9. Immediate feedback may be requested by asking for the presence/absence of
     "music" from the MUTES and TRAINS sites. This "music" checks request should be
     made at the initial call in to ensure the viewing of the requested signal by TRAINS
     operators.
  3.5. MUTES Procedures and Scenarios:
     3.5.1. Aircrews should request desired EA activity at MUTES or Mini-MUTES sites via
     electronic means during mission planning. Advance EA requests are imperative for Mini-
     MUTES activity. Due to the locations of remote Mini-MUTES pedestals, the aircraft may
     be engaged prior to the Initial Point (IP). If the EA request is not made in advance, the
     aircrew may receive incorrect or unwanted activity.
     3.5.2. Aircrews have the following request options:
14                                                          ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


           3.5.2.1. Requesting "MUTES EA," will result in a site-selected scenario being
           presented, to include locally generated scenarios. Mini MUTES sites will select a
           compatible scenario for each pedestal. Maximum proficiency and practice RI/NORI
           scenarios will be presented only if specifically requested.
           3.5.2.2. Requesting a type of scenario, for example, "Tango."
           3.5.2.3. Requesting a specific scenario, for example, "Tango 02."
           3.5.2.4. Requesting the pre-coordinated scenario, for example, "Aircraft Call Sign
           01."
        3.5.3. Reporting will be unclassified using the MUTES signal number published by 98
        OSS RIIS Operations Center.
        3.5.4. MUTES Scenarios: Wing EWOs are responsible for ensuring specific scenarios
        are available to meet training requirements. Scenarios can be found on the Nellis website
        (https://wwwmil.nellis.af.mil/units/range),” “The scenarios are also located on the
        SIPRNET at http://www.nellis.af.smil.mil/units/range/riis. HQ ACC encourages
        feedback on developed scenarios which may enhance training. If developed scenarios do
        not meet training requirements, Wing EWOs will submit requests to HQ ACC/A3IE for
        action. HQ ACC/A3IE will coordinate with HQ ACC/A3T and submit scenario requests
        to HQ ACC/A3A for implementation.
        3.5.5. Maximum Proficiency Scenarios. These scenarios simulate penetration and
        withdrawal of areas heavily defended by naval, strategic, tactical, and airborne defenses
        while over water coastal, and target areas. These scenarios are designed to provide a
        challenge for experienced aircrews and increase their proficiency against multiple threats.
        The Wing EWO will make the determination to allow credit based on the signal
        environment.
     3.6. Mini-MUTES Procedures and Scenarios:
        3.6.1. The AN/MST-T1(V) Mini-MUTES is a smaller, more mobile version of the MST-
        T1A MUTES. There are seven Mini-MUTES configurations (pedestals), which combine
        transmitters identical to those used in the MUTES. Each pedestal is designed to simulate
        only a particular family of threat or acquisition signals and is referred to by letter: B, C,
        G, H, K, L, or M.
        3.6.2. Scheduling:
           3.6.2.1. Schedule Mini-MUTES via electronic requests during mission planning.
           3.6.2.2. Aircrews not desiring Mini-MUTES during an EA run will stipulate
           "MUTES ONLY" after their MUTES scenario request via electronic means on
           mission planning day.
           3.6.2.3. If MUTES are inoperable at a MUTES and Mini-MUTES-configured site,
           Mini-MUTES sites may schedule and present scenarios on a stand-alone basis.
  3.7. Multiple Threat Run Procedures. Aircrews may take credit for an MTR whenever an
  appropriate signal environment is encountered. Only MUTES maximum proficiency, practice
  RI/NORI scenarios, MUTES combined with Mini-MUTES scenarios, and EA activity at
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 15


  ranges (e.g., RED FLAG) are MTR-creditable. The Wing ECO will make the determination
  to allow credit based on the signal environment.
4. PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCTING EXPENDABLE ACTIVITY.
  4.1. General. This chapter establishes procedures for expendable training activity. All ACC
  wings and ACC-gained units and crew members must comply with the applicable paragraphs
  of this chapter.
  4.2. Responsibilities. Wings must ensure that:
     4.2.1. All personnel concerned are familiar with AFI 10-706, AFI 11-214, AFI 11-215,
     CJCSM 3212.02, and this instruction.
     4.2.2. In compliance with CJCSM 3212.02, chaff will not be dropped in the U.S. except
     in those ranges, areas, routes, or military operating areas (MOA) that have been
     environmentally assessed. Environmental assessed areas are available through the HQ
     ACC/A3IE web site (https://a3.acc.af.mil/doz/doze/).
         4.2.2.1. Per letter of agreement (LOA) or letter of procedure (LOP) with the special
         use airspace controlling agency (usually an air traffic control agency) provide
         chaff/flare activity/information as required.
  4.3. Chaff Drop Activity:
     4.3.1. Requirements to drop chaff.
         4.3.1.1. Environmental clearance, recommend a completed AF Form 813, request for
         environmental action.
         4.3.1.2. Frequency clearance IAW CJCSM 3212.02.
     4.3.2. Training chaff (RR-112 or RR-188) will normally be loaded and expended in a
     manner reflective of the combat environment being emulated for all training exercises.
     Clearances for dropping RR-112 and RR-188 are located on HQ ACC/A3IE web site
     (https://a3.acc.af.mil/doz/doze/). New requests must follow the established approval
     process. The flight should coordinate with the FAA. For air-to-air training, procedures
     will be accomplished per AFI 11-214. If training chaff is not available, wings may load
     and dispense RR-ZZZ, RR-170, or RR-180 chaff during training exercises whenever
     frequency and range clearances permit. Dispensing will be per the EA Mission Guides
     and the applicable volume of AFTTP 3-1. Failure to dispense chaff due to FAA, airspace,
     or environmental restrictions does not constitute loss of the air-to-air training exercise.
     4.3.3. The Wing EWO will develop local procedures to check aircraft chaff systems as
     required.
     4.3.4. AFI 13-212, Range Supplement should be reviewed annually.
  4.4. Flare Drop Activity:
     4.4.1. Conduct live flare drop activity only in authorized special use airspace contained
     in current FLIP planning documents and overwater firing areas.
         4.4.1.1. Special Use Airspace. Contact HQ ACC/A3AA, DSN 574-3169, for
         information on special use airspace.
16                                                       ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


        4.4.1.2. Restricted Areas. Restricted Areas may be used for flare drops provided the
        controlling agency has issued written permission on a case-by-case basis. For
        environmental clearance, recommend a completed AF Form 813, request for
        environmental action.
        4.4.1.3. Overwater. When impractical to overfly an authorized special use airspace
        (Whiskey Areas) or restricted areas, flare drops may be conducted overwater (other
        than inland water). The area will be at least 50 nautical miles from all shores and at
        least 25 nautical miles from established airways and corridors listed in current
        aeronautical charts or oceanic area operating instructions. Furthermore, take care not
        to drop flares through another aircraft’s altitude.
     4.4.2. Procedures:
        4.4.2.1. Wings will comply with AFI 11-214.
     4.4.3. Safety Precautions:
        4.4.3.1. Ensure appropriate flare switches are in the off or safe position and circuit
        breakers (if applicable) are pulled until the aircraft is over the approved flare drop
        area.
        4.4.3.2. Flare activity will be suspended or terminated whenever the aircrew is
        unable to sufficiently ensure safe conduct of the activity.
     4.4.4. Communications:
        4.4.4.1. Before entering the airspace, the aircrew must contact the controlling agency
        and provide the following information:
            4.4.4.1.1. Type aircraft.
            4.4.4.1.2. Proposed drop altitude.
            4.4.4.1.3. Type training to be conducted.
        4.4.4.2. The aircrew must contact the controlling agency before entering and
        departing the airspace.
     4.4.5. In case of an inadvertent flare drop, take the following actions:
        4.4.5.1. Immediately safe the applicable system by all available means.
        4.4.5.2. The aircrew must immediately notify air traffic control of the incidence's
        nature, location, and estimated damage (if any observed).
        4.4.5.3. Record the time and geographic coordinates of the inadvertent release.
        4.4.5.4. The unit to which the aircrew is assigned is responsible for complying with
        the applicable portions of AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints, as
        supplemented, and other applicable air-craft specific directives that apply to this
        instruction.
        4.4.5.5. AFI 13-212, Range Supplement should be reviewed annually.
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  17


5. PEACETIME       ELECTRONIC          ATTACK        EMISSION        CONTROL         (EMCON)
PROCEDURES.
  5.1. General. This chapter establishes procedures for protecting ACC's wartime EC
  capabilities from hostile exploitation. It applies to all ACC wings and gained units
  participating in EA training and exercises worldwide. The guidelines set forth in this chapter
  take precedence over ACC EA activities conducted in conjunction with ACC or joint
  exercises, tests, etc.
  5.2. Terms:
     5.2.1. EA Training. Any active transmission of electronic countermeasures in reaction to
     simulated threat radars or friendly radar systems for the purpose of peacetime training.
     5.2.2. TMDF. Training mission data file.
     5.2.3. OMDF. Operational mission data file.
  5.3. EA EMCON Guidance:
     5.3.1. The purpose of ACC's EA EMCON procedures is to prevent the hostile collection
     of wartime EA equipment settings, operations, and techniques that could compromise
     ACC's wartime capabilities and war plans. Wing EWOs will ensure their unit follows
     EMCON procedures established in this instruction both in and outside the CONUS. The
     53 EWG will develop training and/or exercise data/tapes with "generic" techniques, or
     less capable variations of combat settings, for use at ESSs, ranges, and OCONUS.
     “Special” EA air-to-air training ECM techniques may also be developed to significantly
     degrade blue radar performance. Special EA air-to-air training techniques emanating
     from blue EA jammers have open air restrictions and will be treated the same way as
     combat techniques from an EMCON perspective. Both EMCON and OPCON procedures
     must be followed IAW para 7.4.2.2 to protect potential vulnerabilities to blue radar
     systems being jammed with special EA techniques from blue ECM systems.
     5.3.2. The following applies for all CONUS exercises and lead-in/continuation training
     and testing on EA ranges:
         5.3.2.1. Air-to-Ground Testing and Training:
             5.3.2.1.1. Nevada Test and Training Range (NTTR), Utah Test and Training
             Range (UTTR), and Eglin ranges are operated under controlled conditions and
             have specific procedures in place to preclude possible compromise. Only with an
             approved test plan will radiation of current combat or newly developed combat
             EA settings be authorized in support of testing (DT&E, IOT&E, QOT&E, FDE,
             and FOT&E).
             5.3.2.1.2. Wartime/combat settings and special EA air-to-air training techniques
             in software reprogrammable EW systems will not be used on any training mission
             or on any range unless written authorization is received from HQ ACC/A3I.
             Request will be made via SIPRNET (acc.a3ie@langley.af.smil.mil) NLT 30 days
             prior to the sortie. Wartime/combat settings or special EA air-to-air training
             techniques will not be used at Nellis during exercises with foreign participation in
             any capacity.
18                                                    ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


            5.3.2.1.2.1. The following information will be submitted to HQ ACC/A3IE
            for use of war tapes:
              5.3.2.1.2.1.1. Requests must include:
                  5.3.2.1.2.1.1.1. Date.
                  5.3.2.1.2.1.1.2. Time.
                  5.3.2.1.2.1.1.3. Area.
                  5.3.2.1.2.1.1.4. Type aircraft.
                  5.3.2.1.2.1.1.5. Number of aircraft.
                  5.3.2.1.2.1.1.6. Number of sorties.
                  5.3.2.1.2.1.1.7. Which tape(s)/MD is being requested.
                  5.3.2.1.2.1.1.8. What are the desired training results? Training gained
                  must be balanced against possible exploitation.
            5.3.2.1.2.2. In addition, planners must ensure the following:
              5.3.2.1.2.2.1. Aircrews must ensure their respective transmit switches are
              not placed to transmit outside applicable airspace.
              5.3.2.1.2.2.2. Follow all CJCSM 3212.02 frequency restrictions as well as
              EMCON procedures contained in this instruction.
              5.3.2.1.2.2.3. Unit will notify HQ ACC/A3IE if any EW system is placed to
              transmit outside applicable airspace.
              5.3.2.1.2.2.4. [NTTR] Units must ensure EMCON procedures are active
              during their use of the applicable airspace. Also, the non-encrypted
              microwave link must not be operating.
              5.3.2.1.2.2.5. Ensure no foreigners are able to view jamming/jamming
              effectiveness against ground threats.
              5.3.2.1.2.2.6. Unit must contact USSTRATCOM Indications and Warning
              Center, http://www.SMARTTRAN.STRATCOM.SMIL.MIL/satran.asp
              for satellite advance notice (SATRAN) information.
              5.3.2.1.2.2.7. Approval will be predicated on:
                  5.3.2.1.2.2.7.1. Mission ready aircrews being in the seat during all
                  sorties with the operational EC tape/MD loaded.
                  5.3.2.1.2.2.7.2. Feedback to HQ ACC/A3IE in the form of an after
                  action report no later than 10 days after the exercise.
                  5.3.2.1.2.2.7.3. Compliance with the EMCON procedures in this
                  instruction. SIPRNET address is (acc.a3ie@langley.af.smil.mil).
     5.3.2.2. Air-to-Air Training (Fighters):
        5.3.2.2.1. USAF Warfare Center will develop EA training settings.
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               19


             5.3.2.2.2. Maximum use of training pods (i.e., ALQ-188) for this training is
             preferred.
     5.3.3. Operation of the ALQ-131, ALQ-135, ALQ-161, and the ALQ-184. These are
     authorized for worldwide EW training and exercise purposes only if training MD is
     uploaded.
     5.3.4. EA Operations Outside the CONUS. Units will apply to HQ ACC/A3IE for
     approval.
6. COMBAT SHIELD ELECTRONIC WARFARE EVALUATION PROGRAM.
  6.1. General. COMBAT SHIELD (CS) evaluates the combat readiness of specified
  electronic warfare (EW) equipment in the combat air force (CAF) by means of a series of
  scheduled unit visits IAW AFI 10-706, Electronic Warfare Operations, and this instruction.
  The 53 EWG/CC is designated as the ACC/A3I Executive Agent for all CS activities and
  will establish a COMBAT SHIELD Office (CSO) within the 16th Electronic Warfare
  Squadron (16 EWS) to provide functional management and reporting of CS activities. CS is a
  mandatory annual evaluation; wing commanders will support the execution of this program
  to the maximum extent possible.
  6.2. Purpose. CS evaluations are conducted to document EW defensive system readiness as
  directed by AFI 10-706 and “report results through MAJCOM to Air Staff A3/5 annually.” In
  addition, CS evaluations provide on-site analysis and feedback on the readiness of unit EW
  systems, assist unit personnel in identifying EW system discrepancies, and provide unit
  commanders with recommendations on how to improve operations and maintenance
  processes related to EW system readiness.
  6.3. Scheduling. ACC units employing EW systems on weapons platforms will be scheduled
  for CS evaluations annually. The CSO will coordinate with CAF wings to create and publish
  an annual CS master schedule NLT 1 Jul each year for the following FY. The CS master
  schedule will combine CS visits geographically to preserve resources and avoid hazardous
  seasonal road conditions. To this end, the CSO may require a home-station visit prior to the
  end of the 12-month window following a unit’s previous evaluation; units should anticipate
  their next home-station evaluation accordingly. Using the current CAF Aviation Schedule
  (https://cafsipt.langley.af.smil.mil), the CSO will deconflict unit long-range schedules
  (deployments, inspections, major exercises, etc.) to optimize resource effectiveness. The
  CSO will coordinate all CONUS evaluations through MAJCOM IG Gatekeepers, IAW AFI
  90-201, The Air Force Inspection System (Initial scheduling and Gatekeeper coordination of
  USAFE and PACAF assessments will be led by USAFE and PACAF A3s). Following
  Gatekeeper approval, the CSO will contact each wing (electronic warfare officer/electronic
  combat pilot and maintenance POC) well in advance of the evaluation to begin detailed
  coordination. Requests to defer or cancel CS evaluations must be forwarded by the wing
  commander or designated representative to the CSO; the CSO will forward requests to
  appropriate MAJCOM directorates for consideration.
  6.4. CS Evaluation Venues. CS supports AFI 10-706 requirements through home-station
  (wing) evaluations. The home-station venue provides the most in-depth feedback to host
  units, focusing on the operations and maintenance processes that underpin system readiness.
  CS teams also conduct evaluations during RED FLAG exercises and Weapons System
20                                                     ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


  Evaluation Program (WSEP) events. RED FLAG and COMBAT ARCHER participants will
  deploy to these venues prepared to support CS activities as requested by the CSO. CS
  evaluations at other venues may be conducted on a by-request basis for non-CAF units or as
  directed by HQ ACC. CS may provide support to other MAJCOMs (PACAF/USAFE) on a
  fee-for-service basis. CS will also support non-CAF training units by request, resources
  permitting.
         6.4.1.1. RED FLAG. CS assessments are coordinated through project managers at
         RED FLAG planning conferences, and are in accordance with COMACC EXPLAN
         80. Ground checks begin the weekend prior to exercise start. The participating unit
         commander will receive both the CS inbrief and outbrief.
         6.4.1.2. Weapon System Evaluation Program (WSEP). CS evaluations accomplished
         during WSEP events are coordinated with the 53d Weapons Evaluation Group
         (WEG) project manager. CS team members, working with the participating unit’s
         maintenance team, accomplish ramp checks during non-flying periods. The
         participating unit commander receives both the CS inbrief and outbrief.
  6.5. CS Mission Execution.
     6.5.1. Goal. The goal of CS is to improve the combat readiness of CAF EW systems.
     6.5.2. EW Systems Evaluated. CS evaluations are conducted on FMC radar warning
     receivers (RWR), electronic countermeasures (ECM) pods, internal countermeasures
     systems (ICS), and HARM Targeting System (HTS) pods which do not have an internal
     end-to-end system check capability. Where applicable, these systems will be evaluated in
     combat configuration, loaded with combat mission data sets (MDS). Additionally, CS
     evaluates the status of EW system support and diagnostic equipment.
         6.5.2.1. Standards. RWRs and jammers are assessed on the ramp for the purposes of
         evaluating capability to accurately detect, identify, process, and respond to threat
         signals. RWRs must display the proper symbology and jammers must respond with
         the appropriate countermeasures technique. The checks are designed to evaluate
         hardware and software performance for selected signals in all bands and represent a
         sample of current adversary threats. Units will make available 100% of FMC RWRs
         capable of complete system checkout; a minimum of 75% of EW FMC aircraft will
         be configured with EA pods if applicable. All systems evaluations are pass/fail;
         systems must accurately process all transmitted threats to be considered passing.
         6.5.2.2. CS Equipment. CS evaluations will be conducted using the USM-642
         RAVEN Test Set, the HARM Targeting System (HTS) Pod Test Set, and applicable
         antenna coupler sets for each EW systems tested. The CSO will publish CS test
         parameters to the CS SIPRNet website (http://www.53wg.eglin.af.smil.mil/ewap).
     6.5.3. CS Process Evaluation. CS will conduct interviews with host unit operations and
     maintenance personnel to compare local processes against best practices from across the
     CAF. CS will request detailed historical information from systems such as the Integrated
     Maintenance Data System, the Joint Service Electronic Systems Tester (JSECST)
     automated test log, or from local trackers for inclusion in the final report.
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   21


  6.6. Reporting. CS evaluation results are archived and retained for the life of the program by
  the CSO. After each evaluation, the CSO will submit directly to MAJCOM HQ and the host
  unit wing commander a final report on unit EW system status and related operations and
  maintenance process findings. The report will attribute all findings and a specific grading
  criteria will be determined by HQ ACC/A3I and /or Combat Shield. In the event the CS
  tester (USM-642 RAVEN) leads to a negative finding, host units may provide the most
  recent USM-670 Joint Service Electronic Combat Systems Tester (JSECST) log test data and
  other applicable maintenance data for consideration and inclusion in the final report.
  Additionally, if host unit maintainers cannot duplicate findings with their JSECST (on a non-
  interference basis with CS during the evaluation) the unit may report the conflicting results to
  HQ ACC/A3IE for resolution.
     6.6.1. Unit Inbrief/Outbrief. The CS mission director will inbrief the host wing
     commander (or designated representative) on the CS program and set expectations for the
     evaluation. An outbrief detailing evaluation results, significant observations, trends, and
     recommendations will be presented to the host wing commander (or designated
     representative) at the end of each unit’s CS evaluation. A copy of each unit outbrief will
     be provided to HQ ACC/A3IE and HQ ACC/A4 Workflow within seven business days of
     the unit outbrief. Unit commanders will provide responses to any findings, to include
     appropriate corrective actions to HQ ACC/A3IE and HQ ACC/A4 Workflow within 45
     days of receipt of the final report.
     6.6.2. Quarterly Reports. Composite and unit-specific CAF results as well as EW
     system-specific results will be reported directly to ACC/A3I electronically at the end of
     each of the first three quarters for trend information (fourth quarter results will be
     included in annual report). These quarterly Quick Looks will be dispatched NLT the 30th
     of the month following the end of reported quarter. HQ ACC/A3IE will coordinate these
     reports through HQ ACC/A4 Workflow.
     6.6.3. Annual Reports. The CSO will prepare an annual report summarizing results and
     observations for the fiscal year. This report is forwarded directly to ACC/A3IE
     electronically for review and submission to HQ USAF per AFI 10-706. HQ ACC/A3IE
     will coordinate these reports through HQ ACC/A4 Workflow.
     6.6.4. Annual Briefing. The CSO will prepare a briefing based on all evaluations for the
     previous FY. This CS annual report will be briefed as a part of the annual WSEP
     briefings presented to COMACC, followed by presentation to the CSAF and SECAF.
     The CSO will coordinate the annual briefing with HQ ACC/A3IE before presenting to
     COMACC. This briefing will also be presented to the PACAF and USAFE Commanders.
     The CSO will coordinate with HQ ACC/A3IE for a more detailed, program level annual
     briefing for ACC/A3. HQ ACC/A3IE will coordinate the CS annual report briefing
     throughout the staff prior to the CS presentation to ACC/A3.
     6.6.5. Supplemental Reports. Observations and concerns of a perishable nature will be
     reported directly to ACC/A3IE for disposition to the staff as required.
7. EA TRAINING POD EMCON PROCEDURES.
  7.1. General. This chapter establishes EA training pod EMCON procedures, outlines the EA
  Training Pod Program, support group, and procurement procedures.
22                                                      ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


  7.2. Overview. The AN/ALQ-188 (V) is the USAF dedicated Electronic Protection (EP)
  training pod system. The Advanced Capabilities Pod (ACaP) is a dedicated aggressor
  training asset based at Nellis AFB and Eielson AFB. The ALQ-188 was developed to provide
  aircrews the tools necessary to enhance the probability of mission success and survival in a
  hostile Electronic Attack (EA) environment. The ACaP was procured to provide additional
  EA training.
     7.2.1. The AN/ALQ-188 simulates known EA threats for aircrew EA/EP training and
     weapons system development. It can also emulate observed and postulated threats for
     research and development, weapons system evaluation, and operational flight program
     validations. The AN/ALQ-188 aircrew handbooks and user’s guides are available on the
     53 WG SIPRnet website “ewtoolbox.eglin.af.smil.mil” under the handbook’s pull down
     menu.
     7.2.2. The AN/ALQ-188 (V) is a fully programmable EA training pod capable of
     generating up to 30 noise/deception EA techniques. It is lightweight, and flight-certified
     to aircraft stores limits on the F-15/F-16, with a mean time between failure (MTBF)
     exceeding 300 hours. It has both forward and rear transmit and receive antennas that are
     controlled from the cockpit by a C-9492A/B Control Indicator and the AN/ALQ-213(V)
     Countermeasures Set (CMS).
     7.2.3. The 53 EWG programs, tests and fields EA training pod mission data techniques
     IAW AFI 10-703. EA pod training techniques are categorized as either “generic” or
     “special” and documented accordingly in both the EA pod handbook and reprogramming
     impact messages.
         7.2.3.1. Generic EA pod training techniques. These techniques are designed to
         emulate known EA threat waveforms (based on NASIC assessment) or provide
         specific ECCM cues in the cockpit for standard EA training (see para 7.4, EMCON
         Guidance). Generic techniques should not significantly degrade blue radar
         performance.
     7.2.4. Fighter wings should utilize the AN/ALQ-188 to the maximum extent possible.
  7.3. User Costs and Maintenance Support for the AN/ALQ-188:
     7.3.1. One time TDY cost for two DET 1/16EWS personnel to train the user on
     upload/download and operation of pod (one day plus travel).
     7.3.2. The requesting Operations unit is responsible for shipping and the initial beddown
     costs associated with the AN/ALQ-188. Those costs are the only costs units are
     responsible to pay.
     7.3.3. All repairs are funded by Warner Robins-AFLCMC/WNYCD, Robins AFB GA.
     Material Support Division (MSD) costs are not incurred by the user. If a pod breaks, the
     unit will ship the broken pod in order to receive a replacement pod as soon as possible.
     7.3.4. All AN/ALQ-188 maintenance, other than that outlined in the beddown briefing
     will only be performed by DET 1/16 EWS.
     7.3.5. All AN/ALQ-188 pods will be returned to DET 1/16 EWS within 14 calendar days
     of discovery of unscheduled maintenance requirements or Periodic Maintenance
     Inspection (PMI). Pods will not be flown beyond their initial PMI due date, unless a
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               23


     waiver is approved by the DET 1/16 EWS Maintenance Operations Officer, Detachment
     Chief or Maintenance Superintendent.
  7.4. EMCON Guidance:
     7.4.1. The purpose of ACC's EA EMCON procedures is to prevent hostile collection of
     information potentially exposing vulnerabilities to blue radar systems, ultimately
     compromising ACC's wartime capabilities and war plans. Wing EWOs will ensure their
     unit follows EMCON procedures established in this instruction both in and outside the
     CONUS.
     7.4.2. EMCON/OPCON procedures must be followed when using training techniques.
         7.4.2.1. ECM techniques are authorized for worldwide EA air-to-air training
         purposes. Both EMCON and OPCON procedures must be followed to protect
         potential vulnerabilities to blue radar systems. EMCON/OPCON procedures will be
         published by HQ ACC/A3T and distributed for posting in local wing weapons read
         files until published in the appropriate AFTTP 3-1 Volume.
         7.4.2.2. Published EMCON/OPCON procedures must be strictly adhered to. All EA
         training pod MD will be treated as unclassified (see EA pod security classification
         guide (SCG); however, the effects of the techniques on blue radar systems must be
         protected (and may be classified) by following EMCON/OPCON procedures, the
         appropriate weapon system SCG and the EA training pod SCGs.
  7.5. Points of Contact:
     7.5.1. To request the use of the AN/ALQ-188 (V) POD, contact HQ ACC/A3IE for
     initial Scheduling: DSN 574-9600; COM 757-764-9600; FAX DSN 574-7926
     (unclassified) or E-mail: acc.dozo.iwo@langley.af.mil
     7.5.2. Further information concerning the ALQ-188 can be obtained by contacting the
     DET-1/16EWS at the following numbers: ACC CIRF Focal Point, QRC Program Office
     Manager, Airborne Threat Systems DSN: 523-4218/2150; COM: (850) 283-4218/2150;
     FAX:         DSN         523-6789        (Unclassified);           or        E-mail
     16.EWS.DET1.SUPERVISION@tyndall.af.mil.
     7.5.3. To obtain Mission Data information contact 36 Electronic Warfare Squadron:
     DSN 872-6991; COM: (850) 882-6991 or E-mail ewcflig4@eglin.af.mil.
8. MOVEMENT OF ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS.
  8.1. General. HQ ACC/A3 is responsible for controlling all ACC Electronic Attack (EA)
  assets and has delegated this responsibility to HQ ACC/A3I. HQ ACC/A3I will direct all
  permanent and temporary unit-to-unit transfers of EA assets. This does not include normal
  maintenance transfers.
  8.2. Compliance. Unless otherwise indicated, policy and procedures apply to all ACC wings,
  DRUs, and gained ANG and AFRC units.
  8.3. Policy. Units requesting ALQ-131/184/188 (V) pods for temporary loan will forward
  their request to HQ ACC/A3IE not later than 30 days prior to need date. Pods and related
  equipment will not be sub-loaned to other units by borrowing units without prior approval of
  HQ ACC/A3IE. Test agencies/operational units may establish Memorandum(s) of
24                                                         ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


  Agreement(s) (MOA) outlining temporary loan procedures/responsibilities. Agencies/units
  will submit MOAs for HQ ACC/A3IE approval.
        8.3.1. EA assets will be picked up and returned to the owning unit at the expense of the
        borrowing unit with the specific prior approval by HQ ACC/A3I.
        8.3.2. Borrowing units must return non-mission capable pods to the owning unit within 7
        working days after discovering the condition unless the unit has a pod repair capability.
        Exception: Units borrowing pods for short-term exercises, such as RED FLAG, may
        return pods at exercise conclusion. Units borrowing serviceable pods will take the
        responsibility for repair costs of loaned pods. Repair costs for ALQ-188 pods are funded
        by AFLCMC/WNYCD. Round-trip shipping costs for ALQ-188 pods are centrally
        funded IAW ALQ-188 MOA, 17 Aug 2010, as long as money is available. If funding is
        not available, the borrowing unit will be notified of the funds needed to transport the
        training pods. Det -1, 16th Electronic Warfare Squadron, Tyndall AFB, FL, is the ALQ-
        188 Central Repair Facility for ACC, USAFE, PACAF, AETC, AFRC, and ANG. Return
        non-mission capable training pods within 20 calendar days by the most expeditious and
        traceable means.
        8.3.3. In the event of wartime contingency or other alert condition (as determined by
        owning unit OG/MXG, NAF, or ACC), the borrowing unit must return all borrowed pods
        and equipment to owning unit within 24 hours of notification. Borrowing units must
        provide an emergency POC to unit OG/MXG and HQ ACC/A3I within one working day
        after pod pick up. (Not applicable to training pods.)
     8.4. Responsibilities:
        8.4.1. Borrowing unit will:
            8.4.1.1. Forty eight hours before receipt, provide owning unit with aircraft mission,
            design, and series (MDS), pod configuration, and station on which pods will be
            operated. (Not applicable for training pod.)
            8.4.1.2. Ensure that only trained qualified personnel operate, up/down load, and
            reprogram pods. Approved maintenance includes reconfiguration of lugs and pad.
            Maintenance actions other than those identified will be coordinated with owning unit
            or Det 1/16 EWS for training pods.
            8.4.1.3. Monitor and adhere to all ground and flight restrictions (e.g., ground
            operating time, maximum airspeed, etc.).
            8.4.1.4. Notify owning unit or Det-1/16 EWS of significant changes in borrowed pod
            and equipment status or condition within one working day of discovering condition.
            8.4.1.5. Payment for the delivery and return shipment costs.
        8.4.2. Owning units will:
            8.4.2.1. Ensure loan will not adversely affect unit readiness, pod maintenance
            schedule, the unit’s training and flying schedule, or planned exercises. If significant
            changes in these areas occur after pod loans have been scheduled or implemented,
            owning units will immediately notify the gaining unit of the change in status of the
            unit's requirements.
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   25


         8.4.2.2. Identify pods and equipment on loan to the applicable headquarters in
         RAMPOD.
         8.4.2.3. Notify borrowing unit one month in advance for pods requiring scheduled
         maintenance.
     8.4.3. Permanent Transfer of EA Assets:
         8.4.3.1. Sending unit will incur all shipping costs to move assets to the gaining unit.
            8.4.3.1.1. Shipping methods are at the discretion of the sending unit and may
            include commercial shipping, government transportation, and air ferrying.
            8.4.3.1.2. Sending unit will recode EA assets in RAMPOD reflecting transfer
            within 24 hours of transfer.
         8.4.3.2. Gaining units, upon receipt of transfer message, may directly contact sending
         unit to facilitate the transfer.
            8.4.3.2.1. Gaining units will report delivery to HQ ACC/A3IE within 48 hours of
            transfer.
  8.5. Information Collections, Records, and Forms:
     8.5.1. Information Collections. No downward reporting requirements imposed by this
     publication.
     8.5.2. Records. No records prescribed or adopted by this instruction.




                                           JAMES A. DUNN, GS-15, DAF
                                           Associate Director of Operations
 26                                                     ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSM 3212.02, Performing Electronic Attack in the United States and Canada for Tests,
Training, and Exercises, 17 Apr 08
AFPD 10-7, Information Operations, 06 Sep 06
AFI 10-703, Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming, 30 Nov 07
AFI 10-706, Electronic Warfare (EW), 30 Nov 07
AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, 20 Jun 05
AFI 11-202 Vol 3, General Flight Rules, 5 Apr 06
AFI 11-214, Air Operations Rules and Procedures, 22 Dec 05
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 6 Apr 05
AFI 13-113 Vol 1, Tactical Air Control Party (TACP) And Air Support Operations Center
(ASOC) Training Program, 15 Jun 05
AFI 21-101 CAF Sup1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 11 Jul 2012
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints, 15 May 08
AFTTP 3-1 Volume Set, Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-aircraft artillery
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACCI—Air Combat Command Instruction
ACMI—Air Combat Maneuverability and Instrumentation
AEF—Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AI—Airborne Interceptor
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                 27


AMHS—Automated Message Handling System
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
CAF—Combat air forces
CASAS—Centralized Airlift Survivability Assessment System
CC—Combat communications
CSO—Combat Systems Officer
CTAIG—Command and Control Warfare Target Analysis and Identification Guide
DMS—Defense Messaging System
DRU—Direct reporting unit
EA—Electronic attack
EC—Electronic combat
ECO—Electronic Combat Officer
EMCON—Emission Control
EP—Electronic protection
ESS—Electronic Scoring Site
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcements
EW—Electronic Warfare
EWCC—Electronic Warfare Coordinators Course
EWIR—Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming
EWO—Electronic Warfare Officer
FECOC—Fighter Electronic Combat Officer Course
HHD—Higher headquarters directed
HHQ—Higher headquarters
IAW—In accordance with
IG—Inspector General
ITAS—Integrated Tactics Assessment System
JEWCC—Joint Electronic Warfare Coordination Cell
JSEAD—Joint Suppression of Enemy Air Defense
MAJCOM—Major command
MDS—Mission design series
MSDDS—Multi-Service Data Distribution System
 28                                                  ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


MTR—Multiple Threat Run
MUTES—Multiple Threat Emitter Systems
NAF—Numbered air force
NLT—Not later than
NORI—Nuclear Operational Readiness Inspection
OMDF—Operational mission data file
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
OSS—Operations support squadron
PCS—Permanent change of station
PTR—Primary training ranges
RAMPOD—Reliability, Availability, Maintainability for Pods
RI—Readiness Inspection
RIIS—Route Integrated Instrument System
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SEMR—Simulated Equipment Malfunction Runs
SLEWC—Senior Leader Electronic Warfare Course
SVS—Secure Voice Systems
TACS—Tactical Air Control System
TD&E—Test Design and Evaluation
TMDF—Training mission data file
T.O.—Technical order
TRAINS—Threat Reaction Analysis Indicator System
WSEP—Weapon System Evaluation Program
ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 29


                                        Attachment 2
               EW EQUIPMENT CHECK GUIDANCE (CAF AIRCRAFT)

A2.1. Purpose. The purpose of this attachment is to provide guidance for ground and airborne
ops checks of unit possessed EW equipment. In general, aircrew members will perform the
periodic ops checks. Daily Built-In Test (BIT) checks need not be documented unless a
malfunction occurs. Applicable equipment operational checks will be documented in the
aircraft’s historical record. This guide does not apply to bomber aircraft or the Compass
Call/Rivet Fire System.
A2.2. Procedures:
   A2.2.1. RWR/RAWS:
       A2.2.1.1. Interval. RWR/RAWS will be BIT checked each tactical mission. RWR pre-
       launch checks will be IAW AFI 21-101 CAF Sup 1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
       Management.
       A2.2.1.2. RWR/RAWS Ops Check. RWR/RAWS ops check consist of a BIT check
       IAW the flight manual tech order and a ground or in-flight stimulation of the
       RWR/RAWS by threat signals external to the aircraft such that antennas and lead-in
       cables can be evaluated for proper installation/operation.
   A2.2.2. EW Pod:
       A2.2.2.1. Interval. EW pods will be turned on through STANDBY and the pod control
       unit BIT checked on each mission a pod is carried on the aircraft. Pods will remain in
       standby while airborne to prevent cold soaking. An EW pod ops check will be performed
       and documented for each unit EW pod at a maximum interval of 180 days (360 days
       ALQ-188 (V) training pods).
       A2.2.2.2. EW Pod Ops Check. An EW pod ops check consists of a pod control unit BIT
       check IAW the flight manual tech order and activation of possible combinations of
       switch and button positions while checking for indications of a malfunction.
   A2.2.3. Internal Self-Protection Systems (ISPS):
       A2.2.3.1. Interval. The ISPS will be turned on through STANDBY and BIT checked
       prior to each flight.
       A2.2.3.2. ISPS Ops Check. An ops check consists of a BIT check IAW the flight manual
       and operations of the system while checking for indications of a malfunction.
   A2.2.4. Mode IV IFF:
       A2.2.4.1. Interval. Mode IV will be self-tested each mission. An in-flight air-to-air or
       air-to-ground check will be accomplished each mission when available as stated in AFI
       11-202 Vol 3, General Flight Rules. Pre-launch checks will be IAW AFI 21-101 CAF
       Sup 1.
       A2.2.4.2. Mode IV Ops Check. A Mode IV ops check consists of self-test IAW the flight
       manual with an external interrogation and confirmation of a valid reply. An air-to-ground
       check is preferred.
30                                                      ACCI10-707 13 SEPTEMBER 2013


  A2.2.5. Jam-Resistant Communications System--HAVE QUICK:
     A2.2.5.1. Interval. A HAVE QUICK active mode operational check will be performed
     on each mission.
     A2.2.5.2. HAVE QUICK Ops Check. A HAVE QUICK ops check will consist of word-
     of- day, time-of-day, and net entry such that discernible communications in either an air-
     to-air or air-to-ground (preferred) check on a HAVE QUICK training net is
     accomplished.
  A2.2.6. Secure Voice Systems (SVS):
     A2.2.6.1. Interval. A SVS ops check will be performed each mission where they are
     expected to be used.
     A2.2.6.2. SVS Ops Check. An SVS ops check will consist of a BIT check IAW the flight
     manual tech order and discernible communications.
  A2.2.7. Self-Protection Expendables (Chaff/Flares):
     A2.2.7.1. Interval. A self-protection check for expendables will be performed each
     mission when expendables are loaded, operations are conducted in an approved area and
     an appropriate flare and/or frequency clearance has been obtained.
     A2.2.7.2. Self-Protection Expendables Ops Checks. For dual chaff/flare systems an ops
     check may be accomplished using chaff only.
