BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                                ACC INSTRUCTION 90-105
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                                                               31 MAY 2006

                                                                                                        Certified Current 3 May 2013

                                                                                                                 Specialty Management

                                         HQ ACC STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS


                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A5S                                                                                            Certified by: HQ ACC/A5
                                                                                                         (Colonel Michael R. Moeller)
Supersedes ACCI 90-105, 8 April 2005                                                                                       Pages: 21

This instruction implements AFPD (AFPD) 90-11, Planning System. It provides guidance on the Air
Combat Command (ACC) Headquarters (HQ) strategic planning process. It provides definitions and
establishes HQ ACC staff agency responsibilities in the preparation, coordination and dissemination of
the ACC Strategic Plan and the Combat Air Force (CAF) Strategic Master Plan. The planning corporate
structure is closely aligned with the corporate structure described in AFI 16-501_ACC Sup 1, Control and
Documentation of Air Force Programs. This instruction applies to HQ ACC staff agencies only. It
does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and mem-
bers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this document are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (to be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and are disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required. Send recommended changes to
this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the ACC Strategy and
Long Range Planning Branch (ACC/A5SX), 204 Dodd Blvd, Suite 307, Langley AFB VA 23665-2778,
DSN 574-4856.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This document modifies
the process for the ACC Strategic Plan, changes terminology from the CAF Flight Plan to the CAF Stra-
tegic Master Plan, and updates staff agencies to reflect A-staff organization. The document expands on
the relationships between the CAF Strategic Master Plan, Air Force Concepts of Operations (CONOPS),
Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA), and Roadmaps.
      1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   3
Figure 1.     ACC Strategic Plan and CAF Strategic Master Plan ................................................                               3
      2.      Strategic Planning Organization. ...............................................................................                3
2                                                                                                   ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


      3.    Inputs and Terms of Reference. .................................................................................             3
      4.    ACC Strategic Plan. ...................................................................................................     6
      5.    CAF Strategic Master Plan (SMP). ............................................................................               7
Figure 2.   HQ ACC Strategic Planning Corporate Structure ....................................................                           8
Figure 3.   CAF Strategic Master Plan Methodology .................................................................                     9
Figure 4.   Phase One - Requirements and Force Presentation ..................................................                          10
Figure 5.   Phase Two - Effects-Based Modules ........................................................................                  11
Figure 6.   Phase Three - Integration and Annexes ....................................................................                  12
Figure 7.   Phase Four - Publishing and Outreach ......................................................................                 13
Figure 8.   Strategic Planning Products and Processes Related to the CAF SMP. .....................                                     15
Figure 9.   CAF Strategic Master Plan Timeline ........................................................................                 16
      6.    IMTs Adopted. ...........................................................................................................   17

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         18
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                                    3


1. Introduction. Driven by National, Department of Defense, and Air Force strategy, the ACC strategic
planning process provides the foundation for all HQ ACC planning and programming activities. The pur-
pose of the ACCI is to formalize and document this process, which produces the ACC Strategic Plan and
the CAF Strategic Master Plan (SMP). Both products are strategic in nature, but each has a different pur-
pose and scope. The ACC Strategic Plan defines the ACC vision, mission, focus areas and objectives,
translating the Commander for Air Combat Command (COMACC) intent into action for the next 3-5
years. It is normally developed at the beginning of the COMACC appointment as commander. The CAF
SMP is a long-range plan for ACC and the CAF that provides required warfighting capabilities for the
next three Future Year Defense Programs (FYDP). It consists of a vision force that fully meets national
defense strategy requirements and a fiscally-constrained, risk-balanced force that is the basis for planning
and programming within the CAF and influences planning and programming decisions in commands,
agencies, and corporations outside the CAF. The CAF SMP is synchronized with the Air Force program-
ming process to provide timely guidance for the Program Objective Memorandum (POM). Built upon
effects-based modules, the CAF SMP integrates all cross-cutting systems and resources to cover the full
range of required CAF capabilities.

Figure 1. ACC Strategic Plan and CAF Strategic Master Plan




2. Strategic Planning Organization. The organization used for ACC strategic planning is within the
ACC corporate structure. The Strategic Planning Council is a general officer steering group led by the
Vice Commander for Air Combat Command (ACC/CV). This group is designated the Strategic Planning
Board when chaired by the ACC Director of Plans and Programs (ACC/A5). The Strategic Planning
Group is an O-6 level group responsible for long range oversight and direction of ACC resources and staff
actions. Membership for both organizations is based on the product being produced and is detailed in sec-
tions 4.1. and 5.1.

3. Inputs and Terms of Reference. This section highlights the Department of Defense (DoD), joint, and
Air Force (AF) documents and processes that most influence ACC strategic planning. The inputs are
listed by the level of approval or office of primary responsibility (OPR). Unless noted otherwise, these
4                                                                            ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


documents are unclassified. Most can be found by internet search or by contacting the listed office of pri-
mary responsibility.
    3.1. National Security Strategy (NSS). The National Security Strategy Report is a congressionally
    mandated annual report on the national security strategy of the United States, submitted by the Presi-
    dent. Release date varies from year to year.
    3.2. Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5100.1. DoDD 5100.1, Functions of the Depart-
    ment of Defense and it’s Major Components, describes the functions of the DoD, Joint Chiefs of Staff
    (JCS), combatant commanders, military departments and other DoD agencies. Updates do not occur
    on a scheduled timeline and changes require Secretary of Defense (SecDef) approval.
    3.3. Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). Directed by statute, the QDR is a comprehensive exami-
    nation of the national defense strategy, force structure, force modernization plans, infrastructure, bud-
    get plan and other elements of the defense program and policies of the United States. The QDR has a
    view toward determining and expressing the defense strategy of the United States and establishing a
    defense program for the next 20 years. The SecDef is responsible for conducting the QDR every 4
    years, and the final report is published early in the second year of the President’s term.
    3.4. Transformation Planning Guidance (TPG). The TPG provides guidance for transformation
    strategy, implementation, transformation roadmaps and joint experimentation. The TPG is updated as
    required and approved by the SecDef.
    3.5. Strategic Planning Guidance (SPG). The SPG is classified and provides over arching DoD
    direction and programmatic guidance that is “fiscally informed” and supports the national defense
    strategy. The SPG implements the defense strategy described in the QDR. It is issued by the SecDef
    and is planned for release in February of each even year.
    3.6. Joint Programming Guidance (JPG). The JPG is classified and is issued by the SecDef. It
    provides guidance that is fiscally constrained and programmatically more detailed than the SPG. The
    JPG is planned for release in June of each even year.
    3.7. National Military Strategy (NMS). The NMS defines the national military objectives, estab-
    lishes the strategy to accomplish these objectives, and addresses the military capabilities required to
    execute the strategy. Issued by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), the NMS is a stand-
    ing document that is changed as needed.
    3.8. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS). JCIDS is a process that
    drives capability requirements and recommendations for industry, planning, programming, acquisi-
    tion, and experimentation. Recommendations are evaluated and prioritized based on their contribu-
    tion to future joint concepts. Providing the framework for subordinate concepts, the Capstone
    Concept of Joint Operations (CCJO) is an overarching description of how the future joint force will
    operate 10-20 years in the future. It guides the development of future joint concepts and joint force
    capabilities. The CCJO is supported by Joint Operating Concepts (JOC), Joint Functional Concepts
    (JFC), and Joint Integrating Concepts (JIC). The Joint Staff Operational Plans and Interoperability
    Directorate (JCS/J7) manages recommended concept changes. Following review by the JCS, the
    Chairman forwards the CCJO and all JOCs to the SecDef for approval. The JCS task and approve
    JICs, and the Joint Requirements Oversight Council tasks and approves JFCs. Headquarters Air
    Force (HAF) OPR for JOCs and JICs is the Director of Operational Plans and Joint Matters (AF/
    A5X), and HAF OPR for JFCs is the Director of Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A5R).
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                                  5


  ACC OPR for the JCIDS process is the ACC Policy and Resources Division (ACC/A8X), and ACC
  OPR for future concepts is the ACC Strategy, Concepts and Doctrine Division (ACC/A5S).
  3.9. Integrated Priority Lists (IPLs). An IPL is a combatant commander’s fiscally unconstrained
  list of the command’s highest priority requirements, prioritized across Service and functional lines. It
  defines shortfalls in key programs that, in the judgment of the combatant commander, adversely affect
  the capability of the combatant commander's forces to accomplish their assigned mission. ACC pro-
  vides draft IPL inputs in August and receives the final documents from the commands in November or
  December. OPR within each command is normally the J8 or J58; ACC OPR for IPL development is
  ACC/A5S and the ACC Programs Division (ACC/A5P) is responsible for defining program support
  for IPL requirements.
  3.10. Air Force Strategic Planning Directive (AFSPD). The AFSPD prescribes the key planning
  priorities of the SecAF and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, reviews priorities within the NSS and
  the defense strategy contained in the SPG and QDR report, and assigns planning initiatives for future
  capability decisions. The AFSPD is published every 2 years to provide guidance to affect the AF
  POM. HAF OPR is AF/A8X and ACC OPR is ACC/A5S.
  3.11. Air Force Capabilities Investment Strategy (AFCIS) and Air Force Master Roadmap.
  The AFCIS was designed to be a capabilities-based investment strategy to attain the Air Force vision,
  and providing top-down guidance for planners and programmers for the near, mid and far-term. Since
  the development of MAJCOM Roadmaps, the AFCIS has become the classified costing and force
  structure database that supports the integrated Air Force Master Roadmap. The Air Force Master
  Roadmap is intended to be the result of integrating and coordinating MAJCOM roadmaps and produc-
  ing a capabilities-based strategic plan for the Air Force across the next three FYDPs. HAF OPR for
  the AFCIS and the Air Force Master Roadmap is AF/A8X. ACC OPR for roadmaps is ACC/A5S
  with the ACC Policy and Resources Division (ACC/A8X) responsible for costing support.
  3.12. Air Force Toolbox. The AF Toolbox is a web-based catalogue of system concepts designed to
  stimulate discussion and exploration of the role of air and space capabilities in the future security
  environment. HAF OPR is AF/A8X and ACC OPR is ACC/A5S.
  3.13. Air Force Transformation Flight Plan. The AF Transformation Flight Plan is a reporting
  document to the Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD) to support the TPG. It generally reflects deci-
  sions, information and initiatives already made and/or approved by the Air Force capability-based
  planning, programming, budgeting and execution process. HAF OPR is AF/A8X and ACC OPR is
  ACC/A5S.
  3.14. Air Force Concepts of Operations (CONOPS). Seven AF CONOPS describe required AF
  warfighting effects and capabilities. HAF OPR for the Agile Combat Support (ACS) CONOPS is the
  AF Directorate of Logistics Readiness (AF/A4R). HAF OPR for the other six CONOPS is AF/A5X.
  ACC OPR for CONOPS development is ACC/A5S.
     3.14.1. ACC is additionally designated as flight lead for four AF CONOPS. The respective ACC
     flight lead for each CONOPS is:
         3.14.1.1. Nuclear Response: The ACC Strategic Operations Division (ACC/A3S).
         3.14.1.2. Homeland Defense and Civil Support: The ACC Homeland Security Division
         (ACC/A3H).
         3.14.1.3. Global Strike and Global Persistent Attack: ACC/A5S.
6                                                                            ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


       3.14.2. Air Mobility Command is flight lead for the Global Mobility CONOPS.
       3.14.3. Air Force Space Command is the flight lead for the Space and Command, Control, Com-
       munications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (S&C4ISR) CONOPS.
       3.14.4. The Air Force Material Command, Air Force Transformation Division (AFMC/A5F), is
       the flight lead for ACS. ACC/A4 and ACC/A7 are OPR for specific ACS master capabilities.
    3.15. Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA). The CRRA evaluates AF CONOPS
    capabilities and identifies shortfalls and risk. HAF OPR is AF/A5X. ACC OPRs are ACC/A3H,
    ACC/A3S, ACC/A5S and the ACC Capabilities Division (ACC/A8M).
    3.16. Air Force Master Capability Library (MCL). The MCL is designed to be a collectively
    exhaustive list of mutually exclusive capabilities and tasks. It is organized under functional capability
    chapters to align with Functional Capability Boards (FCB). The MCL is revised as required during
    spring of the odd year, prior to the CRRA. AF OPR is AF/A5X and ACC OPR is ACC/A5S.
    3.17. Annual Planning and Programming Guidance (APPG). The APPG is classified and pro-
    vides authoritative direction to the AF to develop the POM. HAF OPR is the AF Directorate of Pro-
    grams (AF/A8P) and ACC OPR is ACC/A5P.
    3.18. Air Force Policy Directive 10-4, Air and Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy
    (AEFPP). The AEFPP provides AF presence policy to meet the defense strategy. It establishes limits
    and considerations for sustained and surge operations. HAF OPR is the AF Deputy Chief of Staff Air,
    Space and Information Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) and ACC OPR is the ACC
    Scheduling and Aerial Events Division (ACC/A3O).

4. ACC Strategic Plan. The ACC Strategic Plan defines the ACC vision and translates the COMACC
intent into action over the next 3-5 years.
    4.1. Organization. The Strategic Planning Council membership includes all ACC directors for
    developing and coordinating the ACC Strategic Plan. The Strategic Planning Group includes an O-6
    representative from each directorate and is chaired by ACC/A5S. The Strategic Planning Integration
    Team is a working group led by an ACC/A5S representative and tasked with integrating all efforts to
    develop the ACC Strategic Plan.
    4.2. Methodology. The ACC Strategic Plan is developed and implemented in four phases: com-
    mander’s intent and focus areas, objective development, publishing and implementation.
       4.2.1. Commander’s Intent and Focus Areas. Changes in the NSS, NMS, QDR, SPG and
       AFSPD could influence the ACC vision and mission. ACC/A5 develops a draft vision and mis-
       sion statements and submits them to COMACC for consideration, after COMACC provides an
       initial vector. COMACC then provides his intent and focus areas.
       4.2.2. Objective Development. The second phase is the development of ACC objectives from
       the commander’s intent. The focus areas provide a baseline for establishing the objectives ACC
       intends to pursue over the next 3-5 years. The Strategic Planning Council develops the objectives
       with ACC/A5 as OPR, and COMACC approval completes the ACC Strategic Plan.
       4.2.3. Publishing. The ACC Strategic Plan is published and distributed to the HQ ACC director-
       ates and to all ACC wings to communicate COMACC intent. The ACC Video Production Team
       (ACC/PAV) is OPR for publishing and distribution.
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                                 7


      4.2.4. Implementation. ACC directorates assess and report progress toward meeting ACC objec-
      tives, as required.
   4.3. Timeline. The first phase is normally initiated as soon as practical after the arrival of a new
   COMACC. Objective development and approval should take about a month after receiving the
   COMACC focus areas. Publishing can take 3-4 months from the initial design work to final distribu-
   tion to the wings.
   4.4. Format. The ACC Strategic Plan format is modified according to COMACC desires. It will nor-
   mally include the following sections: forward, introduction, vision, mission, focus areas and objec-
   tives.

5. CAF Strategic Master Plan (SMP). The CAF SMP process produces a long-range plan that provides
required warfighting capabilities 12-15 years beyond the next FYDP. For example, the 2005 CAF SMP
(published in CY 2005) guides the FY 08-13 POM and extends through 2025; the 2007 CAF SMP will
guide the FY 10-15 POM and will extend through 2030.
   5.1. Organization and Coordination. The ACC Strategic Planning Board is led by ACC/A5 for
   developing and coordinating the CAF SMP. Membership is shown in Figure 2., and other directors
   advise the Board as required. The Strategic Planning Group is co-led by ACC/A5P and ACC/A5S,
   and includes a broad representation of divisions across the staff. Lead divisions for each directorate
   are responsible for preparing their respective board representatives. Group membership and lead divi-
   sions are shown in Figure 2. The Strategic Planning Integration Team is co-led by ACC/A5SX and
   the ACC Ground Dominance Capabilities Team (ACC/A8MA), and is responsible for integrating all
   development and coordination efforts. Figure 2. shows core team members, but advisors to this team
   may include representatives from the Air Reserve Component (ARC), Base Realignment and Closure
   (BRAC) and QDR groups, Air Intelligence Agency, Aerospace Expeditionary Force Center (AEFC)
   or ACC offices with key subject matter experts. Additionally, the CAF SMP is divided into four
   effects-based modules with cross-functional teams responsible for building each module. Subject to
   change by the Strategic Planning Group, each team is led by two co-leads to aid integration and flexi-
   bility. The four modules and respective team leads are: the ACC Combat Forces Branch (ACC/
   A5PC) and ACC/A8MA for Air and Ground Dominance; the ACC Airborne Battle Management
   Branch (ACC/A3YA) and the Command and Control, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
   Branch (ACC/A8MX) for Battlespace Awareness Dominance; the ACC Information Operations Inte-
   gration Branch (ACC/A3IX) and Information Dominance Capabilities Team (ACC/A8MI) for Infor-
   mation Dominance; and the ACC Logistics Plans Branch (ACC/A4XP) and Mission Branch (ACC/
   A7IM) for Agile Combat Support. Module leads are responsible for ensuring their teams have the
   required expertise to fully develop their modules.
8                                                                      ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


Figure 2. HQ ACC Strategic Planning Corporate Structure




      5.1.1. CAF Coordination. In addition to the permanent members, the Strategic Planning Board
      and Group have CAF advisors. Advisors to the board are the Air, Education and Training Com-
      mand Plans, Requirements and Programs Directorate (AETC/A5/8); the Pacific Air Forces Direc-
      torate of Air, Space and Information Operations, Plans and Requirements (PACAF/A3/5); and the
      U.S. Air Forces in Europe Plans and Programs Directorate (USAFE/A5/8). Group advisors are
      AETC Programs Division (AETC/A8P), PACAF Operational Plan and Joint Matters Division
      (PACAF/A5X) and USAFE Programs and Planning Division (USAFE/A5P). The ACC Director-
      ate of Air National Guard Forces (ACC/CG) and the U.S. Air Force Reserve Advisor to
      COMACC (ACC/CR) are standing members of the board. The Air National Guard Advisor to the
      A5 Director (ACC/A5G) and the Air Force Reserve Advisor to the A5 Director (ACC/A5U) are
      standing members of the Group. They are encouraged to interact with the National Guard Bureau
      and AFRC as appropriate. The council or group may decide to add additional advisors. ACC/A5
      will host periodic video teleconferences with board advisors and ACC/A5S will keep group advi-
      sors informed of SMP progress. Advisors will have the opportunity to coordinate on the CAF
      SMP prior to COMACC approval.
      5.1.2. Other Organizations. Team leads should be aware of efforts within organizations such as
      the Air Force Command and Control, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Center
      (AFC2ISRC); Air Force Special Operations Command, Air Force Space Command, Air Mobility
      Command, etc. Action officers will need to work with these organizations and others outside the
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                                  9


      CAF and AF during SMP development. Because the SMP contains sensitive information, it is
      treated as ACC internal correspondence, un-releasable in its entirety to outside agencies until
      approved by COMACC, with the exception of formal coordination with CAF SMP advisors.
   5.2. Methodology (Figure 3.). CAF SMP methodology is designed as a repeatable process to bal-
   ance required capabilities, projected resources and assumed risk. The result is a defendable position
   on CAF requirements to implement the national defense strategy and an executable plan that best
   meets combatant command air component requirements within fiscal constraints. The SMP is created
   and implemented in the four phases shown below.

Figure 3. CAF Strategic Master Plan Methodology




      5.2.1. Phase One - Requirements and Force Presentation (Figure 4.). The integration team
      conducts phase one, which consists of four steps: 1) researching the strategic environment, 2)
      defining operational effects, 3) identifying required operational capabilities and 4) validating the
      force presentation construct.
10                                                                      ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


Figure 4. Phase One - Requirements and Force Presentation




         5.2.1.1. Research Strategic Environment. Examine updates to NSS, NMS, SPG and QDR
         and reconfirm defense strategy requirements. Assess threat environment and conduct a future
         threat analysis as required.
         5.2.1.2. Define Operational Effects. Review updates to foundational documents, including
         joint concepts, AF CONOPS, joint and AF doctrine, DoDD 5100.1, IPLs, lessons learned, etc.
         Identify potential combatant commander operational effects and objectives through review of
         the CCJO, JOCs, JFCs, JICs, and operational plans. Derive/validate CAF required operational
         effects, e.g., air dominance, ground dominance, battlespace awareness dominance, informa-
         tion dominance and agile combat support.
         5.2.1.3. Identify Required Operational Capabilities. The AF CONOPS define operational
         capability requirements. Research AF CONOPS, CRRA shortfalls, MCL, IPLs, and APPG.
         Derive/validate CAF capabilities required to create operational effects.
         5.2.1.4. Validate Force Presentation Construct. Research updates to AFPD 10-4 and gov-
         erning force presentation documents. Establish entering assumptions regarding defense strat-
         egy support with force presentation construct (e.g., number of Air Expeditionary Forces (AEF)
         or percentage of the force to conduct a major campaign, required capability for sustained
         deployment, etc.). Consider changes to organizational concepts and initiate analysis as
         required (see section 5.4.).
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                                11


      5.2.2. Phase Two - Effects-Based Modules (Figure 5.). Phase two includes constructing the
      framework for force structure development and creating both a vision force and constrained force
      for each module. The framework sets the foundation for matching systems and resources to
      required capabilities and should reflect a clear hierarchy from effects to capabilities to missions
      and resources. The vision force defines the CAF requirement to fully support the defense strategy.
      It is fiscally unconstrained but achievable if sufficient funding were available. The constrained
      force assumes risk from the vision force in order to keep procurement and sustainment costs
      within projected CAF total obligation authority (TOA).

Figure 5. Phase Two - Effects-Based Modules




         5.2.2.1. Define Force Structure Framework. Categorize SMP modules based on the pri-
         mary operational effects required to execute the AF CONOPS. Link systems and resources to
         capabilities required to create those effects. Review APPG, TPG, AF Transformation Flight
         Plan, AFCIS, QDR, BRAC reports, and ANG and AFRC long-range planning documents to
         identify major transformational initiatives and guidance. Review capitalization and recapital-
         ization requirements, identifying key acquisitions and divestitures. Develop/validate system
         employment concepts.
         5.2.2.2. Create Vision Force. Fill force presentation construct developed in Phase One with
         resources to adequately support the defense strategy, e.g., 10 fully and equally capable AEFs
         plus homeland defense. This will require review of the Defense Planning Scenarios (DPS) and
12                                                                          ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


          appropriate Multi Service Force Deployment (MSFD) documents followed by detailed analy-
          sis (see section 5.4.). Specify annual transformation from current force to the end of the deter-
          mined timeline. Cost the vision force and graphically depict against projected TOA based on
          the latest President’s Budget (PB). Analyze against integrated CRRA shortfalls, CONOPS,
          AEF rotational construct, lessons learned, and ANG and AFRC integration assumptions.
          5.2.2.3. Build Cost-Constrained Force. Adjust force to keep funding below projected TOA.
          Complete iterative analysis for capability, sufficiency, risk, and cost. Validate annual ability
          to support defense strategy throughout SMP timeframe, adjust force as necessary, and identify
          resultant risk. Identify potential doctrine, operations, training, materiel, leadership, personnel
          and facilities (DOTMLPF) issues/impacts.
      5.2.3. Phase Three - Integration and Annexes (Figure 6.). Phase Three integrates the modules
      within CAF TOA and builds relevant annexes.

Figure 6. Phase Three - Integration and Annexes




          5.2.3.1. Integrate Modules Within Projected CAF TOA. Verify consistency across mod-
          ules in assumptions, defense strategy support, force presentation, etc. Consider trade-offs
          between modules for complementary systems and priorities.
          5.2.3.2. Develop Annexes Consistent With Strategic Master Plan Costing Assumptions.
          Thorough DOTMLPF review should identify required categories for annexes. ACC/A8M is
          OPR for the modernization and sustainment annex and the ACC Flight Operations Division
          (ACC/A3T) is OPR for the training annex. The ACC Advanced Programs Division (ACC/
          A8Z) will be OPR if a special access program/special access required (SAP/SAR) annex is
          desired. The Strategic Planning Group will assign an OPR for additional annexes as required.
      5.2.4. Phase Four - Publishing and Outreach (Figure 7.). Phase four involves publishing the
      consolidated SMP and required products and executing the outreach plan.
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                                 13


Figure 7. Phase Four - Publishing and Outreach




         5.2.4.1. Publish COMACC-Approved CAF Strategic Master Plan and Required Prod-
         ucts. The SMP process results in products to guide programming as well as research and
         development and other strategic planning processes.
             5.2.4.1.1. CAF Strategic Master Plan Briefing. When approved in September, the inte-
             grated CAF SMP is a three-tiered classified briefing and should include the following:
             major changes since the last published SMP, assumptions, background and methodology,
             required operational effects and capabilities, force presentation and defense strategy sup-
             port construct, vision force and constrained force with recapitalization and divestiture con-
             siderations, areas of risk, decision points and DOTMLPF issues. The top tier is an
             executive summary (20-30 slides) appropriate for a 4-star presentation, the second tier is
             an integrated briefing (50-70 slides) appropriate for general officers, and the third tier is
             composed of detailed module briefings and annexes (50-100 slides each) fully explaining
             the process used and results. The consolidated SMP and products are released to appropri-
             ate government agencies after COMACC approval. An unclassified version may be
             released to industry and non-government agencies. The classified SMP may be briefed to
             these agencies on a case-by-case basis; release authority rests with ACC/A5 as Chairman
             of the Strategic Planning Board.
             5.2.4.1.2. Supporting Products. Additional products of the SMP aid transition to the
             programming process and building of the POM. These products are: annual force struc-
14                                                                  ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


        ture spreadsheets through the end year; force structure/resource matrices depicting AEF
        presentation for current year, end year, and high-risk years; DOTMLPF decision points
        required to execute the SMP; costing sand charts and associated data consistent with
        AFCIS and AF Master Roadmap parameters; and modernization, training and other
        annexes.
        5.2.4.1.3. CAF Roadmap. The AF Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Pro-
        grams (AF/A8) will likely task ACC to develop a CAF Roadmap, and ACC/A5S will
        ensure development is in accordance with AF/A8 direction. The CAF Roadmap will
        include the CAF Strategic Master Plan as an annex.
     5.2.4.2. Transition to Programming While Executing Outreach Plan. Close coordination
     between ACC/A5P, ACC/A5S and module leads is critical to effectively integrate the CAF
     SMP with the POM build. The outreach plan is designed to educate agencies on critical CAF
     issues and to influence specific products or processes related to strategic planning.
        5.2.4.2.1. Outreach Briefings. ACC/A5S is OPR for developing the outreach plan that
        ACC/A5 will approve. ACC/A5S should consider briefing members of the AF Group,
        with emphasis on those offices directly involved with capabilities-based planning, such as
        the AF Director of Information Operations (AF/A3I), the AF Director of Current Opera-
        tions and Training (AF/A3O), the AF Director of Resource Integration (AF/A4P), the AF
        Director of Programs (AF/A8P), the AF Director of Strategic Planning (AF/A8X), AF/
        A5R, AF/A5X, and Secretary of Air Force, Acquisitions (SAF/AQ). Other AF organiza-
        tions to consider include MAJCOM A5, AEFC, AFC2ISRC, the AFRC Plans, Programs,
        Requirements and Assessments Directorate (AFRC/A5A8A9), the ANG Plans, Programs
        and Manpower Directorate (ANG/XP), the Air Force Doctrine Center’s Doctrine Develop-
        ment Division (AFDC/DR) and Air Force Laboratory (AFLC). Joint organizations
        include JFCOM Chief of Staff (JFCOM/J042), Requirements and Integration Directorate
        (JFCOM/J8) and Joint Concept Development and Experimentation Directorate (JFCOM/
        J9); combatant commands (most effectively engaged through their respective air compo-
        nents); Army Capabilities and Integration Center; MCCDC Futures Warfighting Division
        and NWDC Concepts Development Department.
        5.2.4.2.2. Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA ). The CRRA and AF
        strategic planning efforts contribute to an iterative capabilities-based process. Strategic
        planning products provide the future force structure and modernization required by the
        CRRA. The CRRA identifies shortfalls and trade-space areas to be incorporated into
        revised AF and MAJCOM strategic plans. These updated products establish a new base-
        line for the next CRRA.
        5.2.4.2.3. Other Strategic Planning Processes. The SMP should influence those prod-
        ucts that guide current and future planning and programming efforts or constraints. Figure
        8. identifies potential products and processes the SMP might influence and lists a HAF and
        ACC OPR for each. The figure shows a JFCOM OPR where appropriate because of the
        JFCOM/ACC relationship and the evolving JFCOM transformational responsibilities. It
        also includes notes on timing and other organizations or events. Reviewing this figure
        prior to phase four is important since most products are on specific timelines independent
        of the ACC strategic planning process.
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                              15


Figure 8. Strategic Planning Products and Processes Related to the CAF SMP.




   5.3. Timeline (Figure 9.). The CAF SMP process begins October 1st of each even calendar year and
   continues through September 1st of the odd year, normally marking the start date of the ACC POM
   build. This timeline facilitates integration with the CRRA process and development of the AF Master
   Roadmap.
      5.3.1. Phase one, requirements and force presentation, should be complete by January 1st.
      5.3.2. Phase two, building effects-based modules, begins at the completion of phase one and
      should be complete by the end of June. Earlier completion is unlikely because this phase requires
      the most work and relies on data from the PB, normally released in February.
      5.3.3. Phase three, integration and developing annexes, might begin during the latter portion of
      phase 2wo and should take two to three months to complete. Phase three ends with COMACC
      approval of the CAF SMP.
      5.3.4. Phase four, publishing and outreach, continues until the ACC POM is delivered to the Air
      Staff in the spring of the even year. See section 5.4.2. for analysis timeline.
16                                                                              ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


Figure 9. CAF Strategic Master Plan Timeline




     5.4. Analysis. Analysis in four general areas, capability, sufficiency, cost and risk is critical to creat-
     ing an informed long range plan that is an executable and defendable plan. Additional specific analy-
     ses might be required in areas such as alternative future scenarios, training, rated management,
     manpower, force rotational sustainment, etc. Methods may include capability-based and capac-
     ity-based analysis; AEF-scheduling and personnel analysis such as unit type code requirements and
     pilot absorption; mission or engagement-level modeling and cost-versus-capability analysis.
     Required information includes defense strategy requirements, force structure baselines with AEF
     alignment, integrated total force assumptions, capability definitions and cost data.
        5.4.1. Responsibilities and Resources. The ACC Analyses and Assessments Division (ACC/
        A9A) is the OPR for CAF SMP analysis and will require other organizations with specialized
        expertise to perform specific segments of the analysis plan (e.g., manpower analysis, rated man-
        agement, executability, etc.). The analysis of various force structure options will identify the
        inherent capability risk and cost risk as well as sufficiency for major combat operations and long
        term commitments. ACC/A9A will use available resources internal to ACC as well as those of
        outside organizations as required, providing results to the module team leads and Strategic Plan-
        ning Group throughout the process and in accordance with the planning timeline. To ensure
        required analyses are completed in a timely fashion, module leads should identify issue areas,
        force options, system/capability trades, etc., to ACC/A9A at the earliest opportunity in the cycle.
        5.4.2. Analysis Timeline. Analysis planning will run concurrently with SMP development. The
        ACC Force Analysis Branch (ACC/A9AF) will convene an analysis working group to develop a
        comprehensive analysis plan, no later than the beginning of phase two. ACC/A9AF will coordi-
        nate with the integration team and will be prepared to brief to the Strategic Planning Group for
        approval within a month of this meeting. ACC/A9A will coordinate with external agencies as
        required and will provide monthly updates. The analysis strategy will support development of
        SMP excursions and integration with the Air Force Master Roadmap.
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                   17


6. IMTs Adopted. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                        RONALD E. KEYS, General, USAF
                                        Commander
18                                                                   ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-4 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/10/afpd10-4/afpd10-4.pdf) Operations Plan-
ning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy (AEFPP)
AFI 10-2801 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/10/afi10-2801/afi10-2801.pdf), Air Force
Concept of Operations Development
AFI 16-501 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/16/afi16-501/afi16-501.pdf), Control and
Documentation of Air Force Programs
AFMAN 37-123 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/37/afman37-123/afman37-123.pdf)
Management of Records
AFPD 90-11 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/90/afpd90-11/afpd90-11.pdf) Planning Sys-
tem
DoDD 5100.1 (http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf2/d51001p.pdf) Functions of the Depart-
ment of Defense and its Major Components

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACC/A3IX—ACC Information Operations Integration Branch
ACC/A3O—ACC Scheduling and Aerial Events
ACC/A3T—ACC Flight Operations Division
ACC/A3YA—ACC Airborne Battle Management Branch
ACC/A4XP—ACC Logistics Plans Branch
ACC/A5—ACC Director of Plans and Programs
ACC/A5G—Air National Guard Advisor to the Director of ACC Plans and Programs
ACC/A5P—ACC Programs Division
ACC/A5PC—ACC Combat Forces Branch
ACC/A5S—ACC Strategy, Concepts and Doctrine Division
ACC/A5SX—ACC Strategy and Long Range Planning Branch
ACC/A5U—Air Force Reserve Advisor to the Director of ACC Plans and Programs
ACC/A7IM—ACC Mission Branch
ACC/A8M—ACC Capabilities Division
ACC/A8MA—ACC Ground Dominance Capabilities Team
ACC/A8MI—ACC Information Dominance Capabilities Team
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                           19


ACC/A8MX—ACC Command and Control, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Capabilities
Team
ACC/A8X—ACC Policy and Resources Division
ACC/A8Z—ACC Advanced Programs Division
ACC/A9A—ACC Analyses and Assessments Division
ACC/A9AF—ACC Force Analysis Branch
ACC/CV—ACC Vice Commander
ACC/PAV—ACC Video Production Team
ACCI—Air Combat Command Instruction
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AEFC—Aerospace Expeditionary Force Center
AETC/A5/8—AETC Plans, Requirements and Programs Directorate
AEFPP—and Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy
AF—Air Force
AF/A3/5—AF Deputy Chief of Staff Air, Space and Information Operations, Plans and Requirements
AF/A3I—AF Director of Information Operations
AF/A4P—AF Directorate of Resource Integration
AF/A4R—AF Directorate of Logistics Readiness
AF/A5R—AF Director of Operational Capability Requirement
AF/A5X—AF Director of Operational Plans and Joint Matters
AF/A8—AF Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs
AF/A8P—AF Directorate of Programs
AFC2ISRC—AF Command and Control, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Center
AFCIS—Air Force Capabilities Investment Strategy
AFDC—Air Force Doctrine Center
AFDC/DR—AFDC Doctrine Development
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC/A5F—AFMC Air Force Transformation Division
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRC/A5A8A9—AFRC Plans, Programs, Requirements and Assessments Directorate
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
20                                                                      ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006


AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPD—Air Force Strategic Planning Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ANG/XP—ANG Plans, Programs and Manpower Directorate
APPG—Annual Planning and Programming Guidance
ARC—Air Reserve Component
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure
CAF—Combat Air Force
CCJO—Capstone Concept for Joint Operations
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
COCOM—Combatant Command
COMACC—Commander, Air Combat Command
CONEMPS—Concepts of Employment
CONOPS—Air Force Concepts of Operations
CRRA—Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
CV—Vice Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Operations, Training, Materiel, Leadership, Personnel, and Facilities
FCB—Functional Capability Boards
FYDP—Future Year Defense Program
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ—Headquarters
IPL—Integrated Priority List
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
JCS/J7—Joint Staff Operational Plans and Interoperability Directorate
JFC—Joint Functional Concepts
JFCOM—Joint Forces Command
JFCOM/J02—JFCOM Chief of Staff
JFCOM/J8—JFCOM Requirements and Integration Directorate
ACCI90-105 31 MAY 2006                                                                     21


JFCOM/J9—JFCOM Joint Concept Development and Experimentation Directorate
JIC—Joint Integrating Concepts
JOC—Joint Operating Concepts
JPG—Joint Programming Guidance
JSR—Joint Strategy Review
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCCDC—Marine Corps Combat Development Command
MCL—Master Capability Library
NMS—National Military Strategy
NSS—National Security Strategy
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PACAF/A3A5—PACAF Directorate of Air, Space and Information Operations, Plans and Requirements
PB—President’s Budget
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
QDR—Quadrennial Defense Review
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AQ—Secretary of Air Force, Acquisitions
SecDef—Secretary of Defense
SMP—Strategic Master Plan
SPG—Strategic Planning Guidance
TOA—Total Obligation Authority
TPG—Transformation Planning Guidance
TRADOC—Training and Doctrine Command
UJTL—Universal Joint Task List
USAFE—United States Air Forces Europe
USAFE/A5/8—USAFE Plans and Programs Directorate
