BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                             ACCI 36-3150
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                             EFFECTIVE DATE: 12 JULY 1996

                                                                                          Personnel

                                                    AIR COMBAT COMMAND UNIFORM BOARD




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY



OPR: HQACC/DPPF (CMSgt Davis)                        Certified by: HQACC/DPP (Col John C. Moore)
Supersedes HOI 35-3, 2 March 1993                                                        Pages: 3
                                                                                  Distribution: F

This instruction establishes procedures for standardizing uniform items for wear by personnel of Air
Combat Command (ACC). It establishes board composition, outlines duties and responsibilities of the
HQ ACC Uniform Board, and defines board procedures. It applies to ACC Headquarters activities and
the    1 FW. This instruction implements AFPD 36-31 and incorporates requirements, information, and
procedures formerly in HOI 35-3, dated 2 March 1993.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first publication of ACCI 36-3150 and reinstates as voting members to the ACC Uniform
Board a junior enlisted male member and a junior enlisted female member as previously approved by
COMACC. There are no other significant changes to this revision.

1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The Deputy Director of Personnel is responsible for:
       1.1.1. Reviewing, evaluating, and staffing suggestions/recommendations for establishing or
       changing standardized uniform items for wear by personnel of ACC and preparing appropriate
       correspondence.
       1.1.2. Preparing directives implementing changes to uniform wear instructions based on guid-
       ance from HQ USAF and as directed by the Commander, Air Combat Command (COMACC).

2. ACC Uniform Board.
   2.1. The ACC Uniform Board president is the Deputy Director of Personnel.
   2.2. The permanent board consists of the Chief, Force Programs Branch and representatives from the
   following agencies:
       2.2.1. Personnel (DP)
       2.2.2. Senior Enlisted Advisor (CCC)
       2.2.3.   Comptroller (FM)
2                                                ACCI36-3150 EFFECTIVE DATE: 12 JULY 1996

       2.2.4. Logistics/Maintenance (LGM)
       2.2.5. Operations Support (DOS)
       2.2.6. Safety (SEG)
       2.2.7. Security Police (SP)
       2.2.8. Supply (LGS)
       2.2.9. Services (SV)
       2.2.10. One Junior Enlisted Male Member (1 FW)
       2.2.11. One Junior Enlisted Female Member (1 FW)
    2.3. The president and permanent board members are authorized to vote. The president will appoint
    a recorder from the Directorate of Personnel (Force Program Branch); this individual does not vote.
    2.4. Each staff agency referenced in paragraph 2.2. appoints a primary and alternate board member
    in writing, to include name, grade, office symbol, and duty phone. Forward a copy of appointments
    and any changes to DPPF. DPPF will coordinate with CCC to identify junior enlisted members of the
    board. The representative from SV must possess a working knowledge of clothing sales operations;
    the LGS representative must be knowledgeable of individual equipment issue operations and overall
    supply procedures; the representative from SEG must be conversant on ground air safety problems
    and clothing requirements; the LG representative must have a working knowledge of problems asso-
    ciated with the wear of work/utility clothing in logistics and maintenance AFSCs; the representative
    from DOS must be familiar with problems associated with the wear and maintenance of flight cloth-
    ing.
    2.5. Upon the president or recorder’s request, staff agencies send advisors, without voting authority,
    to the board to provide expert information and guidance on applicable items.

3. Board Procedures.
    3.1. The recorder consults with the board president upon receipt of suggestion/recommendations for
    uniform changes. The president determines if a board meeting is appropriate and designates the meet-
    ing place and time.
    3.2. Recommendations for uniform clothing changes are reviewed and discussed at the board meet-
    ing. Following the discussion, the president calls a vote for approval or disapproval on each matter
    presented. The board instructs the recorder if an action other than approval or disapproval is in order.
    3.3. The recorder:
       3.3.1. Provides each board member an advance copy of all pertinent correspondence regarding
       items to be considered.
       3.3.2. Is prepared to advise the board on pertinent directives, written policies, and prece-
       dent-establishing decisions related to applicable subject matter.
       3.3.3. Records the voting and develops a summary of the board’s recommendations for each item
       considered.
       3.3.4. Prepares the minutes on each board meeting for the joint signature of the president and the
       recorder. Prepares a staff summary sheet to transmit the board minutes to COMACC for approval.
ACCI36-3150 EFFECTIVE DATE: 12 JULY 1996                                                               3

       3.3.5. Upon return of board minutes from COMACC, initiates appropriate action as indicated for
       each item in the minutes.
       3.3.6. Prepares a message, summarizing results of the board, and furnishes a copy to each ACC
       Numbered Air Force, Center, Wing Installation/CC/CCC/MSS, and to each board member.

4. Documentation. Documentation created as a result of instructions contained in this instruction is dis-
posed of IAW AFI 37-138.



                                         RICHARD E. HAWLEY, General, USAF
                                         Commander
