BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   ACC INSTRUCTION 32-151
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                         30 JUNE 2008

                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                                        MANAGEMENT OF TRAINING
                                                                  PROJECTS--RED HORSE SQUADRONS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available digitally.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A7XO                                                                Certified by: HQ ACC/A7
                                                                     (Brigadier General Timothy A. Byers)
Supersedes ACCI32-151, 15 August 1997                                                           Pages: 19

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness; Department of Defense
Directive (DODD) 1100.18, Wartime Manpower Mobilization Planning; DODD 1315.6, Responsibilities
for Military Troop Construction Support of the Department of the Air Force Overseas; and DOD Instruc-
tion 1100.19, Wartime Manpower Mobilization Planning Policies and Procedures. It applies to all ACC
units. This instruction gives the requirements for the Air Combat Command (ACC) RED HORSE Pro-
gram and provides guidelines for the development of real property maintenance, repair and minor con-
struction projects accomplished using government-furnished materials, with labor furnished by active
duty RED HORSE squadrons as a means of enhancing the functional organic skill of each RED HORSE
unit concerned. It applies to ACC active duty RED HORSE units. It applies to the Air National Guard
(ANG). It applies to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members. The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this document are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located on the Air
Force Portal. Contact supporting records managers as required. Send comments and suggested improve-
ments on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the ACC Contingency Programs
and Operations Branch (HQ ACC/A7XO), 129 Andrews Street, Langley AFB VA 23665.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision to ACCI
32-151 updates programming information in chapter 3. It also outlines the new reconstitution policy and
refines the number of reports required for Troop Training Program (TTP) projects.


1. Scope:
2                                                                              ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008


    1.1. All projects performed under the guidance of this instruction will conform to the limits, terms
    and authorities set forth in AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Mainte-
    nance, Repair, and Construction Projects; and AFI 10-209, RED HORSE Program. This ACC instruc-
    tion also applies to Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) sponsored exercise projects in the absence of joint
    guidance.
    1.2. The 819th, 820th and 823rd RED HORSE Squadrons will perform troop training under the direc-
    tion of ACC Director of Installations and Mission Support (HQ ACC/A7). Each unit will perform
    troop training projects at various locations throughout the continental U.S. and around the world to
    gain experience in different locations and environments.
    1.3. This instruction does not cover emergency or contingency type troop projects related to tactical
    deployments, or natural disasters unless directed by the Commander, Air Combat Command.

2. Criteria. Projects developed for accomplishment under the provisions of this instruction are classified
as training projects and will meet the following criteria:
    2.1. Afford significant opportunity to enhance Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) specific skills of
    individual members of the unit performing the project and enhance the management, technical and
    command skills of the unit.
    2.2. Require HQ ACC approval and/or funding. Coordinate projects through the ACC Readiness
    Division (HQ ACC/A7X) that do not require HQ ACC funding, such as work for other commands or
    services. Coordinate community service projects through the local support group commander and
    public affairs office. RED HORSE does not normally accept projects that compete with local contrac-
    tors as community service work.
    2.3. Do not execute proposed projects in a general locality during a time when a surplus of local labor
    exists for the type of labor skills required in the project. This determination is the responsibility of the
    local project programming or approval authority. Include a statement on the project approval docu-
    ment explaining the impact on local contractor or labor relations through use of RED HORSE.
    2.4. Projects are not to be accepted by RED HORSE if failure to accomplish the project by a specific
    beneficial occupancy date will result in a mission failure by the ultimate user of the facility. RED
    HORSE is subject to short notice, rapid deployment to support disaster recovery operations and/or
    contingency requirements and may be unable to complete work as scheduled. If RED HORSE is
    directed to take on such a project, the squadron is responsible for working with the using Base Civil
    Engineer (BCE) to ensure contingency contracting avenues are in place.

3. Project Authorization:
    3.1. Approval authority for all RED HORSE troop training projects will be IAW AFI 32-1032 and
    current Major Command (MAJOR COMMAND) established policy. Each RED HORSE squadron
    (RHS) will develop a proposed troop training project schedule (see Table 1.) for approval by HQ
    ACC/A7. Once approved, HQ ACC/A7X will notify each requester of approved RED HORSE con-
    struction projects through a project notification letter. Project notification letters will include base,
    project number, project title, and servicing RED HORSE unit. RED HORSE units will also provide an
    information copy of their approved schedule to their respective Numbered Air Force. Any proposed
    cancellation of an approved project (except requester cancellation) must be submitted in writing to
    HQ ACC/A7X and approved by HQ ACC/A7.
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008                                                                                3


Table 1. Sample RED HORSE Project Schedule




   3.2. Projects scheduled for accomplishment under the provisions of this regulation are normally
   requested through and scheduled annually by HQ ACC/A7X. Projects scheduled and not completed
   during the current fiscal year’s construction schedule are carried over to the following year. Request
   out-of-cycle project insertions into the RED HORSE schedule through HQ ACC/A7X for HQ ACC/
   A7 approval.
   3.3. After notification of project acceptance for RED HORSE troop construction, the requesting
   installation BCE will submit all necessary project documents including approved DD Form 1391,
   FY__ Military Construction Project Data (sample included as Attachment 2); DD Form 1391c, FY__
   Military Construction Project Data (Continued) (Attachment 3); siting approvals; Certificate of
   Environmental Compliance (if required); and AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Anal-
   ysis (if required). Prepare these documents in accordance with (IAW) established Air Force and appli-
   cable MAJCOM directives for real property projects in the format prescribed in AFI 32-1032. Many
   of these documents may have already been submitted to HQ ACC/A7X for project consideration prior
   to project acceptance. The requesting BCE will coordinate all work with the appropriate RHS during
   the project approval document preparation stage.
4                                                                          ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008


    3.4. The installation commander or an individual to whom real property support responsibility has
    been delegated, must approve the project by signing the DD Form 1391 and DD Form 1391c, with the
    approved site plan.
    3.5. Civil Engineering Squadron (CES) commanders and others receiving approved RED HORSE
    construction projects will forward approved project documents to HQ ACC/A7X and respective RHS.
    All project documents must have sufficient information to allow an independent reviewer to under-
    stand the requirement, benefit, classification of work, total cost (funded and unfunded), impact if not
    accomplished, and project timing requirements.
    3.6. Always use the term "troop training" where applicable, in the development of all project docu-
    ments. For example, this should be included in Block 11 on the DD Form 1391.
    3.7. RED HORSE will accomplish and provide an evaluation to the requesting BCE with an informa-
    tion copy to HQ ACC/A7X. Evaluations will include as a minimum:
       3.7.1. Statement regarding the value of the project for enhancement of unit training.
       3.7.2. Projected availability of RED HORSE equipment. Requirements for host unit or rental
       equipment, if needed.
       3.7.3. Estimated number of personnel and calendar days required to accomplish project.
       3.7.4. Review of funded and unfunded costs for general compliance with scope and troop deploy-
       ment.
       3.7.5. Estimated fuel required to support project vehicles and equipment.
       3.7.6. Evaluation of RED HORSE design capability and identified additional required design ser-
       vices.
       3.7.7. Recommended period of accomplishment to include tentative start date.
    3.8. The requesting CES commander reviews the RED HORSE evaluation, revises project documents
    to match RED HORSE estimates, and sends a copy of the approved project documents (including the
    RED HORSE evaluation) to HQ ACC/A7X with an information copy to the RHS.
    3.9. HQ ACC/A7X will forward copies of approved project documents to the ACC Program Devel-
    opment Branch (HQ ACC/A7PD) to review work classification and project approval limits.
    3.10. Procedures in paragraphs 3.3. through 3.6. above also apply to revised project documents. Addi-
    tionally, requesting CES commander and RED HORSE squadrons should periodically review accu-
    racy of programmed costs. This is particularly important when the project start date is not soon after
    preparation of project documents.
    3.11. Procedures for obtaining RED HORSE project authorization for MAJCOMS, other than HQ
    ACC, are as follows:
       3.11.1. Requesting MAJCOM will forward DD Forms 1391 to HQ ACC/A7X. After an initial
       review, HQ ACC/A7X will forward project documents to HQ ACC/A7PD to review.
       3.11.2. HQ ACC/A7X will review documents and ensure respective RED HORSE squadrons
       have documents for evaluation.
       3.11.3. RED HORSE will accomplish an evaluation of the selected projects IAW paragraph 3.7.
       above and send to requesting CES commander with info copy to HQ ACC/A7X.
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008                                                                                  5


      3.11.4. Requesting CES commander will prepare project documents IAW instructions in para-
      graph 3.3., after notification of project acceptance for RED HORSE construction, requesting CES
      commander will prepare project documents IAW instructions in paragraph 3.3. and obtain project
      approval and funding at appropriate level.
      3.11.5. The appropriate MAJCOM or base will forward a copy of the approved project documents
      to HQ ACC/A7X (129 Andrews St. Suite 102, Langley AFB, VA 23665-2769) with an informa-
      tion copy to the appropriate RHS. HQ ACC/A7X will review documents for sufficiency and coor-
      dinate with appropriate RHS for work directive. HQ ACC/A7 will forward DD Forms 1391 and
      1391c to HQ USAF/A7C for approval on projects exceeding MAJCOM approval authority IAW
      AFI 32-1032. See Attachment 4 for additional requirements and major troop training process
      milestones.

4. Unit Home Station Work Authorization:
   4.1. The RED HORSE Commander has the authority to authorize accomplishment of unit home sta-
   tion CES commander approved work orders having training value within MAJCOM project approval
   authority limits.
   4.2. Initiation, approval and accomplishment of RED HORSE cantonment maintenance of a work
   order nature may be delegated to the RHS commander by the BCE only on an ACC installation. Spe-
   cific authority and responsibilities will be identified in a written agreement IAW AFI 25-201, Support
   Agreements Procedures.

5. Project Scheduling:
   5.1. Each RHS commander will furnish HQ ACC/A7X and the respective bases with a current project
   listing and tentative schedule prior to the start of the new fiscal year. The using BCE will ensure all
   necessary pre-construction actions are completed (design, if required; written federal, state, and local
   environmental compliance approval; procure materials; digging permits; and accommodations) to
   ensure projects start on the scheduled date. Lodge RED HORSE teams on base whenever possible, as
   temporary duty (TDY) costs are part of the funded portion of the project and thus subject to statutory
   limitations.

6. Project Design:
   6.1. RED HORSE will determine if engineering work hours and expertise are available within RED
   HORSE for project design, during the RED HORSE evaluation of the project documents. Careful
   consideration should be given to accomplishing a sufficient number of designs to ensure the RED
   HORSE engineering flight is adequately trained in each engineering discipline and overall project
   technical administration (drawings, current working estimate, etc.). Include TDY costs for design of
   ACC projects as an unfunded line item in the DD Form 1391c. Only design costs on a design-build
   project can be funded. TDY costs for evaluation or design are RHS funded. Using BCE will be
   responsible for the design of those projects; RED HORSE determines it does not have the manpower
   and/or expertise to design.
   6.2. The RHS and BCE will review copies of the project design; AF Form 9, Request for Purchase;
   bill of materials; copy of the civil engineer material acquisition system inquiry for work order materi-
   als; or copies of AF Forms 1445, Materials and Equipment List; and current working estimate (CWE).
6                                                                            ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008


    Reviews will occur at key milestones of the design and as agreed upon by the RHS and BCE. Project
    reviews are to ensure technical and functional adequacy, all the required signatures have been
    obtained, and materials ordered.

7. Project Management. For projects covered by this instruction, RED HORSE and the using CES com-
mander will assume the following responsibilities in addition to those identified in AFI 10-209:
    7.1. The using CES commander will assign technical inspection responsibilities to a project liaison
    officer, by letter to RED HORSE, with sufficient skills and authority to accomplish the following
    duties:
       7.1.1. Act as CES commander liaison with RED HORSE and other base agencies.
       7.1.2. Coordinate preparation of all funding and project approval documents with appropriate
       base agencies.
       7.1.3. Prepare AF Form 9 for materials, services or rental equipment as needed.
       7.1.4. Establish bill of materials and coordinate material acquisition with appropriate base agen-
       cies.
       7.1.5. Coordinate use of CES heavy equipment, shops, tools, and vehicles.
       7.1.6. Convene a preconstruction conference with the using agency, RED HORSE project man-
       ager, engineer, inspector, and other required agencies prior to work start.
       7.1.7. Monitor status of CES government-furnished material and equipment. Ensure material
       deliveries will not adversely impede project progress prior to construction start date, otherwise the
       RED HORSE commander may reschedule project or recommend cancellation to HQ ACC/A7.
       HQ ACC/A7 will cancel projects if materials, funds or design impede project accomplishment.
       7.1.8. Check quality of construction and workmanship. All work must meet or exceed industry
       standards to be acceptable since the primary purpose of RED HORSE projects are for troop train-
       ing.
       7.1.9. Determine design and construction deficiencies that could impair intended functional use of
       the facility or project.
       7.1.10. Maintain the following in a project jacket file and furnish to RED HORSE 30 days prior
       to start of work: AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Order; copy of approved DD Forms
       1391 and 1391c to include certificate of environmental compliance; AF Form 813 (if required),
       plus the current status of federal, state, and local environmental approvals as required; project
       drawings; AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request; and other pertinent
       data.
       7.1.11. Conduct pre-final and final acceptance inspections with RED HORSE and other required
       agencies to identify deficiencies and actions to correct them.
       7.1.12. Follow up to ensure proper corrective action on all identified deficiencies.
    7.2. The RED HORSE commander will assign a project engineer/officer-in-charge (OIC) through the
    programs flight chief to provide overall leadership responsibility for project crew. OIC responsibilities
    will include the following:
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008                                                                                  7


     7.2.1. Act as a liaison with CES throughout the project and notify HQ ACC/A7X of any unre-
     solved problems encountered.
     7.2.2. Aid on-site project manager with responsibilities as outlined below.
     7.2.3. Review and approve deviations from original design.
     7.2.4. Attend pre-construction conference.
     7.2.5. Maintain project folder on the job site containing copies of AF Form 332; project drawings,
     specific matters of applicability, bills of materials or copies of AF Form 1445 material status; copy
     of approved DD Forms 1391 and 1391c. Also, include AF Form 103; project schedule of activities
     (e.g., CPM, PERT, bar graph, etc.); record of funded and unfunded projects costs to date; CWE;
     Construction Inspection Report (if required); up-to-date as-built drawings; copy of final DD Form
     1354, Transfer and Acceptance of Military Real Property; and other pertinent data.
     7.2.6. Arrange for and attend pre-final inspection of the project. Establish a deficiency list to note
     construction and design deficiencies in accordance with AFI 32-1023, Design and Construction
     Standards and Execution of Facility Construction Projects, at the conclusion of the inspection.
     The RED HORSE project manager, the CES representative and the using agency will sign the
     deficiency list. The base chief of engineering programs flight will have final authority for accep-
     tance of the work if disagreement occurs between RED HORSE project manager and inspector
     concerning correction of deficiencies.
     7.2.7. Schedule a final inspection for the CES representative, using agency and RED HORSE
     project manager upon resolution of deficiencies.
     7.2.8. Provide complete as-built drawings and DD Form 1354 to host CES.
  7.3. The RED HORSE commander will assign a project manager/non-commissioned
  officer-in-charge (NCOIC) through the operations flight commander whose responsibilities will
  include the following:
     7.3.1. Coordinate arrival of equipment and manpower with the CES 30 days prior to deployment;
     ensure project design, siting, materials, billeting, and messing are available to support deploy-
     ment.
     7.3.2. Prior to start of work:
        7.3.2.1. Provide project liaison officer with a project schedule of activities (e.g., Microsoft
        Project, CPM, PERT, bar graph, etc.).
        7.3.2.2. Inventory bill of materials to verify all items are on hand.
     7.3.3. Attend preconstruction conference.
     7.3.4. Ensure both quality of workmanship and final product meet or exceed national construction
     standards.
     7.3.5. Maintain an inspection diary on AF Form 1477, Construction Inspection Record, or elec-
     tronic equivalent. Make inspections daily to include weekends and holidays, and as appropriate
     when work is done by contract. On non-work days, indicate this with an entry for the day's report.
     Include the following information in the daily inspection diary:
        7.3.5.1. Name/number of project.
8                                                                            ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008


           7.3.5.2. RED HORSE project OIC/NCOIC.
           7.3.5.3. Date.
           7.3.5.4. Weather conditions.
           7.3.5.5. Number of personnel assigned on project, hours they work, and their trade.
           7.3.5.6. Work accomplished on the project.
           7.3.5.7. Actual or potential delays on the project, cause and action taken to correct them.
    7.4. The RHS is responsible for maintaining current status and a project file for each approved
    project. Project engineers are responsible for continuously reviewing the project files for each of their
    assigned projects to ensure the file is current and pertinent documents are in the file. Official record
    copies of project folders are the responsibility of, and must be kept by, the BCE upon project comple-
    tion. The project folders maintained by the RHS are only working copies.

8. Project Cost Accounting. The CES and RED HORSE have a joint requirement in the collection and
reporting of project costs, to include the following:
    8.1. The CES will:
       8.1.1. Ensure project costs do not exceed approved funded and unfunded amounts without prior
       approval from MAJCOM (HQ ACC/A7X for ACC projects).
       8.1.2. Establish a work order for each project with appropriate cost in ACES or other applicable
       data management system. Input and track requirements against the work order.
       8.1.3. Issue an AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization, for miscellaneous costs, base service store
       cards, serve-o-plates, and tool issue cards chargeable to the project as necessary.
       8.1.4. Prepare completed construction transfer documents. The CES will prepare a DD Form
       1354 upon final acceptance to transfer accountability of completed new construction to real prop-
       erty records. Project cost records will provide pertinent information for capitalization to CES real
       property and/or cost accounting records dependent upon project classification. Complete all other
       forms as required by the real property office.
       8.1.5. Verify estimated per diem and travel costs accrued and submit final project status report to
       HQ ACC/A7X within 30 days after completion of all RED HORSE work.
       8.1.6. Ensure project costs do not exceed statutory limits. If project costs appear to be reaching
       said limits, CES commander and RED HORSE project engineer will identify portions of work to
       be eliminated and/or alternatives to keep costs below limits.
       8.1.7. Estimate project funds required to finish the fiscal year and return the remainder to HQ
       ACC/A7R (or other funding MAJCOM) 30 days prior to the end of fiscal year. Funding MAJ-
       COM will return sufficient funds at the beginning of the new fiscal year to complete the project if
       necessary. Accounting to determine costs split across fiscal years will be at the guidance of the
       MAJCOM.
    8.2. RED HORSE will:
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008                                                                                    9


      8.2.1. Organize hub operation at home unit location to manage all troop training projects as spoke
      operations. Make use of unit control center as focal point for fact collection, information distribu-
      tion and personnel accountability.
      8.2.2. Request separate AF Form 616 from the benefiting base for TDY and convoy costs prior to
      deployment.
          8.2.2.1. Return the AF Form 616 for TDY costs to the issuing office after publishing all orders
          or upon expiration of AF Form 616.
          8.2.2.2. AF Form 616 for convoy costs (fuel, oil, emergency repairs, etc.) must be annotated
          with the costs incurred. Return credit card purchases (obligating documents) to the RED
          HORSE home base Accounting and Finance Office upon arrival at the destination or, in the
          event of round trips, upon return to home base. Initially charge all convoy expenses to the
          RED HORSE program. Establish a refund receivable in the RED HORSE program to offset
          expenses incurred. This action provides for normal use of funds. When expenses are finalized
          (liquidated or firm), transfer the costs between stations by charging the benefiting base and
          crediting RED HORSE funds (use the same record that reflects the refund receivable). Charge
          appropriation reflected on the authority. Return AF Form 616 either upon expiration or com-
          pletion of the project but not later than the expiration date on AF Form 616.
      8.2.3. Maintain fiscal responsibility, as best as the estimates reflect, to ensure the project does not
      exceed the approved project funding.
   8.3. The benefiting base:
      8.3.1. Will forward all necessary information to the RED HORSE vehicle maintenance section for
      use in updating vehicle maintenance and fuel consumption records.
      8.3.2. Will establish separate Project Funds Management Report (PFMR) account and Emergency
      Special Project (ESP) suffixes to the civil engineer squadron responsibility center/cost center code
      prior to incurring any expenditures against the project. Use these codes on all servo-plates, AF
      Forms 1445, etc., charged to the project. Standard shop codes with an organizational code
      assigned specifically to the project may be used. By establishing these codes, expenditures for
      fuel, supplies, equipment rental, contractor operated civil engineer supply store, contractor oper-
      ated parts store, etc., will be summarized on the D-11 report and on a monthly responsibility center
      manager’s ESP report. Request inquiries on this report as required.
      8.3.3. Will furnish RED HORSE an obligation authority for convoy expenses, travel and per diem
      prior to deployment. RED HORSE squadrons will use their own commercial credit cards while on
      convoy. RED HORSE will return AF Form 616 to the accountable station and receipts to the unit’s
      host station, i.e., Malmstrom AFB for the 819 RHS; Nellis AFB for the 820 RHS; and Hurlburt
      Field for the 823 RHS.
   8.4. In regard to RED HORSE proficiency training costs, the RED HORSE commander may assign
   more personnel to projects than required to accomplish work in an efficient manner, if considered
   essential for training purposes. These additional personnel will be exempt from costing procedures.
   The RHS will fund their travel and per diem costs and will not include it as part of the project cost.

9. Project Training:
10                                                                           ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008


     9.1. HQ ACC/A7X will develop a 12-month training project program for each RHS in order to iden-
     tify funds required for ensuing fiscal year. This yearly program may be part of a long-term plan to
     allow RED HORSE squadrons to adequately plan around deployments and other obligations. Program
     project funds in the appropriate budget categories as specified by current financial management guid-
     ance. Use only funded costs as shown on the project document (DD Forms 1391 and 1391c) for bud-
     get purposes. Definition of funded costs is stated in AFI 65-601 Volume 1, Budget Guidance and
     Procedures, and paragraph 9.4. below. Total funds required to complete a training project is the aggre-
     gate sum of the funded costs.
     9.2. HQ ACC will fund approved ACC projects directly supporting RED HORSE troop training. Use
     RED HORSE project funds for per diem, travel, contract billets (unless no additional costs are
     incurred as a result of the TDY), construction material, and vehicle or construction equipment operat-
     ing and rental costs. The unit may use HQ ACC operations and maintenance funds for contract work
     or materials supporting RED HORSE work. Major equipment repair costs that occur during the
     project are also excluded from these funds.
        9.2.1. For non ACC selected troop training program projects, host base squadron or MAJCOM
        will provide funds to support RED HORSE TDY, transportation of equipment and over-the-road
        costs, if applicable, via fund citation or other acceptable documentation. Guidance for funding
        RED HORSE TDY is stated in AFI 65-601V1, Chapter 10.2.
        9.2.2. In regard to vehicle parts, project funds cover minor maintenance on deployed RED
        HORSE vehicles while the RHS generally funds major repairs. Minor maintenance includes
        tune-ups, oil changes, replacing minor components, etc. Major repairs or heavy maintenance
        includes work such as rebuilding engines, replacing transfer cases, etc. Some repair or heavy
        maintenance work could be paid for by project funds if the circumstances warrant. For example, if
        a transmission on a piece of equipment wore out through use on more than one project, RED
        HORSE will pay for its replacement. However, if the transmission wore out at an accelerated pace
        due to unusual site conditions, project funds would pay for the replacement. Typical minor main-
        tenance and repair work that would be paid for with project funds include, but is not necessarily
        limited to:
            9.2.2.1. Repair and replacement of minor components: Lights, mirrors, windshield wipers,
            fuel pump, filter elements, fan belts, starter solenoid, voltage regulator, and batteries.
            9.2.2.2. Minor repair of major components: Engine (example--replace injector lines), transfer
            case (example--adjust linkage), transmission (example--change filters), front and rear axle
            assembly (example--change oil), rear suspension assembly (example--replace worn bolts).
     9.3. Reconstitution Policy: Policy formalizes the methodology used by project planners to compute
     reconstitution costs. Reconstitution costs are included as a funded cost on DD Form 1391. A flat rate
     policy has been implemented beginning with the FY02 program. For CONUS projects, four percent of
     the project’s total bill of material (BOM) will be budgeted and included on the front page of DD Form
     1391 to cover reconstitution costs. For overseas projects, eight percent will be used. A higher percent-
     age is used for overseas projects due to the operating environment, length of deployment and histori-
     cal cost data. Reconstitution funds will be sent directly to RED HORSE squadrons. Other project
     funds will be sent to the base. Reconstitution funds are allocated to fund the minor maintenance costs
     as outlined in 9.2.2.
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008                                                                                 11


      9.3.1. Units will track annual reconstitution costs captured under ESP Code “2R” associated with
      “Command Funded RED HORSE Projects Reconstitution”.
   9.4. Funded project costs include but are not limited to all: Materials, travel, transportation, mainte-
   nance and operation of Government equipment, and contractor services.
   9.5. RED HORSE projects accomplished for other commands are funded by the command for which
   project is being accomplished. The funds required will be that amount of funded cost identified on the
   approved DD Forms 1391 and 1391c, plus any costs as described in paragraph 3.7. and 6.1. Reconsti-
   tution fee applies to all projects accomplished by ACC RED HORSE squadrons.

10. Forms Adopted. DD Form 1354, Transfer and Acceptance of Military Real Property; DD Form
1391, FY 20_Military Construction Project Data; DD Form 1391c, FY__ Military Construction Project
Data (Continued); AF Form 9, Request for Purchase; AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clear-
ance Request; AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Order; AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization;
AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis; and AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; AF Forms 1445, Materials and Equipment List; and AF Form 1477, Construction
Inspection Record.



                                               JOHN D. W. CORLEY, General, USAF
                                               Commander
12                                                                   ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
AFI 10-209, RED HORSE Program, 20 June 2001
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 May 2005
AFI 32-1023, Design and Construction Standards and Execution of Facility Construction Projects, 19
July 1994
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and Construction
Projects, 15 October 2003
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CPM—Critical Path Method
CWE—Current Working Estimate
ESP—Emergency Special Project
HQ ACC/A7—ACC Director of Installations and Mission Support
HQ ACC/A7PD—ACC Program Development Branch
HQ ACC/A7R—ACC Resources Division
HQ ACC/A7X—ACC Readiness Division
PERT—Project Evaluation and Review Technique
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008                                                                          13


                                               Attachment 2

            SAMPLE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT DATA--DD FORMS 1391

Figure A2.1. DD Form 1391 Sample.


1.        FY 20XX MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT DATA                               2. DATE
COMPONENT
AF (ACC)
3. INSTALLATION AND LOCATION                           4. PROJECT TITLE
HOMETOWN AFB, USA (ACC)                                PROJECT TITLE SHOULD BE: (REPAIR
                                                       OR CONSTRUCT)
                                                       REPAIR MUNITIONS HAUL ROAD, WSA &
                                                       MSA
5. PROGRAM                       6. CATEGORY       7. PROJECT NUMBER 8. PROJECT COST
ELEMENT                          CODE                                  ($000)
                                                   HMTN 02-1111
(RED HORSE)                      851-147                                   299.2
22178 or 22176
EEIC 522 or 529
9. COST ESTIMATE
                                                              U/M   QUANTITY   UNIT     COST
ITEM
                                                                               COST     ($000)
                                                              LS                        124.9
REPAIR CONGRESS AVENUE
                                                              LS                        57.0
FUNDED COSTS:                                                 LS                        78.8
MATERIALS (ASPHALT AND OTHER)                                 LS                        15.3
TDY (TRAVEL AND PER DIEM)                                     LS                        18.3
CONTRACTED SERVICES                                           LS                        4.9
SHIPPING/LINE HAUL                                            LS                        299.2
VEHICLE O&M, FUEL                                             LS                        107.9
RECONSTITUTION (4% CONUS or 8% OCONUS)                        LS                        4.7
                                                                                        14.9
TOTAL FUNDED COST:
                                                                                        127.5
UNFUNDED COSTS:
                                                                                        426.8
MILITARY LABOR


DEPRECIATION OF GOV. OWNED EQUIP.
PLANNING, DESIGN & CONST. MGMT (5% FUNDED)

TOTAL UNFUNDED COST:

TOTAL PROJECT COST:

NOTE: All prices are in U.S. Dollars
14                                                                        ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008


10. DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION: Repair approximately 36,050 SY of
asphaltic concrete pavement along the primary munitions haul route between the storage areas and the
flightline. Work shall include but is not limited to milling and overlay of existing aphaltic pavement
(removing existing asphalt pavement wearing surface, replacing aggregate base course in failed subgrade
areas as required, applying emulsified asphalt prime coat and placing new hot mix asphalt pavement
wearing surface). Provide pavement markings are required.
11. PROJECT: Repair Munitions Haul Road.
REQUIREMENT: This work is required to provide an adequate and safe transport route for live
munitions between the Weapons and Munitions Storage Areas and the Hot Cargo Pad.
CURRENT SITUATION: These pavements have many severe cracks and the surfaces are deteriorating
creating a potential foreign object debris (FOD) hazard on the airfield. These conditions will cause
further deterioration of the pavement and will eventually lead to complete reconstruction of the
pavement. .
IMPACT IF NOT PROVIDED: Failure to repair existing road could impede the safe transport and
delivery of live ordnanace between the storage areas and the flightline as well pose a potential FOD
hazard.
ADDITIONAL: There is not a specific required completion date for this project as it fits into TTP
schedule.
LOCAL LABOR CERTIFICATION: Accomplishment of this project by RED HORSE will have no
adverse impact on local contractor/labor relations.
BASE APPROVAL
DAVID C. AMERICA, Col, USAF
Civil Engineer Squadron Commander
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008                                            15


                                     Attachment 3

        SAMPLE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT DATA--DD FORMS 1391

Figure A3.1. DD Form 1391c Sample.
16   ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008   17
18   ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008
ACCI32-151 30 JUNE 2008                                                                                19


                                           Attachment 4

           SAMPLE RED HORSE TROOP TRAINING PROJECT MILESTONES


                         REQUIRED
OPR                      COMPLETION ACTION
                         DATE
HQ ACC/A7X               1 Nov XX   Submit call letter to ACC bases and other MAJCOMs for
                                    projects to be considered for RED HORSE construction.
MAJCOMs, CES             15 Jan XX  Submit project list with front page of DD Form 1391 to
commanders s, and others            HQ ACC/A7X.
requesting RED HORSE
construction
HQ ACC/A7X              15 Feb XX           Send consolidated project list and copies of DD Forms
                                            1391 with cover letter to the respective RED HORSE
                                            squadrons for review.
RED HORSE               1 Apr XX            Review base submittals for training value and submit the
Commanders                                  following to HQ ACC/A7X.
                        15 Apr XX
HQ ACC/A7X                                  a. List of projects acceptable for further evaluation.
                                            b. List of projects that do not have sufficient training
                                            value with short explanation of reason.
                                            c. Tentative schedule of visiting bases and preparing for
                                            project evaluations. Initial project evaluation TDY costs
                                            are to budgeted for and funded by respective RED
                                            HORSE squadron.
                                            Forward front page DD Form 1391s of projects selected
                                            for further evaluation to HQ ACC/A7PD for review.
RED HORSE               During initial      Inform CES commander of project suitability and
Commanders              evaluation visit    likelihood of acceptance.
RED HORSE               15 Jun XX           Assemble and coordinate tentative FYXX construction
Commanders                                  schedule with respective Numbered Air Force CEs.
RED HORSE               1 Jul XX            Submit FYXX construction schedule to HQ ACC/A7X
Commanders                                  for review. Schedule appointment with HQ ACC/A7 and
                                            brief proposed schedule for final approval prior to 15 July.
