BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                         36-2850

                                                                           30 DECEMBER 2010

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                             ACC RECOGNITION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A1KMM                                                            Certified by: ACC/A1
                                                                        (Ms. Veronica E. Hinton)
                                                                                        Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Program. It establishes the annual Air Combat Command (ACC) Awards Program for all
functional areas, except for sports awards. It is not the governing directive; this instruction is
instead designed to provide a guide to existing awards that can be used to stimulate competition,
increase effectiveness, emphasize and recognize outstanding performance, and improve welfare
and morale. This publication does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve
Command members/units. Maintain records created as a result of this publication in accordance
with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the Air Force
Records                 Disposition               Schedule                found                on
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the ACC Force
Management Office (HQ ACC/A1KMM); 114 Douglas St., Suite 214; Langley AFB VA 23665-
2773, using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
replaces Air Combat Command (ACC) Catalog 36-2850, and updates the offices of primary
responsibility for ACC special trophies and awards to coincide with the new ACC A-staff
structure. Nomination procedures were modified by ACC Vice Commander memorandum dated
18 May 2007.
 2                                                          ACCI36-2850 30 DECEMBER 2010



1. Overview.
     1.1. Award programs are one of the most visible means to recognize our top performers.
     This instruction provides guidance on the staffing process and procedures for award
     notifications. By adhering to this process, morale and esprit de corps will increase while
     ensuring commanders remain in control of the recognition program. When an individual or
     unit earns these honors, notification should come from the appropriate commander in the
     chain--that is the Commander, Air Combat Command (COMACC). Every effort should be
     made to make appropriate and timely notification via command channels to appropriately
     reward the dedication and hard work of our most valuable resource--our people.
     1.2. A consolidated list of all Air Combat Command (ACC) sponsored annual awards and
     participants can found on the HQ ACC/A1KM Force Management Community of Practice
     (CoP), (https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=AC-DP-00-
     51). It provides a single point of reference and standardizes all annual functional awards,
     exclusive of sports awards, sponsored by ACC. It is not the governing directive for the
     special trophies and awards listed. Please use this listing as a guide to determine suspense
     dates and offices of primary responsibility for specific special trophies and awards.
2. General. A separate table is reserved for each HQ ACC directorate and staff agency.
Questions or requests for information relative to a particular award should be directed to the
office of primary responsibility (OPR).
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Director of Manpower, Personnel, and Services (HQ ACC/A1) for ACC is
     responsible for monitoring the awards and special trophy programs for Air Combat
     Command. This responsibility is accomplished through the Chief, Force Management
     Branch (HQ ACC/A1KM), who will:
        3.1.1. Coordinate with each staff agency to ensure all annual awards are included herein.
        3.1.2. Process additions, changes and deletions to this directive.
        3.1.3. Coordinate on all supplements or directives pertaining to awards and special
        trophies processed through ACC staff agencies.
        3.1.4. Conduct a semi-annual review of awards tables found on the HQ ACC/A1KM
        Force Management CoP.
     3.2. Directors and Chiefs of staff agencies will:
        3.2.1. Appoint a special trophy and awards monitor to serve as points of contact on all
        awards matters within their staff agency.
        3.2.2. Provide the ACC Force Management Office (HQ ACC/A1KMM) current awards
        data immediately upon a change to an existing award or when an ACC staff agency or its
        Air Force counterpart establishes a new award.
     3.3. Monitoring and processing nominations and all details pertaining to a specific award are
     the responsibility of the respective functional manager or staff agency concerned.
ACCI36-2850 30 DECEMBER 2010                                                                      3


4. Nomination Procedures. Nomination criteria will be provided to the lower echelon OPR by
the responsible ACC staff agency.
   4.1. Nomination packages for MAJCOM and higher level awards will be processed on the
   current version of the AF IMT Form 1206, Nomination for Award, using single-spaced bullet
   format with no more than 30 lines of text for individual and unit/team/program awards.
   4.2. HQ ACC award OPRs will advise field staff of procedures via letter, message and/or e-
   mail, and will include an award template (Attachment 2) for each award.
   4.3. Upon selection of ACC nominees, units will be notified and given a minimum of 10
   duty days to comply with mandated format content instructions for a higher level award.
5. Selection Procedures. HQ ACC directors or staff agencies will approve winners of ACC
functional awards culminating at the ACC-level except when specifically directed by Air Force
instruction. HQ ACC directors or staff agencies will also select ACC nominees for functional
awards culminating at a higher level.
6. Notification of Award Recipients. Each HQ ACC directorate and staff agency charged with
monitoring awards IAW this instruction is responsible for initiating timely notification to
recipients of ACC and Air Force or equivalent awards. When the owning functional directorate
receives notification that an ACC member or unit has won an ACC or higher level award, the
appropriate director will staff the formal congratulatory package through directorate channels to
COMACC within 5 duty days. Congratulatory packages will include:
   6.1. Congratulatory letter. COMACC will normally sign letters of congratulations for ACC
   award winners and ACC winners of higher level awards.
       6.1.1. Congratulatory letters will be addressed directly to the individual or the unit
       commander for organizational/team awards.
       6.1.2. Courtesy copies of congratulatory letters will be distributed as follows:

Table 1.1. Letter Distribution.
          Nominee Assigned To:                            Courtesy Copy to Owning:
Wing and below                                    Numbered Air Force/Wing/Center Commander
Numbered Air Force                                Numbered Air Force Commander
Air Combat Command Headquarters                   Air Combat Command Headquarters Director
   6.2. HQ ACC Vice Commander (HQ ACC/CV) Notification Message. HQ ACC/CV will
   release a message notifying the award winner’s Numbered Air Force (NAF) or equivalent
   commander prior to the release of the command-wide announcement. The NAF commander
   (or equivalent) will in turn advise the wing/comparable level commander to notify the winner
   as soon as possible. The intent is for the recipient to be notified in person by his or her chain
   of command vice learning of the honor through other channels.
   6.3. Functional directorate message announcing the winner throughout the command. This
   message will be released within three duty days after HQ ACC/CV notification message
   notifying the award winner’s Numbered Air Force (NAF) or equivalent commander.
 4                                                         ACCI36-2850 30 DECEMBER 2010


     6.4. HQ ACC/CV Endorsement Memorandum. If required, HQ ACC/CV endorsement
     memorandum nominating the ACC winner to the next award level, i.e. nominating ACC
     winner to USAF- level.
7. Procedures for Obtaining Plaques and Engraving Services.
     7.1. FSS is the focal point for monitoring the official non-appropriated fund plaque program
     and for providing local assistance to unit project officers.
     7.2. Each unit will establish an internal system for determining and ordering their plaque
     requirements. Engraving services may be accomplished using the unit’s Air Force
     Government-Wide Purchase Card.
8. Presentation of Awards. Presentation will be as prescribed by the HQ ACC directorate or
staff agency responsible for the award. If presentation is desired below ACC-level, the
presentation plaque should be forwarded to that level. Remaining correspondence will be routed
through the appropriate chain of command.
9. Additions, Deletions and Changes.
     9.1. Changes or deletions will be submitted to HQ ACC/A1KMM by the award OPR via
     email or AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
     9.2. Requests for inclusion of new awards will be submitted in table format, using the format
     prescribed within this directive.
     9.3. Indicate the governing directive for the award; if no directive exists indicate the
     respective HQ ACC directorate or staff agency (e.g., annual ACC Directorate of Manpower,
     Personnel and Services (HQ ACC/A1) message). OPR indicates responsible HQ ACC
     directorate or staff agency for respective award.
     9.4. HQ ACC directorates and staff agencies are responsible for notifying units of any
     changes, deletions or additions concerning their respective awards and should not wait until
     publication or a change to this directive to notify subordinate units.

10. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; and AF Form 1206, Nomination for
Award.




                                             WILLIAM M. FRASER III, General, USAF
                                             Commander
ACCI36-2850 30 DECEMBER 2010                                     5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program, 1 August 1997
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 June 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—-Air Combat Command
COMACC—-Commander, Air Combat Command
HQ ACC/A1—-ACC Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services
HQ ACC/A1KM—-ACC Force Management Branch
HQ ACC/A1KMM—-ACC Force Management Office
IAW—-In Accordance With
NAF—-Numbered Air Force
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
 6                                                 ACCI36-2850 30 DECEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 2
                   COMPLETION EXAMPLE OF AF FORM 1206

Figure A2.1. Example of AF Form 1206 (Front).
ACCI36-2850 30 DECEMBER 2010                   7


Figure A2.2. Example of AF Form 1206 (Back).
