                                DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                 HEADQUARTERS AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                     JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS VA




                                                                    ACCI21-152_ACCGM2014-01

                                                                                      23 April 2014
MEMORANDUM FOR ACC UNITS DOWN TO WING

FROM: ACC/A4

SUBJECT: ACC Guidance Memorandum (GM) for Interim Guidance for ACCI 21-152, Engine
Trending & Diagnostic (ET&D) Program

1. By the Order of Commander, Air Combat Command, this ACC Guidance Memorandum
(GM) immediately implements changes to ACCI 21-152, Engine Trending & Diagnostic
(ET&D) Program. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. This memorandum addresses deletion of ACC policy verbiage based on a safety mishap
recommendation. Delete Paragraphs 1.0 – 10.0 in ACCI 21-152. Add Attachment from this
Memorandum.

3. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

4. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change, or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier. POC for this requirement is Mr. Scott A. Holland, A4MP, DSN 574-5142.




                                                       MARK A. ATKINSON
                                                       Major General, USAF
                                                       Director of Logistics


Attachment
NEW ET&D GUIDANCE



                                      Agile Combat Power
                                           Attachment

                                   NEW ET&D GUIDANCE

A1.1. GENERAL:

A1.1.1. This AFGM shall be used in conjunction with AFI 20-115, Propulsion Management for
Aerial Vehicles, AFMAN 20-116, Propulsion Life Cycle Management for Aerial Vehicles, and
TO 00-25-257, Engine Health Management (EHM) Plus, This ACCGM takes precedence in the
event of any conflict.

A1.2. PURPOSE:

A1.2.1. The ET&D program is a logistics management process intended to reduce engine flight
safety risk, improve reliability, and reduce life cycle cost for installed gas turbine engines. The
program analyzes trends in all available engine parameters to detect the onset of engine internal
failures and shifts in instrumentation calibration or accuracy. When properly administered, ET&D
is an effective management tool that allows maintenance personnel to take corrective actions
before an engine failure or expensive secondary damage occurs.

A1.3. RESPONSIBILITES:

A1.3.1. ACC/A4M will:

A1.3.2. Administer and enforce ET&D policy and is designated as the ACC office of primary
responsibility (OPR) for this policy.

A1.3.3. Identify appropriate personnel to participate in ET&D conferences, meetings, and
committees when required and discuss operational issues and policies.

A1.3.4. Ensure units operating ET&D programs have appropriate resources/sufficient manning
positions to appoint qualified, experienced technicians as ET&D Project NCO and Program
Monitor.

A1.3.5. Coordinate all proposed changes/supplements to this AFGM with appropriate ACC
staff.

A1.4. MXG/CC is/will:

A1.4.1. Responsible for managing the ET&D program, and will publish a local Wing Instruction
outlining administrative procedures to be used in conjunction with this AFGM.

A1.4.2. Ensure effective management of the ET&D and EHM program IAW AFI 20-115,
Propulsion Management for Aerial Vehicles, AFMAN 20-116, Propulsion Life Cycle
Management for Aerial Vehicles, and TO 00-25-257, Engine Health Management Plus.




                                      Agile Combat Power
A1.4.3. Appoint a qualified 2A6X1, minimum 7-skill level, (or civilian equivalent) technician as
the ET&D Project NCO. ET&D Project NCO will serve as the primary technical advisor for the
MXG/CC.

A1.4.4. Appoint a qualified 2A6Xl, minimum 7-skill level, (or civilian equivalent) technician
primary and alternate ET&D monitor. MXG/CC can appoint individuals who do not meet the
AFSC requirement but possess the expertise and knowledge about engine operation,
troubleshooting, and repair procedures.

A1.4.5. Ensure operations and maintenance (includes flight line, NDI, and test cell) personnel
capture appropriate raw engine data and flight data when automated data collection methods are
inoperable and transfer to EHM activity for analysis.

A1.4.6. Ensure that each AMU/HMU provides timely and accurate inputs to EHM data systems.

A1.4.7. Ensure ET&D Project NCO, ET&D Monitor have suitable Automatic Data Processing
Equipment (ADPE) available for the Comprehensive Engine Trending and Diagnostics
(CETADS) program; and AMU/HMU’s have suitable download devices (Non-ADPE) available
for use on aircraft requiring download devices.

A1.5. OG/CC will:

A.1.5.1. Ensure that accurate, complete, and timely data is completed by aircrew operating
aircraft with engines which do not have onboard diagnostic systems. The respective debriefing
section ensures In-flight Data (IFD) forms are completed for each flight and forwarded to the
ET&D Monitor in a timely manner.

A1.6. ET&D Project NCO is/will:

A1.6.1. Qualified to serve as the primary technical advisor on the ET&D program for the
MXG/CC.

A1.6.2. Manage and coordinate the ET&D program for the Maintenance and Operations Group
Commanders.

A1.6.3. Administer the ET&D program IAW AFI 20-115 Propulsion Management for Aerial
Vehicles, AFMAN 20-116, Propulsion Life Cycle Management for Aerial Vehicles, and TO 00-
25-257, Engine Health Management Plus.

A1.6.4. As a minimum, ET&D Project NCO (Chairperson), ET&D Monitors, Propulsion Flight
Chief (if applicable) and AMU/HMU ET&D POC’s will form a panel to review program
status/results on a quarterly basis.

A1.6.5. Manage the ET&D workload, schedule, and ET&D data management/analysis to ensure
continual evaluation and daily flow of ET&D data.



                                     Agile Combat Power
A1.6.6. Validate the ET&D Monitor’s recommendations for engine maintenance as a result of
program trending or analysis.

A1.6.7. Act as the single POC in each wing for all recommended changes to this instruction.

A1.6.8. Forward trend data to propulsion engineers when requested.

A1.7. ET&D Program Monitor(s) is/will:

A1.7.1. A qualified 2A6X1 minimum 7-skill level, (or civilian equivalent) technician. The
ET&D Program Monitor must be knowledgeable about engine operation, troubleshooting, and
repair procedures.

A1.7.2. Enter engine performance data in the CETADS computer no later than the end of the
flying day.

A1.7.3. Advocate maintenance is performed/scheduled when practical within mission
requirements when the engine trend plot indicates a maintenance action must occur (i.e. engine
removal). The Propulsion Flight Chief (if applicable), AMU/HMU Production Superintendent
will make the final judgment and coordinate with Maintenance Operation Center (MOC) and
AMU/HMU scheduling to validate the appropriate work orders are provided and scheduled as
soon as practical.

A1.7.4. Ensure corrective actions on "watch status" or ET&D problem engines are accomplished
as soon as possible.

A1.7.5. Submits (IAW 00-35D-54 "USAF Deficiency Reporting (DR) and Investigating
System) and monitors DR’s on parts replaced to correct ET&D discrepancies. If a deficiency has
been previously identified through a local unit DR system, and confirmation is received specific
issue is under investigation, then no DR is required.

A1.7.6. Maintain a register of where the ET&D equipment is located.

A1.8. Engines categorized as a “watch” status engine:

A1.8.1. An engine categorized as a "watch" engine will have the following entry made in AFTO
Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, identifying the "watch", and
placed on a red dash. Each entry will begin: "Engine position/serial number ___ -___ on ET&D
watch status". Also, enter the reason for "watch" status in sufficient detail to explain the basis
for this action. The AFTO Form 781A entries will be amended after each review, and action
taken noted in the "corrective action" block. If an engine is continued in "watch" status, a new
entry will be made and begin: "Engine position/serial number ___-___ continued on watch
status". Enter reason in sufficient detail to explain basis for this action. "Watch" engine



                                     Agile Combat Power
discrepancies will not be transferred to AFTO Form 781K, Aerospace Vehicle Inspection,
Engine Data, Calendar tem Inspection and Delayed Discrepancy Document.

A1.8.2. Forms Prescribes: ACC 259, TF33 Equipped Aircraft; ACC 273, F108 Equipped
Aircraft.




                                   Agile Combat Power
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION 21-152
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                20 APRIL 2000
                                                         Certified Current on, 25 January 2011
                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                      ENGINE TRENDING & DIAGNOSTIC
                                                                   (ET&D) PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/XRSP                                                    Certified by: HQ ACC/XRS
                                                                       (Col Stanley S. Stevens)
                                                                                       Pages: 5
Supersedes:   ACCR 66-23, 12 April 1993


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. It
prescribes policies and procedures for monitoring jet engine internal performance and
supplements ACC units responsibilities IAW TO 00-25-257, Engine Trending and Diagnostic
Users Manual. This program applies to all ACC units, and is applicable to ACC-gained Reserve
associate maintenance units, and applicable Air National Guard (ANG) units. Program
requirement is referenced in AFI 21-132, Air Force Engine Trending And Diagnostic Program,
and must be administered IAW TO 00-25-257. Supplements to this instruction must be
approved by HQ ACC/XRSP, then issued according to AFI 37-160, volume 1, The Air Force
Publications and Forms Management Programs - Developing and Processing Publications.
Specific procedures for waiver requests and proposed changes to this instruction are provided in
Section 8. Reporting here is exempt from licensing according to AFI 37-124, The Information
Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air
Force Information Collections, paragraph 2.11.10. Send comments and suggested improvements
to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through
channels, to HQ ACC/XRSP, 216 Hunting Ave, Langley AFB VA 23665

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the initial publication of ACCI 21-152. This instruction deletes ACCR 66-23 Engine
Conditioning and Monitoring Program (ECMP) and establishes policies and procedures to be
followed by applicable ACC units.
 2                                                                ACCI21-152 20 APRIL 2000


1. Purpose.
     1.1. The Engine Trending & Diagnostic (ET&D) program is intended to further the safe
     operation, performance reliability, and lower maintenance operating costs of installed gas
     turbine engines. The program analyses trends in all available engine parameters to detect the
     onset of engine internal failures and shifts in instrumentation calibration or accuracy. When
     properly administered, this will be an effective management tool that allows maintenance
     personnel to take corrective actions before an engine failure or expensive secondary damage
     occurs.
2. ACC Headquarters Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Directorate of Combat Weapon Systems, Systems Support Division, Propulsion
     Branch (HQ ACC/XRSP), is designated as the ACC office of primary responsibility (OPR)
     for this program. The OPR will:
        2.1.1. Establish a headquarters OPR for ET&D responsibilities.
        2.1.2. Participate in major ET&D conferences, meetings, and committees to identify and
        discuss relevant ET&D issues and policies.
        2.1.3. Identify specific requirements to assist the ET&D programs through all available
        technology channels and processes.
        2.1.4. Ensure Units operating ET&D programs have sufficient manning positions and
        appoint qualified, experienced persons as ET&D Project Managers at each operating
        base.
        2.1.5. Ensure owning units submit accurate and timely quality deficiency reports to the
        applicable engine program offices on all equipment requiring any maintenance activity
        due to an ET&D recommendation and on all ET&D component failures where no ET&D
        maintenance recommendation was made.
        2.1.6. Ensure that each unit provides timely and accurate metrics to the CEMS
        IV/CETADS database.
     2.2. In addition, ACC/XRSP is to:
        2.2.1. Ensure that all applicable programming documents (budget, facilities, manpower,
        maintenance, etc.) include the need for ET&D support.
        2.2.2. Co-ordinate all proposed changes to this publication with appropriate ACC staff.
        2.2.3. Co-ordinate between ACC, AFMC and the other MAJCOMs on matters
        concerning ET&D.
3. Wings.
     3.1. The Logistics Group Commander is responsible for managing the ET&D program, and
     will publish a local Wing Instruction outlining administrative procedures to be used in
     conjunction with this ACCI.
     3.2. The Operations Group Commander will ensure aircrew responsibilities for the program
     are applied. (Applicable to B52 and -135 Wings only).
4. Procedures.
ACCI21-152 20 APRIL 2000                                                                       3


   4.1. Units are to follow the specific instructions for each engine type as detailed in the
   respective engine supplements of TO 00-25-257, the Engine Trending and Diagnostic Users
   Manual.
5. Logistics Group Commander (LG/CC). The LG/CC is to:
   5.1. Appoint a Senior NCO Propulsion system supervisor as ET&D Project NCO. The
   specific duties of the Project NCO are at Section 8.
   5.2. Appoint a primary and alternate ET&D Monitor. The alternate position should be
   considered additional duty for appointed individual. The specific duties of the ET&D
   Monitor are at Section 9.
   5.3. Ensure the primary ET&D Monitor receives the ET&D training course within 6 months
   of assignment of duty.
   5.4. Ensure ET&D computers obtained from SA-ALC are not modified or used for non-
   ET&D applications without permission from HQ ACC/XRSP.
6. Operations Group Commander (OG/CC). The OG/CC will ensure that:
   6.1. A 7-level or 9-level (9-level preferred) propulsion system Point of Contact (POC) is
   designated for each flying squadron. The POC will assist the LG Project NCO in resolving
   all "On-Wing" issues.
   6.2. Ensure corrective actions on "watch" or ET&D problem engines are corrected as soon as
   possible.
   6.3. Ensure that accurate, complete, and timely data is completed by aircrew operating
   aircraft with engines which do not have onboard diagnostic systems. The respective Flying
   Squadron Debriefing Section ensures In-flight Data (IFD) forms are completed for each
   flight and forwarded to the ET&D Monitor in a timely manner. (Applicable to B52 and -135
   Wings only).
7. Operations Group Point of Contact (OG POC). The OG POC will:
   7.1. Provide liaison with the ET&D Project NCO on the ET&D program.
      7.1.1. Determine appropriate actions to ensure that aircrews have an understanding of the
      ET&D program and benefits of an effective program.
      7.1.2. Advertise results of the ET&D program at aircrew briefings and safety meetings.
      7.1.3. Ensure sufficient quantities of In-Flight Data (IFD) forms are available as a
      standard part of the aircrew trip kit/mission folder. (Applicable to B52 and -135 Wings
      only).
      7.1.4. Attend quarterly ET&D Project NCO review meeting.
8. ET&D Project NCO. The Project NCO will:
   8.1. Manage and coordinate the ET&D program for the Logistics and Operations Group
   Commanders.
   8.2. Administer the ET&D program in accordance with this ACCI and applicable technical
   orders.
 4                                                                 ACCI21-152 20 APRIL 2000


     8.3. Establish a visible program through continual co-ordination between operations and
     maintenance, thus providing a close loop system for information and maintenance repair
     actions. (Applicable to engines not utilizing an onboard diagnostic system)
     8.4. Provide feedback from the ET&D program to aircrew and the operations staff.
     8.5. Act as the single POC in each wing for all recommended changes to this instruction.
     8.6. Be the primary technical advisor on the ET&D program for the LG/OG CC.
     8.7. Conduct quarterly review of engine performance worksheets and computer data.
     8.8. As a minimum, the LG ET&D Project NCO (Chairperson), ET&D Monitors, and OG
     squadron POCs will form a panel to review program status/results on a quarterly basis.
     8.9. Maintain engine data and advise Logistics and Operations Group Commanders on
     program issues requiring their attention.
     8.10. Manage the ET&D workload, schedule, and ET&D data management and analysis to
     ensure continual evaluation and daily flow of ET&D data.
     8.11. Validate the ET&D Monitor's recommendations for engine maintenance as a result of
     program trending or analysis.
     8.12. Submit program software improvement recommendations to HQ ACC/XRSP and co-
     ordinate with appropriate agencies to resolve problems with the ET&D program.
     8.13. If necessary, perform a Field Service Evaluation (FSE) to determine the effectiveness
     of a program and/or current software configuration. Obtain FSE requirement through HQ
     ACC/XRSP.
     8.14. Maintain a register of where the ET&D equipment is located.
     8.15. Submit narrative of actual events in which ET&D successfully or unsuccessfully
     prevented engine failure. This narrative should be registered on the CEMS IV/CETAD Web
     Page and should include cost savings data where appropriate.
9. ET&D Program Monitor(s). The ET&D Program Monitor at each unit is to:
     9.1. Be a Propulsion technician, AFSC (minimum 2A651A or civilian equivalent). These
     individuals must be knowledgeable about engine operation, troubleshooting, and repair
     procedures. LG/CC can appoint individuals who do not meet the AFSC requirement but
     possess the expertise and knowledge of the engine as ET&D Monitors.
     9.2. Obtain a suitable desktop PC. Initial provision of IT equipment is from the CEMS
     IV/CETADS Project Manager at SA-ALC.
     9.3. Enter engine performance data in the ET&D computer no later than the end of the next
     flying day.
     9.4. An engine categorized as a "watch" engine will have the following entry made in AFTO
     Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, identifying the "watch", and
     placed on a red dash. Each entry will begin: "Engine position/serial number ___ -___ on
     ET&D watch status". Also, enter the reason for "watch" status in sufficient detail to explain
     the basis for this action. The AFTO Form 781A entries will be amended after each review,
     and action taken noted in the "corrective action" block. If an engine is continued in "watch"
ACCI21-152 20 APRIL 2000                                                                          5


   status, a new entry will be made and begin: "Engine position/serial number ___-___
   continued on watch status". Enter reason in sufficient detail to explain basis for this action.
   "watch" engine discrepancies will not be transferred to AFTO Form 781K, Aerospace
   Vehicle Inspection, Engine Data, Calendar Item Inspection and Delayed Discrepancy
   Document.
      9.4.1. Ensure corrective actions on "watch" or ET&D problem engines are accomplished
      as soon as possible.
      9.4.2. Submits (IAW 00-35D-54 "USAF Deficiency Reporting (DR) and Investigating
      System) and monitors Deficiency Reports (DRs) on parts replaced to correct ET&D
      discrepancies. If a deficiency has been previously identified through a local unit DR
      system, and the respective Air Logistic Center (ALC) is addressing the issue, then no DR
      is required.
   9.5. When the engine trend plot indicates maintenance or engine removal is required, co-
   ordinate with the project NCO, Maintenance Operation Center (MOC), and Flying Squadron
   scheduling to assure the appropriate work orders are provided and scheduled as soon as
   practical.
   9.6. Submit aircraft engine instrument maintenance and check requests through Flying
   Squadron scheduling or Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS).
   9.7. Forward trend data to ALCs when requested.
   9.8. Issue an AFTO Form 349, Maintenance Data Collection Record, maintenance request or
   automated CAMS product against the probable engine or related system malfunction after
   notification by the ET&D Project NCO or ET&D Monitor.
   9.9. Schedule maintenance as soon as practical within mission requirements and consistent
   with the severity of the anticipated unserviceability; the Propulsion Flight Chief, or assistant,
   is to make this judgement.
   9.10. Monitor the return of IFD forms by aircrews to maintenance debriefings and ensure
   that all IFD forms are returned to the ET&D Monitor. (Applicable to B-52 and -135 Wings
   only).
10. Forms Prescribes. ACC 259, TF 33 Equipped - 135 Aircraft Cruise Based In-Flight
Data Sheet; ACC 264, B-52 In-Flight Data (IFD); ACC 266, B-52G In-Flight Data (IFD);
ACC 267, Aircraft Instrument Checkout Data; ACC 270, J-57 Equipped - 135 Aircraft In-
Flight Data (IFD); ACC 273, KC-135 In-Flight Data Sheet (TDY) and TEMS Inoperable.




                                             JOHN P. JUMPER, General, USAF
                                             Commander
