BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                        36-211

                                                                         18 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                    ACC SQUADRON COMMANDER AND
                                                CHIEF OF SAFETY HIRING AND TENURE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at ww.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A1K                                                       Certified by: HQ ACC/A1
                                                                     (Colonel Richard T. Poore)
Supersedes:   ACCI 36-211, 28 May 2009                                                Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-21, Utilization and
Classification of Air Force Military Personnel and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-401, Air Force
Operations Planning and Execution. It establishes Air Combat Command's hiring requirements
for squadron commander billets and delineates tenure policy for all squadron commanders. This
instruction additionally sets forth requirements for managing Chief of Safety billets. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command or Air National Guard units. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; send AF
Form 847 to the ACC Career Development Branch (HQ ACC/A1KB), 114 Douglas Street,
Langley Air Force Base, Virginia 23665. Maintain records created as a result of prescribed
processes IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule as found on the AF Portal at the AF Records Information
Management System link located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Contact supporting records managers as required. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references,
supporting information and terms.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Specifically, this
instruction establishes hiring procedures and waiver guidelines for CAF Rated Director of
Operations positions.
 2                                                           ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012


1. Overview. The squadron commander hiring and tenure process outlined in this instruction is
designed to give 1st Air Force, 9th Air Force, 12th Air Force, United States Air Force Warfare
Center (USAFWC), United States Air Forces Central (USAFCENT), and wing commanders
(Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) maximum hiring latitude for filling critical leadership
positions. This instruction applies to appointments of squadron command. A “squadron” is
defined as a unit which exists within a wing and/or group structure for the purposes of this
instruction. It does not apply to detachments, flights, centers, or staffs except detachments
scheduled to become Associate Fighter Squadrons; these officers will be selected from a current
squadron commander list.
2. Application. All direction in this instruction applies to the hiring and tenure of:
     2.1. Flying Squadrons. This includes operational flying squadrons, flying training units,
     flying test squadrons, squadrons with permanent or temporarily assigned combat-coded
     aircraft (not transient aircraft).
     2.2. Non-Flying Operations Squadrons (Lieutenant Colonel Authorized). This includes
     squadrons such as, but not limited to operations support squadrons (OSS), air control
     squadrons (ACS), and air support operations squadrons (ASOS).
     2.3. Support Squadrons.
     2.4. Associate Fighter Squadrons (AFS).
     2.5. Wing Chief of Safety (COS) S-prefix billets.
     2.6. Director of Operations (B-Prefix) (CAF Rated Only).
3. Candidate Requirements.
     3.1. Candidates for command of a flying squadron must be on the current Combat Air Forces
     (CAF) squadron commander list or another vetted squadron commander list (i.e. HAWK
     board). The CAF rated squadron commander list is valid for one calendar year. Hiring
     requests for personnel beyond the current calendar year’s squadron commander list do not
     meet the intent of the CAF Development Team (DT). Final determination on hiring outside
     of the current CAF rated squadron commander list rests with COMACC and/or ACC/CV and
     will be first vetted thru HQ ACC/A1KB in coordination with the CAF DT Advisor.
     3.2. Candidates for command of an OSS must be on the current CAF squadron commander
     list or another MAJCOM flying squadron commander list. OSS commanders may also be
     selected from the commander’s list for Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 14N (intelligence),
     15W (weather) and 17D (communications). AFSC 13M (airfield operations) candidates are
     also eligible for OSS command and must be approved by their DT.
     3.3. Candidates for ACS, ASOS, AFS, and other non-flying operational squadron commands
     must be on the current CAF squadron commander list or another vetted squadron commander
     list (i.e. HAWK board). It does not apply to staff squadrons. (Refer to para 3.11 below for
     O-6 squadron commander positions exception.)
     3.4. Support officer command candidates must be on an Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC)
     approved squadron commander candidate list. (Refer to para 3.11 below for O-6 squadron
     commander positions exception.)
ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                    3


   3.5. Flying squadron, operations support squadron, associate fighter squadron, aircraft
   maintenance squadron and security forces squadron commanders whose organizations have a
   nuclear support mission require previous nuclear mission or nuclear support mission
   experience. Commanders of these squadrons must have: 1) at least 24 cumulative months of
   experience performing nuclear mission or nuclear support mission duties in the squadron's
   respective functional area, or 2) 12 consecutive months as an Operations Officer or Deputy
   Commander of a unit performing nuclear mission or nuclear support mission duties within
   the past 18 months. The 24 months nuclear experience must be accumulated within the past
   ten years prior to assuming command.
   3.6. Expeditionary commander candidates are required to be a sitting or graduated
   commander or must be on a current squadron commander candidate list per AFI 10-401
   Change 3, 9.9.1.2.7.
       3.6.1. Acting Squadron commanders are not required to be on any squadron commander
       list (filling an interim command position for a deploying commander).
3.7. (CAF rated only) Candidates for CAF Rated Director of Operations (DO) of a flying
squadron must be on the current Combat Air Forces (CAF) squadron DO list. The CAF rated
squadron DO list is valid for one calendar year. Hiring requests for personnel beyond the current
calendar year’s CAF rated squadron DO list do not meet the intent of the CAF Development
Team (DT). Potential DOs must be between 12-16 Commissioned Years of Service to be
eligible to compete. Final determination on hiring outside of the current CAF rated squadron DO
list rests with ACC/A3 and will be first vetted through HQ ACC/A1KB in coordination with the
CAF DT Advisor.
3.8. (CAF rated only) Candidates for DO of an OSS must be on the current CAF squadron
DO list. OSS DOs may also be selected from the DOs list for Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)
14N (intelligence), 15W (weather), 17D (communications) and13M (airfield operations) and will
be vetted through their DT/AFPC Functional Managers as applicable.
3.9. (CAF rated only) Expeditionary CAF rated DO candidates (excluding AEF rotating DOs)
are required to be a sitting or graduated CAF rated DO or must be on a current CAF rated
squadron DO candidate list.
3.10. (CAF rated only) Acting CAF rated squadron DOs are not required to be on any
squadron DO list (filling an interim DO position for a deploying DO).
3.11. Colonels or Colonel-Selects hired into authorized O-6 squadron command positions are
not required to be on a squadron commander candidate list. These positions will be filled
through the AF/DPO colonel assignment game plan process.
4. Squadron Commander and Rated CAF DO Hiring Procedures. Wing commanders or
their equivalent (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) must initiate the hiring of squadron
commanders in all cases.
   4.1. Operational (O-5 and below positions). For both internal wing hires and external hires,
   wing commanders (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) must receive approval from their
   NAF/center commander before forwarding the squadron commander nominee's information
   to the ACC Career Development Branch (HQ ACC/A1KB). Hiring requests will include the
   name and rank of the officer being hired, NAF/USAFWC coordination, the position number
 4                                                          ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012


     to which the officer will be assigned, the effective date of command, desired report not later
     than date (if required), incumbent status and required waivers (if necessary). HQ
     ACC/A1KB will coordinate necessary assignment actions with HQ AFPC.
     4.2. Support (O-5 and below positions). MAJCOM functional managers will coordinate
     with hiring authorities through a bid process to hire support commanders. Hiring Authorities
     or Senior Raters will comply with procedures as stated in Para 4.1 for hiring support
     commanders outside of the annual Development Team (DT) selection process.
     4.3. (CAF rated only) Once on the CAF Rated DO list, for both internal wing hires and
     external hires, wing commanders or designated hiring official (Hiring Authorities or Senior
     Raters) must forward the CAF rated squadron DO nominee's information to the ACC Career
     Development Branch (HQ ACC/A1KB). Hiring requests will include the name and rank of
     the officer being hired, the position number to which the officer will be assigned, the
     respective AFPC assignment cycle desired report not later than date (if required), incumbent
     status and required waivers (if necessary). HQ ACC/A1KB will request necessary By Name
     Request (BNR) assignment actions with HQ AFPC. Reference PSDM 10-42 for BNR
     procedures.
5. Mandatory Actions Prior to Assuming Command. Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters
will ensure the following items are accomplished prior to change/effective date of command:
     5.1. New squadron commanders will attend pre-command training. Hiring Authorities or
     Senior Raters or their executive officers will coordinate with HQ ACC/A1KB to register the
     commander for the ACC squadron commanders’ course. Associate Fighter Squadron
     Commanders should attend the AFRC TFI for Commanders’ Course if available or a
     workshop hosted by ACC/A5B during the ACC squadron commander course.
     NOTE: The TFI training requirement will be deleted once a TFI block is added to the ACC
     squadron commander’ course.
        5.1.1. Officers who have previously served as a squadron commander, or have
        completed a squadron commander course in another MAJCOM, are not required to attend
        the ACC squadron commander course; however, they must provide HQ ACC/A1KB with
        documentation of the previous command or course for accountability.
        NOTE: The AFPC Squadron Commander’s Course is a supplement to the Squadron
        Commander’s Courses offered by the MAJCOMs. It is not a mandatory course; therefore
        pre-command training credit is not granted for this course.
        5.1.2. Personnel selected for command have first priority to attend the course
        (expeditionary commanders will attend the course, time permitting). The following may
        attend on a space-available basis: Acting Squadron commanders; officers on a squadron
        commander list but not yet selected for command; detachment commanders; ACC guard
        or reserve commanders of total force integrated units; and other MAJCOM squadron
        commanders.
        5.1.3. Spouses are not required to attend this course; however, they are highly
        encouraged to participate. Although all spouses are critical to the success of any
        commander’s tour, the spouses who can deliver these skills to the unit are given priority
        to attend. Therefore, spouses of in-garrison commanders have priority to attend the
ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                    5


       course while spouses of deployed commanders and Active Duty spouses attend on a
       space available basis. Active Duty spouses’ travel is unfunded and they may not travel
       on invitational orders. Per diem rates do not apply.
   5.2. It is critical for flying squadron commanders, and Associate Fighter Squadron
   Commanders to complete a maintenance orientation before they take command. ACC's
   priority regarding the Maintenance Course for Operational Commanders (MCOC) is to send
   all current and newly selected operations officers through MCOC within 6 months of
   assuming their job. All current and newly hired squadron commanders who did not attend
   MCOC as an operations officer should attend if there are quotas available or unfilled. Based
   on the limited availability of course slots, this policy may result in a significant number of
   squadron commanders not attending in the near term. However, through career progression,
   this action will ensure the majority of future squadron commanders have attended the course
   prior to taking command. ACC has coordinated this priority with HAF; scheduling point of
   contact is the ACC Operations and Training Branch (HQ ACC/A3TO).
   5.3. New operations squadron commanders must be fully current and qualified (basic
   mission capable/combat mission ready as required) in their respective major weapon system
   prior to assuming command/duties. Requirements also apply to Acting Squadron
   Commanders.
   5.4. Flying squadron, operations support squadron, aircraft maintenance squadron and
   security forces squadron commanders, whose organizations have a nuclear support mission,
   require commanders of these squadrons to attend the Air Force Nuclear Management
   Fundamental Course (AFNMFC) and other specified nuclear commander courses prior to
   assuming command/duties. The course is also highly encouraged for communications and
   civil engineering squadron commanders at affected installations.
6. Squadron Commander and Rated CAF DO Tenure Requirements. Time in Command
(TIC) is not only important for the professional development of the commander but also for
stability of the squadron. ACC expects squadron commanders to serve 24 months in command
to maintain continuity of command for the unit. Exception: Some contracting squadron
commanders are critical acquisitions positions with a minimum TIC of 3 years per Title 10
United States Code, Subtitle A, Part II, Chapter 87, Subchapter , Section 1734. Office of
primary responsibility is the ACC Installations and Mission Support Directorate (HQ ACC/A7).
   6.1. (CAF rated only) Time in DO (TIDO) is not only important for the professional
   development of the CAF rated squadron DO but also for stability of the squadron. ACC
   expects CAF rated squadron DOs to serve 12 months in DO to maintain continuity for the
   unit. A TIDO waiver will be required if a DO serves less than 9 and longer than 15 months.
   The waiver authority is the owning NAF Commander and upon approval, HQ ACC/A1KB in
   coordination with the CAF DT Advisor will be notified for tracking purposes.
7. Relief for Cause Requirements. The NAF/center commander will immediately notify the
Commander, Air Combat Command (COMACC) or ACC Vice Commander (HQ ACC/CV)
when a squadron commander is relieved for cause, and forward a signed Memorandum of
Circumstance within 7 days that provides detailed information of the situation leading to the
removal action. The ACC Director of Manpower, Personnel, and Services (HQ ACC/A1) will
receive a copy of the Memorandum of Circumstance and assist in necessary replacement actions.
 6                                                          ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012


8. Waiver Provisions.
     8.1. Hiring. Waiver requests are required if an individual is not on a squadron commanders
     and Rated CAF DOs list or does not have the applicable nuclear mission experience.
        8.1.1. It may be necessary to assign an officer not on a squadron commanders list to a
        commander position in extremely rare cases. In those rare instances, the wing
        commander will forward a recommendation for command and a waiver request to the
        NAF/center for commander endorsement.                The recommendation must include
        justification as to why this would be in the best interest of ACC and the AF. Justification
        is also required as to why other eligible candidates on the current squadron commanders
        list were not chosen will be included. The recommendation for command and waiver
        requests will be forwarded to HQ ACC/A1KB for staff coordination with the CAF DT
        Advisor through the ACC two-letter functional to HQ ACC/CV for approval. HQ
        ACC/A1KB will then coordinate personnel actions with HQ AFPC.
        8.1.2. It may be necessary to submit a next calendar year hiring request for an officer on
        the current squadron commander list, prior to the release of the next calendar year list.
        Such submissions will be viewed as exceptions to policy and granted only with
        associated rationale, for example, training dates/requirement or extenuating
        circumstances. Final determination on hiring outside of the current CAF rated squadron
        commander list rests with COMACC and/or ACC/CV and will be first vetted thru HQ
        ACC/A1KB in coordination with the CAF DT Advisor.
        8.1.3. Wing commanders (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) will staff a waiver request
        through HQ ACC/A1KB if a commander of a squadron with a nuclear mission does not
        have at least 24 cumulative months of experience performing nuclear mission duties in
        the squadron's respective functional area, or 12 consecutive months as an Operations
        Officer or Deputy Commander of a unit performing nuclear mission duties within the
        past 18 months. HQ ACC/CV is the waiver authority. Individuals will not be appointed
        to command, to include participating in a change of command, until a waiver has been
        approved.
        8.1.4. (CAF rated only) CAF Rated Squadron DO Hiring. List waiver requests are
        required if an individual is not on a CAF rated squadron DO list. The waiver authority is
        ACC/A3 and will be first vetted through HQ ACC/A1KB in coordination with the CAF
        DT Advisor.
        8.1.5. (CAF rated only) It may be necessary to assign an officer not on a CAF rated
        squadron DO list to a DO position in extremely rare cases. In those rare instances, the
        wing commander will forward a recommendation for DO and a waiver request to the
        NAF/center (if applicable) for commander endorsement. The recommendation must
        include justification as to why this would be in the best interest of ACC and the AF.
        Justification is also required as to why other eligible candidates on the current CAF rated
        squadron DO list were not chosen will be included. The recommendation for DO and
        waiver requests will be forwarded to HQ ACC/A1KB for staff coordination with the CAF
        DT Advisor through to HQ ACC/A3 for approval. HQ ACC/A1KB will request
        necessary By Name Request (BNR) assignment actions with HQ AFPC. Reference
        PSDM 10-42 for BNR procedures.
ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                 7


     8.1.6. (CAF rated only) It may be necessary to submit a next calendar year hiring
     request for an officer on the current CAF rated squadron DO list, prior to the release of
     the next calendar year list. Such submissions will be viewed as exceptions to policy and
     granted only with associated rationale, for example, training dates/requirement or
     extenuating circumstances. Final determination on hiring outside of the current CAF
     rated squadron DO list rests with HQ ACC/A3 and will be first vetted thru HQ
     ACC/A1KB in coordination with the CAF DT Advisor.
  8.2. Tenure. Waiver to tenure should be rare. The following instances alone will not
  normally be sufficient justification to request a waiver; selection to attend developmental
  education, assignment action, internal movement to group/deputy group, etc. Wing
  commanders (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) will route tenure waiver requests through
  the NAF/center commander to HQ ACC/A1KB for action at the appropriate level in
  coordination with the CAF DT Advisor on rated Commanders. The NAF commander may
  disapprove wing commander tenure waiver requests. HQ ACC/CV is the approval authority
  for TIC waivers when a commander has 18-23 months in command. COMACC is the
  approval authority in the case where a commander has less than 18 months in command.
     8.2.1. Exceptions to the tenure policy: Commanders with an approved retirement date,
     separation date, or promoted to colonel do not require a TIC waiver. In addition,
     commanders do not require a TIC waiver if the unit is on order to inactivate.
     8.2.2. Wing commanders (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) will submit justification
     through the NAF to HQ ACC/CV for approval for commanders extending beyond 25
     months.
     8.2.3. (CAF rated only) Exceptions to the tenure policy: DOs with an approved
     retirement date, separation date, or promoted to colonel do not require a TIDO waiver. In
     addition, CAF rated squadron DOs do not require a TIDO waiver if the unit is on order to
     inactivate.
     8.2.4. (CAF rated only) Wing commanders (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) will
     submit justification to the NAF Commander for approval for CAF rated squadron DOs
     extending beyond 19 months.
  8.3. Pre-Command Training. Waiver requests are required if an individual is unable to
  attend mandatory pre-command training courses prior to assuming command.
     8.3.1. Wing commanders (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) will staff a waiver request
     through HQ ACC/A1KB if an individual is unable to attend the ACC Squadron
     Commander Course prior to taking command. HQ ACC/A1 is the waiver authority for
     waivers up to 30 days; HQ ACC/CV is the waiver authority for waivers over 30 days and
     may delegate the authority to HQ ACC/A1 at his or her discretion. Individuals will not
     be appointed to command, to include participating in a change of command, until a
     waiver has been approved.
     8.3.2. Wing commanders (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) will staff a waiver request
     through HQ ACC/A1KB if a commander of a squadron with a nuclear mission is unable
     to attend the AFNMFC course and other specified nuclear commander courses prior to
     taking command. HQ ACC/CV is the waiver authority for all AFNMFC waivers.
8                                                           ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012


       Individuals will not be appointed to command, to include participating in a change of
       command, until a waiver has been approved.
    8.4. (CAF rated only) Tenure for CAF rated squadron DOs. Waiver to tenure should be
    rare. The following instances alone will not normally be sufficient justification to request a
    waiver; selection to attend developmental education, assignment action, internal movement
    to group/deputy group, etc. Wing commanders (Hiring Authorities or Senior Raters) will
    route tenure waiver requests to the NAF/center commander for action at the appropriate level
    and notify HQ ACC/A1KB in coordination with the CAF DT Advisor.
9. Wing COS Management.
    9.1. Guidance will be in accordance with AFI 91-202, paragraph 2.1.1.1. A COS whose
    organization has a nuclear mission must have at least 12 cumulative months of experience
    performing nuclear mission duties within the past ten years prior to assuming COS duties.
    Waivers to COS hiring policy are the same as outlined in Paragraph 8.
    9.2. COS tenure is at least 12 months; NAF commanders exercise tenure waiver authority.
    9.3. Wing commanders will coordinate through their NAF safety office and ACC Safety
    (HQ ACC/SE) to schedule the COS selectee for the Air Force Safety Center Course which
    will be attended prior to assuming duties.




                                             GILMARY M. HOSTAGE III, General, USAF
                                             Commander
ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                       9


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel, 1 April 1998
Title 10 United States Code Armed Forces, Subtitle A, Part II, Chapter 87, Subchapter , Section
1734
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—-Air Combat Command
ACS—-Air Control Squadrons
AFS—-Associate Fighter Squadron
AF—-Air Force
AFNMFC—-Air Force Nuclear Management Fundamentals Course
AFPC—-Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—-Air Force Specialty Code
ASOS—-Air Support Operations Squadrons
CAF—-Combat Air Forces
CAF DT ADVISOR—-Combat Air Forces Developmental Team Advisor
COMACC—-Air Combat Command Commander
COS—-Chief of Safety
DT—-Developmental Team
HQ ACC/A1—-ACC Director of Manpower, Personnel, and Services
HQ ACC/A1KB—-ACC Career Development Branch
HQ ACC/A3TO—-ACC Operations and Training Branch
HQ ACC/A7—-ACC Installations and Mission Support Directorate
HQ ACC/CV—-Air Combat Command Vice Commander
HQ ACC/SE—-Air Combat Command Safety Director
MAJCOM—-Major Command
 10                                                          ACCI36-211 18 DECEMBER 2012


MCOC—-Maintenance Course for Operational Commanders
NAF—-Numbered Air Force
OSS—-Operations Support Squadron
STOS—-Strategic Operations Squadron
TFI—-Total Force Integration
TIC—-Time in command

Terms
Appointments of Squadron Command—-when a senior commander selects and appoints an
officer to command a subordinate unit.
Associate Fighter Squadron—-an Active Association. This is an integration model where a
reserve component (Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve) unit retains principal
responsibility for a weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more regular Air
Force units. Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve and Regular Air Force units retain
command of their own forces and separate organizational structures. Varying degrees of (day-to-
day work or) functional integration will be based on the Integration Plan objectives and as
further defined by MOUs/MOAs, or other appropriate functional documents. ANG units may
also be tasked by the governor of their state/territory and must be allowed to fulfill those taskings
consistent with provisions of public law.
Squadron—-a unit which exists within a wing and/or group structure (exception; Strategic
Operations Squadrons).
Staff—-as defined in the Rated Staff Allocation Plan, a non-flying group, squadron, or flight that
directly reports to a MAJCOM, NAF, or center (N/A Strategic Operations Squadrons).
Expeditionary Commanders—-individuals serving in a C-prefix commander position for an
expeditionary unit.
Operational Squadron—-a unit with a rated squadron commander C-prefix position, typically
units under the operations group (includes Strategic Operations Squadrons).
Support Squadron—-a unit with a non-rated squadron commander C-prefix position, typically
units under the mission support group, maintenance support group and the medical group.
Acting Squadron Commander—-filling an interim command position for a deploying
commander.
