BY ORDER OF THE                                   AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
THE COMMANDER AIR COMBAT                                                   90-171
COMMAND
                                                                               28 MARCH 2013

                                                                           Special Management

                                                COMMAND SECTION CORRESPONDENCE




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/DSAA                                                      Certified by: HQ ACC/DS
                                                                        (Col Michael J. Jordan)
                                                                                      Pages: 18
Supersedes:   ACCI 90-171, 7 Jan 1999


This instruction implements policy in AFPD 33-3, Information Management. Use this
instruction with AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications and AFH 33-337, The
Tongue and Quill. This ACCI outlines HQ Command Section procedures for preparing and
processing correspondence for Air Force Air Combat Command (ACC) Commander (CC), Vice
Commander (CV) and Director of Staff (DS). This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard
(ANG). This instruction applies to HQ ACC, its Centers, Numbered Air Forces (NAFs) and
their assigned wings. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct
Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification
and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Changes of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                                                           ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013



SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and includes procedures for tasking, preparing,
coordinating and staffing official memorandums, personalized letters, messages, staff summary
sheets (SSS), electronic staffing, read-aheads, and meetings/briefings with ACC/CC and CV. To
the greatest extent possible, all information workflow (the process of tasking, coordinating, and
staffing) within HQ ACC will be electronic.


       1.     Commander’s Intent. .............................................................................................           3
       2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................            3
       3.     Staffing Actions. ....................................................................................................      5
Table 3.1.    Task Due Dates. .....................................................................................................       6
       4.     Process for Coordination, Tasking, and Tracking of Suspenses. ...........................                                   8
       5.     ACC Templates for Personalized Letters, Official Memorandums, Stationery,
              Awards, Retirement Certificates, and Letters of Appreciation: .............................                                10
       6.     Read-Aheads for Command Section Meetings. .....................................................                            10
       7.     ACC Strategic Calendar and Key Personnel Availability. ....................................                                10
       8.     Guidelines for Paper Packages. ..............................................................................              11
       9.     Electronic Staffing (TMT). ....................................................................................            13
       10.    Items of Interest (IOI). ...........................................................................................       14
       11.    Preparing ACC/CC for Conferences, Office Calls, Legislative Engagements and
              Decision Briefs. .....................................................................................................     15
       12.    Skull sessions. ........................................................................................................   16
       13.    Congressional (CODEL) or Staff Delegations (STAFDEL). ................................                                     16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           17
ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013                                                                       3


1. Commander’s Intent. As subject matter experts and trusted advisors, we rely on your
expertise. That means the products provided are critical, whether working the myriad of taskers
or preparing for a decision-oriented CORONA with the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff
of the Air Force, or other general officers. As you prepare staff work, keep the big picture in
mind, ensure the work underpins our Combat Air Force (CAF) Strategic Plan, and be concise
and be direct.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Air Combat Command Director of Staff (ACC/DS):
       2.1.1. Has overall responsibility for ACC policy, workflow processes, correspondence
       preparation and management, and business rules for staffing and suspense activities.
       2.1.2. Develops policy that identifies roles and responsibilities, outlines processes for
       workflow, correspondence preparation, and suspense and tracking management for ACC.
       2.1.3. Develops and maintains process metrics and provides measurement reports to
       ACC/CC and ACC/CV as directed.
       2.1.4. Receives, controls, and       distributes   ACC/CC,    ACC/CV,    and    ACC/DS
       correspondence as appropriate.
   2.2. ACC Director of Staff Executive Officer (ACC/DSE):
       2.2.1. Serves as correspondence control and task liaison between the command section,
       headquarters staff directorates, NAFs, and Air Force Centers.
       2.2.2. Working with the Deputy DS, assigns tasks on behalf of ACC/CC, ACC/CV,
       ACC/DS and, when necessary, NAF and Center commanders. DSE conducts research to
       prevent task duplication and references any related work before task assignment. As a
       general rule, task assignment will occur within 4 business hours of receipt of the task
       item. However, time-critical task items will be assigned upon receipt. DSE will provide
       clear task instructions and processing guidance, that will include, at a minimum:
          2.2.2.1. Specific actions required to complete the task.
          2.2.2.2. A summary of the task.
          2.2.2.3. References to related past work and associated documents (as appropriate)
          2.2.2.4. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) (Note: OPRs are responsible to
          assign HQ Office of Coordinating Responsibility (OCR(s)) as required by the given
          task)
          2.2.2.5. Minimum coordination and staffing requirements.
          2.2.2.6. Suspense date.
       2.2.3. Monitors the status of task actions.
       2.2.4. Reviews proposed replies for clarity and administrative quality to ensure
       correspondence meets requirements and effectively and efficiently answers the tasking.
   2.3. Command Section Knowledge Operations Management Staff (ACC/DSAA):
4                                                               ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013


       2.3.1. Focal point for all information addressed to the ACC Command Section. All hard
       paper communications (classified or unclassified) going to or coming from the Command
       Section are routed through and monitored by ACC/DSAA.
       2.3.2. Processes and tracks staff packages for ACC/CC, ACC/CV, ACC/DS, and when
       necessary, NAF and center commanders and ensures proper archiving.
       2.3.3. Ensures accurate staff package location information is available to ACC
       directorates.
       2.3.4. Returns hard paper communications requiring physical dissemination to the
       originating directorate.
    2.4. Directorates:
       2.4.1. Assign actions through controlled and established procedures within their
       respective directorate.
       2.4.2. Assist in determining the proper response to complete a task (e.g., electronic staff
       package, memorandum, personalized letter, etc.) and provide additional task instructions
       as appropriate.
       2.4.3. Ensure correspondence is essential, timely, well organized, and fully coordinated.
       2.4.4. Meet established due dates.
       2.4.5. Request extensions from the originating OPR if/when necessary. ACC/DS will,
       upon approval, adjust the ACC suspense as appropriate.
       2.4.6. Maintain current task status during the life cycle of each task to ensure timely
       submission of replies.
       2.4.7. Ensure office organizational email boxes are established and managed for
       incoming electronic tasks and packages. Monitor boxes throughout the day to
       responsibly manage tasks.
       2.4.8. Save and archive a copy of all signed documents according to Air Force records
       disposition schedules (RDS).
       2.4.9. Appoints, in writing, authorized personnel to pick up classified packages for their
       organization and provide a copy of the appointment letter to ACC/DSAA.
       2.4.10. Provide appropriate subject matter experts (SMEs) for ACC/CC and ACC/CV
       preparation meetings.
    2.5. Action Officers (AO):
       2.5.1. Serve as experts in their specific field, which affords them the opportunity to
       shape command decisions. ACC/CC relies on AO expertise to recommend decisions on
       important issues based on concise, usable data.
       2.5.2. Ensure correspondence is value added, timely, well organized, correct, clear, and
       concise. If a recommendation is appropriate, state it up front.
       2.5.3. Determine the proper form of reply to complete an action (e.g., Electronic SSS
       (eSSS), memorandum, briefing) if not specified in the task.
ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013                                                                          5


       2.5.4. Ensure appropriate coordination is accomplished through the division, directorate,
       and, if appropriate, subordinate and external agencies (e.g., US Air Force Warfare Center,
       NAF, Headquarters Air Force (HAF), etc.) prior to forwarding to the Command Section.
       2.5.5. Upon receiving a tasking, should research the proposed solution and prepare a
       draft answer/staff position. This process should include initial coordination with and
       inputs from other AOs/agencies involved. The AO's division chief should approve the
       draft answer for coordination.
       2.5.6. Ensure coordination with each staff office having a functional interest is
       accomplished, regardless of whether or not DS identifies them as a recommended OCR.
       The OPR should coordinate with all recommended OCRs or briefly explain in the eSSS
       why it is not appropriate.
       2.5.7. Ensure the action required on any correspondence is completed in time to give
       coordinating and approving officials outside the Command Section reasonable time for
       review/signature before the suspense date.
   2.6. Executive Officers: All executive officers within HQ ACC act on behalf of their
   director and are responsible for serving as the focal points for their directorate. They act as a
   “quality check,” track all communications generated from the directorate, and ensure
   communications arrive error-free, grammatically correct, in the approved format, and
   properly classified. It is their responsibility to track the status of all packages and obtain
   2Letter approval prior to releasing any packages destined for the Command Section. For
   those offices that do not have an executive officer, there will be at least one individual on
   staff appointed to perform these responsibilities.
3. Staffing Actions.
   3.1. Sources of Tasks. The primary source for tasks is from the office of the ACC/DS, at the
   direction of ACC/CC, ACC/CV, ACC/DS, or the Commander’s Action Group (CCX).
   Taskers typically result from:
       3.1.1. HHQ which should flow through the ACC Director of Staff office for CC and/or
       CV coordination/approval, but may flow straight to a directorate.
       3.1.2. Event Action Item (resulting from meetings, conferences, staff meetings, etc.)
       3.1.3. Read-ahead Action Item (automatic when a meeting is scheduled)
       3.1.4. 2-Letters (NAF/Center commanders or directors) may initiate taskers that require
       support and action from other 2-Letters to complete.
   3.2. Suspense Dates. ACC/DSE will determine the suspense dates for taskers based on
   Table 3.1 guidelines.
 6                                                               ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013


Table 3.1. Task Due Dates.
 TASK CATEGORY                   DUE NLT 1600 TO                       EXTENSION
                                 COMMAND SECTION                       AUTHORITY
 HHQ Tracked                     2 workdays prior to the HHQ           HHQ OPR (AO work with
                                 suspense date                         HHQ OPR for extension)
 CC, CV taskers                  1-2 workdays prior to suspense        CC or CV office
 DS, CCX taskers                 Same day as suspense                  CC, CV, DS, or CCX office
 Read-aheads for CC or CV        2 workdays prior to meeting (AO       CC or CV office
 meetings                        work exceptions with CCE/CVE)
 Note: Some taskers will not fit this mold and may have a different timeline.

        3.2.1. Suspense Initiation. ACC/DS initiates Command Section suspenses.
        3.2.2. Changing Suspense Date. Packages are due to the Command Section NLT 1600
        on the established suspense date, or as otherwise assigned. The AO will notify ACC/DS
        through their executive officer if an extension from higher headquarters’ suspense has
        been granted NLT 24 hours prior to the established ACC suspense date.
        3.2.3. Redirecting Suspense. If the tasked directorate believes a different organization
        within HQ ACC should assume primary responsibility for the suspense, the tasked
        directorate will coordinate with the appropriate ACC staff agency for handoff of
        ownership, then inform ACC/DS of task agreement. Note: Until ACC/DS changes the
        OPR, the original directorate tasked is responsible for action on the package.
        3.2.4. Suspense Coordination. The directorate OPR and AO are responsible for ensuring
        formal coordination is accomplished with each directorate having a functional interest,
        regardless of whether or not they are included in the suspense as a recommended OCR.
        3.2.5. Final Top-Line Processing. Once the 2-Letter or equivalent approves and signs
        the package, it will be forwarded to ACC/DS either via the Senior Leader Approval
        Process (SLAP) in the ACC Task Management Tool (TMT) or, for classified taskers, to
        ACC/DS organizational email (SIPRNET).
     3.3. Coordination Requirements. Coordination gives affected organizations an opportunity
     to contribute to and comment on the staff package. ACC uses top-line, bottom-line, and
     horizontal coordination (between directorates, or 2Letter to 2Letter). Note: It is
     inappropriate for a 4Letter to contact a 2Letter in another directorate; however it is
     appropriate for a 4-Letter to contact another 4-Letter.
     3.4. Disseminating Signed CC, CV, or DS Memorandums, Letters, and Messages.
     ACC/DSAA, upon signature by ACC/CC, ACC/CV, or ACC/DS, will execute actions to
     disseminate based on the directions outlined in the TMT or SSS. As appropriate,
     ACC/DSAA will return letters, messages, or packages to the originating directorate for
     appropriate disposition.
     3.5. Records Management. The OPR for staff packages (electronic or paper) is the owner of
     the record of information and is required to keep the official copy of the completed staffing
     action. The Electronic Records Management (ERM) Solution Guide, along with AFI 33-322,
     Records Management Program, provides guidelines for managing electronic records. The
ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013                                                                      7


  ERM file plan lists only the file numbers marked as “paper/electronic” or “electronic” on the
  approved AFRIMS file plan. Electronic files will mirror paper files to ensure the official or
  record copy of the electronic record is maintained and disposed of IAW Air Force guidelines.
  3.6. Tracking Suspenses. Not all packages and actions are tracked in TMT, but ACC/DS
  recommends directorates use TMT as the system of record for tracking packages for
  visibility, record-keeping, and consistency.
  3.7. Handling and Processing Sensitive or Classified Information.
     3.7.1. Communications are considered sensitive when referring to negative or adverse
     information on an individual or program (e.g., personnel or Inspector General (IG)
     actions). Likewise, if there is a requirement for only certain individuals to view the
     information, it should be considered sensitive.
     3.7.2. Action officers will use the appropriate processes to staff sensitive information
     along with the appropriate security measures to ensure data protection. For more
     information refer to AFMAN 33-119, User Responsibilities and Guidance for
     Information Systems.
     3.7.3. No classified information or correspondence will be processed over the
     unclassified local area network (LAN). When there is a requirement to process classified
     information electronically, the AO will use SIPRNET.
     3.7.4. Comply with security classification instructions and safeguarding according to
     DoD 5200.1R, Information Security Program and AFI 31-401, Information Security
     Program Management (for all handlers at all levels within the workflow process).
  3.8. Preparing Staff Packages.
     3.8.1. Electronic and written staff packages must be concise. Staff packages should be
     provided in electronic format via TMT, unless the data cannot be appropriately protected
     (see Section 3.7). When possible, all SSSs going to the Command Section should be
     limited to one page. Helpful hints on putting together a good staff package are contained
     in the ACC AO Handbook. (https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/ACC/default.aspx).
     3.8.2. For all products going to the Command Section on paper, the command standards
     are contained within the ACC AO Handbook.
  3.9. Staff Packages Requiring Rework.
     3.9.1. All packages requiring rework will be returned to the OPR with specific
     instructions on what is necessary to satisfy the requirements of the task.
     3.9.2. When the Command Section returns a package for additional work or
     coordination, it will go to the 2Letter for action. The 2Letter will most often route it to
     the appropriate 3Letter or lower for AO action. The returned package may include an
     amended suspense date; however, depending on the criticality of the information
     required, the original suspense date may be retained.
     3.9.3. If the original suspense is retained, the AO should expedite the changes and return
     the package within 24 hours through their 2-Letter via TMT for electronic packages or to
     HQ ACC/DSAA for hardcopy packages. Otherwise, the AO will return the package
     according to the new suspense.
 8                                                              ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013


        3.9.4. If the package is an electronic package that only needs administrative changes
        (spelling, punctuation, grammar), then reviewers may return if extensive or make changes
        and continue forwarding through the workflow process.
        3.9.5. In cases involving major edits, or changes to guidance, it may be necessary to re-
        coordinate, as determined by the OPR.
        3.9.6. Action officers will use AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications,
        AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill and ACC/DS or ACC/CCX approved templates on
        the ACC AO Handbook for point papers and PowerPoint briefing products as their source
        documents. If criteria dictate otherwise, exceptions may be made on a case-by-case
        basis. The ultimate goal is to produce correctly formatted and accurate correspondence
        that is consistent throughout the Air Force.
     3.10. Email Responses to the Command Section.
        3.10.1. During staff meetings or informal gatherings, ACC/CC or ACC/CV may ask a
        question that might not require an electronic staffing package or a SSS. If given the
        option to provide an “email response,” the AO should draft a response for their director
        and forward through the division front office to the directorate executive officer. The
        director signs the response and forwards to the Command Section office (ACC/DS/CV or
        CC), with courtesy copies to the Executive Officer to the Commander (CCE), Executive
        Officer to the Vice Commander (CVE), ACC/CCX, and ACC/DSE, as appropriate,
        depending on the originating office.
        3.10.2. Include any relevant background information with the response. Unless the
        response is “Eyes Only,” always provide the ACC/DS Director of Staff with a courtesy
        copy.
4. Process for Coordination, Tasking, and Tracking of Suspenses.
     4.1. Coordination Requirements. Begin the coordination process by identifying other staff
     offices that have an interest in the package. The process must allow enough time for
     thorough coordination from participating organizations. Reviewing organizations should
     respond directly to the OPR/AO who consolidates/resolves the comments from all
     coordinating officials and prepares the final staff package.
        4.1.1. Once staff coordination is complete, the OPR routes through the organization’s
        chain-of-command to the 2Letter or the 2-Letter’s designee (i.e., executive officer) who
        submits it to the Command Section.
        4.1.2. For all Command Section decision packages and briefings involving current or
        future funding issues, include a concise statement on how the initiative will be funded.
            4.1.2.1. The package must outline how the current year requirement will be financed,
            how the requirement will be accomplished in the financial plan, and what Program
            Objective Memorandum (POM) impact will be incurred, if any.
            4.1.2.2. The package must be coordinated with ACC/FM and/or ACC/A5/8/9 prior to
            sending to the Command Section for a decision.
ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013                                                                       9


     4.1.3. For staff packages going to the Command Section, show only ACC-directorate
     level coordination and other MAJCOM/outside agency (3Letters and above) coordination
     on the staff package.
     4.1.4. Coordination. Providing “Info” copies of an SSS does not constitute coordination.
     Action Officers at all levels will make every effort to coordinate staff work.
  4.2. Concur with Comments. If a reviewer concurs with the overall action of an SSS, but
  has additional comments for clarification, then those comments are returned to the OPR for
  consideration on the SSS. If the comments are not fully incorporated by the OPR, the OPR
  should indicate disposition either in the ‘Views of Others’ section of the SSS or on an
  attached memo (refer to the memo in ‘Views of Others’). For TMT taskers, if the comments
  constitute only administrative changes (spelling, punctuation, grammar, or format), then the
  reviewer will make changes and continue forwarding the TMT tasker through the workflow
  process. In cases involving major edits, or changes to guidance, it will require returning to
  the OPR for their reconciliation.
  4.3. Nonconcurrence. The following pertains to directorate-level nonconcurrence:
     4.3.1. A non-concurring organization prepares a memorandum or Comments Resolution
     Matrix (CRM), addressed to the originating directorate, stating reasons for
     nonconcurrence and sends it along with the TMT tasker or the SSS to the originating
     directorate. If the package is a hard copy SSS, on the SSS the reviewer writes, in ink, the
     statement: “See Memo.”
     4.3.2. When the originating office receives a notice of nonconcurrence and the
     differences cannot be resolved, the originating directorate prepares a rebuttal memo for
     ACC/DS approval, outlining the reasons why the staff package should not be changed.
     The OPR documents the non-concur in “Views of Others” and ensures the non-
     concurring directorate approves of the wording on the SSS. Once a position is obtained
     from the Command Section, the AO will notify the coordinating official who
     nonconcurred on the response.
     4.3.3. If the differences are resolved, then the official who originally nonconcurred
     indicates concurrence by signing and dating the appropriate coordination block on the
     SSS. The AO marks the memo of nonconcurrence as “Differences Resolved” and the
     TMT tasker or SSS is then routed to the next addressee shown on the form.
     4.3.4. If it is necessary to significantly change the TMT or SSS (or any portion of its
     attachments), the AO will keep the original package for record and prepare the TMT
     tasker or SSS for re-coordination with rationale for why it is being re-coordinated and
     what changed in the background information section.
  4.4. Bottom-Line Coordination. The AO will obtain bottom-line coordination with those
  who have a possible connection with the project, 3-Letter and below. AOs will perform this
  task as one of the first steps in the coordination process resolving differences before seeking
  top-line coordination. Coordination with organizations outside HQ ACC is frequently
  required. Expedite coordination by making simultaneous shotgun distribution to all
  coordinating offices.
 10                                                             ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013


   4.5. Top-Line Coordination. Top-line coordination occurs after 3-Letter and external
   coordination. Note: AOs should not expect directors to approve or sign TMT taskers, SSSs,
   or other packages going for top-line if bottom-line coordination is incomplete.
   4.6. Concurrent Top-line/Bottom-line Coordination. Concurrent coordination should be
   avoided, unless a package must be coordinated with little warning and requires both expert
   and leadership inputs, agreement, or signature.
   4.7. Horizontal Coordination. Coordination often takes place from 2-letter to 2-letter within
   the staff, without the need to concern the Command Section offices. In most instances,
   where urgency, potential non-concurrence, or explicit directions are given otherwise, a 2/3/4-
   letter echelon may directly coordinate with its peer echelon in another directorate without
   needing to pass through higher levels of staff. This does not preclude a directorate, division,
   or branch from imposing restrictions on subordinate echelons as it sees fit.
5. ACC Templates for Personalized Letters, Official Memorandums, Stationery, Awards,
Retirement Certificates, and Letters of Appreciation: All templates commonly used and the
TMT Business Rules can be found in the ACC Action Officer (AO) Handbook, which is
available at the following link: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/site/ACC_AOG
6. Read-Aheads for Command .
   6.1. Read-aheads are required for all formal meetings scheduled with the ACC/CC and
   ACC/CV in the local area (required for office calls on a case-by-case basis). ACC/CCE or
   ACC/CVE will assign OPR. The OPR is responsible for ensuring read-aheads are submitted
   and the Command Section has the necessary details of the event no later than 1600 two work
   days prior to the scheduled meeting.
      6.1.1. The OPR’s directorate executive officer will ensure that the read-ahead package
      includes the standard products (See ACC/CCX Business Rules for the template and
      example – https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/DS/cag/default.aspx).
      6.1.2. If the read-ahead is inappropriately tasked to the wrong directorate, that executive
      officer will address the concern with other execs and then to the tasking exec (CCE or
      CVE). That exec will review and correct, if needed.
      6.1.3. Read-ahead packages need to be intelligible and self-explanatory. They should
      state a desired outcome of the meeting at the very beginning of the eSSS (decision,
      guidance, approval, etc).
      6.1.4. If a decision requires ACC/CC or ACC/CV signature, please include a draft letter
      as Tab 1 of the read-ahead.
7. ACC Strategic Calendar and Key Personnel Availability.
   7.1. ACC Strategic Calendar. The ACC Strategic Calendar is a management tool designed
   to help senior leaders see “the big picture” of activities affecting HQ ACC. It is intended to
   provide information and situational awareness to help de-conflict activities (i.e., Squadron
   Commanders’ Course, ACC Commanders’ Conference and CORONA). The ACC Strategic
   Calendar is managed by ACC/CCX and can be found at the following link:
   https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/DS/cag/default.aspx.
ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013                                                                     11


   7.2. HQ ACC Key Personnel Availability Tool. Commander and Directorate Secretaries are
   responsible for updating the Key Personnel Availability Tool with TDYs and leaves that
   affect their Commander or Director. The Key Personnel Availability Tool is located at the
   following link: https://application.eim.acc.af.mil/apps/calendar/HQACC/default.aspx#.
8. Guidelines for Paper Packages.
   8.1. Sending Sensitive Information to the Command Section. Use folders with a Sensitive
   Information (or Privacy Act) cover sheet on the front cover. If the information is only
   releasable to the ACC/CC, ACC/CV, or ACC/DS, place contents in a sealed envelope clearly
   marked for “DS, CV or CC eyes only” (if applicable) on the front of the envelope. Note:
   Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UCNI) will have a cover sheet on the package.
   8.2. Sending Classified Information to the Command Section. Classified packages hand-
   carried to the Command Section must be processed through ACC/DSAA. Mark packages
   with appropriate classification and security markings. Attach classified cover sheets on the
   front of classified packages. If possible, avoid using a classified subject. This helps
   automate tracking the package.
   8.3. Receiving Classified Information from the Command Section. Personnel authorized to
   pick up classified packages for their directorate or agency must be designated in writing by
   their director, deputy, or executive officer. The original appointment memorandum will be
   sent to DSAA. It will need to be changed as Directorate front office personnel change.
   8.4. Procedures for Preparing Hardcopy Packages.
      8.4.1. When TMT is not a viable option, AOs will use paper-based staffing (AF Form
      1768, Staff Summary Sheet (SSS)), when a physical signature is required for a certificate,
      thank you letter, etc., or at the direction of the Director of Staff’s office. An SSS will
      accompany all staff packages (hardcopy) going to the Command Section which require
      signature. SSSs need to be able to stand alone. The Command Section requires the SSS
      to describe the required action that is necessary.
      8.4.2. Pen-and-ink changes are acceptable when a document is remaining within the
      headquarters (e.g., SSS) and is not targeted for signature from ACC/CC, ACC/CV, or
      ACC/DS.
      8.4.3. If the package is going to the Command Section for signature or destined outside
      HQ ACC, it must be error-free with no pen-and-ink changes. Packages which meet these
      criteria include: awards, letters of retirement, congratulations, appreciation and
      memorandums.
      8.4.4. Urgent packages must be flagged. The ACC/CC and ACC/CV require more than
      1 day to coordinate and approve. The respective AO and Director should be ready to see
      the ACC/CC at any time once an urgent package is submitted.
      8.4.5. Packages which do not comply with these criteria prescribed in this instruction
      will be returned to the directorate for correction.
   8.5. Assembling Paper-based (hardcopy) Staff Package:
      8.5.1. Action officers will consolidate the staff package and all documentation in a blue
      folder.
12                                                               ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013


         8.5.1.1. The SSS should be fixed to the outside pocket of the folder. AOs will attach
         any additional documentation (such as prior coordination, Command Section mark-
         ups, etc.) behind the SSS.
         8.5.1.2. Attach the document that requires approval or signature inside the right
         pocket of the folder. Note: Do not staple or sign the proposed letter or message. To
         clarify where action is required, AOs may attach “sign here” labels on the signature
         page.
         8.5.1.3. Background information such as a briefing, list of attendees (OWLS list) or
         Read-aheads should be presented as additional tabs. Use tab sheets and have the
         numbers ascend from the bottom up.
         8.5.1.4. Ensure all folders going to the Command Section are in good condition. Do
         not send tattered or previously stapled folders to the Command Section. Note: If the
         package is classified, ensure the folder reflects the highest classification marking for
         the contents in the package. Ensure appropriate classification marking guidelines are
         followed.
  8.6. The Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) (electronic or hardcopy)
     8.6.1. AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet (SSS), accompanies written documents
     forwarded to the Command Section for action, approval, information, or signature. The
     SSS summarizes the issue and includes a recommendation or conclusion. SSSs are one
     page, stand-alone documents. The SSS is intended to briefly summarize staff work, to
     request action and to forward information. It should be able to stand alone with enough
     information for the reader to easily determine what action is required and why, without
     reference to the supporting tabs.
     8.6.2. Coordinate with other applicable offices before forwarding to the Command
     Section. All coordination should be consolidated on the original SSS. Include any
     comments as tabs to the SSS.
     8.6.3. If possible, keep subject titles short and avoid using classified subject titles.
     8.6.4. If the staff package is substantively changed in the coordination process, resubmit
     for coordination prior to forwarding to the command section.
     8.6.5. Coordination is commensurate with the signatory of the SSS. For example, a
     3Letter (A3T) signs the SSS requesting coordination from another 3Letter, not a 2Letter
     (Director). A 2Letter or the deputy director (or designated representative) will sign all
     staff packages coming to the Command Section.
     8.6.6. The SSS must concisely and accurately summarize the issue, provide analysis and
     make a recommendation. AOs must ensure the recommendation is one that requires an
     action, for example: “Recommend you coordinate without comment.”
     8.6.7. AOs will format SSSs using the following headers:
         8.6.7.1. PURPOSE.
         8.6.7.2. BACKGROUND/DISCUSSION.
         8.6.7.3. VIEWS OF OTHERS.
ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013                                                                      13


          8.6.7.4. RECOMMENDATION. Note: Each SSS section must have text. “N/A” is
          not acceptable. It is acceptable to use “None” if there are no Views of Others under
          that heading.Note: The Recommendation section must match the action you wish the
          ACC/CC or ACC/CV to take. In other words, if your point paper requests the
          ACC/CC to approve a course of action in its Recommendation section, then the SSS
          Recommendation should have the same wording. Use common sense when wording
          this section. It is generally the most important line in the SSS, so be concise, but
          make it stand alone as much as possible.
      8.6.8. For information only packages, use “Info,” for example: DS Coord, CV Coord,
      CC Info. AOs will still route these through the Command Section. If the end result is to
      obtain approval (Appr) or signature (Sign), then other Command Section recipients will
      be coordinating officials (Coord).
      8.6.9. Include the AOs full name (as it appears on the Global Address List), the tasking
      number, and date in the appropriate blocks of the SSS. Ensure the correct suspense date
      is in the subject line.
      8.6.10. Upon receipt of the final package from the Command Section, AOs will retain
      the official copy according to Records Management governing directives and will file the
      original SSS (after return from Command Section) with the record copy. Note: If a staff
      package is returned to the AO for corrections, the AO will also include the marked-up
      copy when resubmitting the package up the chain.
      8.6.11. 2-Letters or their deputy will sign all SSSs going to the Command Section. In
      instances where the SSS must be signed by the 3 or 4Letter, then the AO must include
      their 2Letter in the top-line coordination to release the package to the Command Section.
      8.6.12. If a SSS becomes defaced during the coordination process, the AO will redo it by
      typing the name, rank, and date of original coordination in the appropriate blocks and will
      keep the defaced SSS with the record copy. Note: For informational material that does
      not require Command Section decision or coordination, directors or equivalents may use
      an informal note or memo to convey the message.
9. Electronic Staffing (TMT).
   9.1. Introduction. This process replaces the existing paper-based AF Form 1768, Staff
   Summary Sheet (SSS) (see Section 3.7. for exceptions). “HQ ACC TMT Business Rules”
   (located on the ACC AO Handbook) have the definitive standard business rules and
   procedures to facilitate electronic staffing processes for HQ ACC personnel to follow when
   using electronic staffing.
      9.1.1. A physical signature can be requested through TMT, but it should be clearly stated
      in the recommendation line of the SSS. For example, “Print and sign document at Tab 1
      and return to A1 for processing.”
   9.2. Purpose. Electronic staffing maximizes the use of existing resources to streamline the
   HQ ACC staffing process. Electronic staffing (TMT) facilitates real-time access to
   information, gaining efficiencies for expedient information sharing. Ready access to
   information products directly impacts the Command’s ability to perform day-to-day
   operations for contingencies and wartime activities.
 14                                                              ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013


   9.3. TMT for the Command Section. Refer to HQ ACC TMT Business Rules on the ACC
   AO Handbook for all current procedures detailing electronic filing and tasking. This
   specifies business rules for TMT, but all other business rules outlined in this instruction still
   apply.
       9.3.1. As a general rule, all correspondence for ACC/CC or ACC/CV release/signature
       should be processed via TMT. Exceptions do apply on a case-by-case basis.
   9.4. Electronic Packages.
       9.4.1. Per Section 8.6.1., all packages will have an electronic Staff Summary Sheet
       (eSSS) (See Section 8.6. for specifics).
       9.4.2. Tabs/Attachments. Those that require action from ACC/CC, ACC/CV or
       ACC/DS should be first (i.e., Tab 1). Those that do not require action should be directly
       supporting or required background information that will likely be required for action to
       be taken.
          9.4.2.1. Email messages/memorandums that are drafted for ACC/CC, ACC/CV or
          ACC/DS release should have:
              9.4.2.1.1. Appropriate format
              9.4.2.1.2. Correct signature block
              9.4.2.1.3. Task originator in the “To” line
              9.4.2.1.4. ACC OPR (usually the directorate), ACC/DS, ACC/DSAA and
              ACC/CV organizational email in the “CC” line for messages from the ACC/CV
              and ACC OPR (usually the directorate), ACC/CV, ACC/DS, ACC/DSAA and
              ACC/CC organization email accounts in the “CC” line for messages from
              ACC/CC.
10. Items of Interest (IOI).
   10.1. General Guidance. An IOI allows the AO at any level to communicate through their
   directorate directly with the command section. IOIs are sent through the directorate front
   office and are accomplished when:
       10.1.1. ACC/CC, ACC/CV, or ACC/DS requests it.
       10.1.2. There is a need to inform the command section of an important matter sooner
       than could be done through normal staffing procedures with a "for information only"
       eSSS.
       10.1.3. There is a need to update an earlier IOI dealing with continuing issues.
   10.2. Procedures.
       10.2.1. The staff member who has primary responsibility for the item will write and sign
       the IOI.
       10.2.2. Directorates will establish their own internal procedures for routing the IOI to the
       command section.
       10.2.3. An example of an IOI format can be found in the AO Handbook.
ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013                                                                       15


      10.2.4. Provide copies to any other directorates who would benefit from the information.
      10.2.5. The directorate will send the IOI directly to the intended office organizational
      email box in the command section and will provide a copy to ACC/DS for an ACC/CV
      IOI, and to ACC/DS and ACC/CV for a ACC/CC IOI. Also, courtesy copy the
      “ACC/DSAA correspondence” organizational mailbox on any IOI sent to the command
      section. Of course, anytime a Director or Deputy wants to communicate directly with
      ACC/CC or ACC/CV, it is appropriate to use their personal account, and copy others as
      deemed appropriate.
      10.2.6. An IOI that impacts the entire staff can be sent to “IOI Distro”
      (IOIDistro@langley.af.mil) organization box that can be found on the GAL.
   10.3. Limitations.
      10.3.1. Do not use IOIs to propose a solution or recommend an action. IOIs are for
      information only.
      10.3.2. Limit IOIs to one page if possible.
      10.3.3. Attachments are discouraged, with the exception of a tasker. Include the tasker
      as an attachment when the IOI is the product of a command section tasker. Note that the
      standard response for a command section tasker is in TMT, but an IOI might be requested
      on occasion. Include other attachments only when essential to explain the issue.
11. Preparing ACC/CC for Conferences, Office Calls, Legislative Engagements and
Decision Briefs.
   11.1. The Commander’s Action Group (CCX) establishes guidance for these events. CAG
   business      rules    are     located        on   the  CAG        sharepoint    site:
   https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/DS/cag/default.aspx
   11.2. One of the key duties of an AO is to offer their expertise in order to prepare ACC/CC
   for conferences, office calls, decision briefings and other engagements. The AO is required
   to summarize complex problems, offer solutions and identify ACC equities to facilitate
   ACC/CC decision making. Contact the ACC Commander’s Action Group (ACC/CCX),
   DSN 574-7077, with any questions on conference, office call and decision brief preparation.
   11.3. The majority of ACC/CC’s meetings, conferences and decision briefings are intended
   to be decision oriented. “Info only” briefings should be avoided. Staff input is critical in
   developing briefings as well as advocating ACC and Combat Air Force (CAF) positions on
   other MAJCOM/HAF/Service briefings.
   11.4. The staff is provided with read-aheads and asked to review for ACC equities prior to a
   conference. A tasker is sent to the appropriate OPR asking for a specific product (facer slide,
   Bullet Background Paper (BBP), or e-memo) to prepare ACC/CC.
   11.5. BBPs provide a summary of a given topic. BBPs should include purpose, discussion,
   talking points, a conclusion and recommended courses of action if applicable. BBPs should
   be limited to no more than two pages (see ACC AO Handbook and AFH 33-137).
   11.6. An “OWLS list” will be provided for all briefings conducted for ACC/CC or ACC/CV.
   The OWLS list consists of the attendees, final briefing, briefer/s, venue, and type of briefing
 16                                                              ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013


   being conducted.       Use the OWLS list site located at                 the   following link:
   https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/DS/cag/skull/OWL/default.aspx
12. Skull sessions.
   12.1. These are preparation sessions for ACC/CC. A skull session is held before
   conferences, key office calls and important site visits. ACC staff directors and subject matter
   experts are required to attend skull sessions. ACC/CCX and ACC/DS will manage
   attendance. Briefings are reviewed with the appropriate director walking COMACC through
   the slides, hitting the main points, contentious issues and recommendations. Additionally, a
   facer slide developed by the directorate is also reviewed. The one slide facer captures the
   briefing overview, critical issues/highly controversial decision points, and key talking points.
   12.2. Briefing and Facer/Call Out templates can be found in the ACC Action Officer (AO)
   Handbook; available as a link under the Sites section on the HQ ACC - Air Combat
   Command SharePoint site: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/site/ACC_AOG
   12.3. AOs play a crucial role in preparing their staff Director and COMACC for skull
   sessions. AO’s will ensure the information they provide is value added, timely, well
   organized, correct, clear, and concise. AO’s are highly encouraged to attend skull sessions
   and offer their views as required.
13. Congressional (CODEL) or Staff Delegations (STAFDEL).
   13.1. Guidance for Directorate level CODELs or STAFDELs are included in the ACC/CCX
   business      rules    located         on      the    ACC/CCX         sharepoint    site:
   https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/DS/cag/default.aspx. All dealings with Congress should be
   coordinated through the ACC/CCX as a minimum.




                                             GILMARY M. HOSTAGE III, General, USAF
                                             Commander
ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013                                                             17


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 Jan 97
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 25 Nov 11
Air Force Handbook (AFH) 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, 1 Aug 04
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 Oct 03
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 Nov 05
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formation, 6 Oct 10
AFMAN 33-119, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 1 Jun 12
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC/CC—Commander, Air Combat Command
ACC/CV—– ACC Vice Commander
ACC/DS—– ACC Director of Staff
ACC /DSAA—– Command Section Knowledge Operations Management Staff
AO—– Action Officer
CCE—Executive Officer to ACC/CC
CVE—– Executive Officer to ACC/CV
DS-2—– Deputy Director of Staff
DSE—– Executive Officer to ACC/DS
eSSS — Electronic Staff Summary Sheet
GAL— Global Address List
IOI—Item of Interest
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
TMT—Task Management Tool

Terms
Action Officer (AO).—Individual responsible for preparing, assembling, coordinating, and
monitoring assigned packages to ensure all actions are completed by the suspense date.
 18                                                            ACCI90-171 28 MARCH 2013


ACC Action Officer (AO) Handbook.—Contains all the HQ ACC document templates.
Bottom—Line Coordination. The process of coordinating with a Division/Wing (3Letter) or
branch (4Letter) level office.
Command Section.—Comprises the Commander (CC), Vice Commander (CV), Director of
Staff (DS), Commander’s Action Group (CCX), and Command Chief (CCC).
Task Management Tool (TMT).—The primary tool for use to coordinate/staff electronic
packages within ACC. TMTs include the same content as a paper SSS: Purpose, Background,
Discussion, View of Others, and Recommendation.
Office of Coordinating Responsibility (OCR).—The office indirectly responsible for executing
a task. The OCR is charged with providing the OPR with appropriate support to complete the
task on time
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).—An office responsible for executing a task. The
OPR’s duties include acquiring appropriate coordination, ensuring the task is completed on time,
making necessary arrangements, and submitting the appropriate documentation.
Staffing—. Process for tasking, preparing, coordinating, staffing, storing, and retrieving HQ
ACC correspondence for signature or information.
Staff Summary Sheet (SSS)—A SSS is one of the tools the staff uses to obtain guidance, a
decision, approval, or signature from members of the Command Section. It also serves as a
transmittal document the staff uses to obtain coordination or provide “Information.”
Suspense Date.—Date a reply is due for a specified task.
Tasker.—An order or request to provide information, updates, briefings, policy proposals,
coordination, or obtain approval. A tasker normally involves the preparation and submission of a
package (either SSS or TMT), associated background information (such as a bullet background
paper, briefing, memorandum, message, proposed policy, etc.).
Top—Line Coordination. The process of coordinating with a Directorate/NAF/Center office.
Also referred to as 2-Letter coordination.
