BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 ACC INSTRUCTION 32-1054
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                         22 MAY 2003
                                                                         Certified Current, 20 June 2007

                                                                                       Civil Engineering

                                                                                     EXTERIOR SIGNS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/CCTT-D                                   Certified by: HQ ACC/A7 (BrigGen Patrick Burns)
Supersedes ACCI 32-1054, 15 November 1996                                                   Pages: 5

This instruction implements policy guidance found in AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities. It estab-
lishes guidance for all exterior signs used on ACC installations. Its purpose is to manage the number of
signs on ACC installations and to ensure attractive, professional, well maintained, and uniform sign stan-
dards throughout the installation. Proper use of signs has a major effect on the appearance of our bases
and will professionally communicate direction and location of those functions and activities that truly
warrant identification. This instruction applies to all ACC activities, units, installations and non-ACC
units tenanted on ACC installations. This publication applies to ACC-gained Air National Guard (ANG)
units and members when published in the ANGIND 2. It also applies to ACC-gained Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units and members. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to HQ ACC/CECT, 129 Andrews St,
Langley AFB VA 23665-2769.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision now requires
the approval of the wing commander of all exterior signs on an installation excluding traffic control and
safety signs governed by national standards. This revision also eliminates the use of wood post for sign
support. Identifies locations for base marquee signs and services marquee signs. Clarifies how building
numbers and street addresses may be displayed. Changes how Army and Air Force Exchange Service
(AAFES), Defense Commissary Agency (DECA), and commercial enterprises may display registered
logos and signature brand signs. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


1. General. The installation will hold the number of signs on each installation to the minimum required
for identification and customer service. All exterior signs require wing commander approval via an instal-
lation sign master plan prior to sign installation, except those signs governed by national standards such
as the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD);
and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Construction Safety and Health Outreach
2                                                                           ACCI32-1054 22 MAY 2003


Program--Signs, Signals, and Barricades. Examples include regulatory and warning traffic control signs
(speed limit signs, stop signs, yield signs, etc.), and hazard/danger signs required by OSHA. Signs man-
dated by national standards must be their required colors and design. Organizational and building identi-
fication signs shall use individual lettering attached to buildings, structures, or monuments and shall be
beige, or anodized bronze aluminum letters, for entryway glass provide frosted white pressure sensitive
letters. Policy for other types of exterior signs is white letters on brown background and brown posts with
the exception of signs relating to safety and governed by national standards applicable to the USAF. All
signs regardless of type shall be of the required size, well maintained, attractive and professional in
appearance. Use UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard, for sign guidance except for variances indi-
cated herein.

2. Materials. Materials utilized should consider the life cycle cost of the sign. Sign stock and hardware
should typically be aluminum, galvanized steel, or nonferrous materials to resist weathering and prevent
rust streaking. Do not use wood.

3. Sign Standards. Each installation shall adopt standards for each type sign used to ensure uniformity
throughout the installation. Attention to detail is essential for an attractive and uniform sign program that
portrays a professional image. Poor quality or unprofessional signs, including stenciled signs are unac-
ceptable.

4. ACC Tenant Units. ACC encourages ACC units at a base of another command to follow the host
command's and the host base standards. Similarly, other command units on ACC bases should follow
ACC sign standards.

5. Base Entrance Signs. Main base entrances provide ACC visitors with their first impression. Entrance
signs should portray a high professional image of the installation, mission, and command. Typical
entrance signs would be monument mounted and include decals conveying the mission, the MAJCOM,
and the new Air Force Symbol.

6. Marquee Sign:
    6.1. Base Marquee Sign. Marquee signs may only be located just inside points of arrival to the base.
    They are an effective way to welcome distinguished visitors and to announce coming events. Arrival
    points are vehicle entry gates and the flight line side of base operations.
    6.2. Services Marquee Sign. Existing service's marquee signs shall be grandfathered to their existing
    location and configuration. Replacement marquees will require approval by HQ ACC/CE and HQ
    ACC/SV prior to purchase or installation. Marquee signs for officer, enlisted, and collocated clubs are
    permitted. Requests for marquees at other services facilities require approval by HQ ACC/CE and HQ
    ACC/SV prior to purchase or installation.

7. Traffic Control Signs:
    7.1. Warning and Regulatory Traffic Control Signs. The MUTCD specifies these traffic control signs.
    The MUTCD provides the reflectivity requirements for traffic control signs. Colors specified by the
    MUTCD for these special signs are mandatory.
ACCI32-1054 22 MAY 2003                                                                                     3


   7.2. Directional Signs. Directional signs should display only those destinations frequently used by
   off-base visitors (hospital, lodging, clubs, etc.). Directional signs should not identify destinations gen-
   erally used only by the base personnel (i.e., library, bowling center, fitness center, exchange, bank,
   etc.). Directional signs should have no more than four entries displayed. Do not place directional
   signs, organizational or building identification signs, unless absolutely necessary. Use UFC 3-120-01,
   Chapter 5--Direction Signs, to design these signs, except that colors shall be white letters on brown
   background with brown posts.
   7.3. Street Name Signs. Street name signs shall have a brown background with white letters and
   brown posts. Use ACC decal on street name signs. An ACC definitive for street name signs is avail-
   able.
   7.4. Street Address and Facility Numbers: An installation may display both a street address and a
   building number; however, to minimize confusion they must be co-located and be clearly distinguish-
   able from each other. Facilities where mail could be delivered by outside carriers (i.e., U.S. Postal Ser-
   vice, Federal Express) must display easily visible street address numbers on the street side of the
   facility.

8. Facility Signs:
   8.1. Organization and Building Identification Signs. Use only one sign per building except for cus-
   tomer service facilities or large building where more than one function or tenant is housed or service
   provided, such as Self-Help Stores, Lodging, Libraries, Military Personnel Flight offices, Consoli-
   dated Support Offices, etc. No unit patches, mottoes, or names or titles of individuals are permitted;
   however, the facility may display the name of the individual the facility was dedicated to, i.e., "Bate-
   man Library." Use individual beige or bronze anodized aluminum letters for identification signs on
   facility walls. ACC policy discourages the use of freestanding post-mounted signs due to their high
   cost of construction and maintenance. Use freestanding post mounted signs only when the facility
   cannot be seen from the access road. Design post mounted signs in accordance with UFC 3-120-01,
   Chapter 4--Exterior Identification Signs, except use white letters on brown background and brown
   posts. Only use ACC and wing decals when using Type B2 signs with decals. When using Type B3
   signs, switch the message area and the number area. Show street address in the number area in the
   lower left corner as shown for Type B2. The building number may be included but shall be distin-
   guishable from the street address. Use the following as the ACCI 32-1054 guide for appropriate sign
   selection.
       8.1.1. Headquarters Buildings (MAJCOM, NAF, Wing, Group, etc.). The installation may iden-
       tify these buildings with monument type signs or building-mounted nonferrous letters affixed to
       the building structure. Hold these signs to a minimum. Not all headquarters or prestigious loca-
       tions need such signs. The installation commander approves the use of these signs.
       8.1.2. Service/Commercial Activities (Exchange, Commissary, Snack Bars, etc.). These facilities
       shall use building mounted signs with individual letters. AAFES and DECA may display the reg-
       istered AAFES and DECA logo as specified in the approved AAFES and DECA graphics stan-
       dard manuals. Commercial signature brands may use their signature logos and may display only
       one sign per building. (If more than one AAFES, DECA, or signature brand store occupies a facil-
       ity, the signs shall be mounted on a Centralized Facilities Type C1 or C2 sign as per UFC
       3-120-01.
4                                                                            ACCI32-1054 22 MAY 2003


       8.1.3. Administrative Offices. Signs for these buildings help direct a limited number of people to
       offices or functions. The majority of buildings on an installation fall into this category. First, seri-
       ously consider the need for any signage exclusive of street address and facility number. Where the
       installation needs these signs, use pressure sensitive lettering on the entrance glass at the main
       entry when possible. Such lettering should show the organization (EXAMPLE: HQ ACC Aero-
       space Operations) and the street address. As a guide, use letters 1 inch high per 25 feet of viewing
       distance to determine the maximum size. From this, establish a standard based on average door
       size and average viewing distance. Use both upper and lower case Helvetica letter style. The letter
       type and style shall be as uniform as possible throughout the installation. Use white, beige, or
       metallic colored letters for maximum visibility and contrast.
       8.1.4. Obscure Buildings. Identify obscure buildings such as well houses, sewage lift stations,
       etc., by no more than a building number. Do not include the street addresses on facilities that do
       not receive mail deliveries.
       8.1.5. Historical Buildings. Historical buildings are a special category of building. These build-
       ings require preservation. Avoid attaching signs to these buildings so as not to deface the structure.
       Options include using pressure sensitive letters on entrance glass, or constructing small freestand-
       ing signs to match the facility.

9. Water/POL Tanks. Paint POL tanks simply in earth tone colors. The installation shall apply the new
AF symbol with "U.S. Air Force" as per AF Interim Policy and Design Guidance letter dated 14 Aug 01
on water tanks when they are scheduled for repainting. No other decals, graphics, or lettering such as
shields, mottoes, or organizational emblems are authorized.

10. Sortie Boards. ACC flying units will locate sortie/flying hour boards in a prominent location. Sortie/
flying hour boards will identify the flying wing followed by "Monthly Flying Goals", e.g., "XXX Wing
Monthly Flying Goals". The ACC emblem will be located in the upper left corner and the unit emblem in
the upper right corner. Flying squadrons will be identified horizontally across the top of the board with
headings and sortie or flying hour data presented in column form below. Refer to AFI 21-101_ACC SUP
1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, for specific information to be presented on the sortie/
flying hour board. Typical sortie/flying hour board dimensions will be 10 ft x 4 ft. Lettering will be white
on a standard brown background and font will be Helvetica Medium.

11. Other Signs. UFC 3-120-01 provides additional details on signs. Use of these standards is required
but will not override ACC policy based on those guidelines in this instruction.

12. Form Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                                HAL M. HORNBURG, General, USAF
                                                Commander
ACCI32-1054 22 MAY 2003                                                                       5


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
FHWA, Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/kno-millennium.htm)
OSHA, Construction Safety and Health Outreach Program--Signs, Signals, and Barricades
(http://www.osha.gov/doc/outreachtraining/htmlfiles/subpartg.html)
AFI 21-101 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/21/afi21-101/afi21-101.pdf), Aerospace
Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-101_ACC SUP 1
(https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/21series/AFI21-101_ACCSUP1.pdf), Aerospace Equip-
ment Maintenance Management
AFPD 32-10 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/32/afpd32-10/afpd32-10.pdf), Installation
and Facilities
UFC 3-120-01 (http://www.hnd.usace.army.mil/techinfo/UFC/UFC3-120-01.pdf), Air Force Sign
Standard

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ACC—Air Combat Command
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CE—Civil Engineer Directorate
DECA—Defense Commissary Agency
MAJCOM—major command
MUTCD—Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
NAF—non-appropriated funds
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
SV—Services Directorate
