BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  ACC INSTRUCTION 36-2301
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                   11 OCTOBER 2006
                                                                      Certfied current, 18 December 2008
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                                          ACC AIRMAN LEADERSHIP
                                                                              SCHOOL OPERATIONS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available digitally.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A1FD                                                                Certified by: HQ ACC/A1
                                                                               (Colonel John E. Campbell)
                                                                                                Pages: 18

This instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education. This instruction also supplements guid-
ance found in AFI 36-2301, Professional Military Education, and the United States Air Force Enlisted
Professional Military Education Policies, Procedures and Guidelines (USAF EPME PPG). This instruc-
tion prescribes criteria, policies and procedures for maintaining standards that support the requirements of
the College of Enlisted Professional Military Education (CEPME) and the Community College of the Air
Force (CCAF) affiliation and accreditation. Airman Leadership School (ALS) Flight Chiefs will adminis-
ter their Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) programs per this directive. This publication
applies to all Air Combat Command (ACC) bases, units and organizations. This publication does not
apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accor-
dance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the ACC Leader Development Branch (HQ ACC/A1FD), 114 Douglas Street, Langley Air
Force Base, Virginia 23665-2773, using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF IMT 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
____________________________________________________________________________________

Section A—ACC Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) policy

1. Purpose. This directive prescribes how EPME will function in ACC. It ensures command-wide stan-
dardization of Airman Leadership School (ALS) program management and a standardized EPME experi-
ence for all airmen. ALS Flight Chiefs will administer their ALS programs per this directive in addition to
AFI 36-2301, USAF EPME PPG and the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Policies, Proce-
dures and Guidelines. In the absence of specific guidance from this and other EPME related instructions,
use judgment, experience and training to make the best decision. If you are unsure of any guidance or
have questions, contact HQ ACC/A1FD for assistance. Before deviating from any aspect of this directive,
2                                                                   ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


you must have an HQ ACC/A1FD approved waiver for exception to policy (verbal and written). Submit
written waiver requests (e-mail, letter, or FAX) with detailed rationale using the contact information pro-
vided in paragraph 1.2 below.

2. Contact Information. Address any questions or concerns to the ACC EPME Programs office, HQ
ACC/A1FD, DSN 574-2027/Fax DSN 575-5429. ACC EPME program guidance is available at the ACC
Directorate of Manpower and Personnel (HQ ACC/A1) website (https://a1.acc.af.mil/DPA/
DPAD_PME_Enl.htm) and additional guidance and templates are located at the ACC Enlisted PME
Community of Practice (CoP) website (https://rso.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ OpenCoP.asp?Fil-
ter=OO-ED-AC-C2).
    Mailing Address: ACC Enlisted PME Programs
       HQ ACC/A1FD
       114 Douglas Street, Suite 220
       Langley AFB, VA 23665-2773

Section B—Airman Leadership School (ALS)

3. Purpose. The success of the Airman Leadership School depends upon adequate and timely allocation
and effective management of resources. The ALS mission is best accomplished with full support of the
local community; specifically commanders, command chiefs, chief master sergeants, first sergeants and
supervisors.

4. Resources. ACC defines resources as facilities, budget, equipment and technology, manpower and the
Airman Leadership School Advisory Council (ALSAC). The flight chief will involve all staff members in
resource management.
    4.1. Facilities. The installation commander establishes procedures to ensure adequate facilities are
    obtained, maintained and managed to meet the requirements of the ALS program. Dedicated aca-
    demic and dormitory facilities provide the proper learning environment to support the ALS program.
    Dedicated facilities are those under ALS management and managed according to ALS priorities. If
    ALS facilities are co-located with other agencies, space sharing must be managed to ensure adherence
    to PME policies. Facilities must be managed and maintained IAW AFH 32-1084, Facility Require-
    ments and other applicable 32-series instructions.
       4.1.1. Academic. A dedicated academic facility is necessary to carry out the ALS mission. At a
       minimum, the ALS will have dedicated classrooms, administrative offices and access to an audi-
       torium. Classrooms should be built for maximum capacity (16 students) and should leave ample
       room for instructional accessories, small personal item storage and furniture reconfiguration. See
       the ACC ALS Facility Standard online at the ACC EPME CoP. A drill pad for marching and for-
       mal ceremonies should be co-located with the academic facility.
       4.1.2. Dormitory. ALS may have a dedicated dormitory for students at the discretion of the instal-
       lation commander. Operate dormitories IAW AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Manage-
       ment, and IAW AFI 32-6004, Furnishings Management. NOTE: Operation of an in-residence
       program is completely optional and is not justification for additional ACC funding.
ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006                                                                               3


     4.1.3. Cleaning Details. The flight chief must establish procedures for cleaning and maintaining
     academic and dormitory facilities and grounds IAW local Civil Engineering policies. Addition-
     ally, as per AFI 36-2301, ALS students may be assigned duties to clean and maintain academic
     and dormitory facilities and grounds; however, they will not have cleaning duties requiring more
     than 30 minutes per day. ALS students will not be assigned to clean and maintain ALS administra-
     tive offices or areas used solely by the staff. Co-location of ALS with other agencies presents
     facility upkeep challenges but the ALS flight chief is encouraged to coordinate a schedule agree-
     able to all.
     4.1.4. Facilities Strategic Plan. The flight chief, in consultation with the facility manager, Mission
     Support Squadron (MSS) Commander, Wing Command Chief (CCC) and ACC EPME office will
     establish a strategic plan to address short- and long-term initiatives to ensure the facilities support
     the ALS mission. The strategic plan should include short- and long-term goals to maintain and
     improve ALS facilities and should address preventive maintenance, minor improvements, major
     renovations or new facility development. Maintain facility management records in order to pro-
     vide information for determining current and future facilities usability. At a minimum, the facility
     manager records will contain a historical record of repeat discrepancies, significant projects or
     improvements, AF Forms 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request and occupancy dates. Major
     facility renovations normally include new furnishings and equipment so planning for each should
     be considered concurrently to ensure proper funding. The funding plan is especially important as
     facility funding is budget authority 01 (BA01) while furnishing and equipment is budget authority
     03 (BA03). The flight chief must coordinate early and often with local and higher headquarters
     funding points of contact to ensure funding for facility, furnishings and equipment (FF&E) initia-
     tives. Whether you are overseeing a major facility renovation or new construction, it is an intense
     process requiring day-to-day involvement in planning, coordinating and aggressive follow-up.
  4.2. Budget. The Air Force, through Air University, programs funding for PME IAW AFI 36-2301,
  and then provides operational funding through the MAJCOM which distributes BA03 funding to the
  ALS. The ALS flight chief is responsible for managing all financial resources to support the ALS. The
  flight chief cooperates with other installation support organizations to determine requirements and
  budget submissions to obtain necessary resources.
     4.2.1. Cost Center Manager (CCM). The ALS flight chief is the CCM for the ALS program and
     must work with the squadron Resource Advisor (RA) and local Financial Management (FM) per-
     sonnel to ensure adequate funding requirements are identified and presented to the MAJCOM as
     required or requested. The flight chief must complete CCM training within 90 days of assignment,
     IAW AFI 65-601 Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations, and should take advantage of
     other associated financial management training as available. The flight chief will ensure appoint-
     ment of an alternate CCM. The flight chief will also be the government purchase card (GPC)
     approving official and will ensure appointment and training of a GPC holder.
     4.2.2. Budget Authority (BA). The ALS program operates from BA03 (03=Training and Recruit-
     ing, Accession Training, Basic Skill and Advanced Training and other Training and Education).
     Note: Tuition Assistance is also funded under BA03, so funds sent down from the MAJCOM must
     be specifically identified and allocated at base level to ensure the ALS receives designated fund-
     ing. Additionally, Program Element Codes (PEC or PE) are codes assigned by the Department of
     Defense and the U.S. Air Force. The PE code for the Enlisted PME program is 84751.
4                                                                     ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


       4.2.3. Financial Plan (FINPLAN). The FINPLAN is accomplished annually. The budget call
       (FINPLAN request) will generally go out in the second quarter of the current fiscal year for the
       following year’s plan. Work with local FM analysts to develop the plan. Completed FINPLANs
       are sent up through the local FM chain to the ACC Comptroller (HQ ACC/FM) as well as to the
       MAJCOM EPME office. The MAJCOM EPME office will collect and validate each school’s
       FINPLAN and will do an annual “call” for budget submission.
       4.2.4. Funding Distribution. After the President’s fiscal year budget is approved, funding is dis-
       tributed to the MAJCOM for redistribution to field units; target date for initial distribution is
       mid-December. The MAJCOM distributes money to the local budget office, and the budget
       officer or analyst will notify the resource advisor when the money is received. Administer the
       ALS budget IAW AFI 65-601V2. Quarterly targets and adjustments should be planned and spent
       during a specific quarter. Track the analysis reports to ensure enough money is programmed for
       each fiscal quarter and identify needed changes to squadron RA (and ACC EPME office as
       needed).
       4.2.5. Unfunded Requirements. Unfunded requirements are needed items that cannot be pur-
       chased with the current funding level or distribution. Submit unfunded requests through the bud-
       get office according to local and MAJCOM procedures. The financial working group and
       management board will assist in prioritizing needs and request MAJCOM funding. Provide ACC
       EPME an updated listing of unfunded requirements especially during end of year spending to aid
       in prioritizing distribution of ACC EPME funds.
    4.3. Equipment and Technology Management. The flight chief will work with local OPRs, to estab-
    lish short- and long-range plans to upgrade both equipment and technology to meet the ALS mission.
    Computers and information technology fall under the base Equipment Control Officer (ECO) who is
    best qualified to assist the ALS in developing an equipment and technology replacement plan.
    4.4. Manpower. ALS manpower is quantified in Air Force Manpower Standard (AFMS) 16A1, Air-
    man Leadership School (ALS), and is based on a minimum of six and maximum of eight classes per
    year and an average seminar size of 16 students. Apply the projected average annual student (ALS eli-
    gible) load (production) to the table found in AFMS 16A1 Paragraph 3.1, to determine the optimum
    number of seminars per class and the required manpower to support that number of seminars:
       4.4.1. Authorizations. The option for ALSs with four or more authorizations to convert a 3A051
       authorization to 8T000 as prescribed by AFMS 16A1, Attachment 2, is suspended until further
       notice.
       4.4.2. Utilization.
           4.4.2.1. Additional Duties. ALS faculty and staff should be assigned additional duties within
           the ALS management function not only to affect the mission, but to broaden experience and
           enhance professional development. ALS additional duties include information management,
           budgeting, training, facility and equipment management, test control, graduation coordinator,
           safety and security monitor, GPC holder, etc. NOTE: Instructors should not be assigned addi-
           tional duties that interfere with their ability to complete qualification training. ALS faculty and
           staff will not be assigned additional duties that detract from the quality of education at the ALS
           (i.e., squadron safety or security manager, unit career advisor, first sergeant, mobility, exer-
           cises, etc.) Any additional duty that violates CEPME instructional methodology or results in
           the relocation of instruction is prohibited.
ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006                                                                              5


        4.4.2.2. Deployments and Base Support. ALS instructors will be assigned to an Air Expedi-
        tionary Force (AEF) cycle in Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 8T000 and may be deployed
        with an AFSC 8T000 unit type code (UTC) with prior approval of HQ ACC/A1FD. The ALS
        staff is an excellent resource for advisory and leadership support to base and community orga-
        nizations and functions (i.e., change of command, retirement, POW ceremonies, annual and
        quarterly award banquets dining-in/out, etc.). The staff is encouraged to volunteer for partici-
        pation in a broad range of opportunities which will broaden their competence and commitment
        to the USAF when it does not degrade or disrupt the ALS mission.
     4.4.3. PME Faculty (AFSC 8T000). The success of the ALS program is dependent upon the hir-
     ing, initial and continual training, certification, evaluation, professional development, recognition
     and utilization of its teaching-qualified staff. The flight chief is key to ensuring each staff member
     (including self) has the required skills, necessary knowledge and proper attitude to create a strong
     ALS program. Staffing challenges (routine and non-routine replacements) will be met in consulta-
     tion with the MSS Commander (the hire authority) and the Wing Command Chief.
        4.4.3.1. Hiring Considerations. Although qualifications, availability and team needs should
        ultimately be the basis upon which hiring priority is determined, consider hiring faculty mem-
        bers reflective of the installation. Whenever possible, hire at least one instructor who holds a
        primary AFSC representing the largest user on the installation.
            4.4.3.1.1. Flight Chief. Flight chiefs will be master sergeant or master sergeants selects.
            The Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) will not typically authorize hiring a flight chief if
            there is an eligible master sergeant instructor on staff with at least one year remaining
            before assignment availability code (AAC) expiration. To advertise for a new flight chief,
            the MSS Commander will need to fully justify and provide sound logic for not filling the
            vacancy with a remaining master sergeant. New flight chiefs will participate in the ACC
            Flight Chief Shadow Program within eight months of assignment. The Flight Chief
            Shadow Program is training for incoming flight chiefs to receive guidance and mentorship
            from a tenured flight chief.
            4.4.3.1.2. Instructors. Instructors will be in the grade of staff sergeant or technical ser-
            geant. The flight chief will establish a written hiring plan. The flight chief will submit a
            prioritized list of candidates who meet the minimum requirements to the MSS Commander
            for approval.
            4.4.3.1.3. Hiring Process. The MSS/CC is responsible for hiring the ALS faculty. Faculty
            hiring is done IAW AFI 36-2110, Assignments, USAF CEPME PPG and this publication.
            Assignments to fill 8T000 positions require advertisement on EQUAL plus. A “Hiring
            Timeline” chart is available on the ACC EPME CoP to assist MSS/CCs and flight chiefs in
            planning a smooth transition between outbound and inbound faculty. The MSS Com-
            mander forwards the request to fill a vacancy to HQ ACC/A1FD who reviews for com-
            pleteness and accuracy then forwards to AFPC to advertise the vacancy on the EQUAL
            PLUS listing. As soon as the advertisement closes (after 30 - 45 days) and candidates are
            known, the flight chief will screen and rank order candidates using the ACC Hiring Tem-
            plate (including full names and social security numbers for each candidate) and send the
            list to the MSS Commander. Although the MSS Commander is the hiring authority, the
            wing’s senior leadership (Commander and Command Chief) is encouraged to actively par-
            ticipate in the screening process. The MSS/CC sends the list of prioritized candidates on
6                                                             ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


       the hiring template to HQ ACC/A1FD, who will review and forward the hire request to the
       ACC Enlisted Assignments Branch (HQ ACC/A1FA), who will in turn send it to AFPC.
       AFPC evaluates and considers release using the hiring authority’s established priority. For
       example, if three names are submitted, they attempt to hire the first choice. If the member
       is not releasable, AFPC will inform ACC of this status before processing a request for
       release for the second choice. Assignment action approval and selection is completed after
       AFPC has released the candidate. Permanent Change of Station (PCS) actions will post
       through the military personnel data system (MilPDS) to the MPF and permanent change of
       assignment actions will be sent via email to the MPF.
    4.4.3.2. Extension. The MSS/CC, with coordination from Wing Command Chief and HQ
    ACC/A1FD, may approve extensions up to 12 months past original assignment availability
    date on a limited, case-by-case basis. Extensions will be the exception, not the rule and should
    never be done simply for the convenience of the member. Extending anyone past the AAC
    expiration date leaves the school vulnerable for manning gaps as the member remains vulner-
    able for short-notice assignment. Submit retention requests within 9 - 12 months of the mem-
    ber’s AAC date.
    4.4.3.3. Early Release or Removal Actions. Releasing a faculty member before the comple-
    tion of a controlled tour has a direct impact on school productivity and should be considered
    only when: (1) the member’s replacement has been hired and early release is acceptable to
    school manning or; (2) the reason for release is of such a nature as to make member’s contin-
    uation in ALS unacceptable. The MSS/CC must consult with HQ ACC/A1FD before taking
    any action to release early or remove an ALS faculty member.
       4.4.3.3.1. Release. Curtailments are requested IAW AFI 36-2110, coordinated with the
       ALS flight chief and approved by the MSS/CC who in turn will submit written release
       requests to HQ ACC/A1FD for review. HQ ACC/A1FD will forward the release request to
       AFPC for consideration.
       4.4.3.3.2. Removal. It may be necessary to remove staff members for cause. Examples of
       “cause” include but are not limited to: member received an Article 15 for committing an
       offense punishable under the UCMJ; faculty member cannot become fully qualified to
       instruct; or unprofessional behavior (behavior of such a nature as to bring discredit on the
       AF). The flight chief (or MSS/CC if the flight chief is the subject of concern) writes a letter
       outlining why the individual should be removed from current 8T000 duty. The letter
       should be specific and include the impact to students, staff and the school in regards to
       what the member did and why the behavior is unacceptable in the EPME arena. Attach all
       documentation showing a trend (if applicable) and comment on rehabilitation efforts made
       to correct noted deficiencies (if applicable). Next, the flight chief takes the letter and
       attachments to the MSS/CC and together they coordinate with the Wing Command Chief.
       After determining the validity of the documentation, the documents and removal package
       are taken to the Base Legal Office for judicial review. The Base Legal Office must provide
       a written endorsement signifying their review. Before making the final decision, the MSS/
       CC consults with HQ ACC/A1FD concerning the issue and then makes the final decision
       on the member’s retention. If removal is warranted, the MSS/CC endorses the letter. The
       MSS/CC then informs the member of removal, has the member endorse the letter indicat-
       ing notification time and date, and provides the member a copy of the signed removal let-
ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006                                                                               7


              ter. Send the removal letter and all supporting documentation to HQ ACC/A1FD for
              processing. Units should keep a copy of the entire package IAW the RDS. HQ ACC/A1FD
              sends the removal request to AFPC for final approval and subsequent hiring action (if war-
              ranted).
       4.4.4. Recognition. EPME awards recognize and encourage superior performance and significant
       contributions to the EPME mission. The annual EPME Achievement Awards Program is adminis-
       tered using AFI 36-2819, Mission Support Awards Program, and includes ALS Flight Chief and
       ALS Instructor of the Year. These awards are presented annually for performance from October
       1st through September 30th. Nominees must have served 6 months or more in the position for
       which they are nominated. In addition to these awards, each school may be submitted for the ACC
       ALS Team of the Year Award. This award has two categories (Large and Small Teams). An ALS
       that is manned to support three or more seminars will compete in the Large Team category.
       NOTE: there is currently no Air Force-level equivalent for this award.

5. Program Management. The flight chief is responsible for the effective ALS program management
including all facets of the operation from planning school production and annual schedules to reporting
vital post-graduate statistics.
   5.1. School Production. All schools are staffed for and should be operated to produce at a level to
   train each staff sergeant select before promotion increment. Schools will conduct seven or more
   classes each fiscal year. The flight chief reviews production data immediately following the staff ser-
   geant promotion release and then again before each class to ensure currency of data.
       5.1.1. Annually. Flight chiefs plan the annual (fiscal year) class schedule (production) to ensure
       sufficient class seats are available to train assigned and inbound staff sergeant-selects. The flight
       chief must consider the accession rate, promotion rate, current eligible population, school man-
       ning situation, facility status, ALS eligible airmen transferring PCS to 12-month tours with no
       ALS, and planned AEF deployment cycles. Any changes to the class schedule are coordinated
       with the MSS/CC and WG/CCC before submitting them to ACC/A1FD. Submit proposed annual
       class schedules to ACC/A1FD in June and July for the next fiscal year.
       5.1.2. Individual Classes. Flight chiefs review production requirements when beginning the stu-
       dent selection process (covered below) for each class. Production requirements include the num-
       ber of staff sergeant-selects, the number of eligibles with PCS orders to 12-month, non-ALS
       locations and the total eligible population. Consideration should also be given to space limitations
       and manning. After requirements and considerations are reviewed, the flight chief determines the
       size of the class, the number of seminars and the number of students per seminar. The next step is
       to select potential students for the each class using the student eligibility roster.
           5.1.2.1. Student Eligibility. Military Personnel Flight Personnel Systems Management (PSM)
           personnel will provide the ALS with Student Eligibility Rosters that include all data necessary
           to determine eligibility, historical production data and accession rate trends. The flight chief
           must ensure all students meet minimum requirements to attend ALS IAW AFI 36-2301 and
           USAF Airman Leadership School Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA),
           and eliminate students who do not meet these requirements. Some requirements can be waived
           (refer to the ETCA for details). Flight chiefs will also ensure local staff sergeants promoted
           without ALS completion via promotion waivers are included on the eligibility roster.
8                                                                      ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


           5.1.2.2. Student Selection. Flight chiefs select students for a class using the priorities outlined
           in the ACC EPME Management Guide. Select active duty personnel first and then AFRC/
           ANG personnel as seats are available.
               5.1.2.2.1. Priority One (P1). SSgt-selects without ALS and a projected 365-day deploy-
               ment are the first training priority and should be trained in the first classes of the fiscal year
               to avoid promotion withhold or PME waivers for promotion.
               5.1.2.2.2. Priority Two (P2). SSgt-selects without ALS are priority two.
               5.1.2.2.3. Priority Three (P3). SrA with 42 months Time in Service (TIS) or more and
               selected for assignment to a short tour location without an ALS. Responsibility for P3 stu-
               dents completing ALS before they transfer PCS is shared by the unit, MPF Outbound
               Assignments and the ALS. The MPF Outbound Assignments section informs the ALS and
               the member’s unit of any senior airmen who has orders to a 12-month, non-ALS location
               within 10 days of assignment selection date. The flight chief will verify the member’s P3
               status and eligibility, (minimum of 42 months time-in-service (TIS) at the time of assign-
               ment selection) evaluate the RNLTD in conjunction with the class schedule, and coordi-
               nate with the unit commander to schedule the individual to complete ALS prior to
               departing for the remote assignment (if possible). IAW Personnel Processing Code (PPC)
               roster, if a P3 student is unable to complete ALS prior to departing PCS, the servicing MPF
               will request an exception to policy allowing the senior airman to PCS without ALS com-
               pletion, and forward the approved exception to policy to the gaining MAJCOM. If the
               senior airman will accrue 48 months TIS during the remote tour, submit a TIS waiver for
               ALS attendance to HQ ACC/A1FD for approval prior to class start. Senior airmen receiv-
               ing an AEF tasking for 365 days to non-ALS locations should be considered P2 students.
               5.1.2.2.4. Priority Four (P4). All other eligible SrA, with 48 months TIS who do not meet
               either P1, P2, or P3 criteria, are selected for ALS attendance based on seniority (date of
               rank).
               5.1.2.2.5. Additional Considerations. Unit commanders may request in writing that a
               senior airman who meets all eligibility requirements, be trained ahead of others. The justi-
               fication must be clearly stated. The ALS flight chief is the approving authority for eligible
               P1 and P2 personnel. The Wing Vice Commander is the approving authority for P4 stu-
               dents. NOTE: P1 and P2 students will not be bumped from a class in order to train eligible
               P4 personnel.
               5.1.2.2.6. Alternates. The flight chief will select a sufficient number of alternates to ensure
               no seats are left empty due to last minute vacancies. This number will vary from school to
               school and depends on a wing’s current eligible population, mission demands and other
               factors.
    5.2. Student Selection Notification. The flight chief identifies enough students (primaries and alter-
    nates) to fill the production quota for a class and notifies the unit of potential students no later than 45
    days prior to class start date. The ALS will send out the class selection roster to the units and the units
    will notify students of their selection (primary or alternate) to attend a specific class no later than 21
    days prior to class start. Adequate student notification is essential to assist each student in preparing to
    succeed in ALS. In the notification, the flight chief provides the units a way to document student noti-
    fication of selection, eligibility and commander selection.
ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006                                                                                9


       5.2.1. Student Attendance Confirmation. Unit commanders verify member’s ALS eligibility,
       select members for attendance and notify members of selection to attend ALS. Students will
       acknowledge notification in writing within 5 days of receipt and return the completed notification,
       eligibility and selection documents to ALS NLT 10 days prior to class start date.
       5.2.2. The 45/21 day notification requirement is waived for the ALS class immediately following
       staff sergeant promotion release (as practical) to accommodate the immediate training of staff ser-
       geant selects. However, flight chiefs should select students for that class using the above priorities
       and procedures in an attempt to meet the 45/21 day suspense. When the promotion release is
       announced, flight chiefs must also review and re-select as needed to ensure no staff sergeant select
       goes into promotion withhold. Advance planning should ensure wing leadership, MSS/CC and all
       affected units are prepared for this annual situation.
   5.3. Student Deferment. Refer to current AF and ACC policies (located on the ACC website).
   5.4. ACC End-of-Course (EOC) Report. Flight chiefs will submit their EOC Reports to HQ ACC/
   A1FD NLT 5 work days after graduation. A template is available on the CoP website.
   5.5. Award Winner Reporting. Each school will provide the full name and military address of all
   award winners to the graduate’s owning MAJCOM Command Chief’s office within 5 work days after
   class graduation. The ACC Command Chief sends out a congratulatory letter to each award winner.

6. ALS Orientation. Unit commander and first sergeant involvement is crucial to planning, student
selection, timely scheduling of ALS attendance and processing waivers for personnel unable to complete
required PME as scheduled. It is imperative they understand the mandatory PME requirements and poli-
cies and deconflict PME attendance with other competing priorities. Therefore, the flight chief will offer
or conduct an orientation with the goal of educating each newly assigned commander and first sergeant
within 6 months of assignment. Orientations should include a physical tour of the ALS facility, an over-
view of EPME policies (ALS, ACC, CEPME, CCAF, USAF) focusing on student selection, notification,
attendance, curriculum, disciplinary issues and academic and disciplinary releases. Flight chiefs are
highly encouraged to attend First Sergeant Council meetings to educate first sergeants and assist with stu-
dent attendance and promotion wavier issues.

7. Structured Activities. Flight chiefs are encouraged to offer activities that add value to the leadership,
team building, group dynamics and profession of arms aspects of the course outside the 8-hour/24 aca-
demic day schedule. In addition to traditional subjects such as computer skills, time and stress manage-
ment classes, activities can include productive non-curriculum focused briefings, community service
activities and social events.

8. Graduations. Hold graduation ceremonies as formal evening military events. A formal evening event
is a mess dress or semi-formal uniform function with a guest speaker, sit-down dinner and presentation of
awards and diplomas to the students. Students cannot be forced to purchase their own meal at the cere-
mony; however, student attendance is considered part of the curriculum and is mandatory. Deviations
from evening graduation requirements must be coordinated with HQ ACC/A1FD.

9. Awards. Present all CEPME authorized awards at graduation.
10                                                                   ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


10. Student Information Publications. It is important for students to have access to information and
procedures to ensure their academic success. The CCAF and USAF Enlisted PME Procedural Guidance
contain the required information. This information must be available to students before and during the
class. Student feedback can identify the most effective medium for this information, either hard copy pub-
lication, Internet or Intranet publication or both. Publications must include at a minimum, explanations
and descriptions of the following items:
     10.1. Statement of Purpose. Provide standard ALS mission statement IAW CEPME as well as
     degree-granting authority.
     10.2. Organizational Chart. Provide an organizational chart so students can easily understand the
     ALS chain of command.
     10.3. Statement of Student Rights, Roles, and Responsibilities. This section should clearly define stu-
     dent leadership roles and their participation in the decision-making and process improvement areas.
     Students must be aware of the opportunity to provide instant feedback.
     10.4. Admissions. Explain student release and re-admission criteria.
     10.5. Graduation. Explain graduation requirements and student awards criteria.
     10.6. Base Leadership Information. Recommend making the student publication available to all base
     leadership. A school website can be a terrific outlet for school information and should be accessible
     through the AF Portal.

11. Records Management. ALS programs, without an information manager (IM) assigned, should seek
the assistance of the MSS/CC’s Support Staff to establish and maintain administrative files as well as
assigning IM duties to staff members. Flight chiefs are responsible for maintaining the school’s adminis-
trative files IAW RDS, CCAF policies and USAF EPME program guidance.
     11.1. Maintain the following critical records according to these guidelines:
        11.1.1. Eligibility Rosters. Schools must maintain eligibility rosters until the next Program Man-
        agement Review (PMR). These records can be stored digitally or in hard copy.
        11.1.2. Selection Records. Selection records provide validation that the individuals selected to
        attend ALS are eligible and are managed IAW the following guidance.
            11.1.2.1. Completed selection eligibility checklists for students who will attend a class
            become the foundation of the class record. File completed selection eligibility checklists for
            students who are ineligible (IAW ETCA and AFI 36-2301) with the eligibility roster for the
            class they were selected, so they can be selected again when they become eligible. This
            includes students not being recommended by their commander.
            11.1.2.2. File any unit commander’s mission essential “attendance out of turn” requests for
            student selection with the eligibility checklist as part of the class record.
            11.1.2.3. Do not maintain completed selection eligibility checklists for students not picked for
            a primary seat, eligible, and not deferred, as they will be re-accomplished when they are
            selected for the next class.
        11.1.3. Deferment records. Maintain deferment documents until the member successfully com-
        pletes ALS. If the member does not complete ALS at the assigned wing, maintain deferral docu-
ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006                                                                             11


      ments until the next PMR. The flight chief will develop a tracking system or mechanism to ensure
      deferred students are scheduled to attend at the appropriate time. For specific guidelines on stu-
      dent deferrals, consult USAF and ACC EPME policy letters located in the ACC EPME CoP.
      11.1.4. Release Letters. Student release documentation will be maintained until the next PMR and
      a notification will be sent to the student’s MAJCOM.
      11.1.5. Release Appeals. Send HQ ACC/A1FD copies of release appeals (e-mail, fax and hard
      copy are acceptable). Make sure the documents include the name of the student, the type of release
      and if the appeal was granted or denied.

12. Assessment. An ACC command chief should assess each ALS on a 2-year cycle to ensure compli-
ance with governing enlisted PME directives and ACC policies. The ALS assessment system includes
three phases: ALS self-assessment, HQ ACC PMR, and a compliance plan (as needed). CEPME will con-
duct their own assessment.
   12.1. Self-Assessment. This is the first phase of the assessment system and the most critical. It pro-
   vides the installation and ACC with a methodology for assessing the operational effectiveness of the
   ALS. The ALS flight chief and MSS/CC will ensure the self-assessment is scheduled and completed.
   The self-assessment should begin 60 to 90 days prior to the ACC PMR, using the ACC PMR Check-
   list (available on the CoP). The following are the steps to conduct a self-assessment:
      12.1.1. Identify weaknesses. Weaknesses are defined as those programs, policies and procedures
      that do not meet the standards outlined or referred to in this policy.
      12.1.2. Identify strengths. Strengths are defined as those programs, policies and procedures, that
      exceed the standards outlined or referred to in this policy.
      12.1.3. Provide comments. Identify the support material for all answers.
      12.1.4. When the self-assessment is complete, the ALS flight chief will compose the self-assess-
      ment report using the template on the ACC EPME CoP. The flight chief will submit the final
      self-assessment document through the chain of command to HQ ACC/A1FD (via email) no later
      than 30 days prior to the scheduled PMR date. If the self-assessment will be submitted late, notify
      HQ ACC/A1FD in advance. The flight chief will provide the self-assessment to the entire PMR
      team NLT 10 days prior to inspection.
   12.2. ACC Program Management Review (PMR). This is the second phase of the assessment. The
   PMR has four purposes: (1) assess program effectiveness; (2) identify program strengths (programs,
   policies and procedures that exceed standards in this or other related directives) and weaknesses (pro-
   grams, policies and procedures that do not meet standards in this or other related directives); (3) pro-
   vide assistance; and (4) gather feedback from the field.
      12.2.1. PMR Preparatory Documents. All ACC PMR preparatory information will be down-
      loaded as needed from the ACC EPME CoP.
      12.2.2. Team Chief. Normally a Command Chief Master Sergeant will be the Team Chief for the
      ALS PMR visit. The hosting ALS flight chief will ensure local lodging is secured (in advance) and
      provide an escort as needed.
      12.2.3. Team Requirements. The team requires access to school resources as well as specific doc-
      uments for review. A listing of team requirements is available on the ACC EPME CoP.
12                                                                  ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


     12.3. Compliance Plan. This is the final phase of the assessment management cycle. The compliance
     plan should address how the ALS will resolve items identified as weaknesses during a PMR visit. The
     plan identifies each weakness noted in the PMR report, the estimated date of resolution and a brief
     listing of milestones for each identified weakness. Flight chiefs use the Compliance Plan template on
     the ACC EPME CoP. The compliance plan is developed by the ALS staff, and approved by the instal-
     lation commander.

13. Airman Leadership School Advisory Council (ALSAC). Each installation will establish an
ALSAC (or equivalent) to provide a structured forum to address ALS issues, identify potential improve-
ments and monitor implementation of new local initiatives.
     13.1. Objectives.
        13.1.1. Bring essential installation officials and organizations together in a structured forum to
        work toward the common goal of continually improving the ALS.
        13.1.2. Ensure the active involvement of the installation's senior leadership in the ALS improve-
        ment process.
        13.1.3. Ensure improvements are aggressively pursued, tracked and completed.
        13.1.4. Submit proposed items to HQ ACC/A1FD for consideration or action.
        13.1.5. Ensure the ALSAC (or equivalent) is an avenue for the base to help the ALS accomplish
        its mission more effectively. The council should avoid tasking the ALS staff with action items or
        council administrative responsibilities that detracts from their normal duties. ALSAC members
        should use their resources to complete improvement opportunities.
     13.2. Composition. WG/CCs appoint permanent ALSAC members by position in writing. Permanent
     members of the council may be appointed by position or name and will include, at a minimum:
        13.2.1. WG/CCC (ALSAC Chair). ALSAC Chairs appoint optional council members (i.e., Base
        Equipment Control officer, MSS Resource Advisor, Group Chief Enlisted Managers, First Ser-
        geants Council President, etc.) in writing (as needed). They also publish meeting minutes that
        include topics of discussion, recommendations, decisions, accomplishments, attendees, ensure
        ALSAC meetings are held semi-annually (or more frequently as needed) and initiatives and tasks
        align with primary objectives.
        13.2.2. The MSS/CC (alternate ALSAC Chair).
        13.2.3. The ALS flight chief.
        13.2.4. Civil Engineering (CE) Senior Leader or designated representative.
        13.2.5. Comptroller (FM) Senior Leader or designated representative.
        13.2.6. Communications Squadron (CS) Senior Leader or designated representative.
        13.2.7. Two Unit CCs and two first sergeants. Commanders and first sergeants should not be from
        the same unit.
        13.2.8. A recent ALS graduate.
ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006                                                                13


14. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication and AF Form 332, Base
Civil Engineer Work Request.



                                         RONALD E. KEYS, General, USAF
                                         Commander
14                                                             ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFH 32-1084 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/32/afh32-1084/afh32-1084.pdf), Facility
Requirements
AFI 32-6004 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/32/afi32-6004/afi32-6004.pdf), Furnishings
Management
AFI 32-6005 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/32/afi32-6005/afi32-6005.pdf), Unaccompa-
nied Housing Management
AFI 36-2110 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/36/afi36-2110/afi36-2110.pdf), Assignments
AFPD 36-23 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/36/afpd36-23/afpd36-23.pdf), Military Edu-
cation
AFI 36-2301 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/36/afi36-2301/afi36-2301.pdf), Professional
Military Education
AFI 36-2819 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/36/afi36-2819/afi36-2819.pdf), Mission Sup-
port Awards Program
AFI 65-601 Volume 2 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/65/afi65-601v2/afi65-601v2.pdf),
Budget Management for Operations
AFMS 16A1, Airman Leadership School (ALS)
USAF EPME Policies, Procedures, and Guidance (https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOC-
Main.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-ED-AE-66-2&Filter=OO-ED-AE-66)
Records Disposition Schedule (https://afrims.amc.af.mil/)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC—Assignment Availability Code
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFMS—Air Force Manpower Standard
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ALSAC—Airman Leadership School Advisory Council
BA—Budget Authority
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CCM—Cost Center Manager
CE—Civil Engineering
CEPME—College of Enlisted Professional Military Education
EPME—Enlisted Professional Military Education
ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006                           15


ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement
FINPLAN—Financial Plan
FM—Financial Management
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HQ ACC/A1—ACC Directorate of Manpower and Personnel
HQ ACC/A1FA—ACC Enlisted Assignments Branch
HQ ACC/A1FD—ACC Leader Development Branch
HQ ACC/FM—ACC Comptroller
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
PMR—Program Management Review
RA—Resource Advisor
TIS—Time-in-service
UTC—Unit Type Code
16                                                                      ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


                                              Attachment 2

                                 SELF-ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST

Table A2.1. Self-Assessment Checklist
                   ACC ALS Self-Assessment Checklist                     YES    NO    N/A
     1    Are there dedicated academic facilities? (Ref: 1.4.1.1)
     2    Do students spend less than 30 minutes per day cleaning
          common areas of the facility? (Ref: 1.4.1.3)
     3    Has the flight chief established a strategic plan to
          maintain and improve ALS academic, administrative,
          and facilities, to include preventive maintenance, facility
          renovations and improvements? (Ref: 1.4.1.4)
     4    Is the ALS flight chief the Cost Center Manager for the
          ALS program? (Ref: 1.4.2.1)
     5    Has the flight chief established long- and short-range
          plans to upgrade both equipment and technology (i.e.,
          computers, audiovisual, furnishings) for both the
          instructional program as well as the ALS administrative
          requirements? (Ref: 1.4.3)
     6    Are instructors assigned additional duties to broaden
          their experience and enhance professional development?
          (Ref: 1.4.4.2.1)
     7    Are ALS staff (to include information managers) not
          assigned additional duties that detract from the quality of
          education at the ALS? (Ref: 1.4.4.2.1)
     8    Are instructors in training not assigned additional duties
          that interfere with their ability to complete qualification
          training? (Ref: 1.4.4.2.1)
     9    Has the flight chief participated in the ACC shadow
          program within the first 8 months of assignment?
          (Ref: 1.4.4.3.1.1)
     10   Is the ALS staffed for and operated to produce at a level
          to train each SSgt select before promotion increment?
          (Ref: 1.5.1)
     11   Does the ALS provide units a way to document
          notification, eligibility and commander selection to
          attend ALS for primary and alternate students NLT 45
          days prior to class start date? (Ref: 1.5.2)
     12   Are students being notified of their selection to attend
          ALS NLT 21 days prior to class start date? (Ref: 1.5.2)
ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006                                                         17


                ACC ALS Self-Assessment Checklist                  YES   NO   N/A
  13   Are students properly deferred as required? (Ref: 1.5.3.)
  14   Does the ALS offer ALS orientations for new
       commander’s and first sergeants? (Ref: 1.6)
  15   Are graduations held as formal evening events?
       (Ref: 1.8)
  16   Do student information publications include (at a
       minimum) explanations and descriptions of the
       following items:
       (1) Statement of purpose or mission statement
       (2) Organizational chart
       (3) Statement of students rights, roles and
       responsibilities
       (4) Student releases and re-admission criteria
       (5) Graduation requirements
       (Ref: 1.10.1, 1.10.2, 1.10.3, 1.10.4, 1.10.5 )
  17   Does the ALS maintain administrative files IAW (IM)
       Information Management AFI Series 37? (Ref: 1.11)
  18   Are the critical records maintained, required? (Ref:
       1.11.1.)
       (1) Student eligibility rosters (Ref 1.11.1.1)
       (2) Selection records (Ref 1.11.1.2)
       (3) Deferment records (Ref 1.11.1.3)
       (4) Release letters (Ref 1.11.1.4)
       (5) Release Appeals (Ref 1.11.5)
  19   Are students selected for a class IAW their priority?
       (Ref: 1.11.1.2)
  20   Has the flight chief established a tracking mechanism to
       ensure deferred students are re-selected for the
       appropriate class? (Ref: 1.11.1.3)
  21   Is ACC/A1FD notified of release appeal dispositions?
       (Ref: 1.11.1.5)
  22   Does the installation have an ALSAC (or equivalent)
       that provides a structured forum to address ALS issues,
       identify potential improvements and monitor
       implementation of new local initiatives? (Ref: 1.13)
18                                                             ACCI36-2301 11 OCTOBER 2006


                  ACC ALS Self-Assessment Checklist             YES    NO    N/A
     23   Do ALSAC (or equivalent) meetings produce
          improvements to the ALS program? (Ref: 1.13.1.1)
     24   Does the Wing Commander appoint permanent ALSAC
          (or equivalent) members in writing? (Ref: 1.13.2 )
     25   Does the Wing Command Chief chair the ALSAC (or
          equivalent) meeting? (Ref: 1.13.2.1)
     26   Does the Wing Command Chief appoint optional
          ALSAC (or equivalent) members in writing? (Ref:
          1.13.2.1)
     27   Does the Wing Command Chief publish ALSAC (or
          equivalent) meeting minutes? (Ref: 1.13.2.1)
     28   Does the ALSAC (or equivalent) meet at least semi-
          annually? (Ref: 1.13.2.1)
     29   Do ALSAC meetings produce improvements to the ALS
          program? (Ref: 1.13.1.3)
