BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AIR COMBAT COMMAND
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                      INSTRUCTION 11-464


                                                                               13 MARCH 2013


                                                                              Flying Operations


                                                            TRAINING RECORDS AND
                                                  PERFORMANCE EVALUATION FORMAL
                                                        FLYING TRAINING PROGRAMS


                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A3TO                                                      Certified by: HQ ACC/A3T
                                                                             (Col. Nathan E. Hill)
Supersedes: ACCI 11-464, 4 December                                                     Pages: 22
2003


This instruction implements policy in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-4, Aviation Service.
It establishes the minimum United States Air Force (USAF) standards for training documentation
of all aircrews and foreign aircrews enrolled in formal flying training. This instruction
establishes requirements for the completion, maintenance, and disposition of training records in
support of formal syllabus training. It prescribes procedures for documenting flying and
simulator performance and providing the data to instructors, supervisors, and training managers.
This instruction applies to Air Combat Command (ACC) units conducting formal flying training
courses under an ACC approved syllabus. This instruction does not apply to operational units
conducting training under other directives, but operational units may use these procedures and
forms. This instruction does apply to Air National Guard (ANG) units and personnel. This
instruction applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) students in ACC formal training
units (FTU). Training units will develop a local supplement to this instruction and upon the
approval of the Operations Group Commander (OG/CC) (or equivalent) will forward the
supplement to the ACC office of primary responsibility (OPR) for coordination and approval
prior to issuance. Maintain supplement currency by complying with AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
2                                                               ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013
 

the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’ s chain of
command. This instruction requires the collection or maintenance of information protected by
the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this
instruction are 37 USC 301a, Incentive Pay; Public Law 92-204 (Appropriations Act for 1973),
Section 715; Public Law 93-570 (Appropriations Act for 1974); Public Law 93-294 (Aviation
Career Incentive Act of 1974); DOD Instruction 7730.57, Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974
and Required Annual Report; AFI 11-401, Aviation Management; and E.O. 9397, “Numbering
System for Federal Accounts Relating to individual Persons. System of records notice F011 AF
XO A, Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS), applies. The use of the name or mark
of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication
does not imply endorsement by any Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Additionally, if the publication generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all
applicable Reports Control Numbers in accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information
Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency
Air Force Information Collections.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Training Program Manager information has been updated. Considerations for the use of
electronic media have been added. All references to ACC/A3TS have been changed to
ACC/IAS. The Glossary of References and Supporting Information have been updated.
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                       3
 

                                           Chapter 1
                                  GENERAL INFORMATION
1.1. References, Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Terms. See Attachment 1.
1.2. General. The objective of formal flying training is to ensure student aircrews attain the
skill level established by syllabus course training standards. ACC formal flying training will
offer aircrews the opportunity to develop their maximum individual capabilities within the
constraints of available sorties, facilities and other resources. This instruction describes the
forms and procedures used to document the student's progress toward and attainment of course
training standards.
1.3. HQ ACC Weapon System Training Program Managers. Each major weapon system
has a training program manager who coordinates HQ ACC actions associated with programming,
scheduling, and conducting formal training in that weapon system. Training Programs are listed
in Table 1.1. For the F-15, F-16, F-22, and the T-38 (Introduction to Fighter Fundamentals [IFF]
and Pilot Instructor Training [PIT] courses), HQ ACC/A3TO is the single point of contact for
coordination with the Combat Air Forces and Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
performs all other functions. HQ ACC/A3TW represents the USAF Weapons School and their
Weapons Instructor Courses.

Table 1.1. HQ ACC Weapon System Training Program Managers.

                       Weapon System              Training Program Manager
                       A-10C                      A3TO
                       B-1B                       A3TO
                       E-3                        A3CA
                       E-4B                       A3CN
                       E-8C                       A3CA
                       EC-130H (COMPASS CALL) A3IE
                       F-15E                      A3TO
                       F-22                       A3TO
                       Foreign Training           ACC/IAS
                       HC-130P/N/J                A3JT
                       HH-60G                     A3JT
                       MQ-1                       A3CU
                       MQ-9                       A3CU
                       RC-135V/W                  A3CR
                       RC-135U                    A3CR
                       RC-135S                    A3CR
                       WC-135                     A3CR
                       OC-135                     A3CR
                       U-2                        A3CH
4                                                                ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013
 

1.4. Screening of Student Data. Units will screen incoming student records to ensure that they
are complete and that course entry prerequisites are met. Units will immediately notify the HQ
ACC training program manager if records are missing or if the student does not meet course
entry prerequisites and there is no evidence of a waiver. The HQ ACC training program
manager will notify the appropriate training unit when course entry prerequisites are waived for
any student.
1.5. Class Quotas. The ACC Programmed Flying Training (PFT) document establishes quotas
for each class. The HQ ACC training program manager will notify affected units of changes of
quotas. If the number of available students fails to equal the latest established class quota, the
training unit will immediately notify the HQ ACC training program manager. For HC-130
systems, HQ ACC/A3J is the HQ ACC point of contact (POC) for the AETC PFT (Little Rock
AFB and Kirtland AFB). For the EC-130H systems, HQ ACC/A3I is the HQ ACC point of
contact (POC) for the AETC PFT (Little Rock AFB and Davis Monthan AFB).
1.6. Student Training Records.
    1.6.1. Formal Training Units (FTU) will prepare Student Training Records for each student
    entering training. The folders may be electronic media, or if paper, will have cover sheets and
    may include overprinted administrative data devised by the training unit.
    1.6.2. Lists of records that will be filed/maintained in the Student Training Records are in
    Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 of this instruction. See Chapter 4 for additional instructions for
    foreign students. Individual FTUs may develop local training forms with the approval of the
    OG/CC (or equivalent). These forms will include but are not limited to the student's name
    and rank, instructor's name and rank, date of mission, sortie number, module or phase
    completed (if applicable).
    1.6.3. Student Training Records /Electronic Gradebooks will be available for review by
    instructors, supervisors, and student aircrew members.
    1.6.4. Instructors will review Student Training Records /Electronic Gradebooks prior to each
    flight or simulator mission. Supervisors conduct weekly reviews to monitor student progress.
1.7. Distinguished Graduates (DGs). The goal in designating DGs is to give formal
recognition to aircrew members who demonstrate superior performance. DG status does not
automatically apply to the best student in a given class; the highest standards apply, and it is
possible that a given class may have no DGs. The FTU is responsible for determining DG
eligibility criteria. The OG/CC or equivalent will approve the criteria and include it in this
instruction's wing supplement. Annotate Training Record, or equivalent, to reflect DG status for
those selected.
1.8. Withdrawal from Training.
    1.8.1. When a student is withdrawn from training for medical or other reasons (e.g., extended
    Duties Not Involving Flying [DNIF], Flying Evaluation Board [FEB], waiver to FEB, death,
    etc.), the training unit will immediately notify the HQ ACC weapon system training program
    manager and HQ ACC/A1KE by message or e-mail with an information copy to Numbered
    Air Force (NAF) A3.
    1.8.2. Recalling a student from training is initiated by the gaining unit, students cannot
    withdraw themselves. IAW AFI 11-202V1, Aircrew Training, MAJCOMs will notify training
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                       5
 

    command headquarters and training units prior to recalling a student from a formal school
    course. Students will not be recalled to prevent initiation of any actions associated with
    unsatisfactory performance. Recalling a student may be done only for reasons other than
    performance, i.e., emergencies, unforeseen delays in training, etc. ANG units will request
    approval from NGB/A3O if there is a need to recall a student. NGB/A3O will notify training
    command headquarters and the unit prior to recall.
    1.8.3. If the student is a recent Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training/ Specialized
    Undergraduate Navigator Training or IFF/IBF graduate, send an information copy of the
    message to AFPC/DPAOT. The message will include the student's name, rank, Social
    Security Account Number, and assignment action number; the course title and class number
    from which the student was withdrawn; the reason for withdrawal; and any effect on follow-
    on courses/assignments. See AFI 36-2110, Assignments, for additional guidance.
1.9. Disposition of Student Training Records:
    1.9.1. Student Training Records will be either hand-carried by the graduate, provided
    electronically, or mailed directly to the gaining unit within 10 working days after the
    graduation date. Only complete records may be hand-carried. If any portion of the records is
    incomplete when the graduate departs, the FTU must complete and mail the records within the
    specified time limit. Electronic Gradebooks/Records will be provided electronically to
    student/gaining unit 10 working days after graduation.
    1.9.2. Student Training Records of aircrew members who are withdrawn from a course due to
    requests for suspension, fear of flying, FEB action for failure to meet course training
    standards, or by reason of death, will be filed and then destroyed. See paragraph 4.8.2. for
    record disposition requirements.
    1.9.3. The unit will retain Student Training Records of aircrew members who complete
    formal training and remain in the same unit. See paragraph 4.8.2. for record disposition
    requirements.
    1.9.4. USAF Weapons School student gradebooks will remain at the weapons school. The
    USAF Weapons School will complete ACC Form 89, Training Record; and ACC Form 134,
    Training Summary; and forward them to the student's gaining unit. See paragraph 4.8.2. for
    record disposition requirements.
    1.9.5. "Academic only" courses do not require student gradebooks, although gradebooks may
    be used to facilitate scheduling of tasks and events. However flying courses that consist of
    academics at the FTU and in-unit flying still require gradebooks.
1.10. Course Critiques. Units conducting formal flying training courses will solicit student
comments on the effectiveness of instruction using locally developed end-of-course critiques. In
addition to review by FTU agencies, the FTU's operations training development team will review
the critiques.
1.11. Classification of Training Systems. ACC uses two generalized training systems in flying
training programs. The OG/CC (or equivalent) will determine the system the unit uses, and will
notify the HQ ACC training program manager. Once designated, the chosen system applies to
all flying courses in a given FTU.
6                                                                 ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013
 

    1.11.1. Sortie-Driven System. The basic building block for student progression is
    completion of specific sorties, modules ("blocks"), or phases.
    1.11.2. Event-Driven System. The basic building block for student progression is the
    individual event or training task. The unit may combine events or tasks in appropriate
    sequences on a given mission.
1.12. Grading Criteria. FTUs may use the criteria in Table 1.2. to grade both specific mission
elements and overall performance on each flight and simulator mission. Units may also use
criteria developed by the unit and approved by HQ ACC/A3T. Reference to additional criteria,
such as written behavioral objectives, is permissible.
    1.12.1. Determine individual mission element grades and the overall mission grade by
    comparing the student's performance with the grading criteria. The overall grade is an
    assessment of the student's achievement of the primary mission objectives for that sortie.
    1.12.2. As a minimum, record grades for each mission on the Individual Mission Grade sheet.

Table 1.2. Grading Criteria.

     Grade          Explanation of Grade
     Unknown        Performance was not observed or the element was not performed.
     Dangerous      Performance was unsafe (one element marked "Dangerous" will require
                    an overall grade of "zero").
     0              Performance indicates a lack of ability or knowledge.
     1              Performance is safe, but indicates limited proficiency. Makes errors of
                    omission or commission.
     2              Performance is essentially correct. Recognizes and corrects errors.
     3              Performance is correct, efficient, skillful, and without hesitation.
     4              Performance reflects an unusually high degree of ability.


1.13. Course Training Standards. Use course training standards in course design to describe
the minimum overall performance levels required to progress through and/or graduate from a
course. Standards will reflect average performance as described in the units grading standards;
an example would be a "1", "2", or "3", as defined above in Table 1.2. It is inappropriate to
design courses to train to the upper or lower end of the grading scale.
1.14. Documentation of Achievement of Course Training Standards:
    1.14.1. Sortie-driven Systems. The student's immediate supervisor will determine
    achievement of course training standards in each phase, module, or course for sortie-driven
    system. The supervisor will enter the following statement in the remark's section of the final
    individual grade sheet at each stage: "Course training standards achieved for (enter
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                            7
 

    appropriate phase, module, or course)." Enter the standards achieved in each
    phase/module/course on the training record.
    1.14.2. Event-driven Systems. The student's immediate supervisor will determine that
    achievement of proficiency in all required events is complete before the AFI 11-202V2,
    Aircrew Standardization/ Evaluation Program, flight. The instructor will enter the following
    statement on the master training record: "Proficiency achieved in all required events."
1.15. Responsibilities of Syllabus Offices of Primary Development Responsibility (OPDRs):
    1.15.1. Determine the level of proficiency required of each task in the task list and publish
    course training standards in each syllabus as required by ACCI 36-2252, ACC Formal
    Operations Training.
    1.15.2. Use the course task list to populate electronic training management systems or to
    develop master overprints of mission elements for Individual Mission Grade Sheets for flying
    and simulator missions.
    1.15.3. Develop master overprints for ACC Form 89 or the unit's Master Training Record. In
    lieu of master overprints, ensure the electronic training management system is capable of
    storing information found on ACC Form 89.
1.16. Non-effective Missions:
    1.16.1. Sortie-driven Programs:
      1.16.1.1. Mark a mission Non-effective/Student Non-progression (NE/SNP) on the
      Individual Mission Grade Sheet if student performance is not sufficient to allow
      progression to the next syllabus mission or if the student receives a "Dangerous"
      performance grade. Make an entry in the remarks section citing specific student
      performance deficiencies. For missions marked NE/SNP, the student will fly an additional
      instruction sortie ("X" sortie), if approved by appropriate authority. For example, if TR-6 is
      NE/SNP, annotate the additional sortie as TR-6X.
      1.16.1.2. Mark a mission Non-effective/Other (NE/OTH) on the Individual Mission Grade
      Sheet when the student cannot complete specific elements called for in the mission and the
      unit cannot incorporate them into a subsequent mission. This is not an "X" sortie. The
      instructor will make an entry in the remarks section citing the specific reason the mission
      was non-effective (for example, weather, weapon system malfunction, air abort, etc.). For
      missions marked NE/OTH, the mission will be reflown (for example, if TR-6 is NE/OTH,
      fly another mission with the TR-6 annotation).
    1.16.2. Event-driven Systems:
      1.16.2.1. Mark an event NE/SNP on the Individual Mission Grade sheet if the student has
      not met proficiency requirements and is unable to complete an AFI 11-202V2 mission.
      Entries by the instructor in the remarks section will cite specific student performance
      deficiencies. For events marked NE/SNP, the student will fly an additional instruction
      sortie ("X" sortie) concentrating on event(s) requiring proficiency. The sortie will be
      reflown as the last sortie the student completed (for example, if S-14 is the last sortie prior
      to the AFI 11-202V2 mission, annotate the X sortie as S-14X).
8                                                                 ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013
 

      1.16.2.2. Mark an event or sortie NE/OTH on the Individual Mission Grade Sheet when
      the student cannot complete specific events called for in the mission and the unit cannot
      incorporate them into a subsequent mission. Events marked NE/OTH will require a waiver
      prior to the AFI 11-202V2 mission or graduation.
1.17. Procedures for Handling Substandard Performance (Flying and Simulator Missions).
Remedial action for failure to meet performance standards may include training/practice using
academic programs, part-task trainers, simulators, or additional sorties.
    1.17.1. Additional Sorties.
      1.17.1.1. Sortie-driven Systems. The unit will call additional instructional sorties "X"
      sorties and identify them by adding the suffix "X" to the normal syllabus sortie number.
      The student will fly an "X" sortie when the instructor marks a mission Non-
      effective/Student Non-progression (NE/SNP) or when a student fails to meet course
      training standards at the end of a phase, module, or course. If an "X" sortie is not successful
      and requires additional "X" sorties for the same syllabus sortie annotate those additional
      sorties with suffixes "XX," "XXX," etc., to the normal syllabus sortie number. The
      squadron commander or OG/CC may authorize additional instructional sorties only to the
      extent that such flights would result in the student meeting course requirements.
      1.17.1.2. Event-driven Systems. Additional instructional sorties are "X" sorties and
      identified by adding the suffix "X" to the last normal training sorties prior to checkride. A
      student will fly an "X" sortie upon the failure to meet end of course training standards and
      completion of the total number of syllabus sorties. If an "X" sortie is not successful and
      requires additional "X" sorties for the same events. The instructor will annotate the
      additional sorties by adding suffixes "XX," "XXX" etc., to the number of the last training
      sortie. The squadron commander may authorize additional instructional sorties only to the
      extent that such flights would result in the student meeting end of course requirements.
      1.17.1.3. Maximum Additional Sorties. Each ACC formal course syllabus determines the
      maximum number of "X" sorties per course. "X" sorties beyond the course limit require the
      approval of the training program manager. Corrective action (adding the suffix "C" to the
      normal syllabus sortie number) and recheck sorties (the suffix "R") generated because of
      standardization/evaluation flight check deficiencies are not "X" sorties. See Chapter 4 for
      exceptions for foreign students.
    1.17.2. Progress Check Flight. A progress check flight is a non-instructional sortie flown at
    the discretion of the squadron commander to document a student's proficiency level and to
    recommend follow-on action. There is no requirement to provide a progress check flight.
      1.17.2.1. Identify a progress check flight by adding the suffix "Prog" to the normal
      syllabus sortie number. It is not countable as an "X" sortie.
      1.17.2.2. The squadron commander may direct a progress check at any time. The progress
      check will include an assessment of the student's basic flying skills. Recommendations of
      personnel conducting progress checks may be, but are not limited to: continuation in the
      normal course of training, additional training followed by another progress check, or
      elimination from the course. See Chapter 4 for exceptions for foreign students.
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                      9
 

      1.17.2.3. The FTU will conduct, if required, an FEB IAW AFI 11-402, Aviation and
      Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings, and Badges. See Chapter 4 for exceptions for
      foreign students.
    1.17.3. The training unit will notify the NGB/A3T if an ANG student is placed into remedial
    training for failure to meet performance standards.
1.18. Class Training Summary. Training units will send a summary for each graduating class
to the HQ ACC weapon system training program manager. ANG FTUs will also submit their
class summary to ANG/A3T. Units may send this report by FAX or electronically. The report
will contain the following:
    1.18.1. A list of graduates by name, rank, and end assignment.
    1.18.2. Comments and recommendations concerning problem areas.
    1.18.3. Number entering training (including washbacks from earlier classes).
    1.18.4. Number graduating.
    1.18.5. Number of individuals washed back to later classes.
    1.18.6. Names of individuals withdrawn from training for any cause. Indicate new class
    designation for washbacks and specify reasons for withdrawals.
    1.18.7. Number of additional missions flown (flight and simulator) due to student non-
    progression. Report type of event or mission.
10                                                                ACCI11-464 13 MARCH
2013
 
                                            Chapter 2
                                 SORTIE-DRIVEN SYSTEMS
2.1. Student Training Records/Electronic Gradebooks. The following records or approved
substitutes will be filed/maintained in the Student Training Records. Upon approval of the
OG/CC or equivalent, the FTU may include additional local forms and may use the current
edition of the ACC form or locally developed forms, paper or electronic, that meet school needs.
FTUs will include locally developed forms in the local supplement to this regulation.
    2.1.1. ACC Form 89, Training Record, from the Introduction to Fighter Fundamentals or
    FTU equivalent course (if applicable).
    2.1.2. ACC Form 134, Training Summary, from the Introduction to Fighter Fundamentals or
    FTU equivalent course (if applicable).
    2.1.3. ACC Form 166, Student Activity Record, or FTU equivalent.
    2.1.4. ACC Form 206, Individual Mission Grade Sheet, or FTU equivalent.
    2.1.5. ACC Form 208, Unaccomplished Task Log, or FTU equivalent.
    2.1.6. Aircrew weapons qualification sheets, if applicable.
2.2. Completion of Forms. Complete all forms by computer or in ink unless otherwise
specified in the following paragraphs.
    2.2.1. ACC Form 89 or Applicable Substitute. See Chapter 4 for additional instructions
    pertaining to foreign students. ACC Form 89 is not required if electronic training management
    systems include all ACC Form 89 information.
       2.2.1.1. Overprint appropriate entries for each syllabus (or computer generated, if
       available) on this form by the syllabus OPDR (per ACCI 36-2252). These entries should
       include flying/simulator phase designations with the number of sorties required for each
       phase, weapons delivery accomplishment designations with proficiency levels required in
       those events (for example, qualification [QUAL] or familiarization [FAM]), and academic
       course designations.
       2.2.1.2. ACC Form 89 will be computer generated (not handwritten) in three copies or
       digital media for each graduating student. If used, prepare individual ACC Forms 89 as
       follows:
         2.2.1.2.1. Heading. Self-explanatory.
         2.2.1.2.2. Flying/Simulator Training. For each phase, enter the actual number of sorties
         flown. Enter additional sorties (that is, sorties flown beyond the required number of
         sorties) under either "Student Non-Prog" or "Other." Enter the overall course-training
         standard achieved for each phase of training. Explain "Other" additional sorties under
         "Remarks" (for example, WX-2, AIR ABORT-1, etc.). Annotate the student's low level
         qualifications and capabilities on this form.
         2.2.1.2.3. Tactical/Weapons Delivery Accomplishment. Enter proficiency achieved in
         each event without regard to proficiency required. This will recognize above-or below-
         average performance (for example: required FAM but achieved QUAL or required
         QUAL, but achieved NONE).
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                            11
 

         2.2.1.2.4. Training Deficiencies. List all training deficiencies. Identify the office or
         agency that granted the waiver to graduate the student with a training deficiency.
         2.2.1.2.5. Academic Training. For courses with exams, enter the percentage grade
         achieved. Enter the failed exam grade and followed by the make-up exam grade (for
         example, 72/89). Courses with no exams will enter complete on the form (for example:
         COMP).
    2.2.2. ACC Form 134 or Applicable Substitute. See Chapter 4 for additional instructions
    pertaining to foreign students.
      2.2.2.1. ACC Form 134 will be computer generated (not handwritten) in two copies or
      digital media for each graduating student. The student's immediate supervisor will
      complete the form or enter the data, as appropriate. Review will be by a squadron-level
      supervisor (for example, assistant operations officer, operations officer, squadron
      commander).
      2.2.2.2. The end-of-phase summary section of the form will contain a brief description of
      the student's characteristic flying performance in each phase and should cite specific
      strengths, weaknesses, areas of improvement, and general attitudes. When a student flies at
      least one sortie, an entry is mandatory for that phase of training. When two or fewer sorties
      constitute a phase, the instructor may combine entries with another phase (for example:
      Transition/Formation). Continue phase summaries on the back of the ACC Form 134, if
      required. To ensure accurate recall of desired details, instructors will write phase
      summaries as soon as possible after the completion of each phase. The end-of-course
      summary section of the form will contain a brief description of the student's overall flying
      performance during the course and should include an overall evaluation of the student's
      judgment, situation awareness, flight discipline, and general airmanship. It will include an
      assessment of performance trends throughout the course and a subjective evaluation of the
      degree of supervision the student will require at the gaining unit.
    2.2.3. ACC Form 166 or Applicable Substitute. Use this form to maintain a chronological
    record of all flying and simulator missions accomplished. The instructor will complete the
    final copy of this form in ink; however, in order to minimize errors in total flying time
    computations the instructor may use pencil on the interim form.
    2.2.4. ACC Form 206 or Applicable Substitute. The Individual Mission Grade Sheet may
    have any of the following items:
      2.2.4.1. A student will receive a grade for each flying and simulator mission where
      performance is under the supervision of an instructor. The instructor will complete the
      gradesheet prior to the next mission (unless flown with the same instructor on the same
      day) but in no case later than 24 hours following the mission. Until some information is
      available, the instructor may withhold an assessment of performance in events requiring
      weapons scores, film/video tape recorder assessment, or any other data.
      2.2.4.2. The instructor may use the remarks section to record the details of above-standard
      performance, special notes such as "cleared solo," and informal records of weapons scores.
      When applicable, the instructor will use the remarks section to record the following
      information:
12                                                                 ACCI11-464 13 MARCH
2013
 
         2.2.4.2.1. Details of student performance graded below phase/block standard, as needed
         to properly advise subsequent instructors of the student's training progress.
         2.2.4.2.2. Specific student performance deficiencies for missions marked NE/SNP.
         2.2.4.2.3. Specific reason the mission was non-effective (for example, weather, weapon
         system malfunction, air abort, etc.) for missions marked NE/OTH.
         2.2.4.2.4. Recommendations for additional training prior to the next syllabus mission.
         2.2.4.2.5. The statement "course training standards achieved for (enter phase or course)"
         on the final gradesheet of the phase or course.
       2.2.4.3. When a student has a flight or simulator evaluation mission (IAW AFI 11-202V2),
       a duplicate copy of the AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, may replace the
       gradesheet in the Student Training Records/Electronic Gradebook.
    2.2.5. ACC Form 208 or Applicable Substitute. When elements called for in a mission are
    not complete, but it is possible to incorporate them into a subsequent mission, the instructor
    will document those elements on the left side of the form. Once successful completion of
    these elements takes place, the instructor will sign them off on the right side of the form.
2.3. Disposition of Student Training Records. See Chapter 4 for additional instructions
pertaining to foreign students.
    2.3.1. The FTU will forward the training records to the student's gaining organization (note
    special requirements for the USAF Weapons School).
       2.3.1.1. ACC Form 89 or FTU Equivalent. File the original ACC Form 89 or applicable
       electronic data in the Student Training Records/Electronic Gradebook. The school registrar
       will retain one copy or electronic record. See paragraph 4.8.2. for record disposition
       requirements.
       2.3.1.2. ACC Form 134 or FTU Equivalent. The FTU will file the original ACC Form 134
       in the Student Training Records/Electronic Gradebook. The school registrar will retain one
       copy or electronic record. See paragraph 4.8.2. for record disposition requirements.
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                          13
 


                                             Chapter 3
                                  EVENT-DRIVEN SYSTEMS
3.1. Student Training Records/Electronic Gradebooks. The following records or approved
substitutes will be filed/maintained in the Student Training Records. Upon approval of the
OG/CC or equivalent, the FTU may include additional local forms, paper or electronic, and may
use the current edition of the ACC form or locally developed forms that meet school needs.
FTUs will include locally developed forms in the local supplement to this instruction.
    3.1.1. ACC Form 166, Student Activity Record, or FTU equivalent.
    3.1.2. ACC Form 206, Individual Mission Gradesheet, or FTU equivalent.
3.2. Completion of Forms. Complete all forms by computer or in ink unless otherwise
specified in the following paragraphs.
    3.2.1. ACC Form 166 or Applicable Substitute. Use this form to maintain a chronological
    record of all flying and simulator missions accomplished. The instructor will complete the
    final copy of this form in ink; however, in order to minimize errors in total flying time
    computations the instructor may use pencil on the interim form. Prepare the individual ACC
    Form 166 as follows:
      3.2.1.1. Heading. Self-explanatory.
      3.2.1.2. Flying/Simulator Training. Enter the actual number of sorties flown. Enter
      additional sorties (i.e., sorties flown beyond the required number of sorties) under either
      "Student Non-Prog" or "Other." Explain "Other" additional sorties under "Remarks" (for
      example, WX-2, AIR ABORT-1, etc.).
      3.2.1.3. Weapons Delivery Accomplishment. Enter proficiency achieved (if applicable) in
      each event without regard to proficiency required. This will recognize above or below-
      average performance in (for example: required FAM but achieved QUAL or required
      QUAL but achieved NOT QUAL).
      3.2.1.4. Training Deficiencies. List all deficiencies in detail; identify the office or agency
      that granted the waiver to graduate the student with a training deficiency.
      3.2.1.5. Academic Training. For courses that give exams, enter the percentage grade
      achieved. The instructor will enter the failed exam grade followed by the make-up exam
      grade (e.g., 72/89). For courses where there are no exams, enter the grade as complete
      (e.g., COMP).
    3.2.2. ACC Form 206 or Applicable Substitute:
      3.2.2.1. A student will receive a grade for each flying and simulator mission where
      performance is under the supervision of an instructor. The instructor will complete the
      gradesheet prior to the next mission (unless flown with the same instructor on the same
      day) but in no case later than 24 hours following the mission. Until some information is
      available, the instructor may withhold an assessment of performance in events requiring
      weapons scores, film/video tape recorder assessment, or any other data.
14                                                                 ACCI11-464 13 MARCH
2013
 
       3.2.2.2. The instructor will use the remarks section to describe mission events and any
       deviations from the scheduled mission and critique specific mission events. Also use the
       remarks section to record the details of above-standard performance, special notes and any
       other information pertinent to the mission. It will be used to record the following
       information when applicable.
         3.2.2.2.1. Details of student performance graded below course standard, as needed, to
         properly advise subsequent instructors of the student's training progress.
         3.2.2.2.2. Instructors will include specific reason for lost events and non-effective
         missions (for example, weather, weapon system malfunction, air abort, etc.) for missions
         marked NE/ OTH.
         3.2.2.2.3. Recommendations for additional training prior to the next syllabus mission.
         3.2.2.2.4. The statement "Proficiency achieved in all required events" on the final
         gradesheet of the course.
         3.2.2.2.5. When a student has a flight or simulator evaluation mission (IAW AFI 11-
         202V2), a duplicate copy of the AF Form 8 may replace the gradesheet in the Student
         Training Records/Electronic Gradebook.
3.3. Disposition of Student Training Records. See Chapter 4 for additional instructions
pertaining to foreign students.
    3.3.1. The training unit will forward training records to the student's gaining organization
    (note special requirements for the USAF Weapons School).
       3.3.1.1. ACC Form 166 or FTU Equivalent. The FTU will file the original ACC Form 166
       in the Student Training Records. The school registrar will retain one copy. See paragraph
       4.8.2. for record disposition requirements. N/A if an electronic training management
       system is used by the FTU.
       3.3.1.2. ACC Form 206 or FTU Equivalent. File the original ACC Form 206 in the
       Student Training Records. The school registrar will retain one copy. See paragraph 4.8.2.
       for record disposition requirements. N/A if an electronic training management system is
       used by the FTU.
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                             15
 


                                             Chapter 4
                             SECURITY ASSISTANCE TRAINING
4.1. General. Foreign military personnel receive USAF formal course training under the
International Military Education and Training (IMET) program or a Foreign Military Sales
(FMS) case. FMS cases are also written to cover the training of certain USAF personnel prior to
assignments in foreign countries. These activities are part of the Department of Defense Security
Assistance Training Program (SATP). The administration of SATP students generally adheres to
the procedures outlined in the preceding sections; however, there are certain exceptions. This
section will address only those areas where SATP student administration differs from USAF
student administration. The procedures outlined in Chapter 1 through Chapter 3 will be
followed for any area not covered in this section.
    4.1.1. Each USAF installation will appoint an International Military Student Officer (IMSO)
    to handle administrative affairs for foreign military students. Units conducting Security
    Assistance training must maintain close liaison with the IMSO. Notify the IMSO
    immediately if a student does not meet course entry prerequisites, arrives with insufficient or
    inadequate personal equipment, or in any other situation that would preclude normal entry
    into training. Notify the IMSO immediately of all changes in student status (for example:
    medical grounding, marginal performance, pending faculty board action, washbacks, etc.), or
    situations involving inadequate base support or disciplinary actions.
    4.1.2. HQ ACC/IAS administers the ACC SATP. Route all questions regarding SATP
    students or procedures outlined in this section to HQ ACC/IAS, 205 Dodd Blvd., Suite 101,
    Langley AFB VA 23665-2789.
    4.1.3. The Air Force Security Assistance Training (AFSAT) Group, Randolph AFB TX, is
    responsible for general administration of SATP students in the continental United States
    (CONUS). AFSAT/TO should be an information addressee on correspondence relating to
    SATP students.
    4.1.4. See AFI 16-105_IP, Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training , for terms,
    references, and additional information relating to Security Assistance Training.
4.2. Screening of Student Data. Training units will screen all student records as outlined in
Chapter 1. Notifications to HQ ACC weapon system training program managers will include
HQ ACC/IAS and AFSAT/TO as information addressees. Screening will include a thorough
review of the student's Invitational Travel Order (ITO) and appropriate amendments. The
training unit will verify the following areas:
    4.2.1. Funding (IMET order or FMS case designator) is specified.
    4.2.2. Accomplishment of security screening and that the student possesses a security
    clearance from the student's government that is greater than or equal to that required for the
    intended course.
    4.2.3. The student is registered in the proper course.
16                                                                 ACCI11-464 13 MARCH
2013
 
    4.2.4. The student is authorized to participate in flight as a crewmember and the student's
    government has certified that the student is physically, professionally, and administratively
    qualified to participate in flight in the appropriate crew position.
    4.2.5. Units conducting advanced fighter training will perform the following additional
    screening IAW AFI 16-105_IP and establish a formal screening process to ensure actual
    flying abilities match the qualifications required for course entry. The OG/CC (or equivalent)
    will notify the HQ ACC training program manager by message if the student's actual flying
    abilities do not meet course entry standards or the student does not meet standards and will be
    recommended for elimination IAW AFI 16-105_IP. The training units must coordinate and
    receive approval of the screening points by the HQ ACC training program manager.
4.3. Grading Criteria and Course Training Standards. Training units will expect SATP
students to achieve the same levels of performance as their USAF counterparts. Specifics for
grading criteria are elsewhere in this publication. Specific course training standards are in the
applicable syllabus. A waiver of any standard requires approval of the HQ ACC syllabus waiver
authority. Requests for waivers should first be forwarded to HQ ACC/IAS for processing. The
training unit will issue to students who complete a course with some course requirements waived
a certificate of "attendance" in place of a certificate of completion or graduation. The instructor
will consider failure to meet course training standards as substandard performance and handle
that failure per Chapter 2, Chapter 3, and paragraph 4.4. below.
4.4. Procedures for Handling Substandard Performance:
    4.4.1. The appropriate authority will approve additional training sorties ("X" sorties) beyond
    the phase/module limit and notify HQ ACC/IAS and the HQ ACC training program manager.
    4.4.2. "X" sorties beyond the course limit require approval from HQ ACC/IAS as well as the
    HQ ACC syllabus OPR.
    4.4.3. The instructor will record additional sorties flown by an SATP student as "X" sorties
    and is subject to the maximum total "X" sortie limit. "X" sorties include all corrective action
    or recheck sorties arising from flight checks and all progress check flights. It does not include
    "sandbag" sorties (i.e., sorties flown in a cockpit position that would otherwise be
    unoccupied).
    4.4.4. For foreign military students, a Faculty Board, if required, will be conducted IAW AFI
    16-105_IP.
4.5. Student Training Records. The training unit will file a copy of the ITO and appropriate
amendments in the Student Training Records. The following forms or approved substitute will
be filed/ maintained in the Student Training Records:
    4.5.1. ACC Form 89, Training Record
    4.5.2. ACC Form 134, Training Summary
    4.5.3. ACC Form 166, Student Activity Record
    4.5.4. ACC Form 206, Individual Mission Gradesheet
    4.5.5. ACC Form 208, Unaccomplished Task Log
    4.5.6. ACC Form 209, SATP Flying Training Billing Data
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                            17
 

4.6. Completion of Forms:
    4.6.1. Student Training Number. The US Security Assistance office from the student's
    country will assign the student a training number. This number will be immediately after the
    student's name on the ITO. It consists of four digits and two letters. Enter this number
    immediately after the student's name on ACC Form 89, ACC Form 134, ACC Form 209, and
    all training certificates, awards, or other documents of that type.
    4.6.2. ACC Form 89 or Applicable Substitute:
      4.6.2.1. Include the SATP training number after the student's name.
      4.6.2.2. At the top right corner (above "training organization") enter the IMET Order
      Number or FMS case designator and the Worksheet Control Number (WSCN or WSN).
      The training unit may obtain these items from the ITO or the base IMSO.
    4.6.3. ACC Form 134 or Applicable Substitute:
      4.6.3.1. Include the SATP training number after the student's name.
      4.6.3.2. After the course summary section, describe any awards, special certificates, or
      other achievements. Include the title, a short description of the item, and what it represents.
      Also include a description of the item, and what it represents. Also include a description of
      the class composition. For example: Received TOP GUN award indicating best overall
      weapons delivery scores in the class. Class consisted of 14 students--10 USAF/4 foreign.
      The training unit will attach a copy of award citation, letters of appreciation, certificates,
      etc., to the ACC Form 134. The base IMSO is responsible for compliance with AFI 16-
      105_IP. The training unit must ensure that the base IMSO is aware of special awards of
      citations accompanying the ACC Form 134.
    4.6.4. ACC Form 209. This form provides data required to calculate charges for the training
    actually received. The high cost of flying training makes it essential that all entries are legible
    and accurate.
      4.6.4.1. Form Preparation. ACC Form 209 will be computer generated (not handwritten)
      in two copies. It is required for all SATP students entered into ACC flying training courses
      not dedicated to a single country (for example, it is not required for German Air Force F-
      4E training). It is also required for all USAF personnel trained in preparation for Security
      Assistance duty in a foreign country. The registrar will prepare a separate ACC Form 209
      for each syllabus course entered by the student.
      4.6.4.2. Form Entries. ACC Form 209 requires entries for student and allocated direct
      support hours and munitions. Training units may overprint ACC Form 209 with entries
      designed to help track student and allocate direct support hours and munitions for each
      mission.
      4.6.4.3. "Allocated" Direct Support. Allocate hours flown by an instructor pilot (IP)
      supporting student in another aircraft equally to all students supported on that sortie. For
      instance, the IP flying as target on a 2-v-l mission against two dual aircraft (each with a
      student and IP) logs 1.2 hours and each student would record his own flying time and 0.6
      hours of direct support. Do not allocate support time for an IP flying in the same aircraft
      with a student.
18                                                                 ACCI11-464 13 MARCH
2013
 
         4.6.4.3.1. IP direct support munitions are "allocated" in the same manner.
         4.6.4.3.2. Allocate all direct support hours and munitions to a student; however, do
         allocate hours or munitions for an IP in the flight who is not supporting a student.
         4.6.4.3.3. To facilitate accurate cost accounting, round hours to the nearest 1/100th and
         round munitions to the nearest 1/10th (except 20/30mm--round to nearest one).
         4.6.4.3.4. The training unit will copy the information contained in Parts 1 and 2 from
         the student's ITO and applicable amendments (include only amendments related to the
         training reported on the form).
         4.6.4.3.5. The unit will copy the information for Part 3 from the applicable ACC PFT or
         higher headquarters messages establishing the training requirement. Include only the
         latest available data.
         4.6.4.3.6. For USAF personnel trained in preparation for Security Assistance duty
         overseas, enter only name, rank, and destination country on the first line of Part 1. Enter
         applicable Permanent Change of Station/Temporary Duty special orders data in the ITO
         block. In Part 2 enter only the FMS case designator or "N/A" as specified by the
         message establishing the training requirement. Enter all required data in Parts 3 and 4.
         4.6.4.3.7. The school will total the information in Part 4 for all SATP students from
         individual mission records (ACC Form 208) and other training records as required.
         Munitions information must include all applicable data (e.g., HD, LD, live, inert, etc.).
         4.6.4.3.8. Use the remarks block to explain any questionable or ambiguous entries.
         This may include differences in ITO and ACC programming data, midcourse changes to
         the syllabus, reasons for student withdrawal (reference faculty board actions, if
         applicable), data missing from the ITO or PFT, significant deviations from programmed
         student or direct support hours due to odd sized classes or uncrewed students, or any
         other data that would affect normal billing.
         4.6.4.3.9. On the bottom line, enter the rank, name, and telephone extension of the
         individual preparing the form and initials of the individual auditing the form. The
         responsible training unit operations supervisor will sign and date the form.
         4.6.4.3.10. HQ ACC/IAS will calculate cost data and forward billing information to the
         implementing agency.
4.7. Disposition of Student Training Records:
    4.7.1. Training records will not be hand carried by the student. The school will forward all
    training record directly to the base IMSO who will forward them IAW AFI 16-105_IP.
       4.7.1.1. For students proceeding to another CONUS training activity, the base IMSO must
       forward the records to the gaining base IMSO on the day of graduation. Close coordination
       with the FTO is required to meet the requirements of AFI 16-105_IP.
       4.7.1.2. For students returning to their home country at the completion of training, the
       school will forward records to the base IMSO within 7 working days after graduation.
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                                                                           19
 

      4.7.1.3. The school will forward the original ACC Form 209 to HQ ACC/IAS. The
      training unit will retain a copy for one year. See paragraph 4.8.2. for record disposition
      requirements.
4.8. Information Collections, Records, and Forms:
    4.8.1. Information Collections. N/A.
    4.8.2. Records. Records generated by this publication will be managed IAW Records
    Disposition Schedule (RDS).
      4.8.2.1. Training Records, Training Aids, and Maintenance Instructions. T 11-03 R 03.0
      4.8.2.2. Course Books, Syllabus, Lesson Assignments, Handouts, Testing Materials, Grade
      Statistics. T 36-41 R 08.00.




                                              GILMARY M. HOSTAGE, General, USAF
                                              Commander
20                                                            ACCI11-464 13 MARCH
2013
 
                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 11-202V1, Aircrew Training, 22 Nov 2010
AFI 11-202V2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 13 Sep 2010
AFI 11-202V2_ACC SUP 1, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 30 Jun 2011
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 Sep 2004
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 Dec 2010
AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Aviation Badges, 13
Dec 2010
AFI 16-105_IP, Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training, 3 Jan 2011
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 Jun 2000
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 Sep 2009
ACCI 36-2252, ACC Formal Operations Training, 22 Jun 2010

Prescribed Forms

ACC Form 89, Training Record
ACC Form 134, Training Summary
ACC Form 166, Student Activity Record
ACC Form 206, Individual Mission Gradesheet
ACC Form 208, Unaccomplished Task Log
ACC Form 209, SATP Flying Training Billing Data

Adopted Forms

AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACC—Air Combat Command
ACCI11-464 13 MARCH 2013                             21
 

AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSAT—Air Force Security Assistance Training
ANG—Air National Guard
CC—Commander
CONUS—Continental United States
DG—Distinguished Graduate
DNIF—Duties Not Involving Flying
A3—Directorate (or Director) of Operations
FAM—Familiarization
FEB—Flying Evaluation Board
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FTU—Formal Training Unit
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IBF—Introduction to Bomber Fundamentals
IFF—Introduction to Fighter Fundamentals
IMET—International Military Education and Training
IMSO—International Military Student Officer
IP—Instructor Pilot
ITO—Invitational Travel Order
N/A—Not Applicable
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NE/SNP—Non-effective/student non-progression
NE/OTH—Non-effective/other
OG—Operations Group
OG/CC—Operations Group Commander
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPDR—Office of Primary Development Responsibility
PFT—Programmed Flying Training
22                                                              ACCI11-464 13 MARCH
2013
 
POC—Point of Contact
QUAL—Qualification
SATP—Security Assistance Training Program
USAF—United States Air Force
WSCN—Worksheet Control Number

Terms

Part Task Trainer—Operator trainers that let selected aspects of a task (fuel system operation,
hydraulic system operation, radar operation, etc.) be practiced and a high degree of skill
developed independently of other elements of the task.
