BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                        10-550

                                                                              26 MARCH 2014

                                                                                   Operations

                                               DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
                                                     OF PROGRAMMING PLANS AND
                                                        PROGRAMMING MESSAGES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A8BG                                                   Certified by: HQ ACC/A8B
                                                                           (Col David T. Allen)
Supersedes:   ACCI 10-550, 5 December                                                Pages: 17
              2003


This instruction implements AFI 10-501, Program Action Directives (PAD) and Programming
Plans (PPlan). It prescribes the policies, procedures, and responsibilities associated with the
development and implementation of command Programming Plans (PPlans) and Programming
Messages (PMsgs), and attempts to foster a better understanding of the interrelated elements of
the overall basing and beddown process. Reporting requirements in this directive are exempt
from licensing in accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports
Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information
Collections. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units.
This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). AFPC/SVI must be included
in any requirement for Services coordination. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but
all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to HQ ACC/A8BG for
coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Request for waivers to this instruction for non-
tiered compliance must be submitted through the chain of command to the publication OPR.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references
and supporting information.
 2                                                             ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include: moved definitions and programming terms to Glossary; removed information
pertaining to Air Intelligence Agency PPlans; updated information with the Air Force’s Strategic
Basing process; updated ACC office symbols and functional area designations.
ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014                                                                    3



                                         Chapter 1

                                         POLICY

1.1. Programming Plan/Programming Message (PPlan/PMsg) Authority.
   1.1.1. The HQ ACC Director of Strategic Plans, Programs, Requirements and Assessments
   (HQ ACC/A5/8/9) is the command authority responsible for PPlans/PMsgs and has delegated
   this responsibility to the Chief, Basing Division (HQ ACC/A8B). HQ ACC/A8B is the sole
   approval and release authority for ACC PPlans and PMsgs.
   1.1.2. The PPlan/PMsg function resides within the Basing Division (HQ ACC/A8B). When
   a basing action is initiated HQ ACC/A8B will assign an action officer to work with the
   proponent for approval of the action through the Air Force Strategic Basing Structure.
1.2. Requests for PPlan/PMsg Development.
   1.2.1. The PPlan/PMsg is only one element in the overall planning process. PPlan/PMsg
   development begins only after coordination of a basing action through the Strategic Basing
   process administered by AF/A8PB.
   1.2.2. Official requests for basing actions and/or PPlan/PMsg development will be submitted
   via memo from the appropriate ACC Directorate to HQ ACC/A5/8/9. The memo should ask
   for a review of the program action for determination of PPlan and related requirements. HQ
   ACC/A8B will assign a PPlan Implementation Manager to provide “cradle-to-grave”
   oversight of the action. The PPlan Implementation Manager will coordinate between the
   proponent’s assigned program manager and appropriate personnel to initiate all planning
   requirements.
1.3. Command Relationship. ACC PPlans/PMsgs are directive upon the HQ ACC staff and
agencies subordinate to this headquarters. ACC PPlans/PMsgs will not task higher-echelon
agencies or non-ACC agencies.
1.4. Unit and Numbered Air Force (NAF) PPlans. ACC units/NAFs may develop plans or
supplements whenever the need to manage programming actions of any type at the unit/NAF
level exists. Guidance/tasking contained in unit/NAF plans/supplements will neither supersede
nor interfere with the guidance/tasking contained in any ACC PPlan, and unit/NAF
plans/supplements will not task higher-echelon agencies or non-ACC agencies. PPlan/PMsg
samples and templates can be obtained by contacting HQ ACC/A8B or through the ACC/A8B
SharePoint site at
https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/ppr/A5bmain/PPlan%20and%20PMsg%20Templates/Forms
/AllItems.aspx.
1.5. Joint Command PPlans.
   1.5.1. When a program action requires a joint command PPlan/PMsg, tasking of agencies
   belonging to the other affected command is at the discretion of that command. ACC will
   task its own agencies.
   1.5.2. When ACC is the lead command for a joint command PPlan/PMsg, all guidance
   contained in this instruction will apply. When another command is lead, guidance contained
 4                                                               ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014


     in that command's respective governing instruction will apply. In all cases, actions for which
     ACC is responsible will be tracked through the ACC Program Management System (PMS)
     SharePoint site at https://application.eim.acc.af.mil/apps/pms/ACC_PMS/default.aspx.
1.6. Staff Support of ACC PPlans/PMsgs.
     1.6.1. The staff agencies designated as the OPR for PPlans/PMsgs within their functional
     area are listed in Table 1.1 These agencies will provide a point of contact to serve as the
     Functional Area Manager for each PPlan/PMsg tasking. Overarching responsibility for
     reporting on the status of PPlan/PMsg milestones and action items rests with the designated
     OPR for PPlans/PMsgs within each functional area through the assigned Functional Area
     Manager. Functional OPRs will establish internal administrative procedures to support the
     PMS reporting process within their directorate.
ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014                                                                                  5


Table 1.1. HQ ACC PPlan Functional OPRs.
Basic Plan                                          A8B
                                                    A1M
Manpower (Annex A)
Personnel (Annex B)                                 A1K
Intelligence (Annex C)                              A2X
Operations (Annex D)                                A3 (No single OPR; three-letter OPR depends on
                                                    subject matter. If uncertainty as to appropriate
                                                    three-letter exists, PPlan tasking will be routed
                                                    through A3 Exec.)

Logistics (Annex E)                                 A4R
Plans and Programs (Annex F)                        A8B and/or appropriate Core Function Team - As
                                                    required
Communications (Annex G)                            A6X
Contracting (Annex H)                               A7K
Civil Engineer (Annex I)                            A7P
Security Forces (Annex J)                           A7S
Requirements (Annex K)                              A5/8/9 (No single OPR; three-letter OPR depends
                                                    on subject matter. If uncertainty as to appropriate
                                                    three-letter exists, PPlan tasking will be routed
                                                    through A5/8/9 Exec.)


Analyses/Lessons Learned/AFSO21 (Annex L)           A5/8/9 (three-letter OPR TBD)
Comptroller (Annex M)                               FMA
Command Chaplain (Annex N)                          HCX
Command Historian (Annex O)                         HO
Staff Judge Advocate (Annex P)                      JA
Public Affairs (Annex Q)                            PAX
Safety (Annex R)                                    SEG
Command Surgeon (Annex S)                           SGS
Services (Annex V)                                  AFPC/SVI
Reports (Annex Z)                                   A8B
(Other alpha designations not reserved; use if/as   ---
required

1.7. PPlan/PMsg Development in the Overall Strategic Basing Process.
    1.7.1. PPlans/PMsgs execute basing actions approved or exempted through the Strategic
    Basing Process. All proposed basing actions require the submission of a Basing Action
 6                                                                ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014


     Request (BAR) to AF/A8PB and will follow the strategic basing process outlined in AFI 10-
     503, Strategic Basing, unless specifically exempted by AF/A8PB or the Strategic Basing-
     Executive Steering Group (SB-ESG) during the course of staffing. Submission of a BAR
     requires that the staff agency requesting the basing action provide a proponent, appropriate
     documented approval authority, and funding/resources for the proposed action.
     1.7.2. Development of the PPlan or PMsg is only one element in the overall basing process.
     The information below is provided to highlight the overall strategic basing process, facilitate
     an understanding of where the PPlan/PMsg fits into the process, and emphasize the
     importance of initiating proposed basing actions in a timely manner.
        1.7.2.1. MAJCOM/Service identifies requirement to AF/A8PB.
        1.7.2.2. Lead MAJCOM identified by AF/A8PE (for weapon systems) or AF/A8PB (for
        non-weapon systems).
        1.7.2.3. Lead MAJCOM submits BAR to AF/A8PB with specific basing criteria.
        1.7.2.4. AF/A8PB staffs basing criteria for approval by SECAF/CSAF. Approved
        criteria will be used to define the enterprise and generate an enterprise wide list of bases
        to be considered.
        1.7.2.5. Lead MAJCOM scores each location and submits the scored and ranked
        enterprise wide list through a BAR Part 2 to AF/A8PB.
        1.7.2.6. AF/A8PB staffs the scored and ranked enterprise wide list through the HAF to
        generate a ranked potential candidate list.
        1.7.2.7. The SB-ESG reviews the ranked potential candidate list to determine the number
        of locations to survey.
        1.7.2.8. Lead MAJCOM performs site surveys and Environmental Impact Analysis
        Process (EIAP) for all approved site survey locations.
        1.7.2.9. Lead MAJCOM provides list of EIAP preferred and reasonable alternatives to
        AF/A8PB through a BAR Part 3.
        1.7.2.10. AF/A8PB staffs list through HAF to SECAF/CSAF for basing decision.
        1.7.2.11. AF/A8P issues Basing Decision Memorandum.
        1.7.2.12. MAJCOM executes basing action and conducts periodic SATAFs until action
        is complete.
1.8. Role of Proponent.
     1.8.1. The proponent organization is responsible for providing HQ ACC/A8B with
     mission/operational expertise to help define the actions to be taken to plan for and execute
     approved actions affecting ACC programs/weapons systems. This includes the identification
     and coordination of the funding source(s) and/or manpower billet offsets, when required, to
     support implementation of the decision. Funding and manpower resources should be
     identified by the proponent before the A8B staff is brought in to initiate the basing process.
     1.8.2. ACC proponents are also charged with the responsibility of basing decisions with
     respect to, but not limited to, the identification or acquisition of the appropriate level of
ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014                                                                      7


   direction authorizing the action in question (the written "go do"), determining the
   requirements of the beddown action and the codification of those requirements (Concept of
   Operations (CONOPS), etc.).
   1.8.3. The proponent is responsible for providing HQ ACC/A8B with information required
   to scope and carry out the basing and beddown process elements (criteria development, site
   survey, site action task force). When a PPlan or PMsg is required to support implementation
   of a directed action, the proponent is further responsible for managing the day-to-day issues
   associated with that action, including ensuring the completion of the program milestones
   identified in the PPlan/PMsg.
1.9. Signatures on PPlans. The basic plan and annexes must be annotated as “//SIGNED//”
over the signature block of the designated approval authority. This policy does NOT negate the
requirement for actual approval by the designated authority, which should be documented and
maintained by each respective PPlan OPR.
1.10. Electronic Publication of PPlans. HQ ACC/A8B policy is to publish PPlans/PMsgs
electronically. Once the PPlan or PMsg has been posted to the PMS or SIPRNET as indicated
below, A8B will issue a notice to all intended recipients to announce publication.
   1.10.1. PPlans/PMsgs which are UNCLASSIFIED or FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO)
   will be posted on ACC PMS SharePoint site. Access to PPlans designated as FOUO will be
   restricted to only the Implementation Manager and Functional Area Managers.
   1.10.2. PPlans/PMsgs which are classified CONFIDENTIAL or SECRET will be posted on
   the HQ ACC/A8B SIPRNET home page.
1.11. Security Classification and Downgrading of Declassified Information.
   1.11.1. Classify PPlan/PMsg data according to content and ensure protection of classified
   information in accordance with AFI 31-401, Information Security Program. If any aspect of
   a PPlan or PMsg is classified (CONFIDENTIAL or higher), the classification of all
   paragraphs throughout the document will be annotated (even if only one sentence in the
   entire document is classified).
   1.11.2. HQ ACC/A8B will notify agencies on distribution for classified PPlans/PMsgs as
   soon as possible following public announcement or official notification regarding the
   downgrade of classified information.
1.12. Documentation Management Procedures. Record copies of each PPlan/PMsg and
associated documentation will be maintained and disposed of in accordance with the Records
Distribution Schedule found in AFRIMS. Destruction of classified PPlans/PMsgs and associated
documentation will be accomplished in accordance with AFI 31-401. The PMS used to track the
status of PPlan/PMsg implementation is maintained in accordance with the Records Distribution
Schedule, Table 33-49.
 8                                                               ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014


                                             Chapter 2

RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PPLAN/PMSG DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION

2.1. PPlan/PMsg Development Responsibilities. Proponent organizations will assign an
individual (the proponent) to initiate the basing process IAW paragraph 1.2 of this instruction.
Upon initiation of a basing action HQ ACC/A5B will assign a PPlan Implementation Manager.
     2.1.1. The PPlan/PMsg Implementation Manager will:
        2.1.1.1. Coordinate all actions through the Strategic Basing Process IAW AFI 10-503.
        2.1.1.2. Determine whether a PPlan or PMsg is the appropriate vehicle, and chair the
        development conference if required.
        2.1.1.3. Brief the proponent on how the PPlan/PMsg development process works, if
        necessary.
        2.1.1.4. Develop the basic PPlan/PMsg, including a list of draft program milestones,
        based on input from the proponent.
        2.1.1.5. If the PPlan/PMsg is classified, establish security guidance for inclusion in the
        PPlan/PMsg, based on input from the proponent.
        2.1.1.6. Coordinate with designated ACC PPlan functional area managers to generate
        PPlan/PMsg inputs (with emphasis on finalizing the program milestones), and for PPlans,
        initiate development of supporting functional staff annexes. Ensure the functional area
        managers are provided with annex format/content models if needed.
        2.1.1.7. Set and track the suspense for staff inputs to the PPlan/PMsg.
        2.1.1.8. Consolidate and review all PPlan/PMsg inputs, taking action to correct
        discrepancies as necessary.
        2.1.1.9. Coordinate with the proponent to ensure all agencies participating in or affected
        by the execution of the PPlan/PMsg are included as PPlan/PMsg addressees.
        2.1.1.10. Incorporate Site Action Task Force (SATAF) documentation, if applicable.
        2.1.1.11. Obtain HQ ACC/A8B approval to publish the final product and notify affected
        agencies of publication when the PPlan/PMsg has been posted to the electronic PPlan
        library.
     2.1.2. Functional Area Managers will:
        2.1.2.1. Provide input to the draft basic PPlan/PMsg (with emphasis on program
        milestones) and develop supporting functional staff annexes and action items. This
        responsibility may include attending a development conference and/or SATAF, including
        establishing a working group for the respective functional area.
        2.1.2.2. Ensure use of the HQ ACC/A8B-approved templates for all functional
        PPlan/PMsg components (annexes, working group minutes, action items).
2.2. PPlan/PMsg Implementation Responsibilities. HQ ACC/A8B supports PPlan/PMsg
implementation through management of the ACC PMS.
ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014                                                                       9


   2.2.1. HQ ACC/A8B will:
      2.2.1.1. Establish progress reporting criteria associated with ACC PPlans/PMsgs, and
      ensure the criteria is set forth in each individual PPlan/PMsg.
      2.2.1.2. Serve as the focal point for all status updates into the PMS, including the
      establishment of reporting cycle due dates, and provide a “reminder” to reporting
      agencies regarding the due dates.
      2.2.1.3. Ensure users of the PMS are offered training for its use.
   2.2.2. PPlan Implementation Manager will:
      2.2.2.1. Report on the status of progress towards meeting the PPlan/PMsg objective. The
      Overall PPlan/PMsg status will be assessed as ‘Red’, ‘Yellow’, or ‘Green’.
          2.2.2.1.1. RED - program or action objective will not be attained and/or prescribed
          timelines will not be met.
          2.2.2.1.2. YELLOW –program objectives can be met using high-risk workarounds
          and/or insufficient information available for program assessment.
          2.2.2.1.3. GREEN - program or action on track; objective and timing attainable.
      2.2.2.2. Review the “Commander’s Comments” and take action to resolve any problems
      brought forward by the commander. Through the chain of command, ensure the
      commander is apprised of proposed corrective action.
      2.2.2.3. Proactively review the PPlan/PMsg program milestones and action items and
      coordinate with the appropriate Functional Area Manager(s) to ensure the applicable
      OPR(s) are resolving items assessed as “Red” or “Yellow.”
   2.2.3. Functional Area Managers will:
      2.2.3.1. Oversee the accomplishment of ACC milestones and action items within the
      respective functional area, or that adequate workarounds are established.
      2.2.3.2. Provide progress reports through the PMS in accordance with all applicable
      provisions of this instruction, and as directed by Annex Z of the PPlan or the reporting
      guidance set forth in the PMsg.
      2.2.3.3. Monitor the status of field action items within the respective functional area and
      provide assistance to affected units as required.
      2.2.3.4. Monitor the adequacy and currency of the respective functional area annex, and
      submit required revisions to HQ ACC/A8B.
2.3. SATAF Responsibilities. HQ ACC/A8B will designate an individual to serve as the
SATAF Team Chief (usually the designated PPlan Implementation Manager).
   2.3.1. The SATAF Team Chief will:
      2.3.1.1. Ensure SATAF Working Group Chairs have a thorough understanding of the
      purpose and mechanics of the SATAF.
      2.3.1.2. Coordinate with the SATAF host base regarding proposed SATAF dates.
10                                                            ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014


     2.3.1.3. Determine the necessary working groups, and send a tasker to the designated
     PPlan OPR three-letters requesting appointment of a Working Group Chairperson for
     each respective functional area.
     2.3.1.4. Issue a formal SATAF announcement to the host base. The announcement
     should specify the purpose of the SATAF, confirm the SATAF dates and agenda, request
     identification of a unit POC and state the host base support requirements, which generally
     include providing a location for the inbrief, outbrief, and daily integration meetings, as
     well as a facility for working groups to convene each day. Spell out any communications
     and computer support required to support the SATAF.
     2.3.1.5. Conduct a pre-SATAF meeting with the ACC staff working group members to
     review the agenda and working group responsibilities.
     2.3.1.6. Prepare and present the SATAF inbrief and outbrief.
     2.3.1.7. Conduct a daily integration meeting to discuss key working group issues and
     assess SATAF progress.
     2.3.1.8. Ensure all milestone and action items are entered into the PMS and proof the
     data for accuracy and completion.
     2.3.1.9. Incorporate the SATAF documentation (Executive Summary, Working Group
     Minutes, action item spread sheet) into the respective PPlan and submit the finalized
     product for final review, as soon as possible following the end of the SATAF. The
     Executive Summary will be appended to the basic plan, the working group minutes will
     be appended to their respective functional annex, and the action items will be input into
     PMS.
  2.3.2. Functional Area Managers assigned to serve as a Working Group Chair will:
     2.3.2.1. Enlist representation from the other three-letters within the functional area, as
     applicable, to serve as members of the working group.
     2.3.2.2. Attend the pre-SATAF meeting hosted by the SATAF Team Chief.
     2.3.2.3. Lead the respective working group in the conduct of daily business during the
     SATAF and ensure thorough documentation of the issues discussed/action items
     identified by the group.
     2.3.2.4. If a working group member identifies an action item with an OPR in another
     functional area, ensure the item is submitted to the appropriate Working Group Chair for
     that area. If any proposed action item involves an OPR or OCR not present in the
     working group, ensure buy-in from that entity at the integration meeting or via some
     other coordination.
     2.3.2.5. Ensure the working group includes appropriate unit personnel in all discussions.
     2.3.2.6. Facilitate the flow of crosstalk with other working groups on issues involving
     other functional areas.
     2.3.2.7. Attend the inbrief, outbrief, and all integration meetings. Be prepared to discuss
     the group’s progress and pertinent issues.
ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014                                                                     11


       2.3.2.8. Write working group minutes and executive summary using the templates
       provided by HQ ACC/A8B.
2.4. Changes to PPlans/PMsgs. Changes to directed program actions necessitate a change to
their respective PPlan/PMsg. Changes to PPlans/PMsgs will be published to reflect
documentation from follow-on SATAFs. Working group minutes for each SATAF will be
documented in a separate appendix to the appropriate functional annex to the PPlan/PMsg. HQ
ACC/A8B will post all changes to PPlans/PMsgs to the PMS SharePoint site. Changes in the
status of program milestones and action items are updated through the PMS and do not constitute
changes to the PPlan/PMsg.
2.5. Closure of PPlans/PMsgs. When all program milestones associated with a PPlan/PMsg
are complete, HQ ACC/A8B will issue an official notification of closure to all recipients of the
original document.
 12                                                            ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014


                                          Chapter 3

      THE ACC PROGRAMS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (PMS) AND REPORTING

3.1. General Guidance. All reporting associated with the implementation of ACC
PPlans/PMsgs is accomplished through the ACC PMS SharePoint application at
https://application.eim.acc.af.mil/apps/pms/ACC_PMS/default.aspx. The ACC PMS User
Guide is accessible through the ACC PMS site.
   3.1.1. Assessment Update Cycle: Updates on milestones and action items can be made at
   any time. Commander’s comments and Manager’s assessments must be accomplished IAW
   the reporting requirements specified in each PPlan/PMsg. When an assessment is not
   provided as prescribed for any given PPlan/PMsg, the PMS will be annotated with the words
   “No comments received” within the assessment comment window. Reporting agencies are
   strongly encouraged to update items within their area of responsibility as soon as possible
   after each milestone and action item is accomplished so the status of each PPlan/PMsg
   reflects real-time data to the greatest extent possible.
3.2. PPlan Implementation Manager Reporting Responsibilities.
   3.2.1. The PPlan Implementation Manager will provide updates regarding the progress made
   towards meeting the program objective(s). This will entail providing an overall assessment
   of program status using the Red-Yellow-Green scale.
   3.2.2. In addition to assigning Red, Yellow, or Green, provide a brief synopsis of the
   program status “Manager’s Assessment” window on the “PPlan” screen. If potential “show
   stoppers” have been noted, the assessment should include a concise but detailed explanation
   of the proposed resolution.
   3.2.3. PPlan Implementation Managers will coordinate with the Program Manager for each
   respective PPlan/PMsg within their area of responsibility prior to making their assessments.
3.3. Functional Area Manager Reporting Responsibilities. Assigned HQ ACC Functional
Area Managers are listed in each respective PPlan/PMsg. These individuals will report on the
status of actions within their area of responsibility in accordance with the due date/submission
criteria set forth in the PPlan/PMsg and the following guidance.
   3.3.1. HQ ACC Functional Area Managers are responsible for reporting on all program
   milestones and action items for which the OPR is an HQ ACC staff agency within their
   functional area. Thus, each Functional Area Manager is responsible for establishing local
   reporting procedures for his/her functional area with regard to the administration of PMS.
   Functional Area Managers will actively monitor the accomplishment of the field-level
   actions within their functional area.
3.4. Milestone/Action Item OPRs. All ACC staff agencies identified as milestone and/or
action item OPRs will update their milestones and action items in accordance with the following
guidance:
   3.4.1. “Assessment” Window: Provide a brief synopsis of the progress made towards
   milestone/action item completion, highlighting any potential problems. If a potential
   problem is noted, describe the proposed corrective action. If a suspense date must be slipped,
ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014                                                                   13


   explain the circumstances necessitating the change. If a milestone or action item has been
   completed, state by what action, including the date completed and change the milestone or
   action item to “closed.” Upload supporting documentation as necessary to support changes
   to milestone(s)/action item(s).”
   3.4.2. “Suspense” Window: Every effort should be made to ensure completion of milestones
   and action items by the originally established dates. Update only if a change (slip) is
   required. Slips in action item suspense dates are at the discretion of the OPR. Slips in
   milestone dates require the approval of, and must be entered by, the HQ ACC/A8B PPlan
   Implementation Manager.
3.5. Unit Reporting Responsibilities.
   3.5.1. The unit commander will appoint both a primary and an alternate POC to serve as the
   focal point for PPlan/PMsg reporting purposes. POCs will report on field-level action items
   and program milestones as outlined under paragraph 3.4 above. Additionally, an assessment
   of the overall progress toward meeting the objective(s) of the PPlan/PMsg is required.
       3.5.1.1. The commander’s assessment should clearly and concisely represent the
       commander’s view of the program’s current status and highlight any significant problem
       areas requiring higher headquarters involvement.
       3.5.1.2. Commander’s comments should not be a verbatim reiteration of the prior
       month’s comments, but rather, should discuss whether any progress has been made
       towards resolution should any problems arise.
   3.5.2. The unit commander will ensure that the HQ ACC PPlan Implementation Manager is
   notified of any changes to the primary or alternate unit PPlan/PMsg POC.
3.6. NAF Reporting Responsibilities. When a PPlan/PMsg directly impacts a NAF, the
respective NAF command section will ensure a commander’s assessment is accomplished in the
same manner as outlined under paragraph 3.5. The assessment should highlight any significant
problem areas requiring higher headquarters involvement.




                                           GILMARY M. HOSTAGE, II, General, USAF
                                           Commander
 14                                                       ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTIVE INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-501, Program Action Directives (PAD) and Programming Plans (PPlan), 5 January
1994
AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing, 27 September 2010
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 33-324, The Information Collection an Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 10-5, Basing, 26 November 1993
Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACCI—Air Combat Command Instruction
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
BAR—Basing Action Request
COMACC—Commander, Air Combat Command
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
DOPAA—Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives
DSN—Defense Switched Network
EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
FOUO—FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014                                                                      15


HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NEPA—National Environmental Protection Act
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PB—President’s Budget
PMsg—Programming Message
PMS—ACC Program Management System
POC—Point of Contact
PPlan—Programming Plan
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SB—ESG—Strategic Basing-Executive Steering Group
SATAF—Site Action Task Force
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network

Terms
ACC Program Management System (PMS)—SharePoint application used to report status of
PPlans/PMsgs. (https://application.eim.acc.af.mil/apps/pms/ACC_PMS/default.aspx)
Action Items—Actions which must be initiated and completed at a specific time to support
PPlan implementation. Action items which are critical to a particular milestone or milestones are
identified as such within each PPlan.
Basing—Actions taken to position Air Force units (on AF or non-AF property) or non-USAF
entities on USAF real property. Basing is the process used to determine the location of a unit,
manpower, mission, or activity. All basing actions require submission of a Basing Action
Request (BAR) to AF/A8PB and will follow the strategic basing process outlined in AFI 10-503,
Strategic Basing.
Critical Action—Action that must be completed/closed to achieve an associated milestone.
Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives (DOPAA)—AF Form 813, Request for
Environmental Impact Analysis, initiates the required analytical assessment of environmental
impacts associated with proposed program actions as mandated by the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969 (Public Law 91-190). AF Form 813 contains two main elements: The
Purpose and Need for the Action and the Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives
(DOPAA). AF Form 813 (often referred to as "the DOPAA") identifies the need for the
proposed action, defines the scope of the action, discusses reasonable alternatives, and helps in
determining the appropriate level of environmental analysis required. The HQ ACC focal point
for DOPAA development associated with basing actions is HQ ACC/A8B.
 16                                                               ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014


Documented Approval Authority—Documentation from general officer-level providing
direction to initiate a basing action. Examples include: Base Realignment and Closure, Concept
of Operations, Program Action Directive, Program Change Request, Organizational Change
Request.
Functional Area Manager—The focal point within an HQ ACC staff agency tasked to provide
key input to and/or track a PPlan/PMsg for that respective functional area.
Milestone—A key event identified in the PPlan/PMsg which is essential to accomplishment of
the programmed objective as scheduled.
Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR)—A designated staff office or field-level agency
whose input is required to facilitate an OPR's accomplishment of a particular PPlan/PMsg related
responsibility.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—A designated staff office or field-level agency that is
responsible for a particular aspect of a PPlan or PMsg (i.e., functional annex OPR, action item
OPR, milestone OPR, etc.).
Organizational Change Request (OCR)—A request for an organizational action such as a unit
activation, inactivation, redesignation, or variation to a standard structure. An OCR is not
required for organizational changes resulting from approved force structure actions.
Program Action Directive (PAD)—A formal planning document used to facilitate and record
the accomplishment of a major action such as the reorganization or formation of a major
command, organization, unit, or function. A PAD is used also to provide program direction on
new acquisitions and modifications. It states the objective, defines a concept of operations,
assigns specific tasks to offices of primary responsibility and offices of collateral responsibility,
and establishes milestones.
Program Change Request (PCR)—A tool, submitted by a MAJCOM or the Air Staff, used to
initiate proposed out-of-cycle changes to programs contained in the PB. HQ ACC/A5/8/9 is the
command OPR for most PCRs. However, depending on subject matter, other ACC staff
agencies may have occasion to develop PCRs.
Programming Message (PMsg)—A PMsg may be used in lieu of a PPlan when less
comprehensive documentation will suffice to implement a program objective. For example, a
PMsg is often utilized when limited functional involvement is required to execute the action. A
PMsg may also be used as an interim measure to establish the overall goal and provide basic
guidance pertaining to a major program action while more comprehensive documentation is
being developed. This is the method of choice when planning time is limited.
Programming Plan (PPlan)—A directive, coordinated document, consisting of a Basic Plan
and supporting functional staff annexes, which defines the actions required, and outlines the
responsibilities for achieving a given program objective. The primary types of actions for which
PPlans are developed include unit activations and inactivations; realignments involving the
physical move of people or assets; base closures; beddown of weapons systems; unit conversions
from one weapons system to another; beddown and/or integration of specialized systems or
unique organizational constructs; and increases or decreases in a unit's primary aircraft
inventory.
ACCI10-550 26 MARCH 2014                                                                      17


Programming Plan Development Conference—A conference convened for the purpose of
developing a complete draft or final PPlan, under the general direction of HQ ACC/A8B. At a
minimum, conference attendance includes the PPlan Implementation Manager, the Program
Manager, and all applicable Functional Area Managers. Functional Area Managers are generally
called upon to formulate a working group comprised of themselves plus representatives from the
other HQ ACC staff agencies within their functional area. Additionally, the PPlan
Implementation Manager may request representation from units/agencies affected by or involved
in PPlan implementation. The representatives participate in the working groups and provide
input to the PPlan through the Working Group Chair.
Programming Plan Implementation Manager—Individual appointed within HQ ACC/A8B to
provide administrative oversight for a program action that requires a PPlan or PMsg.
Proponent—The ACC staff agency/action officer with overarching responsibility for a
particular ACC program and/or weapons system. Proponents will provide documented approval
authority for a proposed basing action and will identify funding and manpower sourcing.
Site Action Task Force (SATAF)—The SATAF process provides periodic, on-scene assistance
to unit-level agencies to accomplish a program objective. It employs appropriate members of the
HQ ACC and/or supporting command staffs, under the leadership of HQ ACC/A8B. The
SATAF structure is comprised of headquarters team members and representation from the
affected unit(s), which are organized into functional working groups. Each working group has
an assigned chairperson, who functions under the auspices of the SATAF Team Chief. A
SATAF may be convened to support bringing a program, system, equipment and/or site to
operational readiness. SATAFs are also conducted to facilitate unit activations, inactivations,
relocations, and conversions from one weapons system to another. Additionally, SATAFs are
conducted for ACC actions directed by the Defense Base Realignment and Closure Commission.
SATAFs for other types of actions occasionally occur, and are negotiated on a case-by-case
basis. Documentation resulting from the SATAF process is incorporated into its respective
PPlan. The documentation is comprised of minutes for each functional working group and an
executive summary, with an accompanying workbook consisting of the action items identified
during the SATAF.
Site Survey—An authorized visit by an individual or team to survey real property to determine
its feasibility for a unit or mission beddown. Site surveys may, in part, consist of preliminary
examinations, field investigations, etc. The HQ ACC OPR for Site Surveys is HQ ACC/A8B.
Site survey teams are team led by HQ ACC/A8B with representation from ACC functional staff
elements as appropriate. Teams apply an objective approach to determining facility
requirements and estimated associated costs to implement a program change at a given
installation/location. The site survey may be used as a tool in the decision-making process for a
proposed program change, or may be conducted to facilitate planning for a pre-determined
program change.
Unit Program Manager—Individual appointed by the unit commander to serve as the unit-level
point of contact for implementation of a PPlan/PMsg. Specific duties of the unit program
manager will be spelled out in the applicable PPlan/PMsg.
