BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                          21-118

                                                                                 2 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                          LOGISTICS MAINTENANCE
                                                 PERFORMANCE INDICATOR REPORTING
                                                                     PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ ACC/A4QJ                                                       Certified by: HQ ACC/A4
                                                                     (Maj Gen Mark A. Atkinson)
                                                                                       Pages: 33
Supersedes:    ACCI 21-118,
               28 November 2006


This publication implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. It
establishes requirements and provides procedures for reporting aircraft maintenance performance
indicators (MPI) on all assigned aircraft. This publication applies to all military and civilian AF
personnel and contractor personnel assigned to Active Combat Air Force units and to those units
that own aircraft for which ACC is the lead MAJCOM for. This publication does not apply to the
Air Force Reserve Command units or the Air National Guard. ACCI 21-118, LOGISTICS
MAINTENANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATOR REPORTING PROCEDURES, prescribes
Reports Control Symbol (RCS): ACC-A4Q(M) 9302, Monthly Maintenance Performance
Indicators’ Report, and RCS: ACC-A4Q(AR)9303, Special Requests for Logistics Data. Send
comments and suggested improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication, or email through channels, to HQ ACC/A4QJ, 130 Douglas Street,
Suite 220, Langley AFB VA 23665-2704. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them in accordance with the AF Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) found at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                                                  ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include Aligns Air Combat Command (ACC) fix rate philosophy and computations with
AFI 21-101, ACCI 21-165 and T.O. 00-20-2. Makes Report Control Symbol (RCS): ACC-
A4Q(M) 9302 reporting mandatory for all wings reporting to ACC and covers all report
templates, detailed requirements for data submission, and training. Requires units to provide
explanations for all missed indicators each month and monthly executive summaries. Provides
revised flying scheduling effectiveness (FSE) formulas. Increased appearance of acronyms,
terminology, and metrics for user reference. It completely removes all references to Electronic
Knowledge Management (EKM) and removes Standards Development Processes.


Chapter 1—GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS                                                                                                                     4
       1.1.   Introduction. ...........................................................................................................            4
       1.2.   Applicability. .........................................................................................................             4
       1.3.   Responsibility. .......................................................................................................              4
       1.4.   Request for Waivers or Changes to Instruction. ....................................................                                  4
       1.5.   Reporting During Minimize Conditions. ...............................................................                                4
       1.6.   Algorithms. ............................................................................................................             5
       1.7.   References. .............................................................................................................            5

Chapter 2—9302 REPORT TRANSMISSION INSTRUCTIONS                                                                                                    6
       2.1.   Report Transmission Methods. ..............................................................................                          6
       2.2.   Report Templates. ..................................................................................................                 6
       2.3.   Restriction on Types of Information. .....................................................................                           6

Chapter 3—AIRCRAFT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                          7
       3.1.   Types of Reports. ...................................................................................................                7
       3.2.   Monthly Maintenance Performance Indicators (MPI) Report, ACC-A4Q(M)9302
              .................................................................................................................................    7
       3.3.   Monthly Executive Summary ................................................................................                          10
       3.4.   Coordination and Correction Procedures. ..............................................................                              10

Chapter 4—DEPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 12
       4.1.   Applicability. .........................................................................................................            12
       4.2.   Reporting Requirements. .......................................................................................                     12
       4.3.   Development of Analysis Deployment Package. ...................................................                                     12
       4.4.   CAMS for Mobility (G081) Training. ...................................................................                              12
       4.5.   Deployed Operation Weekly Report. .....................................................................                             13
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                                                               3


Chapter 5—SPECIAL REQUEST FOR LOGISTICS DATA, RCS: ACC-A4Q(AR)9303                                                                     14
     5.1.   Applicability. .........................................................................................................   14
     5.2.   Tasking Instructions. ..............................................................................................       14
     5.3.   Method and Frequency of Reports. ........................................................................                  14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         15

Attachment 2—ALGORITHMS FOR LOGISTICS - MAINTENANCE PERFORMANCE
             INDICATORS                                                                                                                28
 4                                                                ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


                                            Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

1.1. Introduction. This instruction, coupled with regular internal performance reviews by both
units and headquarters, supports the CAF Goal to ―Improve Our Combat Capability‖ by meeting
CAF maintenance performance indicators in Operations, Logistics, and Support programs. This
instruction defines logistics performance terms and has reporting and review procedures to
enable ACC to manage by fact. The focus is measurement of the many logistics processes that
provide combat capability to the unit. The result of compliance with this instruction should be
the quick and accurate identification of areas for improvement, as well as identification of
support problems beyond the scope of the unit. The unit’s role emphasizes in-depth analysis of
work processes, integrity in measurement methods, timeliness in reporting, and comprehensive
remarks describing particular unit support issues requiring further analysis and action. The
headquarters’ role is to assist CAF units in process analysis, identification of opportunities for
process improvement, identification of process standards and benchmarks, and maintenance of
guidelines for consistent unit performance measurement and reporting. This program is called
Maintenance Performance Indicators (MPI). By no means should units limit their performance
reviews to only the items reported to the headquarters. There are many other metrics available to
unit managers that are helpful in determining unit health such as: cannot duplicate rates, data
integrity, deferred discrepancy rates, maintenance scheduling effectiveness, system
reliability/capability, attrition, etc.
1.2. Applicability. This instruction applies to all CAF units possessing or supporting aircraft.
Those ACC units dependent on Contractor Logistics Support (CLS) and Government/CLS will
adhere to this instruction to the greatest extent possible within the current contract requirements.
CLS limitations will be identified and waivers to the applicable portions of ACCI 21-118 will be
requested from HQ ACC/A4Q. ACC policy is to reduce these waivers, where possible, when
CLS contracts are reviewed/renegotiated. All contracts for logistics support must be written to
provide for compliance with this instruction.
1.3. Responsibility. Wing, maintenance and operations group, and subordinate unit
commanders are responsible for compliance. Commanders or their designated representative will
ensure all reports cited in this instruction are prepared and transmitted as prescribed. The
preparing agency and office of primary responsibility (OPR) is the Maintenance Management
Analysis (MMA) section (or designated contractor where required) regardless of organizational
structure. Commanders will review the accuracy of data required by this instruction and take
action to improve deficiencies. At a minimum, the MOF Superintendent will have overall
responsibility for ensuring quality, in-depth analysis of drivers in the COMMENTS tab as
prescribed in paragraph 3.2.5.4. References within the document to ―you‖ or ―your‖ apply to the
preparing agency unless otherwise noted.
1.4. Request for Waivers or Changes to Instruction. Submit recommended changes and/or
waivers to this instruction via regular mail to HQ ACC/A4QJ, 130 Douglas St., Suite 220,
Langley AFB VA 23665-2704, or e-mail to acca4qj@langley.af.mil.
1.5. Reporting During Minimize Conditions. Minimize conditions are controlled by a
designated communication agency. A minimize condition occurs to limit message traffic during
contingencies as needed. All reporting will continue during minimize conditions with ―Minimize
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                        5


Considered‖ entered at the bottom of each page of the report. Reports cited under this instruction
are essential and require expeditious preparation and transmission during emergency conditions.
1.6. Algorithms. Formulas used in computing rates and performance indicators are listed in
Attachment 2.
1.7. References. Personnel responsible for the reports described in this instruction should be
familiar with the applicable portions of AFI 10-601, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103, AFI 63-101,
AFCSM 21-558 through 579, Vol.2, AFMAN 23-110 Vol. 2, AFI 21-101
COMBATAIRFORCESUP(ACC)_I, AFI 21-103 ACCSUP1_I, and ACCI 21-165(ACC).
 6                                                             ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


                                          Chapter 2

                    9302 REPORT TRANSMISSION INSTRUCTIONS

2.1. Report Transmission Methods. The Monthly Maintenance Performance Indicators
Report, RCS: ACC-A4Q(M) 9302 must be submitted via the HQ ACC/A4QJ Maintenance
Analysis                      Branch                    SharePoint                   Site
(https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/a4/A4Q/A4QJ/MPI/Forms/MPI.aspx).        The 9302 data
information can be found under the document library named MPI. Contact the ACC/A4QJ
Analysis Team office for assistance at DSN 574-4810 or by email to the ACC/A4QJP Analysis
Team email box.
2.2. Report Templates. Each wing/unit has a 9302 report template specifically designed for its
MDS(s) and reporting requirements. For example, the 1st Fighter Wing (FW) will receive a
template named ―0001FW-9302-TEMPLATE.XLSM‖. Use of the templates is mandatory. The
9302 templates will be obtained from the HQ ACC/A4QJ Maintenance Analysis Branch
SharePoint Site under the 9302 TEMPLATES (BLANK) folder. When you save your file
locally, DO NOT change the file extension of the template file, it MUST be .XLSM at ALL
TIMES throughout the process (NOTE: Changing the file extension at any time throughout the
process removes hidden coding used by CAF to upload data to external databases. Any file sent
to ACC with the coding stripped will be returned to the unit for resubmission in the correct
format). Each month, replace the word ―TEMPLATE(X.X)‖ in the file name with the current
month (3 characters) and year (4 digits). Example: For August 2011, the 1 FW file name would
be ―0001FW-9302-AUG-2011.XLSM.‖ Wings/Units should check this site every month before
reporting to ensure they have the current 9302 for their unit. The version of the file will be
indicated at the end of the file name (e.g., 0001FW-9302-AUG-2011(3.4).XLSM).
     2.2.1. Template Modifications. HQ ACC/A4QJ maintains sole responsibility for template
     modifications. Do not modify your template. If changes are required, contact the
     ACC/A4QJP Analysis Team to initiate a change (DSN 574-4810).
2.3. Restriction on Types of Information. Only UNCLASSIFIED information is acceptable.
Do not include CLASSIFIED information in the report. If classified information is required on
any report, an appropriate transmission method will be specified (usually SIPRNET e-mail). Call
ACC/A4QJP for the current SIPRNET account.
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                        7


                                          Chapter 3

                      AIRCRAFT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

3.1. Types of Reports. This chapter describes the overall report concept. It provides
information for each report: Monthly Maintenance Performance Indicators Report, ACC-
A4Q(M)9302 and the Monthly Executive Summary to ACC/A4.
3.2. Monthly Maintenance Performance Indicators (MPI) Report, ACC-A4Q(M)9302
   3.2.1. Report Use. Intermediate command and MAJCOM managers use this report. It is the
   official source document for MPI briefings to the COMACC and the ACC/A4. It consists of
   four primary sections: Section 1 (wing overall, including deployed), Deployed (wing
   deployment), Section 2 (drivers), and Comments (explanatory remarks).
   3.2.2. Report Auto-Calculations and Manual Entries. The data for the 9302 report is
   manually inputted. The following rates will automatically be calculated: MC, TNMCM,
   TNMCS, Total Deviation, Total FSE Deviation, FSE, Mx/Ops Deviations, Total Abort,
   Break, 8/12 Hour Fix, Cannibalization, Average Hangar Queens, Repeat, Recur, and
   Repeat/Recur. These rates are identified with gray colored cells. The remaining cells require
   manual inputs to include the name, rank, and telephone number of the unit POC responsible
   for report preparation at the bottom of Section 1. Providing this information gives a POC that
   ACC/A4QJP may contact if there are questions about the submitted report.
   3.2.3. Applicability. Submit this report on all aircraft or systems by MDS, with the exception
   of the USAF Air Demonstration Squadron, full-scale Aerial Target and sub-scale Aerial
   Target drones. Units possessing more than one MDS will break each out separately. Separate
   messages are not required for each MDS. F-16 units with multiple blocks will break out the
   blocks in separate columns. Units having multiple missions, (e.g., operational (OPS), training
   (TNG), or test (TST)), will further break out each mission type. The following MDS are
   exceptions to this rule: B-1, EQ-4, MQ-1/9, RQ-4, U-2S, and TU-2S. These missions will be
   combined and their blocks will not be separated.
      3.2.3.1. Units possessing a mix of F-16 aircraft, F-16C/D series are considered one
      Mission Design Series (MDS), within the applicable block, for 9302 reporting purposes.
      For example, the Block 30 F-16C and Block 30 F-16D aircraft must be combined as
      Block 30 F-16C/D for reporting purposes.
      3.2.3.2. F-15 MDS will include all variations (i.e., F-15C/D) except F-15E for 9302
      reporting. F-15E aircraft will be reported separately.
      3.2.3.3. Home base units will report deployed aircraft information under the deployed
      section of the standard template. The deployment column will be labeled with the
      operational name (e.g., OIF, OEF, OND, etc…) and MDS. When a unit is supporting
      more than one major deployment, each deployment will be reported under a separate
      column. Deployed drivers and their impact on overall wing performance must be
      highlighted, i.e., specifically referred to, and clearly identified in the comments section.
      For deployments, unless otherwise stated, add total sorties scheduled into the overall
      Wing total programmed hours/sorties. Do not report zero for total sorties scheduled if
      your unit had actual sorties flown at a deployed location. Do not report data for exercises,
8                                                                  ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


       (e.g., Red Flag, Air Warrior, etc…), in the deployed section of the 9302. This section is
       used for wartime operations, contingencies, and real-world crises. If exercise data is
       required, units will be given specific guidance on reporting requirements.
    3.2.4. Frequency of Reporting. The 9302 report is submitted to HQ ACC/A4QJ monthly.
    Upload the 9302 via the ACC/A4QJ SharePoint site NLT 1400 EST on the eighth calendar
    day following the month being reported. Units will inform ACC/A4QJ as soon as they are
    aware of any situation that may cause a late submittal. Additionally, overseas units will
    inform their respective MAJCOMs. Exercises and inspections are not valid reasons for late
    submittals.
    3.2.5. Report Preparation. The standard report template is specifically designed for each
    wing. Use of the standard report template is mandatory. Do not deviate from the
    numbering system outlined in this instruction or in the template. The standard templates for
    each wing are available on the ACC/A4QJ SharePoint site.
       3.2.5.1. SECTION 1. Section One contains the overall wing/MDS/Block data totals,
       including contingency information. Section One of each unit’s template may contain
       multiple MDS/Blocks/Missions.
           3.2.5.1.1. Specific Template Guidance. You MUST enter the current reporting
           month-year (cell C2). It will automatically feed the date to the other worksheets. The
           non-shaded cells in this worksheet are open for manual entry. The shaded cells are
           calculated cells and are locked and unavailable for editing. If the data is not entered
           correctly a red cell will appear where the data is in error.
           3.2.5.1.2. Deviation Items. These items require two entries each. The first entry
           includes all deviations for that category and the second entry only includes a tally of
           deviations used to compute the FSE rate (i.e., no spare ground aborts). Refer to ACCI
           21-165 for guidance on specific deviations used in FSE rate calculation.
       3.2.5.2. DEPLOYED. The Deployed section contains the overall wing/MDS/Block data
       totals. This section of each unit’s template may contain multiple
       MDS/Blocks/Operations.
           3.2.5.2.1. Specific Template Guidance. The deployment section is reserved for
           deployments in support of real world operations, not unit TDY’s. This section has
           been modified to allow drop downs for the Unit, MDS, Block and Operation and
           must be COMPLETELY FILLED IN for each deployed location. The non-shaded
           cells in this worksheet are open for manual entry and the shaded cells are calculated
           cells and are locked and unavailable for editing.
           3.2.5.2.2. Deviation Items. Refer to 3.2.5.1.2 above.
       3.2.5.3. SECTION 2 – Data Elements/Drivers. Section Two contains the top ten drivers
       (three digit WUC) for TNMCM, TNMCS, Break, Fix*, Abort, Cannibalization, Repeats,
       Recurs, and Hangar Queen Category II and III information.
           3.2.5.3.1. Specific Template Guidance. The top ten drivers for this section will be
           reported on a monthly basis.
           3.2.5.3.2. For TNMCS drivers and high cannibalization items, provide the full
           National Stock Number (NSN), part number (if obtained through CLS contractor),
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                     9


        full work unit code (WUC) or logistics control number (LCN), and nomenclature.
        This enables A4QJ analysts and ACC Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) personnel
        to address the correct parts problems. The comment ―NSN not available‖ is not
        acceptable. Be sure components are listed under the correct subsystem/WUC/LCN.
     3.2.5.4. COMMENTS. Provide explanations for all indicators not meeting HQ/ACC
     standards or goals, per MDS for the previous month. Your unit’s comments provide
     background information for briefings to the ACC/A4 and to the Weapons System Teams
     (WST). Therefore, quality, in-depth remarks are required. Provide explanations for your
     cumulative unit data. Combine all the comments into one narrative for each labeled
     metric. For example, do not provide a separate Not Mission Capable Maintenance
     (NMCM) narrative for a particular squadron and for the unit overall. If there are key
     issues for a squadron, make sure those are put in with the general comments block.
     Deployed comments must be rolled up into the overall unit comments. Comments must
     be entered in the appropriate block (COMMENTS) of the report template.
        3.2.5.4.1. Specific Template Guidance. Provide explanations for all missed indicators
        each month. Comments are not complete unless it covers the Who, What, When,
        Where, Why, and How of the indicator. Do not regurgitate numbers for the comment
        explanations. Comments must provide important details explaining why an item
        drove unit performance. Utilize raw data to emphasize a point rather than reiterating
        information already available in Section 1. Submit thorough comments.
            3.2.5.4.1.1. Analyze the data. Indicate and note short-term (six months) and long-
            term (6-24 months) trends. Do not go beyond 36 months. Do not just focus on the
            current month’s data to determine if a trend exists. Look at the entire picture to
            make those determinations. Reference the AFLMA Maintenance Metrics U.S. Air
            Force handbook for suggested data investigations.
            3.2.5.4.1.2. When possible, quantify an issue or event’s impact on mission
            capability, (e.g., one-time inspection reduced aircraft availability by 10%).
            Although the statement ―No Trends Noted‖ is completely valid, do not use it
            lightly. Avoid using individual aircraft unless used to quantify specific problems.
            3.2.5.4.1.3. Your unit’s report should include comments from maintenance
            management/sortie production personnel, (i.e., Maintenance Group/Deputy Group
            Commander, Maintenance Operations, Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU) OICs,
            Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (AMXS) Commanders, and Maintenance
            Operations Officers).
            3.2.5.4.1.4. List pacing aircraft, limited manning, and unit events such as
            training, exercises, stand-downs, or deployments that may have affected unit
            performance. Provide projected unit plans to fix pacing items.
            3.2.5.4.1.5. For all explanations, use the full WUC/LCN when discussing a part
            and the three-digit WUC/LCN when discussing the sub-system. For example, the
            E-3 Anti-Skid Device should be reported as 13DHM, not by the system WUC of
            13000. Spell out all acronyms.
            3.2.5.4.1.6. Explain the way ahead. One way to accomplish this is to provide
            ―predictive analysis,‖ which means determining where indicators are headed over
 10                                                               ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


              next several months. Predictive analysis includes, among other things, identifying
              anticipated changes in aircraft availability, (e.g., expected depot inductions, depot
              field teams, extended scheduled maintenance, or any other issues that may impact
              the unit’s ability to meet mission requirements). Finally, specific actionable items
              that ACC/A4 and WSTs can help your unit with should be addressed here and in
              your executive summary (Section 3.3).
          3.2.5.4.2. For manning and training issues, we require the complete AFSC as well as
          an explanation of the problem. For inspections and Time Change Technical Orders
          (TCTO) or Time Change Technical Directives (TCTD), the type of inspection and
          TCTO/TCTD number are required.
       3.2.5.5. AMU MPI Data. There is no requirement to report aircraft maintenance
       indicators by AMU. Although units are not required to provide HQ ACC by AMU data,
       WSTs and other staff agencies may request this information to answer questions from
       senior leadership. When tasked, provide the requesting agency with the appropriate AMU
       data using an ACC/A4QJ approved AMU template.
3.3. Monthly Executive Summary
   3.3.1. Report Use. Intermediate command, WSTs, MAJCOM managers, and HQ ACC/A4
   use this report. This summary is designed to be a senior leader analysis of major
   issues/factors that are affecting the unit health. It is designed to be a direct communication
   between the MXG/CC and the A4 Director, however the information in not privileged. Other
   methods are available to provide this type of information such as telephone or email.
   3.3.2. Applicability. The MXG/CC or equivalent will submit the summary on all aircraft
   assigned to that unit. A designated appointee may sign/submit the summary in absence of the
   MXG/CC. Separate summaries are not required for each MDS.
   3.3.3. Frequency of Reporting. The executive summary is submitted to HQ ACC/A4QJ
   monthly. Upload the signed summary via the ACC/A4QJ SharePoint NLT 1400 EST on the
   tenth calendar day following the month being reported. Units will inform ACC/A4QJ as
   soon as they are aware of any situation that may cause a late submittal. Additionally,
   overseas units will inform their respective MAJCOMs. Exercises and inspections are not
   valid reasons for late submittals.
   3.3.4. Report Preparation. The executive summary is not an aircraft by aircraft laundry list of
   issues. Provide a top level view of topics for the unit. Sample topics are: overall fleet health,
   unit concerns, future plans, Flying Hour Program factors/issues, and MAJCOM required
   assistance. Each MDS in the summary will be a separate topic and addressed within the same
   summary.
   3.3.5. Report Length. There is no defined summary length. Although there is no limit,
   summaries should be concise and reviewed for clarity. As the ACC/A4 has to review at least
   28 summaries each month, accuracy, brevity, and clarity are paramount. Spell out all
   acronyms.
3.4. Coordination and Correction Procedures. Unit commanders will establish coordination
procedures to ensure the on-time release of accurate data to HQ ACC/A4QJ. Route the reports
through all appropriate maintenance management/sortie production personnel for their review
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                           11


and comments prior to submission to HQ ACC/A4QJ. After the 9302 Data and Executive
Summary have been uploaded, any corrections to reports must be submitted via SharePoint with
a ―heads-up‖ by e-mail with reference to the original reported data as well as the corrected data.
The unit OPR will maintain a master file of monthly reports for the current and previous fiscal
year. If there are any reporting errors identified after the reports arrive at HQ ACC/A4QJ, we
will contact the unit OPR. The OPR, in turn, will notify the appropriate base agency to correct
erroneous data. Wing Analysis sections will ensure the timely submission of corrected reports.
NOTE:
*Section 2, Fix Rate is prefilled on the template. Typically, attack and fighter aircraft use the 8-
Hour Fix Rate, all others use the 12-Hour Fix Rate. HQ ACC may change which Fix Rate to
track when tasked by WSTs and other staff agencies.
 12                                                              ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012



                                           Chapter 4

                             DEPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS

4.1. Applicability. This chapter outlines guidance for units with a deployment commitment for
contingencies, exercises, crises, or wartime operations. Paragraph 4.5 provides a sample report
format to collect data at deployed locations. Units may use any format they choose for local
reporting as long as it satisfies RCS: ACC-A4Q(M)9302 requirements. We do not require a
weekly deployment report. However, when contingencies arise, we may re-instate the ACC-
A4Q(AR)9303 report to request such data. See Chapter 5.
4.2. Reporting Requirements. Units are required to report on deployed aircraft in accordance
with Operational Plans (OPlans) under which they are tasked for support. They must comply
with guidelines on reporting established by the MAJCOM and Joint Task Force they are tasked
to support. During deployments, the unit’s primary reporting role will be to the deployed
headquarters with informational copies to their home base and supporting MAJCOM, e.g., 388
FW aircraft deployed to OEF will report to the Joint Force Commander (JFC) or Joint Force Air
Component Commander (JFACC) (as applicable) with information copies forwarded to 388
MOS/MXOO Hill AFB. When Maintenance Management Analysts are not deployed,
deployed commanders will designate an individual or activity to perform MPI reporting
requirements.
   4.2.1. Deployed reporting to HQ ACC will only be required for wartime operations,
   contingencies, major deployments, and real-world crises, not deployments to Red Flag,
   Gunsmoke, or participation in Air Warrior, etc.
   4.2.2. Personnel at homestation will report deployed aircraft information under the deployed
   section tab of the RCS: ACC-A4Q(M)9302, Monthly Maintenance Performance Indicators
   Report template. Refer to paragraphs 3.2.5.2.1 and 3.2.5.2.2 for deployed data preparation
   and paragraph 3.2.5.4 for deployed comments preparation.
4.3. Development of Analysis Deployment Package. Upon deployment notification, each unit
will develop a deployment package for their MMA section. The package should identify
equipment and supplies required for each type of deployment commitment, e.g., bare-base
operation, limited communications, or full-blown operation. Things to consider when developing
this package are the equipment needed to operate the Integrated Maintenance Data System
(IMDS) e.g., NIPRNET computers and printers. MMA should also identify required software,
e.g., MIAP Thick Client, word-processing, spreadsheet, database, and how many days/months of
office supplies are required. Before deployment, compile a list of points of contact (POC) at base
level, MAJCOM, deployed headquarters and units, and access to manuals on operating the
IMDS. Units should also have written manual backup procedures for IMDS documentation.
Gather all applicable instructions and manuals the deployed analyst may need. In addition, wing
or command level analysts at deployed locations are encouraged to contact their replacement(s)
at the earliest possible time to inform them of any training or job knowledge requirements
needed to perform the assigned duties at the deployed location(s).
4.4. CAMS for Mobility (G081) Training. Maintenance Analysis responsibilities at some
deployed locations may require the use of G081. If training is needed, analysts can access the
G081 Analysis Training program (course number A2ADU00OCB4041) via the 367th Training
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                   13


Support Squadron’s Air Force Aircraft Maintenance and Munitions Training site. The 367th
Training Support Squadron is located at Hill AFB. The World Wide Web address is
https://a4mxtng.csd.disa.mil. The G081 Analysis Training program will familiarize the student
with G081 GUI screens, specifically the program used to produce batch reports. The Interactive
Multimedia Flight POC can be reached at DSN 586-4014, or email at
367TRSS.Helpdesk@hill.af.mil. It is highly recommended this training occurs prior to
deployment departure.
4.5. Deployed Operation Weekly Report. During deployments, senior leaders may require a
minimum set of data elements for briefings and analyses of problem areas. Your deployed unit’s
specific report format will depend on your deployed commander’s requirements. Contact the
ACC/A4QJ Analysis Team office at DSN 574-4810 for guidance developing a local template.
 14                                                              ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


                                            Chapter 5

        SPECIAL REQUEST FOR LOGISTICS DATA, RCS: ACC-A4Q(AR)9303

5.1. Applicability. Periodic requirements exist for recurring short-term reports to collect data in
support of special studies and analyses. We use the RCS: ACC-A4Q(AR)9303 report to task
units for these special requests. Units will not be tasked without prior approval of HQ
ACC/A4Q. All units assigned to CAF are subject to this tasking. Reports are not required unless
specifically tasked by HQ ACC/A4Q.
5.2. Tasking Instructions. HQ ACC/A4Q provides instructions in the tasking notification.
Instructions will specify report format, content, procedures for data collection, and frequency of
report as well as a report termination date.
5.3. Method and Frequency of Reports. Send all RCS: ACC-A4Q(AR)9303 reports via e-
mail to HQ ACC/A4Q. When e-mail is not available, contact the ACC/A4QJ Analysis team
office at DSN 574-4810 for specific instructions and guidance.




                                             GILMARY M. HOSTAGE III, General, USAF
                                             Commander
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                  15


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 12 Jul 2010
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 09 Apr 2010
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainability Life Cycle Management, 08 Apr 2009
AFI 21-101_COMBATAIRFORCESUP(ACC)_I, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
Management, 28 December 2010
AFI 21-103_ACCSUP1, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 15 March 2010
ACCI 21-165, Aircraft Flying and Maintenance Scheduling Procedures, 22 April 2008
AFLMA Maintenance Metrics U.S. Air Force ―Blue Book‖, 20 March 2009
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 01 Oct 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
RAM Guide 08030, DOD Guide for Achieving Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability, 03
August 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
2LM—Two-Level Maintenance
AFLMA—Air Force Logistics Management Agency
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
ALIS—Autonomic Logistics Information System
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
APU—Auxiliary Power Unit
ASD—Average Sortie Duration
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BAI—Backup Aircraft Inventory
BEAR—Base Expeditionary Airfield Resources
CANN RATE—Cannibalization Rate
CHRG—Chargeable Aircraft
 16                                                ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


CLS—Contractor Logistics Support
CND—Cannot Duplicate
COMACC—Commander Air Combat Command
CUM—Cumulative
DDR—Data Documentation Record
DEV—Deviation
DIFM—Due In For Maintenance
ECM—Electronic Countermeasures
ENMCS—Engine Not Mission Capable Supply
ETIC—Estimated Time of Completion
FCF—Function Check Flight
FMC—Fully Mission Capable
FSE—Flying Scheduling Effectiveness
GCS—Ground Control Station
HUTE—Hourly Utilization
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
IMIS—Integrated Maintenance Information System
JDD—Job Data Documentation
JFC—Joint Force Commander
JFACC—Joint Force Air Component Commander
LCN—Logistics Control Number
LRE—Launch/Recovery Element
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Mission Capable
MCE—Mission Control Element
MDS—Mission Design Series
MESL—Mission Essential Systems List
MMA—Maintenance Management Analysis
MIAP—Multi-host Internet Access Portal
MICAP—Mission Impaired Capability Awaiting Parts
MIS—Maintenance Information System
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                             17


MPI—Maintenance Performance Indicators
MRAP—Mine Resistant Ambush Protected
MSL—Maintenance Supply Liaison
MX—Maintenance
NIPRNET—Nonsecure Internet Protocol Router Network
NLT—Not Later Than
NMC—Not Mission Capable
NMCM—Not Mission Capable Maintenance
NMCS—Not Mission Capable Supply
NMCB—Not Mission Capable Both
NRTS—Not Repairable This Station
NSN—National Stock Number
OCF—Operational Check Flight
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPlan— —Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPS—Operational
PAA—Primary Aircraft Authorized
PAI—Primary Aircraft Inventory
PDAI—Primary Development/Test Aircraft Inventory
PMAI—Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory
PMC—Partially Mission Capable
PMCB—Partially Mission Capable Both
PMCM—Partially Mission Capable Maintenance
PMCS—Partially Mission Capable Supply
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
POAI—Primary Other Aircraft Inventory
POC—Point of Contact
PPSL—Predatory Primary Satellite Link
PROG UTE—Programmed Utilization
PTAI—Primary Training Aircraft Inventory
RCS—Report Control Symbol
 18                                                             ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFI—Ready For Issue
RPA—Remote Piloted Aircraft
RPS—Remote Piloted System
RSP—Readiness Spares Package
SE—Support Equipment
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SUTE—Sortie Utilization
TAI—Total Aircraft Inventory
TCI—Time Change Item
TCN—Transportation Control Number
TCTD—Time Change Technical Directive
TCTO—Time Change Technical Order
TMSM—Type, Model, Series Modification (Engines)
TNMCM—Total Not Mission Capable Maintenance
TNMCS—Total Not Mission Capable Supply
TNG—Training
TST—Test
UTE—Utilization Rate
WST—Weapon System Teams
WUC—Work Unit Code
WRE—War Readiness Engine

Terms
Adjusted Sorties Scheduled—The sum of total sorties scheduled (home base, off station,
deployed, and adds for end of the fiscal year UTE close out) minus any UTE cancellations. This
formula is used when calculating the FSE.
Aircraft Availability—Percentage of a fleet not in a Depot possessed status or NMC aircraft
(that are unit possessed). NOTE: The metric may be created at the Mission Design (MD)/MDS
level or may be grouped by fleet (e.g., Aggregate, Bombers, Fighters) to determine ―Aircraft
Availability.‖
Air Abort—An air abort is a sortie that could not continue its primary or alternate mission. An
air abort for the same discrepancy during an FCF/OCF is not counted in the air abort rate. If the
aircraft air aborts on a different component during the FCF/OCF, it is counted in the air abort
rate. (Related: see IFE)
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                          19


Air Abort Rate—This is a leading indicator of aircraft reliability. It is the percentage of
missions aborted in the air per 100 sorties flown. The rate only includes air aborts caused by
Maintenance or Operations. An air abort for the same discrepancy during an FCF/OCF is not
counted in the air abort rate. If the aircraft air aborts on a different component during the
FCF/OCF, it is counted in the air abort rate.
Aircraft Possession—A key factor in metrics. The Air Force mandates each aircraft will always
be owned or ―possessed‖ by a designated organization. Possession is an indicator of an
organization’s or aircraft fleet’s health. Aircraft that are under the control of their owning base
are possessed by that organization. An aircraft that requires depot level maintenance/inspection,
regardless of the physical location, is temporarily possessed by depot as prescribed in AFI 21-
103. In calculating the various aircraft maintenance metrics, possession is calculated in units of
hours normally for specific time periods (e.g., monthly, annual). Reference AFI 21-103 for
further information.
Attrition (Aircraft)—Aircraft required to replace primary aircraft inventory losses. Do not
confuse this term with computing scheduling attrition rates (e.g., Weather) for developing the
flying schedule.
Average Hangar Queens—An average computed by dividing the total Hangar Queen days
accrued in the reporting period by the inclusive number of days in the reporting period, e.g., 20
Hangar Queen days divided by 30 days in reporting period equals 0.67 average Hangar Queens.
Hangar Queens are broken into three categories: Category I (30-59 days), Category II (60-89
days), and Category III (day 90 and above). Reference AFI 21-101 for further information.
Awaiting Maintenance (AWM) Rate—The total deferred discrepancies for maintenance,
divided by possessed aircraft. See definition of deferred discrepancy.
Awaiting Parts (AWP) Rate—The total deferred discrepancies requiring parts and have a valid
supply requisition number, divided by possessed aircraft. See definition of deferred discrepancy.
Backup Aircraft Inventory (BAI)—Aircraft above the primary mission inventory to permit
scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, modifications, inspections, and repair without
reduction of aircraft available for operational missions.
Break—An aircraft that lands with an overall aircraft landing status of Code-3. The
determination of landing status will be based on the applicable aircraft MESL. A break for the
same discrepancy during an FCF/OCF is not counted as a new break. If the aircraft breaks on a
different component during the FCF/OCF, it IS considered a new break.
Break Rate—This is a leading, flying-related metric. It is the percentage of sorties that land with
an overall aircraft landing status of Code-3. This metric primarily indicates aircraft system
reliability. It may also reflect the quality of aircraft maintenance performed. If Fix Rates are used
as a measurement of maintainability, the Break Rate is the complementary measurement of
reliability. For true evaluation of equipment/system reliability, measurements must be taken at
the system/subsystem level. It is also an excellent predictor of parts demand. Several indicators
that follow break rate are Mission Capable, Total Not Mission Capable for Supply,
Cannibalization Rate, and Repeat/Recur
Cancellation (CX)—A sortie that could not fly its scheduled time and date prior to crew show.
 20                                                              ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


Cannot Duplicate (CND)—The code used when reporting for on-equipment when a
discrepancy could not be recreated under test/trouble-shooting conditions.
Cannibalization (CANN)—A removal of a serviceable part from a weapon system, system,
support system or equipment end item or engine to replace an unserviceable part on another
aircraft or engine. It reflects part reliability, spares funding, and depot support in the repair
process. Cannibalization actions also include the removal of a serviceable part to fill Readiness
Spares Packages (RSP). All chargeable cannibalizations must satisfy an existing supply
requisition (e.g., MICAP) and to meet priority mission requirements with an obligation to replace
the removed item. This is the only metric reported quarterly to Congress by congressional
mandate.
Cannibalization Rate—This is a leading indicator that reflects the number of cannibalization
actions. It is the average number of ―T‖ cannibalization actions per 100 sorties. Per T.O. 00-20-2,
paragraph 5.2.4, cannibalization actions from depot aircraft are valid after written approval from
the System Monitor at AFMC. These approved cannibalizations will be counted in the
cannibalization rate. Since LRS relies on the back shops and depot for replenishment, this
indicator can also be used, in part, to indicate back shop and depot support.
Capability Code (CAP CODE)—The status of a system/subsystem at the end of a sortie. It
reflects the type of performance of a system that occurred during the sortie. Capability codes not
only indicate how the individual system performed on the aircraft, but also if the system was in
operation during the sortie.
Chargeable Aircraft (CHRG)—The number of aircraft against which units should build their
flying programs and against which the UTE will be measured. Chargeable aircraft will normally
equal PAA, but in cases where the number of possessed aircraft is forecast to be significantly
different than PAA, HQ ACC/A3/A4 and the C2ISR Agency will assign a chargeable aircraft
number.
Contractor Logistics Support (CLS)—Non-government managed logistics processes such as
supply and/or maintenance performed by civilian contractors that is intended to cover the total
life cycle of a weapon system. Reference AFI 63-101 for further information.
CY/FY Cumulative (CUM)—The calendar (Jan - Dec) or fiscal year (Oct - Sep) cumulative
performance of an indicator.
Deferred (or Delayed) Discrepancy—Malfunctions or discrepancies not creating a NMC or
PMC condition for the aircraft and are not corrected ―on the spot‖ are considered deferred
discrepancies. Although minor maintenance actions must sometimes be deferred or delayed to a
more opportune time, maintenance should try to keep this rate as low as possible. If delayed
discrepancies can’t be scheduled/combined with a more extensive maintenance action,
maintenance schedulers should routinely schedule their aircraft down for a day when required to
work deferred discrepancies. The MIS provides the opportunity to create additional codes to
further expand the AWM/AWP codes for management purposes. This program is a way for the
MXG/CC to identify areas of concern and will be at the discretion of the MXG/CC to determine
what codes will be included in AWM/AWP.
Deferred (or Delayed) Discrepancy rate—This is a leading indicator that should be closely
evaluated in comparison to other metrics. This rate represents the average deferred discrepancies
across the unit’s average possessed aircraft fleet. The only exceptions are TCTOs, TCIs and
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                        21


inspections. The delayed discrepancy rate counts only Awaiting Maintenance (AWM) and
Awaiting Parts (AWP).
Deviation—Departure from the printed weekly flying schedule.
Fix Rate—This is a leading indicator showing how well the repair process is being managed. It
is a percentage of aircraft sorties with a landing status code of 3 (includes system cap codes 3
and 4) returned to a flyable status in a certain amount of time (clock hours). Refer to AFI 21-103
and MAJCOM directives for maintenance start time (e.g., engine shut down, ―first‖ chock).
Problems found by maintenance after the aircraft lands (ground found) are not considered in the
fix time. The fix time stops when all Landing Status Code 3 with system capability code 3/4 Pilot
Reported Discrepancies (PRDs) are fixed even if the aircraft remains NMC. This metric is used
to track ―dead time‖ in aircraft repair processes because it measures the speed of repair and
equipment maintainability. This includes breaks and fixes that occur at any location (off-station,
etc.).
4—Hour Fix Rate—The cumulative percentage of landing status Code-3 breaks fixed within 4
hours. The break is considered fixed when all CAP Code-3 or 4 PRDs are corrected. For fighters,
except contractor-maintained training aircraft, an aircraft break and a 4-hour fix interval is
equivalent to a surge sortie opportunity lost in wartime. This interval may be used for fighter
aircraft.
8—Hour Fix Rate—The cumulative percentage of landing status Code-3 breaks fixed within 8
hours. The break is considered fixed when all CAP Code-3 or 4 PRDs are corrected. This
interval is used for fighter aircraft.
12—Hour Fix Rate—The cumulative percentage of landing status Code-3 breaks fixed within
12 hours. The break is considered fixed when all CAP Code-3 or 4 PRDs are corrected. This
interval is used for aircraft other than fighters.
Flying Scheduling Effectiveness (FSE) Rate—This is a leading indicator used to measure how
well the unit planned and executed the weekly flying schedule. The FSE rate is the percentage of
sorties flown as scheduled. It also indicates unit turmoil caused by flying schedule deviations.
The flying schedule developed by tail number is the baseline upon which the FSE is derived by
comparing each day’s deviations. Deviations that decrease the FSE from 100 percent include:
scheduled sorties not flown because of maintenance, supply, operations, weather, higher
headquarters (HHQ), air traffic control, sympathy, or other reasons; early takeoffs, late takeoffs,
and adds as defined in ACCI 21-165. Disruptions to the flying schedule can cause turmoil on the
flightline, sending a ripple effect throughout other agencies, and adversely impact scheduled
maintenance actions.
Functional Check Flight (FCF)—The flight of an aircraft, in accordance with the applicable
dash -6 manual, to verify the airworthy condition of the aircraft. This check may also reflect the
quality of aircraft maintenance performed. Landing code status of a Code-3 for a FCF will not
count against the break rate for the same system/subsystem tested. (See Operational Check
Flight).
Ground Abort—Event after crew show time that prevents a ―crew ready‖ aircraft from
becoming airborne. Ground aborts are categorized as maintenance (GAA, GAB, GAC),
operations, HHQ, weather, sympathy, other, etc. A ground abort for the same discrepancy during
 22                                                              ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


an FCF/OCF is not counted in the ground abort rate. If the aircraft ground aborts on a different
component during the FCF/OCF, it is counted in the ground abort rate.
Ground Abort Rate—The number of ground aborts (including spare ground aborts) per sortie
attempts. This rate includes only ground aborts caused by Maintenance, Operations, and Supply.
Ground abort rates can gauge both aircraft reliability and quality of maintenance performed. A
ground abort for the same discrepancy during an FCF/OCF is not counted in the ground abort
rate. If the aircraft ground aborts on a different component during the FCF/OCF, it is counted in
the ground abort rate.
Hangar Queen (HQ)—An aircraft that has not flown for more than 30 consecutive days. See the
definition for Average Hangar Queens. This indicator is used to evaluate management of the
Hangar Queen program and to assist units with problems beyond their control. The HQ rate
captures the average number of aircraft hangar queen days (all categories) for a specified
reporting period.
Hourly UTE Rate—This is the average hours flown per authorized/chargeable aircraft/systems
per month.
In-flight Emergency (IFE)—A declaration of an emergency by the pilot during flight. An IFE
does not constitute an air abort unless the primary or alternate mission could not be completed.
Isochronal Inspection (ISO) Rate—This leading metric measures the average time until next
major inspection remaining on the fleet. It should be approximately half the inspection interval
and should appear as a diagonal line when the fleet ISO average is portrayed graphically in a
Time-Distribution Interval (TDI) (e.g., ―scatter gram‖). An ISO TDI is a product that shows
hours remaining until the next phase inspection (PH) on each aircraft possessed by a unit.
However, a unit may have good reasons to manage its ISO flow so the data points define a
pattern other than a diagonal line.
Issue Effectiveness Rate—The percentage of parts requirements immediately satisfied by
Supply, used to measure how well customers are supported. It is used as a macro index for
effectiveness from all supply sources.
JDD Error Rate—The percentage of records found in error in the IMDS JDD subsystem during
the Data Integrity Team (DIT) review. For JDD error rate computations, a record is one Detail
Data Record (DDR). When a DDR contains more than one documentation error, the JDD error
rate will reflect one error for the entire DDR. Report the uncorrected error rate to the group.
Logistics—This term, when used in reference to aircraft maintenance, will consider anything
concerning maintenance, weapons, supply, transportation, plans or contracting.
Maintenance/Operations (MX/OPS) Deviation Rate—The number of maintenance and
operations deviations divided by adjusted sorties scheduled multiplied by 100. Reflects the
number of deviations within unit control. The MX/OPS deviation rate is a subset of FSE. Only
count the MX/OPS deviations used to compute the FSE rate.
Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness (MSE)—This is a leading indicator that measures
success in the unit’s ability to plan and complete inspections and periodic maintenance on-time
per the maintenance plan. Deviations to the plan are recorded. A low MSE rate may indicate a
unit is experiencing turbulence on the flightline or in the back shops. This indicator is primarily
used as feedback to maintenance managers on the success and adherence to scheduled
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                        23


maintenance plans and actions. To compute the MSE, you must know the number of
maintenance actions scheduled and accomplished as scheduled along with each action’s
weighted value (based on the importance of the event and established by MAJCOM directives).
Reference ACCI 21-165 for further guidance.
Mission Capable (MC) Rate—This is a lagging indicator. The MC rate is used to measure an
overall unit’s capability. It is the percentage of possessed hours for aircraft that are FMC or PMC
for specific measurement periods (e.g., monthly or annual). A low MC rate may indicate a unit is
experiencing many hard breaks, parts supportability shortfalls or workforce management issues.
Look for workers deferring repairs to other shifts, inexperienced workers, lack of parts from
LRS, poor in-shop scheduling, high cannibalization rates or training deficiencies. High
commitment rates may also contribute to a lower MC rate. The key is to focus on negative trends
and identify systemic, underlying causes. Root factors of the MC rate should be measured,
evaluated and reported through the use of the TNMCM, TNMCS and NMCB rates.
Mission Impaired Capability Awaiting Parts (MICAP)—Expedited backorders in the supply
system when material is not available for issue, and required by the customer to satisfy mission
requirements in a short or expedited period of time. Expedite backorders are appropriate when
needed material causes the customer a work stoppage or negatively impacts the mission. A ―1A‖
MICAP is for an NMCS condition which is reportable in Section Two of the MPI 9302 report. A
―JA‖ MICAP is for PMCS conditions.
Not Mission Capable Both (NMCB) Rate—The percent of possessed time an aircraft/system is
not mission capable due to both maintenance and supply.
Not Mission Capable Maintenance (NMCM) Rate—The percent of possessed time an
aircraft/system is not mission capable due to maintenance.
Not Mission Capable Supply (NMCS) Rate—The percent of possessed time an aircraft/system
is not mission capable due to supply.
Not Repairable This Station (NRTS)—A status condition determined during shop processing
of an item. It indicates that the item cannot be repaired at base level.
Operational Check Flight (OCF)—The first flight of an aircraft that has had extended
downtime or extensive maintenance at the request of maintenance to validate a maintenance
action.
Overall Base Repair Cycle Processing Time—The total time in days for an unserviceable asset
to be repaired on base or sent NRTS to another repair agency. It starts when the unserviceable
item is removed from the aircraft or piece of equipment and a demand is made for a replacement.
It ends when the item is returned serviceable or unserviceable back to supply. Overall Repair
Cycle Processing Time and narratives are obtained from the Supply DIFM Monitor.
Personnel Availability (PA)—Personnel availability simply provides a measure of manning
status. It compares the number of personnel authorized to the number of personnel available. A
maintenance manager may find it useful to review data based on skill level. In which case,
compare the personnel authorized to the number of personnel holding a specific skill level. The
number authorized is based on the Unit Manning Document. The number available includes only
those available for duty, which excludes those who are reassigned, on leave, Temporary Duty
(TDY), etc.
 24                                                                ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


Phase Flow (PF) Average—This leading metric measures the average phase time remaining on
the fleet. It should be approximately half the inspection interval and should appear as a diagonal
line when the fleet PF average is portrayed graphically in a TDI. A phase TDI is a product that
shows hours remaining until the next phase on each aircraft possessed by a unit. However, a unit
may have good reasons to manage its phase flow so the data points define a pattern other than a
diagonal line. For example, in preparation for a long-distance overseas deployment, a unit may
need to build up the average phase time (average fleet time) remaining on its fleet, because phase
capability may be limited for a short time. Beware of gaps or groupings, especially on aircraft
with less than half the time remaining to phase.
Possessed Aircraft—Aircraft under a wing commander’s operational control and responsibility
IAW AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting.
Primary Aerospace Vehicle Authorized (PAA)—Aircraft authorized for performance of the
unit’s mission (e.g., Combat, Combat Support, Training, Test and Evaluation, etc…). The PAA
forms the basis for the allocation of operating resources to include manpower, support
equipment, and flying hour funds. The operating command determines the PAA required to meet
their assigned missions.
Primary Aircraft Inventory (PAI)—Aircraft assigned to meet primary aircraft authorization.
(Includes PDAI, PMAI, POAI, and PTAI.)
Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory (PMAI)—Aircraft assigned to a unit for performance of
its wartime mission (Possession codes: CA, CC).
Primary Training Aircraft Inventory (PTAI)—Aircraft required primarily for technical and
specialized training of crew personnel or leading to aircrew qualification (Possession code: TF).
Primary Development/Test Aircraft Inventory (PDAI)—Aircraft assigned primarily for the
test of the aircraft or its components for purposes of research, development, test and evaluation,
operational test and evaluation, or support for testing programs (Possession code: CB).
Primary Other Aircraft Inventory (POAI)—Aircraft required for special missions not
elsewhere classified.
Readiness Spare Package (RSP)—Prepackaged set of spares and repair parts required to
support planned wartime or contingency operations for a specified period of time pending
resupply.
Reconstitution Reserve—Aircraft stored or on the ramp which are planned for return to the
operating forces in the event of mobilization, replacement, or reconstitution.
Recur Rate—A recurring discrepancy on an aircraft occurs on the second through fourth sortie
or attempted sortie after corrective action has been taken and the system or subsystem is used.
The discrepancy must indicate the same malfunction as the original discrepancy and was cleared
by maintenance (including CNDs/no-defect-noted, etc). A high recur rate may indicate lack of
thorough troubleshooting; inordinate pressure to commit aircraft to the flying schedule for
subsequent sorties; or a lack of experienced, qualified, or trained technicians. Examine each
recur discrepancy and look for trends.
Repair Cycle Processing (RCP) Total Time/Rate—Though primarily considered a ―supply-
related metric,‖ this indicator can be an excellent local management tool. It is the average time
expressed in days that an unserviceable asset spends in the repair cycle at a unit. This indicator is
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                        25


for repairable aircraft parts only; it does not include engines or support equipment. The clock
begins when the replacement part is issued to the flightline and ends when the serviceable asset
is returned from the repair facility to the parts store for reissue. To improve the process of
repairing parts, the different steps in that process must be measured.
Repeat Rate—A repeat discrepancy on an aircraft occurs on the next sortie or attempted sortie
after corrective action has been taken and the system or subsystem is used. The discrepancy must
indicate the same malfunction as the original discrepancy and was cleared by maintenance
(including CNDs/no-defect-noted, etc). A high repeat rate may indicate lack of thorough
troubleshooting; inordinate pressure to commit aircraft to the flying schedule for subsequent
sorties; or a lack of experienced, qualified, or trained technicians. Examine each repeat
discrepancy and look for trends.
Repeat/Recur (R/R) Discrepancy Rate—This metric is a leading indicator. It is the total
number of repeat and recur system malfunctions compared to the total number of aircrew
discrepancies. A high R/R rate may indicate lack of thorough troubleshooting; inordinate
pressure to commit aircraft to the flying schedule for subsequent sorties; or a lack of
experienced, qualified or trained technicians. The more complex the weapon system and the
greater the operations tempo, the more susceptible a unit is for repeat or recurring discrepancies.
Examine each R/R discrepancy and look for trends. The goal should be to keep all repeat and
recurring discrepancies to a minimum.
Scheduled Sortie—An aircraft scheduled for flight by tail number on the weekly flying schedule
and confirmed on the daily flying schedule. Incentive flights are considered scheduled sorties
and published in the weekly schedule. Functional Check Flights (FCF) and Operational Check
Flights (OCF) are excluded.
Sortie—A sortie begins when an aircraft becomes airborne or takes off vertically from rest at
any point of support. It ends when the aircraft returns to the surface (except for continuation
sorties in MAF) and meets one of the following: the engines are stopped, or the aircraft is on the
surface for more than five minutes, or a change is made in the crew.
Sortie Attempts—Includes sorties flown and ground aborts.
Sortie UTE Rate—The average sorties flown per authorized/chargeable aircraft per month.
Spare Ground Abort—Event after crew show time that prevents a ―crew ready‖ aircraft from
becoming airborne, but is replaced by a spare that meets the mission requirement. Spare ground
aborts are categorized as maintenance (e.g., GAA, GAB, GAC). The difference between a
ground abort and a spare ground abort is the scheduled line is accomplished, where the ground
abort is not scheduled. A spare ground abort is not a deviation, but can cause a deviation such as
late take-off. Spare ground aborts count in the Ground Abort Rate but do not count towards FSE.
Total Abort Rate—This is a leading indicator of aircraft reliability. It is the total number of
aborts (air, ground and spare ground) per sortie attempts. Air/ground aborts for the same
discrepancy during an FCF/OCF are not counted in the total abort rate. If the aircraft air/ground
aborts on a different component during the FCF/OCF, it is counted in the total abort rate. The
number of air and ground aborts should match those used for the individual Air and Ground
Abort Rates.
 26                                                              ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


Total Active Inventory (TAI)—Aircraft assigned to operating forces for mission, training, test,
or maintenance functions (includes primary aircraft inventory, backup aircraft inventory, and
attrition reserve).
Total Not Mission Capable Maintenance (TNMCM) Rate—The percent of possessed time an
aircraft/system is not mission capable due to maintenance (NMCM) and not mission capable for
both maintenance and supply (NMCB). Though a lagging indicator, the TNMCM rate is perhaps
the most common and useful metric for determining if maintenance is being performed quickly.
It is the average percentage of possessed aircraft (calculated monthly/annually) that are unable to
meet primary assigned missions for maintenance reasons (excluding aircraft in ―B-Type‖
possession identifier code status). Any aircraft that is unable to meet any of its wartime missions
is considered Not Mission Capable (NMC). Maintenance managers should look for a relationship
between other metrics such as R/R, Break Rate, and Fix Rate to the TNMCM Rate. A strong
correlation could indicate heavy workloads (e.g., people are over tasked), poor management,
training problems or poor maintenance practices. The TNMCM is also called ―out for
maintenance.‖
Total Not Mission Capable Supply (TNMCS) Rate—The percent of possessed time an
aircraft/system is not mission capable due to supply (NMCS) and not mission capable for both
maintenance and supply (NMCB). Though this lagging metric may seem a ―LRS responsibility‖
because it is principally driven by availability of spare parts, it is often directly indicative of
maintenance practices. For instance, maintenance can keep the rate lower by consolidating
feasible cannibalization actions to as few aircraft as practical. This monthly/annual metric is the
average percentage of possessed aircraft that are unable to meet primary missions for supply
reasons. TNMCS is based on the number of airframes out for ―1A‖ MICAP parts that prevent the
airframes from performing their mission (NMCS is not the number of parts that are ―1A‖
MICAP). Maintenance managers must closely monitor the relationship between the
Cannibalization Rate and TNMCS. TNMCS is also called ―out for supply.‖
Two Level Maintenance (2LM) Repair Cycle Processing Time—The average time in days for
an unserviceable 2LM asset on base to be repaired or sent NRTS to another repair agency. It
starts when the replacement part is issued by the flightline parts store (or Base Supply) and ends
when the asset is returned serviceable to the part store’s shelf or is sent NRTS to another repair
agency.
Upgrade Training (UT) Rate—This metric reflects the percentage of technicians in upgrade
training. The goal should be to keep the combined total less than 40 percent because the higher
the number, the greater the training burden. Training should be given high priority, as the
number of personnel in training (and more importantly, the quality of the maintenance training
program) invariably affects other aircraft metrics (e.g., R/R or Fix Rate) in ways that may not be
immediately obvious.
Utilization (UTE) Rate—The average number of sorties or hours flown per
authorized/chargeable aircraft/system per month. See the Hourly and Sortie UTE Rate
Definitions. The UTE rate is a leading indicator, but serves as a yardstick for how well the
maintenance organization supports the unit’s mission. The UTE rate is the average number of
sorties or hours flown per Primary Aerospace vehicle Authorized (PAA) per month as found in
the HAF/A3O PB documents. This measurement is primarily used by operations in planning the
unit’s flying hour program. Maintenance uses this measurement to show usage of assigned
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                             27


aircraft. Since UTE rates are used for planning, actual UTE rates (computed at the end of the
month) are used to evaluate the unit’s monthly accomplishment against the annual plan.
Typically, Combat AF (CAF) units measure the sortie UTE rate, while MAF units measure the
hourly UTE rate to more accurately measure the combined performance of operations and
maintenance.
War Reserve/Readiness Engines (WRE)—The quantity of serviceable engines required to
sustain an operational unit’s war effort until pipelines are filled and repair facilities are available.
Yearly UTE Goal—The annual sortie or hourly UTE rate target for a unit.
 28                                                             ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


                                        Attachment 2
ALGORITHMS FOR LOGISTICS - MAINTENANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

A2.1. Maintenance Management Metrics. Metrics provide a measurement of performance
and capability. Leaders, supervisors and technicians must have accurate and reliable information
to make decisions. Primary concerns of maintenance managers are how well the unit is meeting
mission requirements, how to improve equipment performance, identifying emerging support
problems, and projecting future trends. Maintenance management metrics—sometimes called
maintenance performance measures or indicators—are a crucial form of information used by
maintenance leaders to improve the performance of maintenance organizations, equipment and
people when compared with established goals and standards. Metrics often take the form of an
―MC Rate Graph‖ or a ―Status of Personnel Training Slide,‖ presenting a gauge of an
organization’s effectiveness and efficiency. Properly used, metrics are roadmaps that help
determine where you’ve been, where you’re going, and how (or if) you’re going to get there.
   A2.1.1. The overarching objective of AF maintenance is to maintain aircraft and equipment
   in a safe, serviceable and ready condition to meet mission needs. Maintenance management
   metrics serve this overarching objective and shall be established or maintained by
   Headquarters AF, Major Commands, Wings and/or Squadrons to evaluate/improve
   equipment condition, personnel skills and long-term fleet health. Metrics shall be used at all
   levels of command to drive improved performance and adhere to well-established guidelines.
   Metrics must be:
       A2.1.1.1. Accurate and useful for decision-making.
   A2.1.2. Consistent and clearly linked to goals/standards.
   A2.1.3. Clearly understood and communicated.
   A2.1.4. Based on a measurable, well-defined process.
A2.2. Analysis is crucial to improving organizational performance and is the key component of
the metrics management process. Commanders and maintenance managers must properly
evaluate maintenance metrics and rely upon the maintenance analysis section for unbiased
information. Analysis sections shall draw upon information from various maintenance
information systems for data. The Integrated Maintenance Data System-Central Database
(IMDS-CDB), G081 (IMDS for Mobility), Reliability and Maintainability Information System
(REMIS), Standard Base Supply System (SBSS), AF Knowledge Services (AFKS), Combat
Ammunition System (CAS), and AF/A4-approved command- unique analysis tools are the
primary data sources. A good maintenance manager does not strive to ―chase numbers‖ for the
sake of looking good. However, the manager uses metrics to focus resources and personnel to
improve maintenance processes. Managers must also clearly understand and communicate the
crucial linkage between goals, standards and metrics. The AF sets goals and standards for
organizations, personnel and weapons systems that facilitate evaluation, comparisons and
improvements. These standards are published separately by senior leadership and should be
clearly understood at all levels of command. Leaders at every level must also support analysis
and review metrics to properly drive improved performance. Maintenance analysts manage and
track this process, but maintenance metrics, and the resulting improvements they drive, are
inherently a leadership responsibility.
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                                       29


A2.3. Primary Maintenance Metrics. Metrics are often grouped into various categories,
including leading or lagging indicators. Leading indicators show a problem first, as they directly
impact maintenance’s capability to provide resources to execute the mission. Lagging indicators
follow and show firmly established trends. Maintenance leaders must review sortie production
and maintenance health constantly and be knowledgeable about maintenance indicators that
highlight trends before they become problems. This section lists the primary maintenance
metrics alphabetically with a description and formula as prescribed in AFI 21-103, Equipment
Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting,Attachment 2 (for maintenance status codes); and TO
00-20-2, Maintenance Data Documentation, Appendix L (for flying codes).
   A2.3.1. Maintenance Metrics Algorithms. Use T.O. 00-20-2 as the official source for all
   maintenance metrics unless otherwise indicated.
   A2.3.2. Average Hangar Queens.
TOTAL HANGAR QUEEN DAYS IN REPORTING PERIOD DAYS
DAYS IN REPORTING PERIOD                                                                  X 100
       A2.3.2.1. Breakdown of Average Hangar Queens by Category.
           A2.3.2.1.1. Average Category I (CAT I/30-59 Days) Hangar Queens.
TOTAL CAT I HANGAR QUEEN DAYS IN REPORTING PERIOD
DAYS IN REPORTING PERIOD
           A2.3.2.1.2. Average Category II (CAT II/60-89 Days) Hangar Queens.
TOTAL CAT II HANGAR QUEEN DAYS IN REPORTING PERIOD
DAYS IN REPORTING PERIOD
           A2.3.2.1.3. Average Category III (CAT III/90+ Days) Hangar Queens.
TOTAL CAT III HANGAR QUEEN DAYS IN REPORTING PERIOD
DAYS IN REPORTING PERIOD
   A2.3.3. Average Number of Aircraft/Systems Possessed.
TOTAL POSSESSED HOURS (BEGINNING OF MONTH TO PREVIOUS DAY)
((# OF DAYS (BEGINNING OF MONTH TO PREVIOUS DAY)) X 24)
   A2.3.4. Average Sortie Duration (ASD).
HOURS FLOWN
SORTIES FLOWN
       A2.3.4.1. Hourly UTE Rate.
HOURS FLOWN
PAA AIRCRAFT/SYSTEMS
       A2.3.4.2. Sortie UTE Rate.
SORTIES FLOWN
PAA AIRCRAFT/SYSTEMS
   A2.3.5. Base Repair Cycle Time.
PRE-MAINTENANCE DAYS + REPAIR DAYS + POST-MAINTENANCE DAYS
30                                                              ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


     A2.3.5.1. Pre-Maintenance Time.
TOTAL NUMBER OF DAYS IN PRE-MAINTENANCE
TOTAL NUMBER OF ITEMS TURNED IN
     A2.3.5.2. Post-Maintenance Time.
TOTAL NUMBER OF DAYS IN POST-MAINTENANCE
TOTAL NUMBER OF ITEMS TURNED IN
     A2.3.5.3. Repair Time.
TOTAL NUMBER OF DAYS IN REPAIR
TOTAL NUMBER OF ITEMS TURNED IN
  A2.3.6. Cannibalization Rate.
(# OF ACFT TO ACFT OR RSP CANNS) + (# OF ENGINE TO ACFT OR RSP CANNS)
TOTAL SORTIES FLOWN                                         X 100
  A2.3.7. Flying Scheduling Effectiveness (FSE) Rate.
     A2.3.7.1. Use ACCI 21-165 as the official source for all Flying Scheduled Effectiveness
     formulas unless otherwise directed.
     A2.3.7.2. FSE Rate.
(ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED – CHARGEABLE DEVIATIONS)
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                                            X 100
     A2.3.7.3. Adjusted Sorties Scheduled. Total Sorties Schedule – Sorties Cancelled for
     Monthly & Yearly UTE Rate + Sorties Added for End of FY UTE Close Out.
     A2.3.7.4. Total Sorties Scheduled. Total Sorties Flown + Cancellations – Additions +
     Ground Aborts not Spared.
     A2.3.7.5. For RCS: ACC-A4Q(M)9302 reporting purposes, total deviations include all
     deviations in the given category. Those deviations considered FSE computable are
     entered in the FSE column. ACCI 21-165 provides guidance on these deviations. For
     example, a scheduled line that ground aborts and is subsequently filled with a spare
     aircraft is not counted in the deviations portion of this formula. The ground abort does
     count toward the Ground Abort and Total Abort rates. If a scheduled line that ground
     aborts is not filled by a spare aircraft, the lost sortie is a deviation and is counted toward
     FSE. The abort is also included in the Ground Abort and Total Abort rates.
     A2.3.7.6. Breakdown of Deviation Categories. These rates reflect the sum of all
     Calculated Deviations in the various cause code categories. All Deviations are defined
     per ACCI 21-165.
        A2.3.7.6.1. Maintenance (MT_ & GA_) Deviation Rate.
MAINTENANCE DEVIATIONS
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                                  X 100
        A2.3.7.6.2. Operations (OP_) Deviation Rate.
OPERATIONS DEVIATIONS
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                                             31


ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
         A2.3.7.6.3. Supply (SU_) Deviations Rate.
TOTAL SUPPLY DEVIATIONS
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
         A2.3.7.6.4. Higher Headquarters (HQ_) Deviation Rate.
TOTAL HHQ DEVIATIONS
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
         A2.3.7.6.5. Weather (WX_) Deviation Rate.
WEATHER DEVIATIONS
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
         A2.3.7.6.6. Sympathy Deviation (SY_) Rate.
TOTAL SYMPATHY DEVIATIONS
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
         A2.3.7.6.7. Air Traffic Control (ATC) Deviation Rate.
TOTAL ATC DEVIATIONS
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
         A2.3.7.6.8. Other (OT_) Deviation Rate.
TOTAL OTHER DEVIATIONS
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
         A2.3.7.6.9. UTE Deviation Rate.
TOTAL UTE DEVIATIONS
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
         A2.3.7.6.10. Maintenance and Operations Deviation Rate.
(MAINTENANCE DEVIATIONS + OPERATIONS DEVIATIONS)
ADJUSTED SORTIES SCHEDULED                                           X 100
             A2.3.7.6.10.1. Use the same number of maintenance and operations deviations
             used to compute the FSE rate.
             A2.3.7.6.10.2. This rate is a subset of the FSE rate.
   A2.3.8. Isochronal Inspection (ISO) Rate.
TOTAL HOURS OF ALL POSSESSED AIRCRAFT UNTIL NEXT ISO
TOTAL POSSESSED AIRCRAFT ASSIGNED                                            X 100
   A2.3.9. Maintenance Man-hours Per Flying Hour.
TOTAL DIRECT MAN-HOURS DOCUMENTED AGAINST AIRCRAFT AND ENGINES
TOTAL HOURS FLOWN

NOTE: Excludes PMEL, AGE, SE, and Transient Maintenance Hours.
32                                                      ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012


  A2.3.10. Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness (MSE) Rate.
TOTAL POINTS EARNED
TOTAL POINTS POSSIBLE                                               X 100
  A2.3.11. Monthly JDD Error Rate After Corrections.
(TOTAL DDRS IN ERROR – TOTAL DDRS CORRECTED)
TOTAL DDRS IN ERROR                                                 X 100
  A2.3.12. Monthly JDD Error Rate.
TOTAL DDRS IN ERROR
TOTAL DDRS CHECKED                                                  X 100
  A2.3.13. Personnel Availability (PA) Rate.
TOTAL NUMBER OF PERSONNEL AVAILABLE
TOTAL NUMBER OF PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED                                        X 100
  A2.3.14. Phase Flow (PF) Rate.
TOTAL HOURS OF ALL POSSESSED AIRCRAFT UNTIL NEXT PHASE
TOTAL POSSESSED AIRCRAFT ASSIGNED                                           X 100
  A2.3.15. Primary Possessed (PP) Rate.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF POSSESSED AIRCRAFT
TOTAL UNIT AIRCRAFT PAA                                             X 100
  A2.3.16. Repair Cycle Processing (RCP) Total Time/Rate.
(PRE-MX DAYS + REPAIR DAYS + POST-MX DAYS) – AWP DAYS
NUMBER OF ITEMS TURNED IN                             X 100
  A2.3.17. Repeat/Recur.
     A2.3.17.1. Repeat Rate.
TOTAL REPEATS
TOTAL PILOT REPORTED DISCREPANCIES                          X 100
     A2.3.17.2. Recur Rate.
TOTAL RECURS
TOTAL PILOT REPORTED DISCREPANCIES                          X 100
     A2.3.17.3. Total Repeat/Recur Rate.
(TOTAL REPEATS) + (TOTAL RECURS)
TOTAL PILOT REPORTED DISCREPANCIES                          X 100
  A2.3.18. Total Delayed Discrepancy Rate (DDR).
TOTAL (SNAPSHOT) AWM + AWP DISCREPANCIES
AVERAGE AIRCRAFT POSSESSED                                          X 100
     A2.3.18.1. Awaiting Maintenance (AWM) Rate.
TOTAL (SNAPSHOT) AWM DISCREPANCIES
ACCI21-118 2 AUGUST 2012                                   33


AVERAGE AIRCRAFT POSSESSED                         X 100
     A2.3.18.2. Awaiting Maintenance (AWP) Rate.
TOTAL (SNAPSHOT) AWP DISCREPANCIES
AVERAGE AIRCRAFT POSSESSED                         X 100
  A2.3.19. Upgrade Training (UT) Rate.
TOTAL NUMBER OF TECHNICIANS IN UPGRADE TRAINING
TOTAL NUMBER OF TECHNICIANS                        X 100
  A2.3.20. Workcenter Utilization Rate.
DIRECT MAN-HOURS DOCUMENTED
DIRECT MAN-HOURS ASSIGNED                          X 100
