BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               ACC INSTRUCTION 36-2854
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                5 DECEMBER 2000
                                                                        Certified Current 17 June 2010
                                                                                             Personnel

                                                                   AIR COMBAT COMMAND (ACC)
                                                                       UTILIZATION RATE (UTE )
                                                                          DOWN DAY PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/DOTO                                                           Certified by: HQ ACC/DO
                                                                     (Maj Gen Donald A. Lamontagne)
Supersedes ACCI 36-2854, 22 May 1998                                                        Pages: 2

This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs. This publication estab-
lishes the ACC UTE Down Day Program and provides implementation guidance to all ACC units. This
publication does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units
and members. Send comments and suggested improvements to this publication on AF Form 847, Recom-
mendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to HQ ACC/DOTO, 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite
101, Langley AFB VA 23665-2789.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Changes the name of the program to reflect ACC's primary mission of flying aircraft. Requires flying
units to use the Flying Hour Program sortie goals as the criteria for awarding a UTE Down Day. Requires
wing commanders to plan and schedule a potential UTE Down Day each month. Changed material is
indicated by a bar ( | ).


1. General Guidance:
   1.1. Program Objective. The ACC UTE Down Day Program allows commanders of ACC flying
   units to award a unit down day if the unit meets or exceeds its sortie goals.
   1.2. Responsibilities:
       1.2.1. The intent of the ACC UTE Down Day Program is to reward exceptional productivity in
       accomplishing the command's primary mission and motivate ACC personnel. All unit personnel
       are involved and contribute to achieving the goal. For all organizations, commanders will tie
       UTE Down Days to accomplishments that can be understood by all. There is a direct connection
       between individual effort and unit performance.
2                                                             ACCI36-2854 5 DECEMBER 2000


       1.2.1.1. Flying wing commanders may award a UTE Down Day to their organizations if they
       meet or exceed monthly sortie goals derived from their flying hour program as described in
       paragraph 1.2.1.1.1. Commanders of organizations not assigned to flying wings may use per-
       formance measures they deem appropriate. Examples of performance measures that could be
       selected are force preservation, combat potential, quality of life, sustaining infrastructure,
       managing OPTEMPO, and managing cost.
           1.2.1.1.1. Monthly sortie goals will be derived from the unit's annual FHP flow plan. If
           the unit meets or exceeds its sorties programmed for the month, it will consider the goal
           met.
       1.2.1.2. Units will schedule and plan a UTE Down Day each month. Wing commanders will
       make every effort to schedule potential UTE Down Days to provide members a 4 day weekend
       in conjunction with the traditional holidays for Memorial Day, July 4th, Labor Day, and
       Thanksgiving. Organizations not assigned to flying wings will periodically reexamine their
       selected performance measures to ensure they are adequately challenging and fostering contin-
       uous improvement.
       1.2.1.3. All units must achieve their monthly sortie goals in order for a flying wing com-
       mander to award a UTE Down Day for the entire wing.
       1.2.1.4. Commanders will make allowances for critical personnel required to perform official
       duties on UTE Down Days by providing them an alternate day off.
    1.2.2. Civilian employees within ACC organizations cannot be awarded UTE Down Days. Com-
    manders should give them the option to work, take annual leave, leave without pay, or use earned
    compensatory time off on UTE Down Days.
    1.2.3. HQ ACC/DO will monitor this program and review it annually to ensure program objec-
    tives are being met.



                                          JOHN P. JUMPER, General, USAF
                                          Commander
