BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
388 FIGHTER WING                                                          21-152

                                                                         388 FIGHTER WING
                                                                                 Supplement

                                                                             12 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                    ENGINE TRENDING AND DIAGNOTIC
                                                                  (ET&D) PROGRAM


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 388 MOS/MXOOE                         Certified by: 388 MXG/CC (Col. Roger L. Rostvold)
                                                                                   Pages: 4



ACCI 21-152, 20 April 2000, Certified Current 05 May 2008, is supplemented as follows:

This supplement establishes local policies and procedures to be followed by all applicable units
that interface with Comprehensive Engine Trending and Diagnostics System (CETADS) and
Intelligent Trending and Diagnostic System (ITADS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the 388 Maintenance Operations Squadron/Engine
Management Branch (MOS/MXOOE) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

4.2. (Added)When CETADS indicates evidence of engine deterioration and/or causes
diagnostic troubleshooting, the Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU) Engine Trending &
Diagnostic monitor will notify the production supervisor and the wing project NCO. The engine
will be assigned to the "WATCH" status. The AMU monitor will initiate maintenance actions on
the engine and ensure timely feedback to the wing project NCO on significant maintenance
actions.
4.2.1. (Added)Significant maintenance actions include, but are not limited to, engine
instrumentation calibration/repair, engine inspections, fault analysis troubleshooting, and
 2                                               ACCI21-152_388FWSUP 12 AUGUST 2009


removal and replacement of components. After troubleshooting procedures are accomplished on
a particular engine, the AMU ET&D monitor will coordinate with the wing project NCO on
corrective actions and will document engine maintenance actions in Core Automated
Maintenance System (CAMS).
8.1.1. (Added)The wing ET&D project NCO is the contact for all ET&D matters. The wing
project NCO will act as the wing monitor and will trend, plot and analyze daily the data supplied
by the AMU monitors. In addition, the wing project NCO will be in contact with performance
engineers on matters concerning ET&D, and will coordinate with performance engineers on all
actions not covered in technical orders.
8.6.Coordinate with propulsion flight chief, Component Maintenance Squadron (CMS)
maintenance supervision, depot engineers and if needed, General Electric (GE) contractors on
matters that would drive engine removal or make aircraft unavailable because of a trend that
shows adverse deterioration and/or causes for diagnostic troubleshooting.
8.11.Monitor all "WATCH" status engines and ensure all corrective actions meet prescribed
technical order requirements. Engines on "WATCH" status should go TDY or off station only if
they can be down loaded and processed in CETADS after each flight (no cross-country hops).
This restriction may be waived by OG/CC, MXG/CC or deputies.
8.12.1. (Added)Be the primary contact with software engineers to report all program
deficiencies and software configuration for CETADS and ITADS.
8.16. (Added)Host computer and wing project NCO computer will be the backup to the AMU’s
CETADS computer.
9.1.1. (Added)Aircraft Maintenance Units: Each unit will provide the wing project NCO with
the names of personnel who are assigned as the primary and alternate ET&D monitors or points
of contact. The monitors should not be rotated unless absolutely necessary. Rotating monitors
greatly hampers the reliability and management of the respective system, thus degrading the
program.
9.2.1. (Added)The ET&D monitor will have a Ground Station Unit (GSU) computer supplied
by the wing project NCO. This computer will be sub-located in the AMU in a central location
accessible at all times by flight-line technicians. It must have access to the base LAN.
9.3.1. (Added)All engine databases will be updated daily to reflect current status of engines
assigned.
9.3.2. (Added)All sorties during any given day will be downloaded and processed into
CETADS no later than 2400 hours daily or 2 hours after the last sortie landing. Engines on
"WATCH" status will be downloaded after each flight and processed to analyze for the reason
the engine is on "WATCH" status before next sortie. When possible, aircraft with engines on
"WATCH" status should be scheduled for flight lead positions in order to prevent part-throttle
take-offs. Part-throttle take-offs do not generate valid performance trend data.
9.3.3. (Added)AMU will send a qualified individual with a mobile GSU computer on each
deployment to process, trend and transfer data either to the host system via modem (if available)
daily or send the XXXXXXXX.COP file via e-mail daily to the project NCO and Engine
Management Element (EME) . Each AMU should procure and maintain a portable CETADS
ACCI21-152_388FWSUP 12 AUGUST 2009                                                          3


GSU (laptop) for use on deployments. This laptop will be dedicated to CETADS and must be
accessible without delay.
9.3.4. (Added)Aircraft deploying to an overseas area should have established trend data. Spare
engines sent to the deployed location that do not have trend data established will be put on
"WATCH" status until a minimum of five flights is obtained and a good trend history
established.
9.5.1. (Added)The ET&D monitor or a qualified technician will analyze available engine fault
data to identify and recommend maintenance actions. The ET&D monitor and flight-line
technicians are strongly encouraged to use Air Force Engineering Technical Service (AFETS),
GE representatives, and the project NCO to accurately diagnose and troubleshoot engine faults.




                                           SCOTT L. DENNIS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                          ACCI21-152_388FWSUP 12 AUGUST 2009


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CETADS—Comprehensive Engine Trending and Diagnostics System
ET&DP—ENGINE TRENDING AND DIAGNOTIC PROGRAM
MOS/MXOOE—Maintenance Operations Squadron/Engine Management Branch
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TOC—Table of Contents
ITADS—Intelligent Trending and Diagnostic System
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
GE—General Electric
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
CMS—Component Maintenance Squadron
GSU—Ground Station Unit
AFETS—Air Force Engineering Technical Service
EME—Engine Management Element
