BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR COMBAT COMMAND 21-105
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                        13 MAY 2003
                                               INCORPORATING CHANGE 1, 9 APRIL 2007
                                                                    BEALE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                 9 MARCH 2011

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                                   FABRICATION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available digitally.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/LGMS                                                    Certified by: HQ ACC/LGM
Supersedes: ACCI21-105, 30 March 2001                                 (Lt Col Kenneth O. Lynn)
                                                                                      Pages: 65
                                         (BEALEAFB)
OPR: 9 MXS/MXMFS                                                        Certified by: 9 MXG/CC
                                                                        (Col Robert A. Moriarty)
                                                                                          Pages:


It implements policy guidance in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Managing Aerospace
Equipment Maintenance, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-105, Aerospace Equipment
Structural Maintenance, and AFI 21-124, Air Force Oil Analysis Program (OAP). This
instruction provides guidance and direction necessary to develop an effective, Aircraft Metals
Technology Program, Nondestructive Inspection Program, Aircraft Structural Maintenance
Program, and Survival Equipment Program. ACC tenant units shall comply with areas of this
instruction that apply to their operation. This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard
(ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members. All ACC Maintenance
Squadrons (MXS) and Equipment Maintenance Squadrons (EMS) with Fabrication Flights or
any of the sections in this instruction shall maintain a current copy of this instruction. Send
comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through channels to HQ ACC/LGMS, 216 Hunting Ave, Langley AFB, Virginia
23665.

This interim change outlines the requirement to perform F-22 Signature Assessment System
(SAS) and aircraft Outer Mold Line (OML) Audits and added Attachment 4, F-22 Outer Mold
Line Audit. Ensure all records created as a result of processes in this document are maintained in
 2                                         ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 37-123 (to be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and
are disposed of IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting record managers as required. A bar (|) indicates a
revision from the previous edition.

(BEALEAFB) This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Managing
Aerospace Equipment maintenance, and Air Force Instruction (AF) 21-105, Air Combat
Command Instruction 21-105, Fabrication Program Aerospace Equipment Structural
maintenance, and AFI 21-124, Air Force Oil Analysis Program (OAP). This instruction
establishes the policies and procedures for aircraft and support equipment corrosion prevention
programs. This instruction applies to all ACC Maintenance Squadrons (MXS) and Equipment
Maintenance Squadrons (EMS) with Fabrication Flights or any of the sections in this instruction
shall maintain a current copy of this instruction. Send comments and suggested improvements on
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through the Beale AFB Freedom
of Information Act Office (9 CS/SCOK), 6252 B St, Beale AFB Ca 95903. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.‖
Additionally, if the publication generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all
applicable Reports Control Numbers in accordance with AFI 33-324.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                             3



                                            Chapter 1

                    AIRCRAFT METALS TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM

1.1. Purpose of Aircraft Metals Technology (AFSC 2A7X1). Supports aircraft maintenance,
aircraft support equipment maintenance through the manufacture and repair of aircraft
components/parts and support equipment parts. Manufactures, reworks, welds, cuts, brazes,
forges, solders, and assembles metals and machined parts in the fabrication of metal parts and
components. Aircraft Metals Technology also supports aircraft maintenance by removing faulty
hardware from aircraft and inspecting aircraft parts for wear using calipers, gauges and
micrometers. Utilizes blueprints to fabricate aircraft parts, tools, fixtures and miscellaneous
items. The manufacturing and repairing is accomplished by forming raw stock using milling
machines, lathes, tool and cutter grinder, drill presses, surface grinders, radial arm drill presses
and various pneumatic hand tools. In addition to these processes, parts are manufactured and
repaired using heat treatment along with fusion welding using tungsten inert gas, metallic inert
gas, shield arc, oxy/acetylene and plasma arc cutting. Maintains shop equipment by performing
preventative maintenance and other required maintenance on shop equipment.
1.2. HQ ACC/LGM Responsibilities.
   1.2.1. Manages the command Aircraft Metals Technology Program.
   1.2.2. Designates a senior NCO to manage the program and perform the following
   responsibilities:
   1.2.3. Manages the Aircraft Metals Technology career field for ACC.
   1.2.4. Manages the ACC welder certification program IAW T.O. 00-25-252 and this
   instruction.
   1.2.5. Approves all intra-command Aircraft Metals Technology TDY manning assistance
   requests.
   1.2.6. Develops and coordinates ACC policy and procedures for Aircraft Metals Technology
   functions.
1.3. Maintenance Group Commander Responsibilities.
   1.3.1. Certifying official for unit level welding examination. May designate responsibility to
   the welder’s Squadron Maintenance Operations Officer/ Superintendent.
1.4. Maintenance Squadron Commander Responsibilities.
   1.4.1. Ensures funding is available for Aircraft Metals Technology personnel who will be
   certified at an Air Logistics Center (ALC) to perform welding operations.
1.5. Fabrication Flight Chief Responsibilities.
   1.5.1. Ensures all assigned journeyman and craftsman assigned to the Aircraft Metals
   Technology Section are certified IAW T.O. 00-25-252, Certification of Military Aircraft,
   Missile & Support Equipment Welders, to perform welding operations in each metal group.
   1.5.2. Determines if welders should be qualified by an ALC or locally. If this is going to be
   done at an ALC, ensures funding is forecasted.
 4                                          ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


1.6. Aircraft Metals Technology Section Chief Responsibilities.
     1.6.1. Certifies Aircraft Metals Technology personnel on specified qualification groups in
     paragraph 1.4.1 and maintains certification for all assigned journeyman and craftsman.
     1.6.2. Coordinates requests for an ALC or other qualified organization to qualify welders. If
     qualification and certification is accomplished locally, coordinates the certification
     requirements with the NDI section to ensure x-ray capability exists.
     1.6.3. The welder’s supervisor responsible for completing DD Form 2757 (welding
     examination record), block 20 and 20a must be a 7-level Aircraft Metals Technology
     technician with current certification in all metal groups.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                          5


                                           Chapter 2

                     NONDESTRUCTIVE INSPECTION PROGRAM

2.1. Purpose of Nondestructive Inspection (NDI) and Oil Analysis Program (OAP) (AFSC
2A7X2).
   2.1.1. NDI is a group of inspection methods used to investigate the quality, integrity,
   properties and dimensions of materials and components without damaging or impairing their
   serviceability. These inspection methods primarily are liquid fluorescent penetrant, magnetic
   particle, eddy current, ultrasonic and radiographic. NDI extends the life of aircraft, engines
   and related support equipment by detecting defects, i.e., cracks, voids, delaminations and
   foreign objects.
   2.1.2. The OAP is used to measure and evaluate internal engine wear metal by interpreting
   oil analysis results. The engine condition is assessed based on the diagnosis of the probable
   source of the wear metal. Based on this assessment, the OAP Laboratory makes a
   maintenance or operational recommendation to the user. The OAP is an essential part of
   aircraft maintenance because it helps determine the condition of aircraft engines.
2.2. HQ ACC/LGM Responsibilities.
   2.2.1. Manage the command NDI and Oil Analysis Program.
   2.2.2. Designate a senior NCO to manage the program and perform the following
   responsibilities:
       2.2.2.1. Manage the NDI career field for ACC.
       2.2.2.2. Support the Air Force NDI Program Office by participating in NDI equipment
       evaluations, field surveys, NDI Integrated Process Teams (IPT), NDI Product
       Improvement Teams (PIT), Air Force NDI managers meetings/working groups and
       advisory board meetings.
       2.2.2.3. Approve all intra-command NDI TDY manning assistance requests.
       2.2.2.4. Develop and coordinate ACC policy and procedures for NDI and OAP
       functions.
2.3. Wing Commanders Responsibilities.
   2.3.1. Ensures an effective NDI and Oil Analysis Program is maintained.
2.4. Maintenance Squadron Commander Responsibilities.
   2.4.1. Ensures only properly trained personnel with AFSC 2A7X2 operate NDI equipment
   and perform NDI.
   2.4.2. Ensures visual inspections are not performed by NDI personnel unless specifically
   called for by technical orders.
2.5. NDI Section Chief Responsibilities.
   2.5.1. Organizes, directs and manages the Wing NDI Program IAW T.O. 33B-1-1 and other
   applicable directives.
6                                          ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


    2.5.2. Ensures all NDI equipment required to perform NDI on assigned weapon systems and
    support equipment is available and operational.
    2.5.3. Ensures the following environmental controls are maintained where radiographic film
    is stored and where the OAP spectrometers are operated:
       2.5.3.1. Temperature should be below 75 degrees F.
       2.5.3.2. Humidity below 50 percent.
    2.5.4. Ensures NDI personnel do not make serviceability determinations of materials and
    components except when directed to do so by specific directives.
    2.5.5. Ensures accurate oil analysis data is distributed to the central Air Force database
    monthly.
    2.5.6. Ensures all deployable spectrometers are properly secured and protected before being
    deployed out of the OAP Laboratory.
    2.5.7. Performs and documents daily standardization checks IAW applicable technical data
    on all assigned spectrometers every duty day except three duty days prior to deployments for
    that specific spectrometer deploying and three duty days after receipt of the spectrometer
    returning from a deployment.
    2.5.8. Ensures all assigned spectrometers are left in standby mode when not being used
    except when unit is being prepared for deployment or other required movement outside the
    NDI/OAP facility and during transportation to new location.
    2.5.9. Develops a local checklist IAW T.O. 00-5-1 to use for analyzing correlation samples.
    2.5.10. Ensures all assigned oil analysis spectrometers are Joint Oil Analysis Program
    (JOAP) approved and certified IAW TO 33-1-37-1.
    2.5.11. Requests contractor repair through the Air Force Oil Analysis Program Office
    whenever an oil analysis spectrometer cannot be repaired locally or is out of service due to
    maintenance for more than 24 hours.
    2.5.12. Complies with contingency operations in TO 33-1-37-2         when no back up oil
    analysis spectrometer is available locally.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                           7


                                           Chapter 3

     AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL MAINTENANCE AND CORROSION CONTROL
                            PROGRAM

3.1. Purpose of Aircraft Structural Maintenance (ASM) (AFSC 2A7X3). This chapter
assigns responsibilities and establishes policies/procedures for implementing and maintaining the
aircraft structural maintenance and corrosion control program for aircraft, aerospace ground
equipment (AGE), communications, electronics and meteorological (CEM) equipment and other
end items relative to the functions of Air Combat Command.
   3.1.1. Aircraft Structural Maintenance incorporates design, repair and fabrication of metal,
   fiberglass, plastic and composite structures for aircraft. Corrosion identification, prevention
   and treatment procedures as well as removal and application of Radar Absorbing Material
   (RAM) are also integral components of ASM. All aspects of ASM are geared towards
   maintaining the structural integrity and Low Observable systems at the organizational and
   intermediate levels.
   3.1.2. Corrosion control programs shall be oriented towards the prevention and control of
   corrosion through frequent cleaning, corrosion inspection and early detection, application of
   proper treatment materials/procedures, and maintenance painting. Frequent cleaning has
   proven to be the most effective means of preventing corrosion. Maintenance painting is
   defined for field purposes as spot painting, sectionalized painting, and complete scuff sand
   and overcoat.
3.2. HQ ACC/LGM Responsibilities.
   3.2.1. Manage the command's aircraft structural maintenance (ASM) and corrosion control
   program.
   3.2.2. Designate a senior NCO to manage the program and perform the following
   responsibilities:
       3.2.2.1. Manage the Aircraft Structural Maintenance career field for ACC.
       3.2.2.2. Represent ACC at assigned weapon systems corrosion prevention advisory
       boards (CPAB), AF/DOD corrosion conferences and field surveys.
       3.2.2.3. Approve all intra-command ASM TDY manning assistance requests.
       3.2.2.4. Develop and coordinates ACC policy and procedures for ASM functions.
       3.2.2.5. Represent ACC at 2A7X3 utilization and training workshops.
       3.2.2.6. Forecast and ensure scheduling of 2A7X3 supplemental training.
3.3. Wing Commander Responsibilities.
   3.3.1. Approves all aircraft paint waiver requests before submittal to HQ ACC/LGM.
   3.3.2. Determines organization responsible for management of aircraft wash facility.
3.4. Maintenance Group Commander Responsibilities.
   3.4.1. Establishes and maintains an effective corrosion prevention and control program.
 8                                          ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


     3.4.2. Ensures adequate facilities, equipment, manpower, material and funding are available
     to support a sound corrosion prevention and control program. The minimum requirements
     are:
        3.4.2.1. Providing a facility for maintenance painting assigned aircraft on a year round
        basis.
        3.4.2.2. Ensuring requirements outlined in AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements
        are met for support equipment (SE) and aircraft small parts. This capability can be
        incorporated in the aircraft corrosion control facility if space permits.
        3.4.2.3. Ensuring facility control technology meets local, state and federal Environmental
        Protection Agency requirements in conjunction with current National Emission Standards
        for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP).
     3.4.3. Ensuring adequate wash rack facilities are available to wash aircraft on a year round
     basis. This requirement can be satisfied with any one or more of the following:
        3.4.3.1. A specially designed corrosion control facility completely enclosed, heated with
        environmentally controlled ventilation and waste disposal systems, and equipped with all
        utilities necessary for accomplishing all facets of aircraft corrosion control.
        3.4.3.2. An environmentally compliant enclosed or covered wash rack.
            3.4.3.2.1. An outside wash rack may be used on an interim basis when weather
            conditions permit and when approved by Base Civil Engineer.
     3.4.4. Appoints key personnel to the following positions to ensure corrosion prevention and
     control measures are effective for the entire wing:
        3.4.4.1. Appoints a Wing Corrosion Program Manager to ensure all facets of corrosion
        prevention are being conducted throughout the wing.
        3.4.4.2. Appoints an aircraft wash rack facility manager to ensure proper cleaning
        materials, equipment and supplies are maintained in accordance with applicable technical
        orders, AFI 21-101 and ACC supplements.
     3.4.5. Ensures ASM trainees have an opportunity to obtain proficiency in all aspects of their
     career field associated with assigned weapon systems.
     3.4.6. Ensures frequency of wash/rinse cycles are maintained IAW T.O. 1-1-691, and
     revised as necessary based on changes in mission and location.
        3.4.6.1. Report any aircraft wash overdue more than 30 days with an official memo to
        HQ ACC/LGM not later than seven days after the 30-day overdue date. When aircraft
        are located in severe corrosion environments the overdue wash reporting requirement is
        15 days. Within this memo, include reason for overdue and corrective action taken to
        prevent further occurrences.
     3.4.7. Ensures Plans, Scheduling & Documentation sections schedule aircraft washes
     through Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS).
3.5. Wing Corrosion Program Manager Responsibilities.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                           9


  3.5.1. The wing corrosion program manager is the wing clearinghouse for all aircraft and
  support equipment cleaning, corrosion and organic coatings related information and taskings.
  3.5.2. Ensures creation of a wing supplement to this instruction to include, but not limited to
  the following:
     3.5.2.1. Local corrosion prevention training requirements.
     3.5.2.2. NAF, Wing, OG and Fighter/Bomber Squadron commander aircraft designation
     and marking requirements of identified aircraft.
     3.5.2.3. Local unit marking requirements e.g. tail stripes, crew names, nose art (if
     approved), etc,
     3.5.2.4. Travel pod care responsibilities, marking and disposition.
     3.5.2.5. Aircraft paint identification placard size, shape and information requirements.
  3.5.3. Ensures corrosion inspections are accomplished during each phase/periodic inspection
  for aircraft and equipment assigned.
  3.5.4. Ensures corrosion prevention and treatment procedures are performed within technical
  order requirements.
  3.5.5. Ensures only authorized chemical cleaning materials and corrosion removal methods
  are used and that Material Safety Data Sheets are available for each chemical used.
  3.5.6. Ensures required equipment is obtained for an efficient and effective corrosion
  prevention and control program.
  3.5.7. Trains AMXS squadrons' wash crew supervisor(s) in all aspects of aircraft wash and
  develops local checklists.
  3.5.8. Provides a current copy of the Qualified Products Listing (QPL) for Mil-Spec
  approved cleaners for assigned aircraft and equipment every six (6) months to unit
  supervision, aircraft wash rack, support sections, EMS, CMS, and/or MXS Flight Chiefs.
  The QPL identifies qualified products within a particular Mil-spec and are the only approved
  materials for use on Air Force aircraft, subsystems and support equipment. Products not
  listed on the QPL are unauthorized and will not be used unless specific guidance is given in
  weapon system specific technical data. Information and search capabilities for QPLs may be
  located at the Air Force Corrosion Prevention and Control Office web site:
  /https://afcpco.robins/af.mil/.
  3.5.9. Enforces the use of approved coating materials and cleaning compounds as
  determined by SA-ALC/SFTT for cleaning compounds and Air Force Research Laboratory
  (AFRL/MLSA) for coating materials.
  3.5.10. Reports corrosion program deficiencies through proper channels, as required.
  3.5.11. Ensures unit’s corrosion related training courses are administered as intended by the
  MAJCOM. An initial interactive course with annual refresher training as the minimum.
  Local corrosion training programs may be initiated as deemed necessary due to local
  corrosive environment, weapon system corrosion susceptibility and forward operating
  environments.
 10                                        ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


   3.5.12. Determines the adequacy of corrosion control work cards for assigned equipment
   based on mission and location.
3.7. Aircraft Maintenance Operations Officer Responsibilities.
   3.7.1. Ensures frequency-of-cleaning/wash cycles are established for assigned aircraft to
   maximize corrosion prevention. Monitors aircraft wash schedules to eliminate overdue
   washes. In no case will unit wash cycles exceed the maximum wash cycles listed in T.O. 1-
   1-691.
   3.7.2. Appoints an experienced/qualified wash crew supervisor, 5-level or above. The wash
   rack supervisor will be trained by a 7-level aircraft structural maintenance technician and
   training documented in the wash rack supervisor’s training record.
   3.7.3. Provides a task trained and qualified aircraft wash crew, to include as a minimum, a
   dedicated crew chief and/or assistant dedicated crew chief and ensures availability of
   personnel protective equipment within the work center.
   3.7.4. (Added-BEALEAFB) Coordinate and schedule use of the wash rack facility through
   the 9th Maintenance Operations Squadron Plans, Scheduling, and Documentation (9
   MOS/MXOOP) section for aircraft washes.
   3.7.5. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure all aircraft are scheduled on a 180-day wash cycle.
   Aircraft will be washed more frequently as necessary due to environmental conditions,
   cannibalizations, phase, heavy maintenance, etc. Deviations must be coordinated at the daily
   maintenance meeting. Wash rack use for temporary duty units is offered on a space available
   basis only and must be coordinated through 9 MXS Production Supervisor and the
   maintenance operations center.
   3.7.6. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure weekend wash rack usage is coordinated through the 9
   MXS Production Supervisor no later than the Friday afternoon 9 MXG Production Meeting.
   3.7.7. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure any unscheduled washes are coordinated through 9
   MXS Production Supervisor and 9 MOS/MXOOP.
   3.7.8. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure aircraft requiring exterior paint touch-up, are
   thoroughly washed prior to application of coating. Aircraft will not be flown after the pre-
   paint wash is completed. Any aircraft not meeting cleanliness requirements listed in para.
   3.7.8. will be directed back to the wash rack. Spot washes are not acceptable. This provision
   includes all parts removed for back shop maintenance to ensure adequate bench-checking and
   paint application.
   3.7.9. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure a cleanliness inspection of aircraft is accomplished
   after completion of the aircraft wash prior to towing off the wash rack. NOTE: Definition of
   clean: All references to the condition of “clean” pertain to the following description: The
   aircraft surface will be considered clean when all residue, oily film, and streaking have been
   removed to the point where it cannot be visually seen and/or a clean cloth wiped over the
   surface shows no contamination on the surface of the cloth.
3.8. Wash Rack Facility Manager Responsibilities.
   3.8.1. Ensures the required number and size of fire extinguishers are available and
   serviceable.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                           11


   3.8.2. Ensures grounding points are inspected and approved IAW T.O. 00-25-172.
   3.8.3. Ensures fall protection lifeline cables are installed when required and properly
   maintained IAW AFOSH Stds 91-501 and 91-100.
   3.8.4. Ensures aircraft wash rack has at least two approved cleaners IAW T.O. 1-1-691 and
   properly used, to include proper mix ratio and the correct cleaner for each area cleaned.
   3.8.5. Ensures wash rack facility and surrounding area is kept clean and properly maintained.
   3.8.6. Maintains all wash rack equipment in serviceable condition, i.e., water hoses, pumps,
   air hoses, powered wash equipment, support equipment, etc.
   3.8.7. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure the wash rack is available for sign out through the
   ASM section.
   3.8.8. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure personal protective equipment (PPE) items and
   consumables (soap, tape, etc.) are maintained and readily available for owning activity
   aircraft wash crews.
   3.8.9. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure ASM personnel inspect the wash rack and pad and
   account for all equipment and composite tool kit items at the completion of every wash.
3.9. Wash Crew Supervisor Responsibilities.
   3.9.1. Provides daily safety briefings explaining hazards associated with wash rack
   operations.
   3.9.2. Ensures aircraft wash crews are task trained and qualified.
   3.9.3. Ensures proper safety equipment, personal protective equipment and cleaning
   materials are serviceable and properly used IAW AFOSH Stds 91-501and 91-100.
   3.9.4. Enters the requirement for wash, performs cleanliness inspection, signs the wash
   completion and enters the lubrication requirement in the AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance
   Discrepancy and Work Document.
   3.9.5. Ensures that fall protection is serviceable, and used when required (Reference AFOSH
   Stds 91-501 and 91-100).
   3.9.6. Ensures aircraft are properly grounded IAW T.O. 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of
   Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding.
   3.9.7. Inspects all wash rack equipment for serviceability, i.e., water hoses, pumps, air hoses,
   powered wash equipment, support equipment, etc prior to use.
   3.9.8. Ensures wash rack facility and surrounding area is clean before and after use.
      3.9.8.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) Inspect and sign out the wash rack and pad on a locally
      manufactured sign in/sign out form before beginning an aircraft wash. This indicates
      acceptance of the condition of the wash rack for the duration of the wash.
   3.9.9. (Added-BEALEAFB) Report facility and equipment malfunctions to Wash Rack
   Facility Manager or ASM section immediately.
 12                                        ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


   3.9.10. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure aircraft wash kit materials are accounted for at all
   times, properly inventoried and returned to wash kit lockers upon completion of every
   aircraft wash.
   3.9.11. (Added-BEALEAFB) Contact ASM production supervisor to inspect and turn over
   the wash rack and pad after wash completion.
   3.9.12. (Added-BEALEAFB) Accompany ASM personnel during inspection of the wash
   rack for trash, equipment accountability, soap and lubricant residue, and overall cleanliness.
   After the wash rack has passed inspection, the sign in/sign out form will be signed by the
   Wash Rack Supervisor, 9 MXS Production Supervisor, or ASM personnel, releasing the
   Wash Crew Supervisor from responsibility of the wash rack.
3.10. Quality Assurance Responsibilities.
   3.10.1. Frequently spot-check aircraft for cleanliness and lubrication after wash.
   3.10.2. Monitors the use of approved coating materials and cleaning compounds as
   determined by SA-ALC/SFTT for cleaning compounds and AFRL/MLSA for coating
   materials.
   3.10.3. (Added-BEALEAFB) Evaluate aircraft and Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE)
   washes for compliance.
   3.10.4. (Added-BEALEAFB) Evaluate the quality of phase corrosion inspections.
   3.10.5. (Added-BEALEAFB) Periodically review aircraft wash rack, AGE wash rack, and
   aircraft maintenance unit cleaning agents for Qualified Products Listing compliance and
   proper equipment usage.
   3.10.6. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure PPE is properly utilized.
3.11. Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight Chief Responsibilities.
   3.11.1. Ensures an effective corrosion control program is established and enforced for
   assigned equipment.
   3.11.2. Develops and implements a tracking system to prioritize complete paint for AGE
   equipment based on a “worst is first” principle.
   3.11.3. Ensures CAMS is used to schedule and document AGE painting.
   3.11.4. Ensures maintenance, servicing and inspection activity personnel are oriented to
   corrosion prevention and control.
   3.11.5. Ensures powered and non-powered AGE is cleaned, thoroughly inspected, and
   touched-up as necessary during each periodic inspection with the appropriate, approved
   materials.
   3.11.6. Enforces the proper use of approved cleaning compounds IAW 35-1-3, 35-1-12 and
   the Qualified Products Listings (QPL). Obtains QPLs from wing corrosion control manager
   every 6 months and uses them in conjunction with applicable T.O.s to verify all compounds
   on-hand are authorized for use on designated equipment.
   3.11.7. Schedules work beyond AGE work center capability into the appropriate fabrication
   work center.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                           13


   3.11.8. Ensures tone-down procedures are followed as described in paragraph 3.15.1 of this
   instruction.
   3.11.9. (Added-BEALEAFB) AGE Flight will conduct an annual review of AGE to
   establish paint priorities. AGE units will be given a paint score by a competent 7-level
   assigned to AGE. Aircraft painting requirements may be given priority over any AGE
   requirements at the discretion of ASM Section Chief.
   3.11.10. (Added-BEALEAFB) Complete AGE equipment over coating will be
   accomplished only when the existing protective coating has deteriorated beyond 60%.
   Maintenance painting of deteriorated areas may be done by ASM technicians to prevent or
   repair corrosion.
   3.11.11. (Added-BEALEAFB) The AGE Flight Chief, in agreement with the ASM Section
   Chief, will make up to two pieces of AGE available for painting weekly. Units coded Code 3
   will be given first priority for repaint, Code 2 units will receive secondary priority, and Code
   1 units will receive last priority.
   3.11.12. (Added-BEALEAFB) AGE agrees that all units selected for paint will be
   delivered “clean” to corrosion no later than Monday or the first duty day of each week. Any
   unit not made ready by that time may be rescheduled for a later date at the discretion of the
   paint facility manager. AGE will also provide one non-respirator qualified person to assist in
   preparing, when required, the AGE unit for work. This preparatory work shall not include
   sanding or other activities requiring a respirator. Completed units shall be picked up within
   24 hours of being notified of paint completion.
3.12. Maintenance Training Flight Chief Responsibilities.
   3.12.1. Provides all maintenance personnel that come in contact with aircraft and aerospace
   ground equipment, regardless of AFSC (excluding 2A7X3), with corrosion
   prevention/control initial and recurring training. Ensures newly assigned personnel receive
   initial corrosion prevention/control training during the maintenance orientation program
   (reference ACCI 36-2251 and AFI 21-101). Ensures recurring training is conducted
   annually.
      3.12.1.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensure aircraft maintenance personnel other than
      2A7X3 receive initial corrosion prevention and identification training, and refresher
      training every year thereafter. The initial training will include on-the-job training and
      computer based training (CBT)/video on Aerospace Corrosion Prevention and Control.
      Refresher training will be CBT/video.
   3.12.2. Units are encouraged to develop and implement a unit specific corrosion prevention
   and control training program in addition to requirements outlined in 3.12.1 of this instruction.
   This program may be necessary due to local environmental severity, weapon system
   susceptibility and/or mission needs at other operating locations.
   3.12.3. Training curriculum shall include but not be limited to:
      3.12.3.1. Corrosion identification procedures and techniques.
      3.12.3.2. Familiarization with aircraft/equipment corrosion prone areas.
      3.12.3.3. Reporting and documentation procedures for identified corrosion.
 14                                         ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


      3.12.3.4. Removal and treatment of minor corrosion.
      3.12.3.5. Proper use of cleaning compounds.
3.13. Unit Corrosion Control Program Requirements.
   3.13.1. Owning activities shall wash and clean their aircraft and support equipment.
   3.13.2. Wing Corrosion Program Manager and/or ASM personnel will assist the owning
   activities in their corrosion prevention efforts by accomplishing scheduled corrosion
   inspections on aircraft, support and test equipment.
   3.13.3. Aircraft Structural Maintenance personnel only shall perform aircraft inspection
   work cards specified for accomplishment by Aircraft Structural Maintenance in the -6 T.O.
   All maintenance personnel, regardless of AFSC, shall examine each part removed and
   inspect the inside of all exposed areas for corrosion. Avionics maintenance personnel shall
   inspect the electrical connectors of avionics line replaceable units (LRUs), inside equipment
   drawers, and so forth, for corrosion. All deficiencies noted during these inspections will be
   appropriately documented. When corrosion discrepancies are discovered that may affect
   aircraft structural integrity or safety of flight/operation or are beyond the using organization’s
   capability to evaluate/repair, an aircraft structural maintenance specialist will be requested.
   3.13.4. Maintenance personnel who remove/install aircraft panels and doors must ensure
   seals are serviceable and sealant applied to panels and fasteners as specified in applicable
   aircraft technical orders.
   3.13.5. Maintenance personnel shall report all corrosion deficiencies through the CAMS
   IAW 00-20 series technical orders. Accurate documentation of maintenance actions in
   support of the corrosion control program is essential to support future manning, equipment
   requirements, training and parts/material procurement requirements.
3.14. Aerospace Vehicle Coating and Marking Requirements. This section implements the
policies outlined in AFI 21-105, Aerospace Equipment Structural Maintenance, and provides
guidance for applying command approved, non-USAF standard aircraft coatings and markings as
authorized in T.O. 1-1-8. Paint schemes/configurations and USAF standard aircraft markings
will be applied in accordance with TO 1-1-8 and the applicable aircraft technical order.
   3.14.1. Advanced Performance Coating. Advanced Performance Coating (APC) is the
   preferred topcoat unless mandated otherwise IAW weapon system specific technical data.
   This preferred coating system includes the appropriate Mil-PRF-23377 primer for bare metal
   uncovered during preparation, non-chromated tie coat material and an approved APC
   topcoat.
   3.14.2. Coating System Scoring and Maintenance. All ACC units are required to score
   aircraft coating systems to determine frequency of topcoat application. Fighter units should
   plan to scuff sand and overcoat the entire aircraft between depot cycles as necessary. Many
   fighter aircraft will require a complete overcoat at 36 months, but some may only require
   touch-up. All aircraft painting will be scheduled on a worst first basis to maintain coating
   system integrity and aircraft appearance. All aircraft coating systems except B-2, F-117 and
   F-22 will be evaluated/rated every 6 months for appearance/coating system integrity using
   applicable technical data or a locally developed system. The aircraft must be washed and
   clean prior to paint scoring. Supervisors will use ratings to determine corrosion
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                              15


    treatment/paint scheduling priority. Units are required to adopt maintenance-painting
    techniques (i.e., spot painting and sectionalized painting as stated in T.O. 1-1-8) to maintain
    aircraft corrosion protection and appearance between overcoats. Partial painting “sections”
    of the aircraft will help reduce the effects of mottling and mismatch. Units should rotate
    Commander’s aircraft to prevent excessive paint build-up from too frequent over coating.
    Fully over coated aircraft will be documented in CAMS and the individual aircraft AFTO
    Form 95 for tracking purposes. Large aircraft units should rely on spot maintenance painting
    and sectionalized painting between depot cycles to maintain the coating system integrity.
       3.14.2.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) RQ-4 aircraft coating system will be evaluated/rated
       during scheduled periodic incremental Nondestructive Inspection.
           3.14.2.1.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) ASM will ensure the aircraft has been washed
           before scoring to ensure a proper evaluation and will score aircraft coating systems.
           3.14.2.1.2. (Added-BEALEAFB) ASM will document this inspection using aircraft
           score card and will be kept on file until the next completed inspection and document
           paint scores and condition in aircraft forms.
           3.14.2.1.3. (Added-BEALEAFB) Aircraft will be scored using an A-F point scale
           as follows:

Table 1.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) A-F Point Scale.
RATING      CONDITION                         PAINT REQUIREMENTS
A           Static Quality                    Minor brush touch-up of screws, nicks etc. (Can be
                                              completed in 1 hour or less on the flight line)
B           Minor Touch Up                    Maintenance spray/roller painting of small areas
                                              such as leading edges, structural repairs, etc.
C           Major Touch Up or Tail            Significant areas of peeling, deteriorated, faded,
            Flashes                           scuffed, or Tail Flashes large structural repairs.
D           Full Paint                        Entire aircraft has peeling, deteriorated, faded,
                                              scratched, scuffed, or missing paint. (Requires full
                                              paint/no touch-ups, see para 4.4.)
F           Full Paint                        Aircraft paint condition is unsightly and needs
                                              immediate attention as determined by senior
                                              leadership. These aircraft have the highest priority
                                              for paint (Requires full paint/no touch-ups, see para
                                              4.4.)

       3.14.2.2. (Added-BEALEAFB) Aircraft will be painted on the basis of deterioration
       and appearance. Aircraft touch-up will be scheduled for proper downtime into an
       approved paint hangar on a “worst-first” basis.
           3.14.2.2.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) Owning organization makes the final decision on
           which aircraft are painted with the advice of 9 MXS/MXMFS.
16                                    ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


     3.14.2.2.2. (Added-BEALEAFB) Full paint of aircraft is not performed at Beale
     AFB. Aircraft requiring a full paint will be evaluated and approved by MXG/CC and
     scheduled for input to a depot repair facility.
     3.14.2.2.3. (Added-BEALEAFB) Maintenance painting (touch-up) is the
     application of coatings where the existing coating system is deteriorated or missing.
     Maintenance painting must be kept to a minimum and only performed using approved
     paint systems and excludes the use of aerosol paints.
     3.14.2.2.4. (Added-BEALEAFB) Owning unit will also ensure all aircraft internal
     fuel tanks are defueled and depressurized to prevent leakage during painting
     operations if required by an ASM technician.
     3.14.2.2.5. (Added-BEALEAFB) As a minimum, the aircraft crew chief will be
     made available for dispatch to assist ASM personnel with any non-hazardous
     activities associated with their aircraft paint.
     3.14.2.2.6. (Added-BEALEAFB) Aircraft forms will remain with the aircraft
     during entire paint process.
     3.14.2.2.7. (Added-BEALEAFB) No other aircraft maintenance or cannibalizing
     will be performed during painting operations without prior approval from 9
     MXS/MXM.
     3.14.2.2.8. (Added-BEALEAFB) The 9 MXS/MXMFS will contact 9
     MXG/MXQA to coordinate weight and balance requirements. Upon completion of
     aircraft paint touch-ups and tail flashes the total square footage painted will be
     reported by tail number to 9 MXG/MXQA for recording and possible reweigh of the
     aircraft upon accumulation of square footage limit.
     3.14.2.2.9. (Added-BEALEAFB) All new or repaired aircraft parts will be painted
     prior to placement on aircraft, unless temporarily waived by the 9 MXG/CC. Aircraft
     repairs requiring paint will be touched up within 48 hours of repair completion unless
     granted an extension by the 9 MXG/CC.
     3.14.2.2.10. (Added-BEALEAFB) Aircraft landing gear painting is ordinarily a
     depot process and shall only be accomplished locally for corrosion control purposes.
     Disassembly of gear components is normally required for effective paint treatments.
     Extensive painting without stripping of components results in the accumulation of
     multiple layers of paint making visual inspection for cracks and other defects
     difficult.
     3.14.2.2.11. (Added-BEALEAFB) Paint cure times are critical to the effectiveness
     of the final coating. Aircraft will not be flown until cure checks are signed off in the
     aircraft forms.
     3.14.2.2.12. (Added-BEALEAFB) The dedicated crew chiefs are the primary
     managers of their individual aircraft and are responsible for ensuring their aircraft are
     maintained in the highest state of appearance and serviceability. Their duties include
     but are not limited to:
     3.14.2.2.13. (Added-BEALEAFB) Spot cleaning aircraft as required including
     intakes, wheels, tires, wheel wells and landing gear.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                         17


             3.14.2.2.13.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensuring all aircraft markings that are
             faded, chipped, or deteriorated are identified and repaired.
             3.14.2.2.13.2. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensuring all fuel and hydraulic leaks will
             be repaired prior to painting.
             3.14.2.2.13.3. (Added-BEALEAFB) Ensuring aircraft booties will be worn
             when walking on any aircraft surface unless technical orders exempt the
             maintenance process being performed from this requirement.
  3.14.3. Aircraft Markings. Aircraft markings will be applied to aircraft as specifically
  authorized by HQ ACC, this instruction, T.O. 1-1-8, or the applicable aircraft technical order.
  Low observable aircraft markings not currently approved necessitates a waiver from HQ
  ACC/LGMS with System Program Directorate (SPD) approval due to strict survivability
  analysis requirements. Aircraft inputs to depot will be marked IAW with Air Force
  directives and this instruction only, unless otherwise approved by HQ ACC/LGM. HQ
  ACC/LGMS is the point of contact for aircraft painting and markings. HQ ACC/LGMS is
  also the point of contact for all AF unit designation markings. This listing can be found in
  Attachment 3 of this instruction. All aircraft markings and basic paint schemes will be
  maintained intact, legible and distinct in color. Command standardization of markings by
  mission design series (MDS) is of primary concern.
     3.14.3.1. Stenciling. Markings may be applied using stencils. Refer to T.O. 1-1-8 to
     determine the compatibility of stenciling paints, paint finishes and decal applications.
     3.14.3.2. Command Insignia. The application of the command insignia on aircraft is
     mandatory. The insignia will be applied to both sides of the vertical stabilizer unless
     otherwise specified. Fighter type aircraft will use full color insignias and large aircraft
     (B-52, B-1, etc.) will use subdued insignias unless otherwise specified in Attachment 2.
     Size and location of command insignias by MDS are specified in Attachment 2.
         3.14.3.2.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) RQ-2A/RQ-2B (MCE/LRE) Control Booth
         Command insignia will be flat orange 10 inches wide. Vertically, it will be 2 inches
         below bottom of tail stripe. Horizontal, it will be 2 inches from the edge of the left
         door frame.
     3.14.3.3. Organizational Insignia. The application of wing insignia is mandatory. The
     insignia will be applied to both sides of the forward fuselage. The operational squadron
     insignia may be applied on the left side in place of the wing insignia. Wing and squadron
     insignias will be the same color scheme as the command insignia, i.e., subdued for large
     aircraft and full color for fighter aircraft unless otherwise specified in Attachment 2.
     3.14.3.4. Distinctive Unit Aircraft Identification Marking. The application of the unit
     designator is mandatory for all ACC aircraft unless otherwise directed. HQ ACC/LGMS
     is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the assignment of unit designators. The
     primary factor used to determine appointment of unit designators is the aircraft/unit
     assignment location. TO 1-1-8 or the applicable aircraft TO will provide color
     restrictions for the unit designator. The unit designator will be applied in accordance
     with guidelines in Attachment 2 of this instruction.
18                                        ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


        3.14.3.4.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) RQ-2A/RQ-2B (MCE/LRE) Unit Designator will
        be flat black 8 inches tall. Vertically, it will be 3 inches below bottom of tail stripe.
        Horizontally, it will be 2 inches from the edge of the right door frame.
     3.14.3.5. Tail Stripe. Tail stripes are applied as a wing option, used to identify aircraft
     operation squadrons. Each operations squadron will have a tail stripe unique to that
     squadron. The use of the same tail stripe by two or more squadrons within a wing is not
     permitted. The tail stripe will be applied at the upper portion of the vertical stabilizer,
     and must be in the form of a straight stripe. The width will not exceed 9 inches on fighter
     type aircraft and 15 inches on large aircraft. The stripe may be any color or pattern, and
     may contain a logo. On aircraft bearing the American Flag the tail stripe must be solid in
     color and will not contain any logo, name, or lettering. On aircraft with multiple vertical
     stabilizers, the tail stripe may be of either a wrap-around style on both vertical stabilizers
     or applied to the outboard sides of each vertical stabilizer.
        3.14.3.5.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) U-2 aircraft will have a 7.75 inch continuous flat
        red tail stripe from rudder trailing edge, around stabilizer leading edge to rudder
        trailing edge measured from the top of the rudder down. The top tail stripe will be
        run even with the top of the rudder. The tail stripe will have with four flat black
        Maltese Crosses 5.75 inches by 5.75 inches. Horizontally, the Maltese Crosses will
        be 1.56 inches apart with the first one starting 2.5 inches forward of rudder trailing
        edge. Vertically, they will be centered (1 inch top and bottom). See attachments 2
        and 3.
        3.14.3.5.2. (Added-BEALEAFB) RQ-4 aircraft will a flat orange tail stripe that
        tapers approximately 8.5 inches to 9.25 inches on the outboard side of both vertical
        stabilizers. The tail stripe will run vertically 6 inches below stabilizer/end cap seam,
        extending up to the top end cap facet from the stabilizer leading edge to rudder
        trailing edge. The tail stripe will have four flat black Maltese Crosses 5.75 inches by
        5.75 inches evenly spaced horizontally. Vertically they will be 1 inch from bottom.
        See attachment 4.
        3.14.3.5.3. (Added-BEALEAFB) RQ-2A/RQ-2B (MCE/LRE) Control Booth will
        be flat orange 6.5 inches wide even with the top of the door frame. Horizontal it will
        run 2 inches from the left and right door frame. It will have four flat black Maltese
        Crosses 4 inches by 4 inches evenly spaced horizontally. See attachment 5.
     3.14.3.6. Aircrew And Crew Chief Names. Aircrew and crew chief/assistant names
     must be applied to all command aircraft, but must be removed prior to deployment from
     home station in direct combat zones or when participating in contingencies that may
     subject aircraft to hostile fire abroad.. Application of nicknames, punctuation, and/or call
     signs is not permitted. Style and size of letters are a unit option but will not exceed 3
     inches in height. All aircraft in the wing will be standard with the exception of the
     designated Commander's aircraft, which may have different lettering but will not exceed
     3 inches in height. A background block for pilot/crew chief names may be used. The
     block should be in contrasting color to the section of the aircraft where applied. To
     further an MDS theme, block may be preceded by a design depicting the MDS i.e. F-15
     eagle head, F-16 falcon head, etc. The name block should give a subdued appearance and
     may be other than rectangular in shape.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                           19


        3.14.3.6.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) Dedicated crew chief and aircrew names lettering
        will be 1.75 inch in the font of straight military block.
        3.14.3.6.2. (Added-BEALEAFB) Dedicated crew chiefs will validate name changes
        with 9 AMXS/MXA, create a job in the Integrated Maintenance Data System and fill
        out a stencil request form located in the ASM section. ASM will cut new names.
        Dedicated crew chiefs will remove and apply the names.
     3.14.3.7. Commander's Aircraft Markings. Commander's aircraft referred to in this
     instruction are those designated as Numbered Air Force (NAF), Wing, OG and
     commanders of flying squadrons (Bomber/Fighter). The NAF Commander may select
     one Wing within the command to have an aircraft specifically marked. It will be the only
     aircraft authorized so marked. Commanders are authorized only one aircraft each to be
     marked with standardized commander type markings. The following are markings
     authorized for use on Commander aircraft:
        3.14.3.7.1. Wing and/or NAF insignias on the right forward fuselage and a collage of
        assigned flight/operations squadron insignias on the left forward fuselage.
        3.14.3.7.2. Highlighting of unit designator and tail number. All highlighting will be
        done in contrasting gray, black or white as long as it meets primary basecoat gloss
        requirements e.g. gloss, camouflage or gunship. All unit designators and radio call
        numbers will remain on vertical stabilizers as depicted in applicable technical orders.
            3.14.3.7.2.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) Tail stripe may be applied half red, half
            orange to represent U-2 and RQ-4 units or may be applied all red. If applied
            red/orange, division will be a vertical line, parallel to the aircraft leading edge. It
            will divide the Maltese crosses with two on each color.
            3.14.3.7.2.2. (Added-BEALEAFB) Command insignia will be 6 inches below
            the tail stripe, centered between vertical stabilizer leading edge and the rudder
            leading edge.
            3.14.3.7.2.3. (Added-BEALEAFB) Unit designator “BB” will be 8 inches
            below the command insignia centered between vertical stabilizer leading edge and
            the rudder leading edge.
            3.14.3.7.2.4. (Added-BEALEAFB) “9 RW” will be 12 inches below the unit
            designator centered between vertical stabilizer leading edge and the rudder
            leading edge. It will be 12 inches tall.
            3.14.3.7.2.5. (Added-BEALEAFB) Tail numbers will be 14 inches below 9
            RW.
        3.14.3.7.3. Unit unique markings. This policy is provided to allow latitude for
        application of anniversary logo markings to Wing Commander aircraft. When
        applied, anniversary markings will not interfere with required aircraft markings and
        must be removed immediately after the anniversary period (1-year maximum).
        Waivers are not required for unit unique markings, however, Wing Commanders
        must approve the markings, and photographs must be provided to HQ ACC/LGMS
        for review and file. State flags and logos other than anniversary type are not
        considered unit unique markings. ACC/CC has designated ACC/PA as the
20                                       ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


        clearinghouse for all requests to name ACC aircraft and must ultimately be approved
        by AF/CV. This includes markings previously considered unit unique and are
        community related/appreciation types such as “Spirit of,” “City of” and “State of.”
        Naming aircraft is a tradition designed to commemorate or honor individuals,
        geographic locations, or events either for the support provided the Air Force on a
        long-term basis, or because of its significance to Air Force history or heritage.
        Recommendations must include a proposed name, suggested aircraft and tail number,
        and detailed justification for the proposed name. Contact your wing Public Affairs
        office for details.
     3.14.3.8. Aircraft Travel Pods. Travel pods will be painted in gloss paint the same
     color as the aircraft with no additional markings. Units with multicolor aircraft should
     select one primary color of the aircraft for the travel pod. Travel pods designated for
     commanders may be any color and may contain the position and name of the individual
     and appropriate insignia. Lettering may be of any color and style, but shall not exceed 6
     inches in height. ACC demonstration teams have the option to paint travel pods gloss
     black and apply unique markings. The left side of pod will contain unit insignia and
     name and team emblem and name. The right side will contain the ACC insignia, the
     words Air Combat Command Demonstration Team and NAF insignia, if warranted.
     Commander and demonstration team travel pod paint scheme, final marking sizes, and
     placements will be approved by the WG/CC and documented within local unit operating
     instruction.
        3.14.3.8.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) Not applicable to the U-2 or RQ-4 aircraft.
     3.14.3.9. External Fuel Tanks. External fuel tanks shall be painted the same color and
     tone as existing aircraft coating. A 2 inch marking (centered on lugs) is optional for
     tracking purposes.
     3.14.3.10. Paint Identification Placard. The paint identification block is a mandatory
     marking. The block may be of a unique design, i.e., eagle head, falcon head, or state
     outline but must not exceed 6 inches by 6 inches in size and will match the color of other
     markings on the aircraft. Waiver requests are not required for this item, however, Wing
     Commander approval is required, and photographs of the design must be provided to HQ
     ACC/LGMS for review and file.
        3.14.3.10.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) Will be 6 inch oval, located on aircraft fuselage
        right side under leading edge of vertical stabilizer. Information contained within the
        design will include type of primer used, type of top coat used, date exterior finish was
        applied, and the unit which applied the finish.
     3.14.3.11. FAC Aircraft. Due to the nature of the Predator RQ-1 mission as a low level,
     hostile fire zone reconnaissance aircraft; the Command/Organizational/Squadron insignia
     must be marked in toned down colors. Flat black silhouettes may be used to fulfill the
     subdued requirement.
     3.14.3.12. Nose Numbers. Aircraft tail numbers shall be in block or Helvetica letters,
     not to exceed four digits. Specific location and size for each different type aircraft is
     contained in Attachment 2. The paint material(s) used to apply nose numbers shall have
     the same gloss requirement as the base aircraft coating.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                           21


        3.14.3.12.1. (Added-BEALEAFB) RQ-2A/RQ-2B (MCE/LRE) Control Booth Tail
        Numbers will be last four digits flat black 6 inches tall. Vertically it will be 2 inches
        below bottom of command insignia. The letters AF will be 2.75 inches high, left of
        the tail number, even with the top numbers. The year will be 2.75 inches high, left of
        the tail number 1/2 inch below the AF. Horizontally it will be centered between the
        left and right door frame.
     3.14.3.13. Bird Of Prey Silhouette. Bird of prey silhouettes are authorized on F-15 and
     F- 16 aircraft as a unit option but must be standardized within a wing by MDS. No
     waiver is required to apply bird of prey silhouettes but a photograph must be submitted to
     HQ ACC/LGMS for review and file. The following guidelines apply:
        3.14.3.13.1. F-15 Aircraft. The silhouette will be placed on the insides of the vertical
        stabilizers. They will not exceed 24 inches in height and must be applied in a
        contrasting gray color.
        3.14.3.13.2. F-16 Aircraft. The silhouette can be placed anywhere on the aircraft as
        long as it does not interfere with standard required markings. The silhouette will not
        exceed 18 inches in height and must be applied in a contrasting gray color.
     3.14.3.14. Gun Ports. Gun ports will be painted in flat black paint.
     3.14.3.15. Aerial Victory Marking. Fighter aircraft awarded a verified aerial victory are
     authorized to display a 6-inch green star with a 1/2 inch black border located just below
     and centered on the pilot’s name block. The type of aircraft shot down shall be stenciled
     inside the star in 1/2 inch white lettering. For aircraft with more than one aerial victory, a
     star is authorized for each aircraft shot down. No other victory markings are authorized.
     3.14.3.16. Bomber Combat Marking. Designated bomber aircraft with a successful
     weapons release in combat operations are authorized to display a conventional bomb
     and/or CALCM silhouette on that aircraft. These markings will be applied in contrasting
     shades that conform to the basic aircraft camouflage requirements. B-1, B-2 and B-52
     combat marking configurations are located in Attachment 2 of this instruction.
     3.14.3.17. Nose Art. For purposes of clarification, “nose art” shall be the term used to
     identify specialized artwork applied to any area of the aircraft. Nose art is only
     authorized on B-52, -135, B-1 and -130 aircraft. The only exception to this policy is
     application of the AF approved “Let’s Roll” nose art design. In addition to Thunderbird
     and MAJCOM demonstration aircraft, wing commanders may designate one aircraft
     within the wing to apply “Let’s Roll” design. The aircraft selected is at the wing
     commander’s discretion. Waivers for fighter and other aircraft will not be entertained.
     Placement of nose art is authorized on the left side of the aircraft only. Authorized nose
     art is limited to 3 feet by 3 feet in size and shall:
        3.14.3.17.1. Be distinctive, symbolic and designed in good taste.
        3.14.3.17.2. Enhance unit pride.
        3.14.3.17.3. Be gender neutral.
        3.14.3.17.4. Match gloss requirements of the basic paint scheme, i.e., aircraft with
        flat camouflage schemes require application of nose art in flat colors.
 22                                        ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


         3.14.3.17.5. All designs will be reviewed and approved by the Wing Commander.
         Photographs of all approved designs will be submitted to HQ ACC/LGM for review
         and file. World War II nose art that meets the above criteria may be used. Cartoon-
         type characters may be used; however, the unit will be responsible for all copyright
         issues. Removal of nose art prior to deployment will be at the discretion of the Wing
         Commander.
      3.14.3.18. Competition Aircraft. Units participating in competitions such as William
      Tell, Gunsmoke, etc, will follow the guidelines established in competition rules for
      aircraft appearance. Competitions should be considered "come as you are" and no
      waivers will be granted. "Come as you are" is defined as no special effort, painting, or
      additional markings applied to enhance or improve the overall appearance of the aircraft.
      This includes polishing of titanium, using Commander type markings, etc.
      3.14.3.19. Aircraft Transfer. The following markings must be removed prior to formal
      transfer of aircraft to other units or MAJCOMs (aircraft retiring to AMARC need not
      have any markings removed).
         3.14.3.19.1. Organizational insignias.
         3.14.3.19.2. Unit designator.
         3.14.3.19.3. Tail stripe.
         3.14.3.19.4. Aircrew and crew chief names.
         3.14.3.19.5. Unit unique markings.
         3.14.3.19.6. Nose art may be retained if gaining unit agrees.
      3.14.3.20. Waivers. Wing Commanders must submit waiver requests to HQ ACC/LGM
      for coordination to obtain HQ ACC/LG approval/disapproval. Waivers that are in
      violation of aircraft technical data will not be accepted. Waiver requests must include the
      following:
         3.14.3.20.1. Clear statement of present procedure/marking.
         3.14.3.20.2. Clear statement of proposed change.
         3.14.3.20.3. Justification to include historical significance, if applicable.
         3.14.3.20.4. Photographs: Two 8” by 10” or equivalent digital color photographs,
         one of present marking and one of requested change.
      3.14.3.21. Photo Requirements. All photo requirements may be met by 8 x 10 color or
      digital equivalent. All ACC units must submit one full length (landscape orientation) of
      the Wing Commander's aircraft each time a marking change occurs to HQ ACC/LGMS
      for review and file.
         3.14.3.21.1. Units shall provide photos of unique markings for all local option
         changes authorized by this instruction (i.e., tail stripe/name block design and/or color
         changes, paint data placard, bird of prey silhouettes, nose art, etc.) to HQ
         ACC/LGMS for review and file.
3.15. Tone Down.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                         23


  3.15.1. Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE). Polyurethane paint system Mil-PRF-
  23377, Chromated Epoxy Primer, Tie Coat and Mil-C-85285 high solid, low VOC paint,
  color number 24052is the approved topcoat paint system for AGE.
     3.15.1.1. When feasible, equipment will be completely stripped and properly prepared
     IAW TOs 1-1-8 and 35-1-3 before applying polyurethane coatings.
     3.15.1.2. Minimum reflectorizing requirements will be IAW T.O. 35-1-3. Black
     subdued reflectorized tape will be used in lieu of white when left optional by T.O. 35-1-3.
     3.15.1.3. Safety/danger/warning markings will be nonreflective red.
     3.15.1.4. Caution markings will be nonreflective black.
     3.15.1.5. Informational markings will be nonreflective black and be kept to a minimum.
     3.15.1.6. Dedicated squadron identification markings will not exceed a 2-inch by 6-inch
     area below two field numbers if the equipment area permits.
     3.15.1.7. Fuel designation markings will be 1-inch nonreflective black letters on the filler
     cap or most conspicuous area adjacent to the filler cap.
     3.15.1.8. Locally devised field numbers will be black.
     3.15.1.9. Interior areas of AGE exposed during operation will be toned down to match
     exterior painted surfaces.
     3.15.1.10. AGE arriving on base and requiring tone down will be painted within 60 days
     of receipt.
  3.15.2. Vehicles. Tone down, painting and marking of registered/nonregistered vehicles will
  be accomplished IAW T.O. 36-1-3.
  3.15.3. Test Equipment/CTKs. Tone down of test equipment, CTKs and like equipment
  will be determined by the aircraft gloss requirement, i.e., unit with aircraft having gloss
  finishes may apply gloss finishes to their test equipment and CTKs. If the aircraft assigned
  have a requirement for flat finishes, then all test equipment and CTKs designed for on-
  equipment application will be toned down in flat colors.
     3.15.3.1. To prevent obscuring of instructions and possible damage to components, only
     exteriors of test equipment boxes will be toned down.
     3.15.3.2. Test equipment and CTKs used outside the shop environment will be toned
     down, i.e., gray, olive drab, brown, black or forest green. A camouflage pattern
     incorporating a combination of these colors may be used.
     3.15.3.3. Equipment not removed from back shops need not be toned down i.e., test
     equipment, test benches, and mockups.
     3.15.3.4. Warranted CTKs. Name brand tool boxes received from base supply with
     corrosion service life warranties will not be painted solely to change color (this will void
     the manufacturer’s warranty unnecessarily). The exception to this policy is if this
     equipment is deployed to support combat coded units with flat aircraft finishes.
 24                                        ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


   3.15.4. Tactical Air Control System (TACS) Equipment Requirements. TACS shelters,
   vehicles, and support equipment will be camouflage pattern painted using chemical agent
   resistant coating (CARC) IAW T.O. 36-1-171 and vehicle markings IAW T.O. 36-1-3.
      3.15.4.1. TACS shelters, vehicles and support equipment will be pattern painted in a
      three-color camouflage scheme IAW T.O. 36-1-161 and authorized equipment specific
      technical guidance.
      3.15.4.2. Reflective tape, signs, and decals will not be applied.
      3.15.4.3. Fabric or inflatable shelters will not be painted in accordance with this
      instruction.
      3.15.4.4. Mobilizers can be toned down in the solid complementary colors of desert sand
      or forest green.
   3.15.5. Alternate Mission Equipment (AME). AME will be painted IAW specific
   technical data. When such data does not exist, units will coordinate with the applicable item
   manager and HQ ACC/LGMS before changing paint schemes.
3.16. Communications-Electronics-Meteorological (CEM) Activities Responsibilities.
   3.16.1. CEM Squadron Commander Responsibilities.
      3.16.1.1. Ensures a local Corrosion Prevention and Control Program (CPCP) is
      established for ground CEM equipment, stressing prevention and control of corrosion
      through equipment cleanliness, timely detection, and maintenance of protective finishes.
      3.16.1.2. Appoints a member of Quality Assurance as the unit CPCP functional manager.
      3.16.1.3. Ensures an adequate corrosion prevention and training program is in place for
      initial and recurring training.
      3.16.1.4. Establishes support as necessary with host Maintenance Squadron and Base
      Civil Engineer (BCE).
   3.16.2. CEM CPCP Functional Manager Responsibilities.
      3.16.2.1. Obtains corrosion control treatment beyond the unit's capability from the BCE,
      vehicle maintenance shop, maintenance organizations, avionics maintenance shop, or
      respective Air Logistics Center (ALC).
      3.16.2.2. Ensures corrosion prevention or treatment actions are taken and documented on
      all equipment and systems under their control.
      3.16.2.3. Procures needed materials for prevention and treatment of corrosion within
      each work center. A locally fabricated corrosion control kit may be used. The unit CPCP
      functional manager and work center supervisor can determine Kit contents.
      3.16.2.4. Ensures all maintenance personnel receive training on CPCP. The training
      depth will be based on the local environment and particular equipment involved.
      3.16.2.5. Reports all unresolved problems, through channels, to HQ ACC/LGMS for
      assistance. When project material is involved, send information copies to EID/ISQ.
      3.16.2.6. Works closely with BCE for support of the unit CPCP. NOTE: Support
      coverage should consider RPIE, vehicles and sheltered equipment (including van interior
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                            25


      and exteriors, undercarriages and mobilizers) and equipment in storage awaiting project
      installation.
      3.16.2.7. Ensures each work center adequately adheres to and participates in the unit
      CPCP. Periodically evaluates the effectiveness of each work center’s CPCP.
      3.16.2.8. Ensures oil-based coating is applied to all ground connections that are not
      environmentally controlled IAW T.O. 1-1-689 and T.O. 31-l0-24 and MIL Std 188-124.
      This coating will not be applied on ground terminals of shelters and vans.
      3.16.2.9. Ensures minimum quantities of reference publications are available to
      accommodate unit's needs.
   3.16.3. Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Support Activities Responsibilities.
      3.16.3.1. Fabricates corrosion control kits. T.O. 21M-LGM30F-101, LGM30 Weapon
      System Corrosion Control and Treatment, and T.O. 1-1-691 can be used to identify
      required materials and tools.
      3.16.3.2. Ensures electrical surge arrestor (ESA) rooms are inspected periodically.
      3.16.3.3. Ensures each maintenance team entering a Minuteman launch control facility
      (LCF) or launch facility (LF) ESA room for either scheduled or unscheduled maintenance
      inspects the entire ESA room for corrosion, housekeeping, water intrusion and water
      drainage. Noted discrepancies will be corrected within the capability of the team.
      Reports and document uncorrected corrosion problems.
      3.16.3.4. Ensures the prime responsibilities for ESA are performed in these areas:
          3.16.3.4.1. CE equipment and alarm cables and circuits.
          3.16.3.4.2. Watertight conduit seals on all circuits used for CE equipment circuits.
          3.16.3.4.3. ESA modules, module frames, and frame bus bars.
          3.16.3.4.4. Cable splice cases, pressure lines, and pressure sensing lines.
NOTE:        The base civil engineer (BCE) must be contacted for maintenance on conduits
used with CE equipment circuits classified as real property (RP), real property installed
equipment (RPIE), and assigned ICBM RPIE.


      3.16.3.5. Ensures maintenance production work center personnel inspect assigned
      vehicles (includes trucks, vans, mobilizers, trenchers, tractors, back hoes, cable plows,
      and trailers) for corrosion. Ensures discrepancies are reported to the unit vehicle control
      official on AF Form 1800, Operator's Inspection Guide and Trouble Report.
   3.16.4. Real Property Installed Equipment Requirements. BCE has maintenance
   responsibility for all CE equipment categorized as RPIE IAW AFI 32-9005, Real Property
   Accountability and Reporting. The operation and maintenance of power plants by CE
   personnel include corrosion control painting IAW AFI 32-1062, Electrical Power Plants and
   Generators. Painting categorized as organizational level responsibility will be accomplished
   IAW local policy. Assistance should be from BCE when corrosion control maintenance
   exceeds the unit's capability.
26                                       ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


  3.16.5. CEM Training Programs.
     3.16.5.1. Qualification training.
        3.16.5.1.1. Initial subject knowledge will cover background knowledge of the causes,
        removal, control, and prevention of corrosion. This training will be required upon
        initial assignment to the unit and refresher training every 2 years.
        3.16.5.1.2. The unit CPCP functional manager may exempt work centers from using
        part or all of quality training packages (QTP) covering corrosion control and
        prevention where career development course material adequately covers all module
        subjects contained in the QTP.
     3.16.5.2. Follow-on training will be conducted when new techniques are developed to
     identify, remove, or treat corrosion encountered by the unit. The unit CPCP functional
     manager, maintenance support personnel, and supervisors must be alert for applicable
     follow-on training subjects and cross feeds which may appear in technical orders, WR-
     ALC RP 400-1 (Corrosion Summary), or other publications procurable through the unit
     publications personnel.
     3.16.5.3. Local job qualification standards will consist of performance tasks to identify,
     remove, and treat all types of corrosion encountered or anticipated by the work center.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                        27


                                          Chapter 4

                          SURVIVAL EQUIPMENT PROGRAM

4.1. Purpose of Survival Equipment (AFSC 2A7X4). Survival Equipment supports aircraft
maintenance, aircrew, Pararescue, Combat Control, and Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and
Escape (SERE), through the inspection, repair, modification, and packing of integrated personnel
and drogue parachute systems, personnel and deceleration parachutes, flotation equipment,
protective equipment, life support equipment, emergency evacuation systems and associated
subsystems.
4.2. HQ ACC/LGM Responsibilities.
   4.2.1. Manages the command Survival Equipment Program.
   4.2.2. Designates a senior NCO to manage the program and perform the following
   responsibilities:
       4.2.2.1. Support the Air Force Survival Equipment Program by participating in systems
       continuous improvement process (CIP) working groups and MAJCOM executive
       working groups.
       4.2.2.2. Approve all intra-command Survival Equipment TDY manning assistance
       requests.
       4.2.2.3. Develop and coordinate ACC policy and procedures for Survival Equipment
       functions.
       4.2.2.4. Serves as Command Control Point (CCP) for 412A Systems related to Survival
       Equipment.
       4.2.2.5. Evaluate suggestions, technical order improvements, and reports such as hazard
       and product deficiencies that pertain to survival equipment.
4.3. Maintenance Group Commander Responsibilities.
   4.3.1. Ensure personnel are qualified on assigned systems/weapon systems.
   4.3.2. Determines whether Survival Equipment Section or Aircraft Electrical and
   Environmental Systems Section will inspect, refill, overhaul and replace CO2 cylinders.
4.4. Fabrication Flight Chief Responsibilities.
   4.4.1. Ensure funding is forecasted for various system training and worldwide/command
   survival equipment working groups.
   4.4.2. Ensure Survival Equipment personnel are not assigned sewing projects or other local
   manufacture jobs that interfere with their primary survival equipment duties.
   4.4.3. Coordinates with the base Pararescue and SERE Superintendent for policy and local
   procedures in support of the personnel parachute program.
   4.4.4. Ensure rotation plan is developed to ensure survival equipment personnel are trained
   and remain qualified on all survival equipment functions.
   4.4.5. Ensure inspection interval/time change waivers are submitted IAW T.O. 00-5-1.
 28                                        ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


4.5. Survival Equipment Section Chief Responsibilities.
   4.5.1. Maintain accurate copies of AFTO Form 392, Parachute Repack Inspection and
   Component Record, on ACES II Drogue Parachutes, and reference copies on ACES II
   Personnel Recovery Parachutes. NOTE: Computer software may be used in lieu of AFTO
   Form 392.
   4.5.2. Develops and ensures IPI’s are performed by current and qualified personnel in AFSC
   2A7X4. IPI’s will be documented on a locally developed form with the inspector’s initials
   and coordinated with local QA for inclusion in the wing IPI list. This form will be
   maintained in the Survival Equipment Section until the next repack or aircraft transfer,
   whichever comes first.
   4.5.3. Maintains a two-person concept when servicing parachute recovery systems to include
   at least one certified survival equipment technician and one IPI certified 7-level. The
   qualified survival equipment technician will accomplish the complete inspection, repack, and
   repair of the recovery parachute system. The IPI certified 7-level will be present during the
   accomplishment of the IPI tasks associated with the parachute recovery system. Only the
   person(s) performing the inspection, repack, and repair will annotate the parachute logs and
   records. The IPI inspector will annotate the appropriate locally developed IPI checklist.
   4.5.4. Establishes a 6-month recurring training program on infrequently maintained systems
   (i.e., ACES II drogue chute) to ensure proficiency levels are maintained.
   4.5.5. Develops rotation schedule to ensure all assigned technicians are trained and remain
   proficient in all survival equipment sections within the shop (flotation section, personnel
   recovery/troop parachute section, deceleration/cargo parachute section, and fabrication
   section).
   4.5.6. Ensures access is restricted in the parachute shop/section to personnel directly
   involved in the parachute packing operations. This is to prevent any tampering, damage and
   or contaminates getting onto the parachute assemblies.
   4.5.7. Ensures assigned personnel attend initial and annual egress familiarization training on
   all aircraft containing explosive egress systems.
   4.5.8. Coordinates with Aircrew Life Support and Parachutist Sections to obtain a monthly
   schedule of equipment requiring inspections.
   4.5.9. Ensures -21 equipment is not stored in the Survival Equipment Sections. Owning
   workcenters are responsible for storing and maintaining their equipment.
   4.5.10. Ensures compliance with AFI 11-410, Personal Parachute Operations. The
   complete inspection, repair and repack will be accomplished by Survival Equipment
   Personnel. Routine 30-day inspections along with the tracking and scheduling of equipment
   inspections are the responsibility of the owning workcenter.
   4.5.11. Ensures the capability exists to inspect, clean, repair and package aircraft thermal
   curtains and thermal radiation barriers. Survival Equipment is also responsible for the
   installation, removal and replacement of thermal curtains in the B-52.
   4.5.12. Develops and coordinates a workcenter specific local explosive safety program
   through Wing Safety.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                         29


  4.5.13. Ensures hazardous materials are controlled in accordance with state and local laws.
  4.5.14. Ensures only qualified repairs and modifications are performed on flight clothing and
  equipment IAW applicable technical orders. NOTE: Flight clothing is classified as
  individual equipment; therefore, the owning individuals are responsible for sewing on rank
  and Velcro as required by AFI 36-2903.
  4.5.15. Documents and updates time changes, inspections and repacks in CAMS for
  equipment identified in aircraft -6 technical orders.
  4.5.16. Reviews CAMS screen 380 for overdue scheduled events IAW AFI 21-101, ACC
  Sup 1.
  4.5.17. Ensures technical orders are current and personnel are briefed on all supplements and
  changes.
  4.5.18. Ensures workcenter meets prescribed working environmental conditions for
  personnel safety.
  4.5.19. Represents workcenter on all activities that require the use of Survival Equipment
  Personnel expertise, i.e., TCTO scheduling, maintenance meetings, etc.
  4.5.20. Performs final quality checks on all completed equipment using the routine
  inspection criteria in the applicable technical orders.
  4.5.21. Maintains mobility containers to deploy personnel in support of life support
  operations deployed to bare base locations in excess of 60 days.
  4.5.22. Initially assembles and periodically repairs anti-exposure coveralls as required.
  Requisitions and replaces only unserviceable component parts.
  4.5.23. Ensures parts requisitioned, not to include any time change components, are ordered
  with a FAD code equivalent to the unit being supported.
  4.5.24. Establishes special stock levels in supply to support the repair and replacement of
  individual equipment components.
  4.5.25. Ensures the capability for storage of explosive items contained in aircrew life support
  equipment required during equipment maintenance, for which survival equipment is the
  performing workcenter, exists.
  4.5.26. Attends the quarterly Wing Aircrew Protection Working Group Meeting.




                                           HAL M. HORNBURG, General, USAF
                                           Commander

                                                   (BEALEAFB)

                                           ROBERT A. MORIARTY, Col, USAF
                                           Commander 9th Maintenance Group
 30                                        ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


                                      ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
In addition to required/recommended publications, each Section will maintain publications for
possessed equipment IAW T.O. 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System.
T.O. 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding
T.O. 00-25-252, Certification of Military Aircraft, Missile & Support Equipment Welders
T.O. 1-1-8, Application and Removal of Organic Coatings, Aerospace and Non-Aerospace
Equipment
T.O. 1-1-689, Avionics Cleaning and Corrosion Prevention/Control
T.O. 1-1-691, Aircraft Weapons Systems Cleaning and Corrosion Control
T.O. 21M-LGM30F-101, LGM30 Weapon System Corrosion Control and Treatment (mandatory
for units with ICBM support mission)
T.O. 31R-10-5, Antenna Systems, Maintenance, Repair and Testing
T.O. 31-10-24, Communication Systems Grounding, Bonding and Shielding
T.O. 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools
T.O. 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods
T.O. 33-1-37-1/2/3, Joint Oil Analysis Program Manual
T.O. 4W-1-61, Maintenance and Overhaul Instructions All Type Aircraft Wheels
T.O. 35-1-3, Painting of Aerospace Ground Equipment
T.O. 35E4-1-162, Field and Depot Maintenance Instruction Tactical Shelter
T.O. 42A-1-1, Safety, Fire Precaution and Health Promotion Aspects of Painting, Doping and
Paint Removal
AFI 11-410, (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/11/afi11-410/afi11-410.pdf),
Personnel Parachute Operations
AFI 21-101, (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/21/afi21-101/afi21-101.pdf),
Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-105, (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/21/afi21-105/afi21-105.pdf),
Aerospace Equipment Structural Maintenance
AFI 21-124, (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/21/afi21-124/afi21-124.pdf),
Air Force Oil Analysis Program
AFI 36-2903, (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/36/afi36-2903/afi36-2903.pdf),
Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel
AFI 48-145, (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/48/afi48-145/afi48-145.pdf),
Occupational Health Program
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                  31


AFI 91-301, (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/91/afi91-301/afi91-301.pdf),
Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH)
Program
AFI 21-101, ACC Sup 1,
(https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/21series/AFI21-101_ACCSUP1.pdf),
Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFOSH Std 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program
AFOSH Std 91-100, Flight Line-Ground Operations and Activities
AFOSH Std 91-110, Nondestructive Inspection and Oil Analysis Program
AFOSH Std 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
AFOSH Std 161-2, Industrial Ventilation
AFOSH Std 161-17, Standardized Occupational Health Program
AFOSH Std 161-21, Hazard Communication Program
 32                                    ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


                              Attachment 1 (BEALEAFB)
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(BEALEAFB) AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
(BEALEAFB) AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health
(BEALEAFB) AFI 21-105, Air and Space Equipment Structural Maintenance
(BEALEAFB) ACCI 21-105, Fabrication Program
(BEALEAFB) AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program
(BEALEAFB) AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
(BEALEAFB) AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection,
and Health (AFOSH) Program
(BEALEAFB) AFI 21-101 and ACCI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
(BEALEAFB) AFOSH STD 48-8, Controlling Exposures to Hazardous Materials
(BEALEAFB) AFOSH STD 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program
(BEALEAFB) AFOSH STD 91-17, Interior Spray Finishing
(BEALEAFB) AFOSH STD 91-66, General Industrial Operations
(BEALEAFB) AFOSH STD 91-68, Chemical Safety
(BEALEAFB) AFOSH STD 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Operations and Activities
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 00-20-1, Aerospace Vehicle/Equipment Inspection, Policies, and
Documentation
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 00-20-2, Maintenance Data Documentation
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 1-1-8, Application and Removal of Organic Coatings, Aerospace and Non-
Aerospace Equipment
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 1-1-690, General Advanced Composite Repair Manual
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 1-1-691, Aircraft Weapon Systems Cleaning and Corrosion Control
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 31-1-75, General Maintenance Practices
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools
(BEALEAFB) T.O. 35-1-12, Cleaning of Air Force Support Equipment

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(BEALEAFB) AFSC— Air Force Specialty Code
(BEALEAFB) AGE— Aerospace Ground Equipment
(BEALEAFB) ASM— Aircraft Structural Maintenance
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011           33


(BEALEAFB) CBT— Computer-Based Training
(BEALEAFB) CTK— Composite Tool Kit
(BEALEAFB) LRE— Launch and Recovery Element
(BEALEAFB) PPE— Personal Protective Equipment
(BEALEAFB) MCE— Mission Control Element
 34                                                               ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


                                                              Attachment 2
                                               MARKING SPECIFICATIONS

INDEX
Aircraft                                                                                Page
A/OA-10 ............................................................................... 29
B-1 ............................................................................. 30
B-2 ............................................................................. 31
B-52 ........................................................................... 32
C-21A ........................................................................ 33
C-27 ........................................................................... 34
C/EC/HC/MC-130 ............................................................................ 35
EC/RC/WC/OC-135 ......................................................................... 36
E-3 ............................................................................. 37
E-4B .......................................................................... 37
F-15 ............................................................................ 38
F-16 ........................................................................... 39
F/A-22 ................................................................................... 40
F-117A .................................................................................. 41
HH-60 ................................................................................... 42
KC/C-135 .............................................................................. 43
T-38 ............................................................................ 44
U-2 ............................................................................. 45
Predator RQ-1L.................................................................................. 46, 47
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                       35


A/OA-10
Non-combat coded
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)
Vertical: 10 inches below bottom edge of rudder cap left and right.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)
Left side: Above panel F-18 and aft of panel F-44.
Right side: Above panel F-79 and aft of panel F-105.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 12 inches
Vertical: Lower edge 3 inches above tail numbers.
Horizontal: Centered on vertical stabilizer.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot on left side under windscreen beginning at FS 188.92.
Crew chief just under pilot's name. Assistant crew chief name just under crew chief name.
NOSE NUMBER: 6 inches (gray color number 36375)
Last three/four digits of tail number on both sides of aircraft nose.
Combat Coded
COMMAND INSIGNIA: 18 inches (subdued)
Vertical: 10 inches below bottom edge of rudder cap left and right.
Horizontal: Centered above unit designator.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 18 inches (subdued)
Left side: Above panel F-18 and aft of panel F-44.
Right side: Above panel F-79 and panel F-105.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 12 inches
Vertical: Lower edge 3 inches above tail numbers.
Horizontal: Centered on vertical stabilizer.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot on left under windscreen beginning at FS 188.92.
Crew chief just under pilot's name.
Assistant crew chief name under crew chief name.
NOSE NUMBER: 6 inches (black)
Three digits of tail number on both sides of the aircraft nose.
 36                                           ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


B-1
COMMAND INSIGNIA: 24 inches (subdued)
Located 11 inches down from the tail stripe, top of patch 38 inches in from tail leading edge and
36 inches in from leading edge of rudder on both sides.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 24 inches (subdued)
Located 6 inches below and centered on the OSO/DSO windows.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 30 inches
Located 7 inches down from command insignia. On right side of tail, trailing edge of first letter
will lay along a vertical line from center of sword in command insignia. On left side of tail,
trailing edge of second letter in unit designator will lay along a vertical line from center of sword
in command insignia.
PILOT/AIRCREW/CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot/aircrew: Centered on forward escape hatch side window.
Crew chief/assistant: Left nose gear door, centered.
NOSE NUMBERS:
Last three/four digits of tail number, 3 inches in height, on nose gear strut, both sides.
COMBAT MARKINGS:
Bomb markings will be located on the right portion of the left nose gear door exterior. These
markings will consist of a 5-inch bomb silhouette applied in a row not to exceed 10 in each row.
Once 10 silhouettes are achieved a single bomb silhouette with the number “10” will represent a
row.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                        37


B-2
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 24 inches (subdued)
Located on left side at FS 304.5 (center of crest), with crest bottom at WL 167.2.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 24 inches (subdued)
Located on right side of aircraft at FS 304.5 (center of crest), crest bottom at WL 167.2.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 16 inches (subdued) 30-degree negative slant
Top of unit designator to be 15 inches from top of main landing gear door, 50 inches from
extreme aft end of door.
AIRCRAFT NAME: (all measurements to top of letters)
“SPIRIT” located: 10.5 inches from top of main landing gear door, 57 inches from extreme
forward of door in 8 inch block letters with a 30 degree negative slant.
“OF” located: 19.5 inches down from top of main landing gear door, centered underneath the
“SPIRIT” in 6 inch block letters with a 30 degree negative slant.
“STATE/CITY” located: 26.5 inches from top of main landing gear door, centered beneath the
“SPIRIT” in 8 inch block letters with a 30 degree negative slant.
TAIL STRIPE: The tail stripes will be 18 feet long by 11.25 inches high from leading edge to
trailing edge of main landing gear doors.
PILOT/AIRCREW/CREW CHIEF NAMES: (all measurements to top of letters)
Pilot: The word “PILOT” is centered on left half of nose gear door 8 inches from the top of the
door in 1.75-inch letters. The pilot’s name is centered below the word “PILOT,” 13.5 inches
from the top of the door.
Mission Commander: The word “MISSION COMMANDER” is centered on right half of nose
gear door, 8 inches from top of door in 1.75-inch letters. The mission commander’s name is
centered below “Mission Commander,” 13.5 inches from the top of the door.
Crew Chief/Assistant: The letters “DCC” are centered on nose gear door, 26 inches from top of
door, 1.75-inch letters. The crew chief’s name is centered 1 inch below “DCC” also in 1.75-inch
letters. The letters “ADCC” are centered 1 inch below the crew chief name in 1.75-inch letters
and the assistant crew chiefs are centered below with 1 inch spacing from “ADCC,” also in 1.75-
inch letters.
NOSE NUMBERS: Last five digits of tail number, 6 inches in height, 12 inches from bottom of
nose gear door and centered.
COMBAT MARKINGS:
May apply a single bomb/CALCM silhouette on the exterior of the nose landing gear door.
These silhouettes will contain the combat operation acronym, “OEF” embedded in the center of
the marking.
 38                                          ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


B-52
COMMAND INSIGNIA: 24 inches (subdued)
Vertical: Top of insignia will be located 41 1/2 inches below tail stripe. Leading edge of
insignia will be 62 inches in from leading edge of tail on both sides of tail. Bottom point/tip of
insignia will be located on center seam of main spar line.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 24 inches (subdued)
Right side: On forward fuselage, center of insignia at B.S. 218.7 and W.L.187.5.
Left side: On forward fuselage, center of insignia at B.S. 218.7 and W.L.187.5.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 42 inches
Left side: Top of unit designator located 36 inches below box antenna. The trailing edge of the
second letter is on a vertical line down from the tip of the command insignia, using the sword in
the insignia as a line up reference.
Right side: Top of unit designator located 36 inches below box antenna. The trailing edge of the
first letter will be in a vertical line from the tip of the command insignia, using the sword in the
insignia as a line up reference.
PILOT/AIRCREW/CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot/aircrew: Centered under pilot’s window.
Crew chief/assistant: Block is 15 inches by 36 inches. Block is located on BS 261.00 and WL
139.00.
NOSE NUMBERS: Last four digits, 12 inches in height, located immediately aft of BS 236.30
and centered on WL 187.5.
COMBAT MARKINGS:
Bomb markings will be enclosed in a 27-inch by 27-inch, 1-inch bordered area with the left edge
at FS 117.20 bottom edge on WL 139. A conventional bomb or CALCM silhouette may be
displayed in the box for each combat sortie flown with a successful weapons release. The
CALCM marking will be a maximum of 10 inches and the conventional bomb silhouette a
maximum of 5 inches. Once the box is full, an existing column of CALCM/Bombs will be
removed and replaced with a single CALCM/Bomb silhouette containing a number 10 at the top
of the applicable row.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                          39


C-21A
AMERICAN FLAG: 39 inches from base of vertical stabilizer. Flag painted at an angle so
bottom leading edge is 10 inches from the leading edge seam and top leading edge is 5 inches
from the leading edge seam.
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 10 inch (full color)
Vertical: Top of insignia 2.5 inches below lower left aft corner of windshield frame.
Horizontal: Left side fuselage forward of entry door with the leading edge of the top of insignia
aligning the aft corner of the windshield frame.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 10 inch (full color)
Placed in identical location of Command Insignia on right side of aircraft.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 10 inch (Black)
Vertical: 21.5 inches from base of vertical stabilizer. Top of unit designator is located 6 inches
below the bottom of the American flag.
Horizontal: 20.5 inches aft of leading edge seam on vertical stabilizer. Furthest leading edge
point of letter flush with VOR antennae.
NOSE NUMBERS: Last three tail numbers 3 inches high. 1 1/4 inch from lower forward
corner of door and over1 1/4 inch.
TAIL NUMBERS: 8 inches (Black)
Vertical: 9 inches from base of vertical stabilizer
Horizontal: 16 inches forward of rudder trailing edge for last digit in tail number. Left and
Right.
NATIONAL STAR: 18 inch Diameter
Vertical: 18 inches aft of outboard engine nacelle leading edge.
Horizontal: Centered on the nacelle for height.
 40                                         ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


C-27
AMERICAN FLAG: 18 inches high by 36 inches wide
Top of flag is located 18 inches below VOR antenna and centered.
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 24 inches (Black Silhouette)
Located on both sides of vertical stabilizer. Top of insignia is 12 inches below the bottom of the
American Flag with the leading edge of insignia crest 28 inches from leading edge of vertical
stabilizer.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 24 inches
Located on both sides of aircraft fuselage. Top of insignia is 11.5 inches below aircraft
centerline and centered between frames 11 and 12.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 24 inches
Top of unit designator located 12 inches below command insignia. Forward most portion of
insignia crest located 24.4 inches from leading edge of vertical stabilizer.
NOSE NUMBERS: 6: (Black)
Located on both sides of aircraft nose with top of marking 24 inches below the centerline of the
aircraft. The forward most edge of marking will start 73.7 inches forward of the aft crew entry
door.
CREW CHIEF NAMES: 2 inches high (Black)
Place the crew chief name within a name block with the trailing edge along the upper portion of
the leading edge of the crew entry door.
RADIO CALL NUMBERS: 18 inches (Black):
Top of call numbers located 12 inches below unit designator. Forward most edge of call number
is located 33 inches from leading edge of vertical stabilizer.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                         41


C/EC/HC/MC-130
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 30 inches (subdued)
Vertical: Bottom of command insignia is located at vertical stabilizer station 111.0.
Horizontal: Centered on FS 1090.0.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 30 inches (subdued)
Insignia will be placed on the fuselage, the bottom of the insignia will be centered on WL 190.0.
The insignia will be centered on FS 270.0.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 36 inches
Vertical: Bottom of unit designator is located at vertical stabilizer station 63.0.
Horizontal: Centered between FS 1068.0 and 1122.0.
RADIO CALL NUMBER: 15 inches
Vertical: Bottom of radio call number is located at vertical stabilizer station 36.0.
Horizontal: Centered between FS 1068.0 and 1122.0.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF/ASSISTANT NAMES:
Vertical: Bottom of crew box on WL 175.0.
Horizontal: Between FS 175.0 and FS 210.0.
 42                                         ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


EC/RC/WC/OC-135
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 24 inches (Full Color)
Vertical: 1 inch forward of center of pilot/copilot #2 window.
Horizontal: 11 inches below lowest part of sill.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 18 inches (Full color)
Left side of forward fuselage, 2 inches above the crew chief block, centered on the crew chief
block.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 36 inches (Full color)
Left Side: Designator will begin 20 inches in from leading edge.
Right Side: Designator will end 20 inches in from leading edge.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF/ASSISTANT NAMES:
Flight crew names: 2 inches below blue stripe, beginning straight below the lower forward
corner of the left and right #3 windows. 2-inch Helvetica medium, 30-degree forward slant on
left side, 30-degree aft slant on right side. The words “AIRCRAFT COMMANDER” with the
individuals name centered below it on the left side, and the word “PILOT” with the individuals
name centered below it on the right side. Optional below the Pilot name the word
“NAVIGATOR” with individual’s name centered below it.
Crew chief/assistant names in 18-inch by 36-inch block, 10 inches aft of crew entry door, top of
block flush with top of door.
NOSE NUMBER: Last four digits of tail number
EC-135: 8 inch white letters.
Left side: Located 7 inches forward and 8 inches above the crew entry door.
Right side: Located resting on WL 208.5 beginning at FS 225.
RC-135: 8 inch white letters.
Left side: Located 8 inches above and centered on crew entry chute.
Right side: Located resting on WL 208, centered on FS 287.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                            43


E-3
AMERICAN FLAG: 31.5 inches high by 60 inches long
Applied to both sides of the vertical stabilizer. The top of the American flag is located at Fin
Station 210.15 with the forward top corner of each flag resting on the vertical stabilizer leading
edge seam.
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)
Centered 12 inches fwd Sta 259.5. Top of insignia 40 inches above Stringer 19 on co-pilot’s
side.
WING ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)
Centered 12 inches fwd Sta 259.5. Top of insignia 40 inches above Stringer 19 on pilot’s side.
RESERVE COMMAND INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)--COMACC waiver
Centered 30 inches fwd of Sta 259.5. Lower point resting on Stringer 19 on co-pilot’s side.
RESERVE ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)--COMACC waiver.
Centered 30 inches fwd of Sta 259.5. Lower point resting on Stringer 19 on pilot’s side.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 24 inches (Gloss Black)
Left side: Located 7 inches above the radio call number with the top corner of the first letter at
the leading edge seam.
Right side: Located 7 inches above the radio call number with the top corner of the last letter at
the leading edge seam.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF/ASSISTANT NAMES:
Pilot, Mission Crew Commander (MCC), Dedicated Crew Chief (DCC) and Assistant Dedicated
Crew Chief (ADCC) names will be mounted to a standard size plaque and affixed to interior
body station 294.5.
Titles: WING CMDR, OG CMDR, SQDN CMDR, ACFT CMDR, MCC, DCC, and ADCC
NOSE NUMBERS: 6-inch (Gloss Black)
Last four digits of tail number on left and right nose gear door.
E-4B
Due to the mission of the E-4B, no command markings will be applied to the aircraft.
 44                                         ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


F-15
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)
Vertical: Bottom of insignia 18 inches above unit designator
Horizontal: Aft edge of insignia of FS 806.5.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)
Vertical: Bottom of insignia on WL 100.0.
Horizontal: Forward edge of insignia on FS 458.0.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 24 inches
NOTE: Unit designator and tail numbers will be black, color #37038 for Mod Eagle scheme.
Vertical: Top of letters even with top of rudder.
Horizontal: Leading edge of first letter on FS 760.0.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot centered below left windscreen frame and crew chief and assistant crew chief names
centered below right windscreen frame.
NOSE NUMBER: 4 inches
Last three/four digits of tail number vertically on left and right side of the nose gear door or on
the aircraft nose 1 inch below the EWWS antenna with the last number ending 1 inch from
radome.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                        45


F-16
COMMAND INSIGNIA: 18 inches (full color)
Vertical: 7 inches below tail stripe.
Horizontal: Centered on vertical stab, excluding rudder measurement.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 10 inches (full color)
Vertical: Top of insignia 11 inches below fuselage/intake splitter vane.
Horizontal: Leading edge 52 inches aft of intake duct lip.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 18 inches
Vertical: Bottom of letters at WL 158.0.
Horizontal: Leading edge of first letter on FS 482.07.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot name on left canopy rail.
Crew chief name on right canopy rail.
Assistant crew chief name on inside of nose gear door.
NOSE NUMBER: 4 inches
Last three/four digits of tail number on both sides of nose gear door or centered below teardrop
EWWS antenna on each side of aircraft nose.
 46                                          ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


F/A-22
ACC INSIGNIA: 18 inches (silhouette - contrasting shade of gray)
Vertical: Top of insignia applied 50.3 inches below top of vertical stabilizer.
Horizontal: Centered on trailing edge aft unit designator letter.
WING INSIGNIA: 18 inches (silhouette - contrasting shade of gray)
Vertical: Centered between chine and bottom of the intake.
Horizontal: Centered between leading edge of right intake lip and right weapons bay.
SQUADRON INSIGNIA: 18 inches (silhouette - contrasting shade of gray)
Vertical: Centered between chine and bottom of the intake.
Horizontal: Centered between leading edge of left intake lip and left weapons bay.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 24 inches
Unit designator and tail numbers will be applied in a contrasting shade of gray.
Vertical: Bottom of letters applied 96.1 inches below top of vertical stabilizer.
Horizontal: Bottom leading edge of first letter is applied 28.8 inches aft of vertical stabilizer
leading edge.
TAIL STRIPE: 6 inches
Any design applied in contrasting shades of gray applied to the upper most elements on both
sides of the vertical stabilizers.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES: 1.75 inches (contrasting shades of gray)
Pilot: Justified to forward edge of left nose landing gear door.
Crew Chief: Justified to forward edge of right nose landing gear door.
NOSE NUMBER: 4 inches (contrasting shade of gray)
Last three/four digits applied vertically above left and right avionics bay panels (4135 & 4165).
The number will begin three inches in front of the forward most portion of the formation light
and centered vertically with the formation light.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                        47


F-l17
COMMAND INSIGNIA: 10 inches (subdued gray)
Vertical: 2 inches below bottom of tail stripe.
Horizontal: Centered on rudder contour break.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 18 inches (subdued gray)
Left and right side: Located on side of intake panel, 67 1/2 inches behind FS 108 and 13 inches
above wing to body line, measured from bottom tip of insignia.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 12 inches (subdued gray)
Vertical: 3 inches below bottom tip of command insignia.
Horizontal: Centered on rudder contour break.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES: (subdued gray):
Pilot: Name centered on left canopy rail (1.75 inch lettering).
Crew Chief: Dedicated crew chief name centered on right canopy rail (1.75 inch lettering).
Assistant Crew Chief: Names justified left on nose gear door (1.75 inch lettering).
NOSE NUMBER: 4 inch
Last three digits on lower portion of nose landing gear strut.
Radio Call Number: 8 inches (Subdued gray).
Vertical: 3 inches below unit designator.
Horizontal: Centered on rudder contour break.
AF: 3.6 inches high, left justified.
Year: 3.6 inches high, left justified below AF.
 48                                       ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


HH-60
COMMAND COLOR SCHEME: European one paint scheme only
HELICOPTER ROTOR MARKINGS: All helicopter rotor markings will be in accordance
with T.O. 1-1-8 and applicable weapons system technical data.
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 10 inches (subdued)
Left side: 11 inches below WL 319.633 centered.
Right side: 7 inches below WL 319.633 centered.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 10 inches (subdued)
Wing: On right cargo door 8 inches below forward window, centered.
Squadron: On left cargo door, 8 inches below forward window, centered.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 9 inches
Left side: Positioned 21.5 inches below WL 319.633, centered.
Right side: Positioned 19 inches below WL 319.633, centered.
PILOT/AIRCREW/CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot: Right door, 2.5 inches below window, centered.
Copilot: Left door, 2.5 inches below window, centered.
Crew chief/assistant: Crew chief, right cargo door, 3.1 inches below and centered on forward
window.
Assistant: Left cargo door, 3.1 inches below and centered on forward window.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                            49


KC-135
COMMAND INSIGNIA: 24 inches (subdued)
On both sides of tail, command insignia will be located 24 inches below tail stripe and 17 inches
in from leading edge of tail.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 24 inches (subdued)
Left side of forward fuselage: 2 inches above the crew chief block, centered on the crew chief
block.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 36 inches
Left Side: Located 24 inches down from bottom of command insignia. Last letter of designator
will end 17 inches in from leading edge of tail.
Right Side: Located 24 inches down from bottom of command insignia.                  Last letter of
designator will end 17 inches in from leading edge of tail.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot/aircrew: Centered under the pilots side window
Crew chief/assistant names in 18 inch by 36 inch block, 6-10 inches aft of crew entry door, top
of block flush with top of door.
NOSE NUMBERS:
Last three/four digits of tail number, 6 inches in height, On left side, located starting at station
277.0 and at WL 200.0. On right side, located starting on station 203.6 and WL 200.0.
 50                                          ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


T-38
COMMAND INSIGNIA: 10 inches (full color)
Vertical: Top of insignia 4 inches below anti-collision light.
Horizontal: Centered on line with trailing edge of anti-collision light.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 10 inches (subdued/CTP, full color AT-38)
Vertical: Centered on 3 o'clock position (left) and 9 o'clock position (right).
Horizontal: Center of insignia 24 inches aft of intake lower opening.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 12 inches
Vertical: 4 inches below command insignia.
Horizontal: Leading edge of first letter centered on command insignia.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot: Name centered on left forward canopy rail.
Crew Chief: Name centered on left aft canopy rail.
Assistant Crew Chief centered on right aft canopy rail.
NOSE NUMBER: 4 inches
Last three/four digits of the tail number horizontally on both sides of nose gear door.
UNIQUE PAINT SCHEME:
Companion Trainer Program T-38 aircraft are authorized a gloss gray paint scheme, federal stock
code number 16099.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                          51


U-2
COMMAND INSIGNIA: 15 inches (flat red silhouette)
Top of insignia located 14 inches below the bottom of the tail stripe, the trailing edge of the
insignia 11 inches in from the leading edge of the rudder.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA:
No organizational insignia will be placed on the U-2 aircraft.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: 15 inches (flat red)
Located 14 inches below the command insignia. On the right side of the tail, the unit designator
will start 7 inches in from the leading edge of the rudder. On the left side of the tail, the unit
designator will end 7 inches from the leading edge of the rudder.
PILOT AND CREW CHIEF NAMES:
Pilot, Crew chief and assistant names centered below the right canopy frame.
NOSE NUMBERS: 6 inches (flat red)
Last three digits centered on main landing gear door in front of the door composite area.
NOTE: National star markings are not applied due to geopolitical reasons per ACC/LGRR.
Command insignias and unit designators shall be removed from all U-2 aircraft prior to transfer
to Detachment 1.
 52                                         ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


Predator RQ-1L
ACC COMMAND INSIGNIA: 10 inches (subdued).
Vertical: Top of insignia 6-inches below top-edge of tail plane exterior surface.
Horizontal: Centered between tail plane leading and trailing edges perpendicular to tail plane
trailing edge.
ORGANIZATIONAL INSIGNIA: 10 inches (subdued)
Vertical: Bottom edge of insignia 4.5 inches above chine line right side of fwd fuselage.
Horizontal: Centered between leading edge of wing and aft edge of front avionics bay access
hatch.
UNIT DESIGNATOR: (WA) 10 inches (flat black)
Centered vertical and horizontal on tail planes outboard surfaces leveled perpendicular to tail
plane trailing edge.
SQUADRON INSIGNIA/PATCH: 10 inches (subdued)
Vertical: Bottom edge of insignia 4.5 inches above chine line left side of fwd fuselage.
Horizontal: Centered between leading edge of wing and aft edge of forward avionics bay access
hatch.
AIR FORCE CHEVRON: 8 inches (subdued)
Fuselage placement: Located on left and right sides of aft fuselage.
Vertical: 6 inches above chine line.
Horizontal: 54 inches forward of tail plane leading edge.
Wing placement: Located on top of left wing and bottom of right wing.
Placement: Centered on chord line 8 feet from wing tip.
Alignment: Parallel to the main wing spar line.
TAIL STRIPE: 6 inches wide
Located on left and right tail planes, wrapped completely around tail planes.
Vertical: Top edge of stripe 75 inches below top edge of installed tail plane
Alignment: Perpendicular to tail plane trailing edge
CREW NAMES: 1.75-inch block letters (flat black)
PILOT: Located on left side of forward fuselage
Vertical: 1 inch below front avionics bay access hatch
Horizontal: Centered between aft and forward edges of front avionics bay access hatch
Example: PILOT CAPT JOHN SMITH
SENSOR OPERATOR NAME (SO): Located on left side of forward fuselage
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                      53


Vertical: 3.25 inches below front avionics bay access hatch (0.5 inch below pilot name).
Horizontal: Left edge aligned with left edge of pilot name or centered under pilot name, which
ever presents the most professional appearance based on individual name lengths
Example: SO SSGT JANE DOE
DEDICATED CREW CHIEF (DCC): Located on right side of forward fuselage
Vertical: 1 inch below front avionics bay access hatch
Horizontal: Centered between aft and forward edges of front avionics bay access hatch
Example: DCC SSGT JOHN SMITH
ASSISTANT DEDICATED CREW CHIEF (ADCC): Located on right side of forward fuselage
Vertical: 3.25 inches below front avionics bay access hatch (0.5 inch below DCC name)
Horizontal: Left edge aligned with left edge of DCC name or centered under DCC name, which
ever presents the most professional appearance based on individual name lengths
Example: ADCC SRA JANE DOE
TAIL NUMBER: 1.6 inch block letters AF over 1.6 inch numbers (year designator) followed
by 4 inch numbers (last three numbers in aircraft serial number) (Flat black)
Located on the left and right sides of the aft fuselage
Left side vertical: 2 inches below upper edge of rear avionics bay access hatch
Left side horizontal: 1 inch forward of engine air inlet
Right side vertical: 1 inch above network junction access hatch
Right side horizontal: 4 inches forward of lower engine cowling
Alignment: Parallel to the fuselage chime line
PROPELLER TIP BLADE: 4-inch band around blade tip (flat yellow)
54          ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


     Attachment 2 (BEALEAFB)
         U-2 TAIL FLASH
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                 55


                                    ATTACHMENT 3
   COMPOSITE LISTING OF DISTINCTIVE UNIT AIRCRAFT IDENTIFICATION
                             MARKINGS

Table A3.1. Composite Listing of Distinctive Unit Aircraft Identification Markings.

 CODE     AIRCRAFT                        UNIT/ LOCATION/ COMMAND

 AC       F-16C/D                         177 FW Atlantic City NJ (ANG)

 AF       C-150; T-41; UV-18; TG-3;       34 TRW USAF Academy CO
          TG-4; TG-7; TG-9; TG-11

 AK       F-16C/D; A/OA-10A               354 FW Eielson AFB Alaska (PACAF)

          F-15C/D/E; C-130H; C-12J        3 WG Elmendorf AFB, AK (PACAF)

 AL       F-16C/D                         187 FW Dannelly Field AL

 AN       C-130H; HH-60G; HC-130N         176 WG Kulis ANGB AK (ANG)

 AV       F-16C/D                         31 FW Aviano AB Italy (USAFE)

 AZ       F-16A/B/C/D                     162 FW Tucson IAP AZ

 BB       U-2S, TU-2S; T-38A              9 RW Beale AFB, CA (ACC)

 BC       A-/OA-10A                       110 FW W. K. Kellogg Airport MI (ANG)

 BD       A-/OA-10A, B-52H                917 WG Barksdale AFB, LA (AFRES)

 CA       HH-60G; HC-130P                 129 RQW Moffett Federal Airfield CA (ANG)

 CB       T-37B; T-38A; T-1A              14 FTW Columbus AFB MS (AETC)

 CC       F-16C/D                         27 FW Cannon AFB NM (ACC)

 CI       C-130E                          146 AW Channel Islands ANGB CA (ANG)
56                               ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011



CO   F-16C/D                     140 FW Buckley ANGB CO (ANG)

CT   A-/OA-10A                   103 FW Bradley IAP CT (ANG)

DC   F-16C/D                     113 WG Andrews AFB MD (ANG)

DE   C-130H                      166 AW New Castle County Airport, DE (ANG)

DM   A-/OA-10A; EC-130E/H        355 WG Davis-Monthan AFB AZ (ACC)

DR   HH-60G                      305 RQS Davis-Monthan AFB AZ (AFRES)

DY   B-1B                        7 BW Dyess AFB TX (ACC)

ED   Various                     412 TW Edwards AFB CA (AFMC)

EF   F-16C/D                     147 FW Ellington Field, TX (ANG)

EG   F-15C/D                     33 FW Eglin AFB FL (ACC)

EL   B-1B                        28 BW Ellsworth AFB SD (ACC)

EN   T-37B; T-38A; AT-38B        80 FTW Sheppard AFB TX (AETC)

ET   F-15A/B/C/D/E;         F-   46 TW Eglin AFB FL (AFMC)
     16A/B/C/D;
     A-10A; UH-1N

FC   UH-1N                       336 TG Fairchild AFB WA (AETC)

FE   UH-1N                       90 SPW F.E. Warren AFB WY (AFSPC)

FF   F-15C/D; F/A-22             1 FW Langley AFB VA (ACC)

FL   HC-130P/N; HH-60G; C-130E   920 RQG Patrick AFB FL (AFRES)

FM   F-16C/D                     482 FW Homestead ARS FL (AFRES)
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                      57



FS     F-16C/D                    188 FW Fort Smith MAP AR (ANG)

FT     A/OA-10                    23 FG Pope AFB NC (ACC)

FW     F-16C/D                    122 FW Fort Wayne IAP IN (ANG)

GA     B-1B                       116 BW Robins AFB GA (ANG)

HA     F-16C/D                    185 FW Sioux Gateway Airport IA (ANG)

HD     QF-4                       53 WEG Holloman AFB NM

HH     C-130H, F-15A/B, KC-135R   154 WG Hickam AFB HI (ANG)

HI     F-16C/D                    419 FW Hill AFB UT (AFRES)

HL     F-16C/D                    388 FW Hill AFB UT (ACC)

HO     F-117A; T-38A;             49 FW Holloman AFB NM (ACC);

       F-4E                       Luftwaffe RTU, Holloman AFB NM

HT     AT-38B; C-12J; F-15        46 TG Holloman AFB NM (AFMC)

HV     UH-1N                      30 SPW Vandenberg AFB CA (AFSPC)

ID     A-/OA-10A; C-130E          124 WG Boise ID (ANG)

IL     C-130E                     182 AW Greater Peoria Airport IL (ANG)

IS     HH-60G                     85 GP NAS Keflavik Iceland (ACC)

JZ     F-15A/B                    159 FW NAS JRB New Orleans LA (ANG)

KC     A/OA-10A                   442 FW Whiteman AFB MO (AFRES)

LA     B-52H                      2 BW Barksdale AFB LA (ACC)
58                                 ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011



LD   Various                       IAAFA, Lackland AFB TX (AETC)

LI   HC-130P/N; HH-60G             106 RQW F.S. Gabreski Airport NY (ANG)

LN   F-15C/D/E                     48 FW RAF Lakenheath UK (USAFE)

LR   F-16C/D                       944 FW Luke AFB AZ (AFRES)

MA   A-/OA-10A                     104 FW Barnes MAP MA (ANG)

     F-15A/B                       102 FW, Otis ANGB MA (ANG)

MD   A-/OA-10A                     175 WG Baltimore MD (ANG)

MI   F-16A/B, C-130E               127 WG Selfridge ANGB MI (ANG)

MK   C-130H                        440 AW General Mitchell IAP/ARS WI (AFRES)

MM   UH-1N                         341 SPW Malmstrom AFB MT (AFSPC)

MN   C-130H                        133 AW Minneapolis-St. Paul IAP/ARS MN
                                   (ANG)
     F-16A/B
                                   148 FW Duluth IAP MN (ANG)

MO   KC-135R;    F-15C/D/E;   F-   366 WG Mountain Home AFB ID (ACC)
     16C/D;
     B-1B

MT   B-52H                         5 BW Minot AFB ND (ACC);
     UH-1N                         91 SPW Minot AFB ND (AFSPC)

MY   F-16C/D, C-130E; HC-130P;     347 WG Moody AFB GA (ACC);
     HH-60G

     AT-38B, T-6A                  479 FTG Moody AFB GA (AETC)

NC   C-130H                        145 AG Charlotte IAP NC (ANG)
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                           59



NM     F-16C/D                      150 FW Kirtland AFB NM (ANG)

NO     A-/OA-10A                    926 FW NAS JRB New Orleans LA (AFRES)

NV     C-130E                       152 AW Reno NV (ANG)

NY     F-16C/D                      174 FW Syracuse Hancock IAP NY (ANG)

OF     RC-/TC-/OC-/WC-/EC-135       55 WG Offutt AFB NE (ACC)

OH     F-16C/D                      178 FW Springfield-Beckley MAP, OH (ANG);

       F-16C/D                      180 FW Toledo Express Airport OH (ANG)

       C-130H                       179 AG Mansfield Lahm Airport OH (ANG)

OK     E-3B/C; TC-18E               552 ACW Tinker AFB OK (ACC);

       F-16C/D                      138 FW Tulsa OK (ANG)

       C-130H                       137 AW Will Rogers World Airport OK (ANG)

OS     A/OA-10A, F-16C/D, C-12      51FW Osan AB South Korea (PACAF)

OT     F-15C/D/E, F-16C/D           53 WG - 85 TES Eglin AFB FL (ACC)

       A-10A, F-15C/D/E, F-16C/D,   53 WG - 422 TES Nellis AFB NV (ACC)
       HH-60G, F/A-22

       F-117                        Det 1, 53 WEG Holloman AFB NM (ACC)

PA     A-/OA-10A                    111 FW Willow Grove ARS PA (AFRES)

PD     HC-130P, HH-60G, C-130E      939 RQW Portland IAP OR (AFRES)

PR     C-130E                       156 AW Puerto Rico IAP Puerto Rico (ANG)
60                               ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011



RA   T-1A, T-6A, T-37B, T-38A,   12 FTW Randolph AFB TX (AETC)
     AT-38B, T-43A

RI   C-130E                      143 AW Quonset State Airport RI (ANG)

RS   C-130E                      86 AW Ramstein AB Germany (USAFE)

SA   F-16C/D                     149 FW Kelly AFB TX (ANG)

SC   F-16C/D                     169 FW McEntire ANGB SC (ANG)

SD   F-16C/D                     114 FW Joe Foss Field SD (ANG)

SI   F-16C/D                     183 FW Capital MAP IL (ANG)

SJ   F-15E                       4 FW Seymour Johnson AFB NC (ACC)

SL   F-15A/B                     131 FW Lambert-St Louis IAP MO (ANG)

SP   A-/OA-10A, F-16C/D          52 FW Spangdahlem AB Germany (USAFE)

ST   Various                     82 TW Sheppard AFB TX (AETC)

SW   F-16C/D                     20 FW Shaw AFB SC (ACC)

TD   QF-4                        53 WEG Tyndall AFB FL

TH   F-16C/D                     181 FW Hulman Regional Airport IN (ANG)

TX   F-16C                       301 FW NAS Fort Worth JRB Carswell Field TX

TY   F-15C/D; F/A-22             325 FW Tyndall AFB FL (AETC)

VA   F-16C/D                     192 FW Richmond IAP VA (ANG)

VN   T-37B, T-38A, T-1A          71 FTW Vance AFB OK (AETC)
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                            61



WA     A-10A, F-15C/D/E, F-16C/D,    57 WG Nellis AFB NV (ACC)
       HH-60G, RQ-1L

WE     E-9A                          53 WEG Tyndall AFB FL (ACC)

WG     C-130E                        913 AW Willow Grove ARS PA (AFRES)

WI     F-16C/D                       115 FW Truax Field WI (ANG)

WM     B-2A, T-38A                   509 BW Whiteman AFB MO (ACC)

WP     F-16C/D                       8 FW Kunsan AB South Korea (PACAF)

WR     E-8C, TE-8A                   93 ACW Robins AFB GA (ACC)

WV     C-130H                        167 AW Eastern West Virginia         Regional
                                     Airport/Shepherd Field WV (ANG)

WW     F-16C/D                       35 FW Misawa AB Japan (PACAF)

WY     C-130H                        153 AW Cheyenne MAP WY (ANG)

XL     T-37B, T-1A, T-38A            47 FTW Laughlin AFB TX (AETC)

XP     C-130H                        139 AW Rosecrans Memorial Airport MO (ANG)

YJ     C-21A, C-130E/H, UH-1N        374 AW Yokota AB Japan (PACAF)

ZZ     F-15C/D,   E-3B,   KC-135R,   18 WG Kadena AB Japan (PACAF)
       HH-60G
62          ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


     Attachment 3 (BEALEAFB)
      U-2 WING TAIL FLASH
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011                                                           63


                                         Attachment 4
                             F-22 OUTER MOLD LINE AUDIT

A4.1. (ADDED) Aircraft Structural Maintenance (ASM) personnel will perform an F-22
Signature Assessment System (SAS) and aircraft Outer Mold Line (OML) audit to correlate
aircraft damage markings with defects in the SAS. A minimum of one audit per aircraft will be
completed each year by a Low Observable (LO) Section Supervisor proficient in OML
inspection. Scheduling aircraft for this audit will be accomplished during the monthly/weekly
shared resource scheduling meeting. All errors found during the audit must be accurately
reflected in Integrated Maintenance Information System (IMIS)/SAS and briefed to all LO
section personnel. Units must establish a local SAS management policy that outlines the
frequency of audits/QA evaluations necessary to ensure SAS data is accurate. Note: There is an
unacceptable risk to aircraft radar cross section/aircraft survivability from substandard
maintenance and/or inaccurate signature assessment system data inputs. A variety of aircraft
structural maintenance proficiency levels are performing LO maintenance and we must verify
that all work is completed IAW technical order data and documented properly in SAS.
A4.2. (ADDED) The following equipment is required to perform SAS margin audit:
   A4.2.1. (ADDED) Militope or Portable Maintenance Aid (PMA)
   A4.2.2. (ADDED) Sharpie
   A4.2.3. (ADDED) Pen or pencil
   A4.2.4. (ADDED) Fuselage station buttline chart
   A4.2.5. (ADDED) Roll of tape (blue 3M 2090)
   A4.2.6. (ADDED) Booties
A4.3. (ADDED) Steps to perform aircraft SAS margin audits:
   A4.3.1. (ADDED) Annotate aircraft margin for reference
   A4.3.2. (ADDED) Access priority screen
   A4.3.3. (ADDED) Highlight or circle all Logistics Control Numbers (LCNs) that are
   detailed in the priority screen on the LCN chart. Stand-alone LCNs are also annotated.
   Ensure seam filler LCNs are also annotated.
   A4.3.4. (ADDED) Access historical screen and compare each damage input of every
   highlighted/circled LCN with what is on the aircraft. If any differences in size, pay particular
   attention to existing damage for extended growth, if fuselage station or butt-line station are
   found, use the edit feature to correct and annotate action in supplemental data. Mark damage
   with a piece of blue 3M 2090 tape. This will make the following OML inspection easier.
   A4.3.5. (ADDED) If damage is not found on aircraft but reside in the historical, annotate
   for removal later. This scenario can be common due to previous facilitate other maintenance
   or repair actions.
   A4.3.6. (ADDED) Remove the LCNs that do not have associated damage on the aircraft by
   a brush/roll repair.
64                                    ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011


  A4.3.7. (ADDED) Annotate any damage found and also any marked damage that does not
  have the blue 3M 2090 tape on them. Sometimes damage is marked but does not get input
  into SAS. Input any new damage and any non-inputted damage found.
ACCI21-105_BEALEAFBSUP_I 9 MARCH 2011           65


                      Attachment 4 (BEALEAFB)
                          RQ-4 TAIL FLASH
