BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                        23-251

                                                                             25 AUGUST 2005
                                                      DAVIS MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          Supplement
                                                                         16 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                                         Supply

                                                              COMBAT ORIENTED SUPPLY
                                                                 ORGANIZATION POLICY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publications is available digitally.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/LGSIP (MSgt Carl                                        Certified by: HQ ACC/LGS
Robinson)                                                             (Col Michael Melendrez)
Supersedes: ACCI23-251, 10 September                                                  Pages: 63
            2002
                                  (DAVISMONTHANAFB)
OPR: 355 LRS/LGLOC                                                    Certified by: 355 FW/CC
Supersedes: ACCI 23-251                                              (BrigGen Paul T. Johnson)
            DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP                                                          Pages:7
            , 1 September 2006


This instruction implements AFPD 23-2, Supplies and Materiel Management, and prescribes
authorization, organization, and implementation of the Combat Oriented Supply Organization
(COSO). Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) commander complements the new Combat Wing
Organization and promotes a more efficient Aircraft Maintenance Squadron and Maintenance
Squadron in both peace and war. It incorporates a decentralized concept of base level supply
operations. LRS commander incorporates in peacetime the same basic parts order, delivery
system and repair cycle management program that is vital in wartime. This publication does not
apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and
members. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (to be replaced with AFMAN 33-363), and
are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required. Send comments
and suggested improvements on AF IM 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication,
through channels to HQ ACC/LGSIP, 130 Douglas St., Langley AFB, VA 23665.
2                       ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


(DAVISMONTHANAFB) ACCI 23-251 is supplemented as follows: The purpose of this
base supplement is to provide additional base level guidance with regard to the Combat Oriented
Supply Organization Policy not covered in ACCI 23-251, Combat Oriented Supply
Organization. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as required. Send comments and
suggested improvements on an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through 355 LRS/LGLOC, 5165 E Katchina St., Davis-Monthan AFB, AZ 85707.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document changed significantly and must be reviewed in its entirety. We have re-instated
the Technical Order Time Change and Time Change Ordering process, see Chapter 9. In
addition, we added Flexible Consumable Readiness Spares Package (FCSRP) as another source
for consumable support. We have directed the use of the AF IMT 2520, Repair Cycle Control
Log be used for accountability for DIFM assets between shops. There are numerous minor
changes throughout this revision, thus requiring a complete review for changes.

(DAVISMONTHANAFB) This supplement incorporates the new Air Force Combat Wing
Structure; specifically Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) transformation. Major changes
include: Chapter 2 renamed as Aircraft Maintenance Support Section; Chapter 5 renamed as
Maintenance Squadron Support Section; Attachment 2, Turn Around (TRN) Procedures.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                                  3



                                            Chapter 1

                                       INTRODUCTION

1.1. Purpose. The Combat Oriented Supply Organization (COSO) prescribes a decentralized
supply concept for aircraft mission support. This instruction applies equally to fighter, bomber,
command and control, and all other aircraft possessed by ACC. These procedures promote
expeditious parts processing in a decentralized supply structure in peacetime as well as in war.
1.2. Scope. The LRS commander will decentralize specific direct mission support functions
into maintenance and supply flightline facilities. Readiness assets and weapons system support
assets will be located adjacent to the flightline and repair activities. Assets awaiting parts (AWP)
are stored in the responsible repair sections. Maintenance technicians/specialists will be given
direct accessibility to aircraft parts.
1.3. Supply Organization. The LRS commander will decentralize the Materiel Control, Repair
Cycle Management, Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL), and Storage and Issue functions.
Manpower resources to support COSO are sourced primarily from these areas.
   1.3.1. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) The 355 LRS Chief Enlisted Manager controls
   manpower requirements for Air Force Specialty Code 2S0XX.
1.4. Applicability. This instruction is applicable to all aircraft maintenance and LRS
organizations at host Air Combat Command units. Where an ACC unit is a tenant on another
commands base, this instruction applies only when mutual agreements have been reached with
the host base/command and approved by HQ ACC. Standard base supply system (SBSS)
support will be provided to all other organizations, not previously identified as COSO
participants, including non-ACC tenants. Special support requirements for non-COSO
units/tenants will be coordinated and documented by the LRS Commander through HQ
ACC/LGS. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for this instruction is HQ ACC/LGSI; and
Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) is HQ ACC/LGQM. Requests for waivers/deviations
to procedures outlined in this instruction will be directed to HQ ACC/LGS for approval.
Approved waivers require re-certification annually.
1.5. Relationship to Other Publications. This instruction provides organization delineation,
supplemental procedures for a decentralized supply operation and complements the new combat
wing concept/policy contained in AFI 21-101, ACC supplements, and AFMAN 23-110. Each
unit is responsible for the development of necessary supplements to this instruction to cover local
operations. Units will not change the basic COSO intent or policy without an approved waiver
from HQ ACC/LGS. This instruction is not meant to take the place of the policies and
procedures in AFMAN 23-110. It’s designed to provide guidance for those processes unique to
the COSO concept not covered in AFMAN 23-110. If instructions conflict with another policy
and procedural publication, get clarification from HQ ACC/LGSI.
1.6. Basic Objectives/Key Concepts. The basic objectives/key concepts of COSO are:
   1.6.1. Decentralize LRS Customer Service some functions into each Aircraft Maintenance
   Support Section and other maintenance flights to provide the management tools and expertise
   to quickly determine visibility of base stocks and thereby provide for enhanced asset
   management and a more effective maintenance operation.
4                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


    1.6.2. Decentralize select functions of supply and maintenance and tailor the functions to a
    combat environment.
    1.6.3. Place aircraft primary operating stock (POS) and mobility readiness spares packages
    (MRSP) close to the flightline as possible. Store MRSP in a deployable configuration. The
    Aircraft Parts Store (APS) will be located on the flight line, and the Flight Service Center
    (FSC) may be collocated in the Avionics Flight facility. Bases have the option of collocating
    the APS and FSC if it is more advantageous because of facilities and/or geographical layout.
    This collocating creates an "over-the-counter" distribution technique for the parts stocked in
    the maintenance flight/section environment, with the maintenance technician/specialist
    acquiring and transporting the part. This structure significantly reduces the time between
    request and issue of parts required.
    1.6.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The LRS commander elects not to collocate the Aircraft
    Part Stores (APS) and the Flight Service Center (FSC).
    1.6.4. Aircraft Maintenance Support Sections and other key maintenance organizations will
    have direct processing capability to the supply computer system. Locate core automated
    maintenance system (CAMS), Windows MICAP asset sourcing system (WINMASS) and
    SBSS capable terminals in each of these supported sections.
    1.6.5. Streamline supply and maintenance interface, and provide the supported
    flights/sections visibility over base stocks.
    1.6.6. Standardize support functions for both peacetime and wartime operations to promote
    realistic operational training and unit readiness. Provide sufficient shift manning to ensure
    adequate supply coverage whenever maintenance is in progress.
    1.6.7. Ensure maintenance turnarounds (TRN) are processed. TRN data will generate the
    stock levels required to support the base repair cycle and provide information essential to HQ
    AFMC for making decisions about purchases and repairs.
       1.6.7.1. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) See Attachment 2 for instructions on TRN
       procedures.
    1.6.8. Decentralization of AWP storage to the responsible repair flights/sections provides
    maintenance visibility of assets and to simplify cross-cannibalization.
1.7. Forward Stockage Policy. To achieve COSO objectives, units will store aircraft spares in
the APS and FSC. The objective is to push all applicable items to forward locations within the
maintenance complex. Additionally, the LRS Commander must implement pinpoint delivery
(Phase 1) to redirect inbound shipment of forward stock items, from central receiving to
decentralized aircraft parts stores, and establish these warehouses as cargo inchecking/receiving
points. Attachment 2 provides the list of FY stock record account numbers (SRAN) assigned to
each base. Units unable to fully implement pinpoint delivery (Phase 1) must secure a written
waiver/exemption from HQ ACC/LGS.
    1.7.1. XD/XF Assets: The goal is to place all applicable XD/XF on/off-aircraft spares, line
    replacement units (LRUs), shop replacement units (SRUs), test station replacement units
    (TRUs), etc. within the APS/FSC.
    1.7.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The applicable APS stores all aircraft and weapons
    systems support type assets that support aircraft operations such as Electronic
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                                5


   Countermeasure (ECM), pod capsules, etc., identified by a MICAP reportable Standard
   Reporting Designator (SRD) regardless of Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Code
   (ERRC). Utilize the Combat Oriented Supply Organization (COSO) Effectiveness Report
   (ACC 214) to identify assets that are immovable due to storage restrictions.
       1.7.1.1. A conscious decision is required to justify every applicable line item that is not
       moved forward. If space constraints are documented as reason for not forward stocking
       an item, units should have an established program to obtain additional warehouse
       space/bins.
       1.7.1.2. The ACC 214, COSO Effectiveness Report, is used to measure effectiveness
       and identify those COSO organization issues coming from other than their owning
       APS/FSC. Review the listing and take relocation actions. If property is not moved to the
       forward warehouse, an application code "NO" must be loaded to the item record. Local
       codes may also be used to identify reason why (i.e., N1/classified or N2/size). This will
       prevent a "Z" card from being produced and showing on the listing each time the item is
       issued. If the application code field must be used for a different purpose, supplement this
       Paragraph and locally modify the ACC 214 so that it accomplishes the same purpose. In
       addition, bases will process a local computer program at least annually to identify NSNs
       application coded as not forward stocked. Review past decisions on why these assets
       were not moved forward and determine if they could be relocated based upon
       improvements in forward storage capacity.
       1.7.1.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Use the following locally assigned application
       codes to identify property not moved to the forward warehouse:
          1.7.1.2.1. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) N1-- No Classified Storage Facility.
          1.7.1.2.2. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) N2--Outsized or too large for storage.
          1.7.1.2.3. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) N3--Joint                 use,    A-10/EC-130/HH-
          60/(stored in warehouse 15).
          1.7.1.2.4. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) N4—Flammable/Hazardous (stored in
          warehouses 04-08)
          1.7.1.2.5. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) N5--Refrigerate.
          1.7.1.2.6. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) N6--Do NOT assign REX modifier
          for FY ship-to address. Requires dock for off-load.
          1.7.1.2.7. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) N7—Not an aircraft or weapons
          systems spares type asset.
   1.7.2. XB3 Assets. The LRS commander determines whether XB3 items are located in the
   APS, FSC or main warehouse.
   1.7.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) APS will store expendable assets that are end-item
   specific.
1.8. Bench Stock Policy. The development, maintenance, and support of established bench
stocks are the keys to providing uninterrupted consumable support to maintenance work centers.
6                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


    1.8.1. Perform bench stock reviews IAW AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 25 and
    ACC SUP 1. Units are encouraged to maintain comparable bench stocks in each
    maintenance support section for like weapon systems. Non-regionalized supply accounts
    will establish local procedures for the work centers to identify bench stock materiel shortages
    to supply for action. Regionalized supply accounts will contact the ACC RSS Stock Control
    Flight for assistance with bench stock materiel shortages. Work center bench stock bin labels
    will have color standards to aid in user visibility and identification of assets. Highlight bin
    labels green for shelf life and blue for precious metals.
    1.8.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) LRS Systems Management section does not utilize
    colored bin labels. Owning units highlight labels with a colored marker or place colored dots
    on white background labels via the following color scheme:
       1.8.1.1. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Shelf-Life:                         Green
       1.8.1.2. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Functional Check:                   Orange
       1.8.1.3. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) TCTO:                               Red
       1.8.1.4. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) ESD:                                Yellow
       1.8.1.5. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Precious Metal:                     Blue
    1.8.2. Process routine bench stock requests weekly using CAMS/SBSS Interface screen
    #120 identifying up to eleven bins per transaction.
    1.8.3. Process urgent bench stock requests as required using CAMS/SBSS Interface screen
    #120 identifying the priority and only one bin per transaction. If CAMS/SBSS access is not
    available, submit the urgent request to LRS Customer Service.
    1.8.4. Use AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 26, ACCSUP1, for additional guidance
    for mobility bench stocks to support real world contingencies.
    1.8.5. Flexible Consumable Readiness Spares Package (FCRSP) is another source for
    consumable support. Refer to AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 26, ACC Supplement 1 for
    additional guidance on FCSRP procedures.
1.9. Resources/General Requirements. Support COSO through the effective use and
distribution of resources.
    1.9.1. Vehicle. Vehicle Authorization Utilization Board at each base will approve changes
    to vehicle authorizations.
    1.9.2. Supply Remote Devices. Under supply decentralization, all maintenance activities
    supporting MICAP reportable end items must have access to a computer with WINMASS
    installed. WINMASS is the primary communication tool between the customer in
    maintenance and their regionalized MICAP counterparts. Place these PC devices in each
    work centers, and train all users IAW applicable directives. These devices should be in close
    proximity to CAMS terminals and printers. The use of input devices by other maintenance
    activities (i.e., AGE/Propulsion Flight) is desirable and encouraged. However, local
    conditions will dictate device location, the need for relocating existing devices or submitting
    requirements for additional terminals. Submit requests for additional devices on an AF IMT
    3215, Computer Systems Requirements Document (CSRD), to the local Communication
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                               7


   Customer Service Center. Work centers will assign an equipment custodian IAW AFI 33-
   112.
   1.9.3. Terminal Security. For units outside the supply complex, the LRS Commander in
   coordination with Aircraft Maintenance/Maintenance Squadron Commanders will authorize
   specific transactions for input over work center terminals. The Management and Systems
   Flight Chief will ensure suspected terminal security violations are reviewed daily (D20, Part
   Eight -Terminal Security). The D20, Part Eight, reflects inputs attempted by individuals not
   authorized to input applicable transaction identification codes (TRIC). Identify violations to
   the appropriate squadron commander and conduct training to prevent recurrence. Unit
   Commanders who have terminals external to supply are charged with the responsibility to
   ensure only authorized inputs are made and that physical security is provided.
1.10. Management Responsibility/Involvement/Metrics. Commanders at all levels are
charged with maintaining good supply discipline and accountability. Involvement of both
maintenance and supply senior leaders is an absolute necessity to ensure the COSO concept is
implemented and all participants are provided adequate training and resources. Commanders
should also seek measurable ways to improve the effectiveness and responsiveness of the COSO
system.
   1.10.1. Objectives for measuring merit areas and other command interest areas are listed
   below:
       1.10.1.1. Maintenance technician/specialist pick-up times for serviceable assets from the
       APS: Priorities 01/02 ASAP/30 minutes and for priorities 03/04 ASAP/1 hour.
       1.10.1.2. Reparable processing times from flightline to Aircraft Maintenance Support
       Section is 2 hours.
       1.10.1.3. Reparable processing time from Aircraft Maintenance Support Section to the
       repair section or FSC: MICAP assets will be moved immediately and all others within 2
       hours.
       1.10.1.4. Turn-in from repair sections to FSC upon status determination is 1 hour for
       serviceable assets and all others within 2 hours.
       1.10.1.5. FSC processing time for serviceable assets is as soon as possible, and 1 duty
       day for unserviceable reparables.
       1.10.1.6. FSC movement of serviceable assets to stock is 2 hours.
       1.10.1.7. Two-level maintenance (2LM) LRUs must be processed through repair cycle
       and TMO within 2 days.
       1.10.1.8. Repair cycle metrics for MDS can be found on the HQ ACC/LGP Assessments
       home page: Choose the "Control Limits" option for the actual file. NOTE: Bases
       operating a scheduled DIFM movement system must move MICAPS immediately and
       make a minimum of 2 runs a day to move non-MICAP assets.
   1.10.2. Management will review key measures of merit and associated resource posture at
   locally determined forums such as the Intermediate Repair Enhancement Program (IREP)
   meeting.
8                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


1.11. Computer Products. Timeliness and proper distribution of computer products to all
appropriate work centers is essential to mission success. All mandatory reports should be
available for customer use by 0700 hours. Regionalized supply accounts may obtain reports
from ACC RSS website by going through Portal web cite: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/afp40/USAF/ep/home.do. Reports required for post-post should be downloaded to a
designated hard drive as backup in case of LAN connectivity is down.
    1.11.1. The D23, Repair Cycle Asset Management List, and ACC200, RSD/DDIFM Dollar
    Value Readout, Version 1.32/ACC203 Repair Cycle Efficiency Report, Version 6.43
    reports provide tools to monitor the stock position and flow of XD/XF assets through the
    repair cycle.
    1.11.2. The ACC214 report provides the capability to review the effectiveness of the COSO
    forward stockage policy and to identify possible candidates for forward stockage. Also, use
    the ACC214 to identify items for bench stock addition.
    1.11.3. The MICAP Asset Status Report (DGWE40) provides a current list of all MICAP
    requirements with status in clear text.
    1.11.4. MASS/SBSS Reconciliation Program (DGWE10). This report is used to reconcile
    data between the MASS and SBSS databases. Refer to AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 9, Ch 2,
    Attach 2B-5, Page 23.
1.12. Deployment/Employment Supply Operations. The LRS, Aircraft Maintenance, and
Maintenance commanders will ensure deployment/employment guidance and personnel
assignments are current to support deploying units as directed by operational plans and orders.
    1.12.1. The LRS Commander will ensure any time a MRSP is deployed, at least one
    qualified individual is manifested on the first aircraft containing those assets.
    1.12.2. Supporting an aviation unit deployment; collocate APS and MSL personnel to allow
    personnel cross utilization. The senior APS individual will work directly for the deployment
    commander as the deployed LRS Commander. Aircraft Maintenance Support Section
    personnel may be physically located with the APS operation. However, they will remain
    assigned to their deployed maintenance units.
    1.12.3. Contingency support: the base LRS Commander will plan for and ensure deployed
    support is established through the ACC RSS.
    1.12.4. Personnel assigned to the APS, FSC, MSL, and Aircraft Maintenance Support
    Section will be trained on Combat Supply Activity (CSA) procedures and local contingency
    processing operations. Other supply personnel identified to deploy for direct support of
    MRSPs should also receive this training. LRS Training Section will ensure this training is
    provided. Refer to ACCI 23-151 for minimum training requirements.
1.13. Post-Post Processing. This guidance applies to both regionalized and non-regionalized
supply accounts. All post-post transactions are processed at a location designated by the post-
post control team (PPCT) chief. Maintenance work centers with a customer service function (for
example, Aircraft Maintenance Support Section, Inspection Systems Support Section (ISSS),
AGE, Propulsion, etc.) will designate a PPCT member (primary/alternate).
    1.13.1. Bases will establish a local contingency plan when CAMS is down and the SBSS is
    up or vice-versa.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                                    9


   1.13.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Refer to 355 LRS Post-Post Operating Instruction, 23-2.
   1.13.2. Aircraft/off equipment issues are processed with an activity code "J" and the CAMS
   job control in cc 81 to 93, (Reference AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 11).
   Applicable support sections will provide these "J" document numbers for contingency and
   post-post call-ins.
1.14. Delivery/DIFM Locations. Establish DIFM locations for each work center. Notify the
Materiel Management Flight of any changes. Recommend the first position of the DIFM
location code identify the flight. The second and third positions should identify the section (e.g.,
"AP" for Auto Pilot). This method of assignment will ensure that all DIFM items for each
squadron are segregated on the maintenance location sequence DIFM listing. If there is more
than one like unit on base or more than one wing, develop location codes to differentiate between
units.
1.15. Materiel Support Division (MSD). MSD assets impacts units O&M account on a day-to-
day basis. Exchange cost of XD/XF, budget code 8 assets are charged to unit's O&M account
upon issue. If these assets are returned to supply serviceable, the exchange costs are credited
back to the units O&M account. If these assets are returned to the supply account unserviceable,
the exchange costs are not credited. If an asset is not returned to the supply account by the 60th
day, the unit's O&M account is charged the carcass price of the asset. The carcass price is
credited when the asset is returned. If the asset is lost, the unit must immediately initiate a report
of survey.
10                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


                                           Chapter 2

                    AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE SUPPORT SECTIONS

2.1. General. Under the COSO concept Aircraft Maintenance Support Sections assume
additional responsibilities. They are equipped with CAMS remote devices having CAMS/SBSS
interface and expanded research capability. The support section will have access to WINMASS
with the following capabilities; update MICAP, make basic changes, and create MICAP event.
Chapter 8 of this instruction has unique requirements for 2LM/R2P processing. Activities
supported by a regionalized MICAP must use the guidance in ACCI 23-252, Chapter 7 in
conjunction with the guidance in this paragraph. As an integral part of the Aircraft Maintenance
Support Sections all assigned personnel, both supply and maintenance, are managed through the
applicable Aircraft Maintenance Support Section chain of command.
2.2. Responsibilities:
     2.2.1. Maintenance technicians/specialists, including those dispatched from repair sections,
     will input issue requests for aircraft parts through the CAMS/SBSS interface using the
     owning work center’s organization and shop code. They will then notify the applicable
     expediter and support section of the part's status.
        2.2.1.1. Support section supply personnel will assist in    training maintenance
        technicians/specialists for processing parts issue requests directly through the
        CAMS/SBSS interface.
     2.2.2. If CAMS/ SBSS interface is not available, or if exception processing is required,
     maintenance technicians/specialists will order aircraft parts through the applicable support
     section.
        2.2.2.1. Receive parts request(s) from maintenance technicians/specialists and process
        IAW local post-post procedures.           Technicians/specialists will provide required
        information for request processing on AF IMT 2005, (number of copies determined
        locally) or on a locally devised spreadsheet.
        2.2.2.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintenance technicians/specialists provide two
        copies of AF IMT 2005, Issue Request, to support section supply personnel.
        2.2.2.2. Use a "J" document number and the next available designated serial number on
        the issue request and ensure a valid CAMS job number is annotated in cc 81-93.
        2.2.2.3. Call-in issue requests to the APS/FSC or applicable customer support call-in
        point. Refer to your local contingency plan.
     2.2.3. Research and clear all rejects using CAMS screen #518 and SBSS computer system.
     Resubmit all issue exception coded, advice coded, and supply condition coded rejects using
     the SBSS remote device.
     2.2.4. Assist maintenance technicians/specialists in the research of parts requests and
     perform research/validation to backorder "killed" issue requests.
     2.2.5. Manage and maintain unit's tail number bins (TNB) and items removed to facilitate
     other maintenance (FOM).
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                          11


  2.2.6. Manage the unit's composite tool kit (CTK) Program, support equipment (to include -
  21 equipment) and test measurement and diagnostic equipment (TMDE).
  2.2.7. Receive and transport reparable spares to repair sections/FSC to include reparable
  returns from deployments.
  2.2.8. Participate in aircraft documentation reviews. Validate parts requirements in SBSS
  using inquiry by serial number (SBSS screen #416/CAMS screens #514 and #380) and
  cancel requirements no longer needed. Review current status and request follow-up action if
  status does not meet mission needs.
  2.2.9. Input initial DIFM location/status changes immediately after movement of reparable
  assets. Use CAMS screen #497, option 18 or SBSS screen #072 to input DIFM
  location/status. Input initial DIFM status of AXC, TCG, and OAM when applicable;
  however "Z" status may be used if provided by repair shops at the time of reparable item
  movement. Primary responsibility for current DIFM status update remains with the repair
  sections. NOTE: DIFM status codes reflect the status of the reparable asset, not the issued
  serviceable asset.
  2.2.10. Manage and maintain the unit's bench stock IAW AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2,
  Chapter 25, and the guidance contained in this instruction. Use CAMS screen #497, option 4
  or SBSS screen #082 for bench stock issue request.
  2.2.11. Order and store time change items (TCI) (non-FK). Order and store engine TCI as
  prescribed by subsequent chapters of this instruction.
  2.2.12. Maintain and manage applicable reports and listings:
  2.2.12. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintenance support sections have on hand, at a
  minimum, the following reports/listings for Post-Post processing:
     2.2.12.1. Daily Document Register (D04)
     2.2.12.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Supply Point Listing, Q13
             ACCRSS
     2.2.12.2. Priority Monitor Report (D18)
     2.2.12.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Repair Cycle Data List, Q04
             ACCRSS
     2.2.12.3. Due-out Validation Listing (M30)
     2.2.12.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) IS&G Listing, R02
             ACCRSS
     2.2.12.4. Master Bench Stock Listing (S04)
     2.2.12.4. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Master Bench Stock List, S04
             ACCRSS
     2.2.12.5. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Monthly Bench Stock List, M04
             ACCRSS
     2.2.12.6. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Quick                     Reference    List,     QRL
     355 LRS/MSL
12                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


        2.2.12.7. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Shelf Life Item List
                ACCRSS
        2.2.12.8. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Direct                            NRTS             List
        355 LRS/MSL
        2.2.12.9. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) 2LM and Agile Logistics List, ACC 225
                ACCRSS
     2.2.13. Review the D23 and/or ACC200 and ACC203 reports to ensure asset accountability
     and correct status of DIFM assets located in the Aircraft Maintenance Squadron’s
     maintenance flights.
     2.2.14. Maintain security of remote devices and ensure only valid transactions are processed
     on the devices.
     2.2.15. Designate by letter: a reject manager, delinquent document manager, and PPCT
     member to LRS.
     2.2.15. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Units submit in writing to 355 LRS/LGRSP the name of
     each reject monitor, delinquent document monitor, and Post-Post Control Team (PPCT)
     member.
     2.2.16. Forward copies of all 290, 323, 468 and 469 rejects to Procedures and
     Accountability. Distribute 296 rejects based on the specific freeze code, to the appropriate
     section within the LRS as outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 27, Section J.
     2.2.17. Validate and retain current status for MICAP requirements using the MICAP Asset
     Status Report (DGWE40).
     2.2.18. Ensure mark-for and delivery destination data is correct on all due-outs.
     2.2.19. Ensure documentation and processing for cannibalizations are processed correctly
     and cannibalization summaries are coordinated with Maintenance Analysis.
     2.2.20. Validate data on the DGWE10 and take appropriate action. If necessary, contact
     ACC RSS. Additional guidance is provided in paragraph 1.11.4
2.3. Required Processing:
     2.3.1. CAMS input TRICs include the following:
        2.3.1.1. Issues (ISU).
        2.3.1.2. Bench stock requests (BSR).
        2.3.1.3. Shop stock requests (SSR).
        2.3.1.4. Due-out cancellation (DOC).
        2.3.1.5. MICAP notification (NOR).
        2.3.1.6. Due-In/due-out update (DIT).
        2.3.1.7. Transfer accountability (TAA).
        2.3.1.8. Supply inquiry request (SIR).
        2.3.1.9. Additional TRICs as determined locally by agreement with the LRS commander.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                             13


     2.3.1.10. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Units outside the LRS are authorized to
     use controlled transaction identification codes TRN and FIL.
  2.3.2. CAMS/SBSS interface assigns automated document numbers.               However, if
  CAMS/SBSS is not available each support section will use the block of 8000 series serial
  numbers provided by LRS Customer Service Section for post-post processing purposes. The
  support section restarts with the beginning serial number each calendar day.
  2.3.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) See AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 11/BS1
  for assigned serial numbers. Units are required to use the appropriate activity code IAW
  AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 3, Attachment 3.
  2.3.3. Bench stocks will be checked prior to input of an issue request. The S04, Master
  Bench Stock Listing (part number sequence), will be made available to the
  technician/specialist for this purpose. Update part numbers as necessary to keep the S04
  current.
  2.3.4. Prior to ordering, the maintenance technician/specialist verifies urgency of need
  designator (UND) A and B requests with the expediter or production superintendent.
  Documenting this pre-verification is not required. Backordered requirements reflect the UJC
  commensurate with the urgency of need and type of requirement (Ref AFMAN 23-110, Vol
  2, Part 2, Chapter 11). Backorders against an aircraft tail number reflect either a MICAP or
  BQ UJC (except time change/TCTO requirements). UJCs AA, AZ, and AW are not used for
  back orders against an aircraft tail number.
  2.3.5. The requester will determine and use the appropriate delivery priority for on-hand
  assets which reflects the timeframe the part is required prior to input of issue requests (IAW
  AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 11). Delivery time sweeps are used for parts stored
  outside of the APS and FSC warehouse at host ACC bases.
  2.3.5. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) LRS/LGRO conducts scheduled sweeps every two to
  four hours.
  2.3.6. If the part requested is available at the APS or FSC, the maintenance
  technician/specialist pick ups the item at the APS or FSC. If the requested item is
  warehoused at other than the APS or FSC, the Vehicle Operations Section delivers the item.
  2.3.7. If the stock number is not loaded, the support section contacts the LRS Customer
  Service Section to load the stock number. Provide the national stock number (NSN), part
  number, T.O. reference, and priority for the new item record load. As a wing/base option,
  the support section may process new item record and part number detail loads. LRS
  Customer Service or the support section will process a part number detail record update
  (1AA) once the stock number is loaded.
  2.3.7. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The Support Section processes new item record and part
  number detail loads.
  2.3.8. Bases using the standard asset tracking system (SATS) will use the AF IMT 2520,
  Repair Cycle Control Log or a like local form to track and control DIFM assets. Bases not
  using SATS units will retain copies 2 and 3 of the DD IMT 1348-1A issue document/due-out
  management notice to process reparable assets to the repair shop or the FSC for direct NRTS
  items.
14                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


        2.3.8.1. If the reparable asset and reusable container are available at the time of the issue
        support section personnel will take the property, AFTO IMT 350 (Reparable Item
        Processing Tag) or CAMS maintenance snapshot Screen 122 of the completed action
        (IAW T.O. 00-20-2 Para 8-8), reusable container, and control log to the repair section.
        Move MICAP items immediately and all others not later than 2 hours after receipt of the
        reparable item in the support section. Bases operating a scheduled DIFM run must move
        MICAPS immediately and all others a minimum of twice a day. Support section
        personnel will have repair section signed their control log for the property. Repair
        Section personnel will annotate in the control log with the following data: DIFM asset
        location, DIFM status or "Z" status (see paragraph 2.10 of this instruction), signature,
        date, and time. The support section personnel will immediately update the DIFM
        location/status.
        2.3.8.2. Support section personnel will ensure all serially controlled and TCI items being
        tracked on engines have an automated operating time report attached to the appropriate
        condition tag as required by T.O. 00-20-3 prior to processing these parts to the repair
        section or FSC.
     2.3.9. Parts not available for issue. The maintenance technician/specialist will provide the
     support section with the Other Asset Management Notice (I023) with the I004 kill notice.
     Review the management notices for other possible assets.
        2.3.9.1. Delayed discrepancies are re-input with TEX code "M" and UJC BQ.
     2.3.10. MICAP Verification Checklist: The research and subsequent processing of MICAP
     requisitions utilizes a substantial amount of resources at all levels. Exceptional care must be
     taken to ensure only mission essential requirements are verified as MICAP, and only after all
     local resources are exhausted. As a minimum, support section personnel must confirm and
     record, on the reverse of the I023/I004 management notice or other locally developed means,
     the non-availability of an asset in the following locations before verifying a MICAP
     condition.
        2.3.10.1. All Readiness Spares Packages (RSPs).
        2.3.10.2. Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM).
        2.3.10.3. Supply Points.
        2.3.10.4. Assets in the repair cycle.
        2.3.10.5. Bench Stocks, Operating Stocks, and Shop Stocks.
        2.3.10.6. All support section's TNB/PHB and FOM bins.
        2.3.10.7. Check the applicable technical order for substitute part numbers, next higher
        assembly, and for possible local manufacture.
        2.3.10.8. Check the percent base repair for the item by processing a stock number
        inquiry with type retrieval code "5". If CAMS and SBSS are not available obtain the
        base repair cycle information from the Q04 listing.
        2.3.10.9. Support section will input aircraft MICAP requests through the WINMASS
        with TEX "7" in cc 51, MICAP flag "N" (cc 54), and appropriate UJC (1A/JA) in cc 55-
        56. Ensure all pertinent data (full T.O./Figure/Index, NHA part number, SMR Code, part
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                           15


     number) are included and update the bullet statement to reflect, “Verification Complete,
     Please Work”. Units deployed in support of a Joint Chief of Staff (JCS) mission need to
     use the authorized JCS project code.
         2.3.10.9.1. Process non-aircraft MICAP requests into WINMASS with TEX "M" in
         cc 51. Ensure all pertinent data is included.
         2.3.10.9.2. Input Part/Localized serialized number requests into WINMASS with a
         TEX "7" in cc 51 and e-mail/FAX A0B.doc or similar web based part number request
         to ACC RSS within 1 workday after input. NOTE: If WINMASS is not operational,
         telephone, fax, or e-mail new MICAPs to the ACC RSS Airborne Weapon System or
         Grounds Support Flight.
  2.3.11. When the I004 management notice is received with a DUO indication the
  maintenance technician/specialist annotates the aircraft AFTO IMT 781, Aerospace Vehicle
  and Flight Data Document, and advises the expediter. The expediter then notifies the
  Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) of the zero balance condition.
  2.3.12. Post-post conditions: the support section will manually prepare a DD IMT 1348-1A
  issue document and annotate/stamp the document "POST-POST DUE-OUT NOTICE - FOR
  REPARABLE PROCESSING ONLY."
  2.3.13. Support section retains copy 2 of the DD IMT 1348-1A management notice
  containing the input image for reparable processing and updating CAMS.
  2.3.14. Support section will track all MICAP due-outs and provide updates as required.
     2.3.14.1. Repair Sections monitor MICAP due-outs for bits and pieces against an aircraft
     mark-for until the ACC RSS indicates an off-base requisition has been established for
     each bit and piece. The support section may determine requisition action by processing
     TRIC 1MM (option C) or WINMASS inquiry against the aircraft serial number.
     2.3.14.2. Once the off-base requisition is established, forward a work order notification
     to the maintenance scheduler, for processing,
  2.3.15. Vehicle Operations Section delivers parts (due-out release (DOR)), from off-base
  sources. When DORs occur at the FSC as a result of a serviceable turn-in, the support
  section is required to pick-up MICAP items within 2 hours and all others within 8 hours. If
  the part is not picked up within 8 hours, and an agreement wasn’t made with the FSC, they
  may turn the asset back into the supply system. Regardless of parts source, the property is
  placed in the support section TNB and an entry is made in the TNB record or log. For
  MICAP DORs, the support section notifies the maintenance expeditor the part has been
  received, and notifies the ACC RSS as well for post-post MICAP releases.
  2.3.16. Post-post processing is outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapters 21, 32,
  Part 11 and ACCI 23-252.
     2.3.16.1. Support section PPCT personnel are under the direction of the PPCT Chief
     during post-post processing.
     2.3.16.2. The LRS Commander will establish one central point for after hours post-post
     processing (e.g., APS, FSC, or Customer Service). Personnel from the support section
16                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


        will assist in processing their transactions to completion and will ensure all post-post
        transactions are expeditiously processed.
        2.3.16.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The applicable LRS APS performs after hours
        post-post processing.
     2.3.17. Process parts requests with a frozen item record as post-post.
     2.3.18. Organization commanders or superintendents will request initial issue by submitting
     a letter of justification to the LRS Commander or his/her designated representative. Letters
     of justification for initial issue are required only for those repair cycle items (alpha budget
     code) a customer receives free from supply and DIFM control is not established. Initial issue
     removes a spare from the repair cycle and the item manager is charged with funding
     replacements for these alpha budget coded assets, thus the requirement for justification
     letters. Initial issue requests for organizational funded budget codes 8 and 9 (XD/XF) repair
     cycle items do not require letters of justification since the customer pays the standard price.
     The requesting organization will submit a complete written justification for those repair cycle
     items requiring letters to the Maintenance Support Flight OIC or Superintendent for review
     and approval/disapproval. For an urgent situation, verbal approval is authorized; but the
     paperwork must be submitted NLT 24 hours following approval. Once approved, the support
     section processes the issue request with the appropriate demand code. Additional
     information is contained in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 11. Bases will
     supplement this paragraph to identify specific requirements and responsibilities.
     2.3.18. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintenance units must submit initial issue requests for
     Alpha budget coded assets to the Materiel Management Flight Chief or Flight commander
     (355 LRS/LGRM).
2.4. Support Section Security. Permit access to support section personnel/support section
escorted personnel only. Procedures for physical security, use and restriction of remote devices
are contained in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 2 and Chapter 1 of this instruction.
2.5. Supply Remote User Responsibilities. The support section is responsible to the LRS
Commander for proper supply remote operation. Clear rejects caused by support section
personnel using the Cumulative Reject Processor (D818) or reject notice. If rejects cannot be
cleared by transaction, request assistance from the LRS reject manager. Support section
personnel are responsible to the LRS Commander for source documents generated in their
section.
2.6. Special Processing Procedures.
     2.6.1. Parts for aircraft undergoing fuel cell maintenance, repair and reclamation, or other
     maintenance away from the flight line (excluding isochronical inspections or phase) are
     ordered through the nearest CAMS remote device with access to CAMS/SBSS interface.
     Use the owning aircraft maintenance organization and shop code to order parts, as they are
     responsible for on aircraft maintenance. When property is received from off-base sources,
     Vehicle Operations Section delivers the parts directly to the owning support section.
     2.6.2. Married or Fitted Items. Certain types of items, due to their nature and fit, are not
     interchangeable between aircraft. Examples include sheet metal items, work unit code 11000
     items, panels, ladders, radomes, modified components, test or investigation items, etc. These
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                              17


   type items require special processing using TRN procedures through the repair cycle. When
   these items are routed to the repair shop, boldly stamp the remarks section of the AFTO IMT
   350 "SPECIAL PROCESSING REQUIRED." Upon receipt of these items, the repair section
   will order all parts with UJC AR, TEX code 4 (fill or kill) and the end item SRD.
       2.6.2.1. As these items issue and get modified, the repair section will process the TRN
       action using CAMS screen #352 and notify the applicable support section that the part is
       available for pick-up.
       2.6.2.2. Items Requiring Bits & Pieces. The repair section will notify the support section
       to order the part(s) based upon the Mission Essential Subsystems List (MESL). The end
       item may be stored as AWP in the flight or routed back to the applicable Aircraft
       Maintenance Squadron for reinstallation. When bits and pieces are received and the end
       item was previously returned to a maintenance flight, the support section is notified to
       deliver the end item to the appropriate repair activity. When the item is repaired, the
       repair activity processes the TRN using screen #352 and notifies the applicable support
       section the part is available for pick-up.
       2.6.2.3. Items Not Modifiable. The repair section will call the generating support section
       and get the document number of the replacement part. The repair section will then take
       the NRTS item to the FSC for processing or have the FSC pick-up the item.
   2.6.3. Functional Check/Operational Flight Programs.
       2.6.3.1. Maintenance technicians/specialists responsible for aircraft systems will
       establish a list of components that require functional check including items, which are
       affected by the Operational Flight Program (OFP) and must be checked prior to
       installation. This list will be maintained in each work center. Do not route items that
       were repaired on base to the repair section for functional check. The DD IMT 1574,
       Serviceable Tag-Material, will serve as the determining factor in this case.
       2.6.3.2. Items that DOR from off-base resources and the DD IMT 1348-1A/SATS label
       reads "Functional Check Required," are routed to the appropriate repair section. Attach
       an AFTO IMT 350 indicating the owning maintenance flight, but do not assign a
       document number. If the item is unserviceable, the repair section will contact the
       appropriate support section to order a replacement end item or repair parts (as
       applicable). The support section will then notify the repair section of the document
       number(s) and place the functional check end item in AWP status or turn in the item to
       the FSC for NRTS processing.
       2.6.3.3. Route SPRAM assets to the repair section with an AFTO IMT 350 boldly
       stamped "SPRAM ASSET - RETURN TO ___________ WORKCENTER.
       TELEPHONE NUMBER __________." Do not assign a document number. If the asset
       checks bad follow procedures for SPRAM assets in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2,
       Chapter 22. SPRAM assets that require turn-in will be taken to the FSC for processing.
2.7. Direct NRTS Identification. The Direct NRTS list and Q04 identify repair cycle items list
identify items determined by applicable maintenance technical order or repair section as having
no base repair capability or authority. These lists are used to ensure those items are
expeditiously moved from the flight line directly to the FSC or maintenance support section for
turn-in processing.
18                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


2.8. TNB and FOM Asset Management. Each support section will establish a system for
positive control of TNB/FOM assets. Property placed in TNB/FOM will be identified by
attached documentation, (i.e., DD IMT 1348-1A, SATS label, AFTO IMT 350 (Part I)). In
addition, they will establish a control log with the following minimum information: aircraft tail
number, date received, NSN, noun, document number, aircraft tail number, removal information
(signature, date, employee number of member who removed the item) and remarks. When
property is removed from TNB/FOM, the date, time, and signature and printed name of the
individual picking up the property must be recorded in the applicable control log. TNB/FOM
assets may be stored together if space constraints dictate the need. However, separate logs must
still be maintained. Partially complete TCTO kits/parts will have an inventory list attached, be
sealed, and stored in the TNB. Conspicuously mark the aircraft identification (ID) number and
TCTO number on the TCTO kit/part. Panels removed during hourly post-flight and periodic
inspections may be placed in panel racks with hardware attached in a screw bag with the aircraft
serial number annotated without other documentation.
2.9. Aircraft Document Review. Support section processes an inquiry either using
CAMS/SBSS interface screen #514 (supply requisition inquiry) or SBSS screen #416 (inquiry by
serial number to accomplish all aircraft records reviews, REF: AFI 21-101, command
supplement). Discrepancies found are corrected immediately (i.e., request for cancellation,
indicative data corrections, etc.). ACC RSS is the POC for unacceptable back order status.
2.10. Reparable Status. Support section will process INQs or will have the D23, D18, and
other management notices available to advise parts requesters when a serviceable replacement
can be expected. Use standard DIFM status codes for items in the repair section. However, the
technician/specialist has the option of providing a three-position DIFM status code to show
estimated time-in-commission (ETIC) for items in the repair section and not AWP. The first
letter of the code will be "Z" to reflect the item is in the repair section. The last 2 positions of the
code will reflect the Julian date the repair section expects to return the item to a serviceable
condition. ETICs will be assigned for each document number. Refer to paragraph 5.6 for
additional information.
2.11. Cannibalization.
     2.11.1. The maintenance production superintendents will notify the support sections when
     cannibalizations are required. The support section provides a job control number (JCN) to
     the flight line expediter and processes the cannibalization, using screen #083 in CAMS. The
     support section updates WINMASS and supply computer records. The maintenance flight
     OIC/NCOIC ensures cannibalization is documented in the maintenance data collection
     (MDC) system and flight chiefs perform weekly reviews and reconciliation of CAMS data
     with aircraft AFTO IMTs 781 series.
     2.11.2. Cannibalization actions between organizations are approved at the production
     superintendent level. For engine-to-aircraft cannibalization, the production superintendent
     coordinates with the jet engine intermediate maintenance (JEIM) section chief. The JEIM
     section chief coordinates the cannibalization of serially controlled and TCI with the engine
     management (EM) Section. The receiving support section processes the cannibalization
     using CAMS screen #083 putting an "X" for performing work center in order to print out at
     the donor support section. The donor support section provides the JCN to the receiving
     support section. Procedures for documentation flow are the same as the paragraph above.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                                   19


   When the donor is the Propulsion Flight, the support section coordinates and processes the
   cannibalization IAW chapter 7 of this instruction.
   2.11.3. CAMS is used (IAW AFCSM 21 Series Manual) to record and monitor
   cannibalization actions. T and U actions will be accomplished by using both manual and
   automated products. After notification of a cannibalization action, the support section inputs
   the cannibalization action into CAMS generating the T action. After removal of the item
   from the aircraft, the maintenance technician/specialist will complete the T action in CAMS.
   The support section will immediately notify the production superintendent when the
   replacement part is received. The production superintendent will decide whether the part will
   be reinstalled or deferred. The support section uses the applicable CAMS program to defer
   reinstallation or notify the work center to install the replacement part.                 The
   technician/specialist will complete the U action in CAMS using the necessary program after
   completion of the reinstallation. Store all received parts in the TNB until reinstallation
   occurs. The Aircraft Maintenance officer is responsible for ensuring cannibalization
   procedures and documentation is properly complied with. The Aircraft Maintenance officer
   will ensure flight chiefs perform weekly reviews and reconciliation of CAMS with aircraft
   AFTO IMTs 781 series. ACC IMT 228, Cannibalization Log or local document with the
   same requirement information of the ACC IMT 228, will be used to document CANN
   actions.
       2.11.3.1. MRSP cannibalizations must be processed in CAMS IAW the following
       procedures:
           2.11.3.1.1. ENTER AN EQUIP-ID OF "AWRSK" on screen 073 and complete all
           other fields to properly load the event so that a cannibalization can be completed.
           2.11.3.1.2. If "AWRSK" is not loaded to your system, it will automatically load
           when you transmit.
           2.11.3.1.3. Order your part normally using screen 072.
           2.11.3.1.4. Use screen 083 to process your CANN as you normally would.
           2.11.3.1.5. When you process screen 083, it will automatically close the original
           event and pass you to screen 516 to transfer your document number. This will
           complete the CANN scheduling process.
2.12. Reusable Containers. The Base Reusable Container Manager will determine reusable
container storage locations. Reparable items are to be routed through the repair cycle with a
reusable container. When a serviceable item releases (DOR) with a reusable container and the
reparable is already in the repair cycle, the support section will deliver the container to the repair
section. If the unserviceable item has already been shipped off base, deliver the reusable
container to the local reusable container storage area.
2.13. Administrative Mark For Changes. When the Aircraft Maintenance production
superintendent decides to use a TNB/FOM asset for another aircraft, the support section
processes the administrative mark-for change and updates WINMASS. This is not a
cannibalization action. The support section processes the Mark-for data and delivery destination
code changes (DIT) for deferred discrepancies (UJC BQ).
20                       ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


2.14. Tools and Equipment Management. COSO procedures dictates the support section
assume the support responsibilities for tools and equipment management.
     2.14.1. Composite Tool Kits (CTK). Store and maintain CTKs in a designated, secure area,
     and IAW AFI 21-101, chapter 15 and ACC supplement.
     2.14.2. Maintenance Safety and Protection Equipment (MSPE), Alternate Mission
     Equipment (AME), and Crew and Passenger Support Equipment (CPSE) equipment will be
     maintained and managed IAW AFI 21-103 and supplements thereto. Items maintained
     outside the support section will be signed out on AF IMT 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
     or locally approved issue receipt.
     2.14.3. TMDE will be maintained and managed in accordance with T.O. 33-1-27, and T.O.
     00-20-14.
2.15. Aircraft Delayed Discrepancy Program. Manage and maintain the unit's BQ
backorders. Give a monthly summary with current status to the aircraft maintenance
supervision. Coordinate with ACC RSS Stock Control Flight to improve requisition status as
required.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                              21


                                           Chapter 3

                             AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE (APS)

3.1. General. The APS is located adjacent to or within the maintenance complex (on the flight
line) and serves as a decentralized warehouse for on-equipment spares, to include POS and RSP
assets. Diversity of mission and/or limited facilities may dictate the establishment of more than
one parts store or that the APS be collocated with the FSC. Multiple APS should be limited to
one per type of airframe or end item being supported. The APS is a LRS function and the
supervisor works directly for the LRS Material Management Section. Shift manning will be
structured to fit the needs of the wing/unit.
3.2. Responsibilities.
   3.2.1. Establish and operate a customer service counter as a focal point for all store
   activities.
   3.2.2. Act as a central locator for all supported decentralized supply activities when the
   computer is off-line. APS personnel determine location/availability of assets (to include
   I&SG). If a location exists, personnel will physically check the location and advise the
   support section of item availability.
   3.2.3. At LRS commander's option, the APS may act as the central post-post processing
   point for supported maintenance work centers which utilize supply remote devices and
   appoint an individual as a PPCT member.
   3.2.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Each APS appoints an individual to serve on the PPCT.
   3.2.4. The LRS commander has the option to have APS serve as the central after-hours
   operation.
   3.2.4. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Each APS serve as the central after hours support.
   3.2.5. Appoints primary and alternate reject/delinquent document managers and assist
   support section personnel in resolving delinquent documents and rejects.
3.3. Customer Service Counter. Service counter/APS personnel will:
   3.3.1. Locate/pull property to fill all issues from APS stocks.
       3.3.1.1. Contact Vehicle Operations for delivery of items issued from APS to activities
       not directly supported by the APS and/or are not functioning under COSO procedures or
       a decentralized supply/maintenance concept (i.e. common use asset needed by
       communications squadron or transient alert).
   3.3.2. Ensure customers sign for property via their SMART card or the DD IMT 1348-1A,
   Issue document for units not using SATS or Post-Post.
   3.3.3. Provide assistance to the maintenance technician/specialist to arrange for delivery of
   large or bulky items.
   3.3.4. Accountable documents are forward to Procedures and Accountability Section, or as
   directed by base supplement to this instruction and AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2.
22                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


     Frequency and method of movement will be locally determined and supplemented to this
     paragraph.
     3.3.4. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Each APS hand carries all accountable documents to the
     Procedures and Accountability section (355 LRS/LGLOC) no later than the next duty day.
     3.3.5. If property cannot be found in the designated location (warehouse refusal) take the
     following steps:
        3.3.5.1. Advise technician/specialist to return to their work center, with instructions to
        establish a due-out with a new document number. Retain the original SATS issue
        document to allow APS personnel to process the warehouse refusal.
        3.3.5.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) APS personnel may use SATS labels to process
        warehouse refusal(s).
        3.3.5.2. Follow the procedures for warehouse refusal as outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Vol
        2, Pt 2, Ch 14.
3.4. Warehouse Management. Standard warehousing practices are not changed by the COSO
concept. Procedures are outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 14.
     3.4.1. Review the ACC 214 to identify candidate items for movement to the APS. The use
     of pseudo locations/stockrooms are authorized for items previously identified for movement
     to the APS when no warehouse location is assigned. Ensure all items within the same I&SG
     are stored in the APS.
3.5. MRSP Management.
     3.5.1. Process reparable assets upon return from deployments as follows:
        3.5.1.1. Determine inventory requirements.
        3.5.1.2. Ensure MSIs are processed with TEX code "W."
        3.5.1.3. Procedures and responsibilities for the movement of reparable items to repair
        sections will be developed by each wing/base.
            3.5.1.3.1. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) Deployed Mobility Readiness Spare
            Packages (MRSP) personnel provide storage of reparable items. Upon return, turn
            over due-in from maintenance (DIFM) assets to the Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
            (AMXS) sections to distribute to back shops.
            3.5.1.3.2. (Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) MRSP personnel shall deliver all
            direct not reparable this station (NRTS) assets to the FSC if all the documentation is
            complete or returns them to the appropriate AMXS if documentation is not complete.
3.6. Supply Remote User Responsibilities. APS ensures computer terminals are secured as
outlined in paragraph 2.5 of this instruction. Ensure all rejects are cleared expeditiously using
the D818 or reject notices.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                            23


                                         Chapter 4

                           FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER (FSC)

4.1. General. The FSC is a LRS supply function under the Materiel Management Flight. The
FSC absorbs the Repair Cycle Support functions and portions of the maintenance repair cycle
manager function. This section is the central point for repair cycle management, and the parts
submission point for all avionics and other maintenance units when the CAMS/SBSS interface is
not available or when the item requested is exception or advice coded as agreed to by the LRS
Commander. Assigned personnel are responsible for managing the FSC warehouse for all
avionics-related assets. As a base option, the FSC and APS may be collocated. Shift manning is
structured to fit the needs of the wing/unit. The FSC should have sufficient remote devices to
insure timely processing of inputs. The LRS commander will insure sufficient dedicated
equipment is in place to minimize delays. Ideally, the FSC is collocated within the Avionics
facility.
4.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) General. Do not collocate FSC and the APS.
4.2. Responsibilities.
   4.2.1. The FSC and/or APS are the submission points for issue requests for aircraft
   maintenance repair sections geographically (not in the same facility) separated from the FSC
   during post-post conditions, CAMS/SBSS interface is not available or when the requested
   item is exception or advice coded.
   4.2.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Geographically separated aircraft maintenance repair
   sections must submit issue requests to the applicable APS.
   4.2.2. Perform all Repair Cycle Support duties as outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2,
   Chapter 13, 14 and 24, and this instruction. Bases have the option to supplement these
   instructions on the movement and processing of repair cycle assets.
   4.2.3. Deliver serviceable assets to appropriate warehouses, NRTS items to transportation,
   and condemned assets to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DRMS) holding
   area.
   4.2.4. Monitor the D23 for unsatisfactory or outdated status and notify each repair section
   DIFM manager who is responsible for status and location changes to make updates through
   CAMS/SBSS.
   4.2.5. FSC and all maintenance activities will conduct weekly DIFM meetings to account for
   and resolve outstanding DIFM details within the wing. The Material Management Section
   superintendent will chair these meetings.
   4.2.6. Review the ACC 214 to identify candidate items for movement to the FSC. The use
   of pseudo locations/stockrooms is authorized for items previously identified for movement to
   the FSC when no warehouse location is assigned. Ensure all items within the same I&SG are
   stored in the FSC.
   4.2.7. May serve as the central after-hours Customer Service at the option of the LRS
   commander.
24                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


     4.2.7. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) APS is the central after-hours customer service.
     4.2.8. Act as the express carrier pick-up point for shipment of 2LM assets for bases under
     R2P procedures.
4.3. Requirements Processing.
     4.3.1. LRS Customer Service will provide the FSC a block of serial numbers for processing
     purposes. The FSC will restart with the beginning serial number each calendar day.
     4.3.2. Under post-post conditions or if the asset is exception/advice coded, repair section
     personnel collocated with the FSC will prepare and telephone/hand-carry all parts requests
     (AF IMT 2005 in three copies) to the FSC. A fourth copy may be required as a suspense
     copy (wing/base option).
     4.3.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) A fourth copy is not required.
        4.3.2.1. The technician/specialist will verify the impact of all parts with the flight chief,
        production superintendent, or team leader prior to ordering. Only submit requests to
        supply after checking all local sources (bench stock, shop stock, etc.).
        4.3.2.2. Requests for test stations or mockups will be ordered using the applicable ID
        number, SRD, and appropriate UJC (e.g., 1G/AG/BG).
        4.3.2.3. After input of the issue request, distribute the AF IMTs 2005 as follows: Copy 1
        will be placed in the control register file; copy 2 and 3 will be given to the requester. A
        fourth copy may be required as a suspense copy (wing or base option).
        4.3.2.4. If the requested item is available in the FSC obtain proper signatures via the
        SATS SMART card or on DD IMT 1348-1A for non-SATS users.
        4.3.2.5. Advise the technician/specialist to proceed to the APS, when the requested item
        is located there.
        4.3.2.6. When the requested item is located in the main LRS warehouse or other storage
        facility (decentralized parts stores), Vehicle Operations will deliver the item.
        4.3.2.7. If required parts are not available the maintenance work center establishes a due-
        out using the following procedures with those in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter
        11.
            4.3.2.7.1. When an Aircraft Maintenance Support Section establishes an issued
            DIFM detail or deferred delayed discrepancy due-out; the repair section will order
            AWP bits and pieces as fill or back order.
            4.3.2.7.2. When an Aircraft Maintenance Support Section establishes a MICAP due-
            out; the repair section will order AWP bits and pieces as fill or kill (TEX 4).
               4.3.2.7.2.1. If the AWP bit and pieces issues, the end item is repaired, and
               returned to the FSC for turn in processing.
               4.3.2.7.2.2. If the requested item is not issued, the repair and support section will
               jointly determine whether the end item or the required bit and piece will be
               initially verified and requisitioned as MICAP against the aircraft tail number. The
               decision making process should include the ability to repair the end item,
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                               25


              availability of assets (wholesale level/lateral support), and which item can be
              obtained in the shortest period of time.
              4.3.2.7.2.3. If the decision is made to requisition the end item as MICAP, ACC
              RSS will requisition the asset using the appropriate UJC. The repair section will
              advise the FSC to back order the bits and pieces against the due-out document
              number from the end item. If the decision is made to request the bits and pieces
              MICAP against an aircraft tail number, the repair section notifies the ACC RSS
              AWP manager to change the UJC to the appropriate MICAP UJC, change the
              mark-for field to the aircraft tail number (including SRD and WUC) and input the
              request with TEX "7" (memo). The AWP manager begins the MICAP
              verification process and requisitioning action. If MICAP visual-aid boards are
              maintained, they will reflect the TEX "7" (memo) MICAP end item and the
              MICAP bit(s) and pieces(s). In addition, MICAP records are updated to cross-
              reference the memo end item and bit and piece requirements. NOTE: Repair
              sections receiving MICAP support from ACC RSS will contact the region
              directly.
              4.3.2.7.2.4. Under no circumstances will the repair shop requisition both the end
              item and its bit and pieces as MICAP. However, if the supply situation changes,
              the requirements may be downgraded/upgraded to ensure required items are
              received expeditiously (e.g., the end item initially requisitioned MICAP can be
              changed to memo, and the bit and piece may be upgraded to MICAP, or the bits
              and pieces initially requisitioned MICAP against the tail number may be
              downgraded to "AR" and the end item can be requisitioned).
          4.3.2.7.3. The DIFM location code of the applicable repair section will be used for
          repair parts. Provide the technician/specialist copies of the output management notice
          to move the reparable asset.
   4.3.3. If a parts request is made to the FSC for which there is no established item record, the
   FSC will load the stock number and process a 1AA. Notify the requesting activity they can
   backorder the part required.
   4.3.4. Process TRNs for those maintenance activities without CAMS/SBSS interface.
   Ensure TRN requirements are processed with the correct maintenance action taken codes. In
   addition, maintenance activities with CAMS/SBSS interface have the option to process their
   own or have the FSC process the TRNs for them.
4.4. Due-In From Maintenance (DIFM) Turn-In.
   4.4.1. Normally, all DIFM assets are turned in through the FSC.
      4.4.1.1. FSC picks up DIFM assets from those base organizations outside of the COSO
      community. Assets are in-checked, inspected, and computer processed. FSC personnel
      ensure all serially controlled and TCI parts tracked on engines have an automated
      operating time report attached to the applicable item condition tag (IAW T.O. 00-20-3)
      prior to accepting these parts from base customers. In addition, automated ground engine
      test systems (AGETS) component removal reports will be attached to the condition tag.
      For F-16 units, avionics intermediate flight LRU repair support data will be attached to
26                       ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


        the condition tag. Serviceable assets turned in to satisfy a MICAP condition get
        processed immediately. Process all other serviceable assets ASAP (1 hour).
        4.4.1.2. FSC will visually inspect and verify all assets matches its source documents
        prior to processing the turn-in transactions in SATS. Bases not using SATS will prepare
        an AF IMT 2005 using the AFTO IMT 350 or CAMS maintenance snapshot screen 122
        of the completed action IAW T.O. 00-20-2 Para 8-8, and DD IMT 1348-1A as source
        documents. The original copy of the AF IMT 2005 will be stamped "Document Control"
        and will be the source document for computer processing. Forward the document control
        copy (copy 1) to the Procedures and Accountability Section for filing disposition. As a
        wing/base option, copy 2 of the AF IMT 2005 may be attached to the property for
        reference purposes.
        4.4.1.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) AF Form 2005 not required when utilizing Standard
        Asset Tacking System (SATS).
     4.4.2. FSC will move serviceable assets to the applicable warehouse within two hours of
     processing. DORs to avionics, Aircraft Maintenance Support Sections, or other applicable
     flight will be contacted immediately for MICAP releases and within 30 minutes for all other
     priorities. MICAP DORs will be picked up within 2 hours and all others within 3 hours.
     4.4.3. The FSC will move condemned items to a designated temporary holding area for
     scheduled delivery to DRMS.
     4.4.4. Electronic components identified as being electrostatic sensitive devices require
     special handling. To prevent damage, use the handling procedures identified in T.O. 00-25-
     234, Chapter 7.
4.5. DIFM Updates/Control.
     4.5.1. FSC D23 manager will contact customers on "issue/firm" DIFM assets daily. In
     addition, those DIFM details with excessive (3 days or more) "OAM" status; the D23
     manager will contact the customer to physically account for the unserviceable asset or
     request a ROS, within 5 duty days of the discrepancy date.
     4.5.2. Develop a local program to readily identify 2LM assets to ensure their expeditious
     return from maintenance. NOTE: The ACC 203 can be separately run daily to compute
     2LM assets only. Part 3 of that product contains active issued 2LM DIFM details.
     4.5.3. The LRS commander has the option to have the FSC or LRS Customer Service load
     the organization/shop code of the base designated repair activity (AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2,
     Part 2, Chapter 27) to the repair cycle record. Assets that are direct NRTS will reflect
     "009DN" as base designated repair activity. Bases with multiple wings/MDS may assign
     unique shop codes to identify by wing/MDS those items approved for direct NRTS.
     4.5.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The FSC loads organization and shop codes of the base
     designated repair activities to the applicable NSNs (TRIC: FRR1). Load Shop Code 009TA
     as the repair shop for NSNs generated because of transient aircraft and weapons systems or
     local exercises and deployments. The FSC loads the appropriate NRTS flag to the item
     record.
4.6. DIFM Reconciliation. A quarterly DIFM reconciliation and inventory (required by
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapters 20 and 24) will be conducted with all work centers to
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                               27


physically account for issued DIFM details and validate each due-out on the D23, DIFM listing.
If missing DIFM assets are identified and can't be recovered within 3 duty days of the
reconciliation and inventory, the owner of the DIFM detail will immediately initiate a report of
survey. Each work center DIFM monitor and the primary D23 manager in the FSC will
acknowledge this reconciliation and inventory by signing the D23. This signed listing and any
supporting documentation will be kept file in the FSC until completion of the next reconciliation.
4.7. Local Manufacture. IAW AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 11, bases have the
option to not process local manufacture items through the supply account if the item is needed to
satisfy an internal maintenance requirement. If bases elect to use this option, they must develop
a maintenance operating instruction that outlines the procedures for manufacturing the item. If
bases elect to process local manufacture items through the supply account, the FSC NCOIC will
appoint a local manufacture manager to assume responsibilities in AFI 21-101, command
supplement.
4.7. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Local Manufacture. LRS will not process locally
manufactured items needed to satisfy internal maintenance requirements through the supply
account.
   4.7.1. The FSC local manufacture function may assume local manufacture responsibilities
   and related tasks of stock control and receiving. Local supplements to this instruction and
   AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 9, 10, and 11 must identify specific responsibilities
   based on local determination of need.
   4.7.2. LRS Customer Service will then forward the AFTO IMT 350, management notices,
   and sample/drawings (if required) to the FSC local manufacture manager. Systems
   management notifies the FSC local manufacture manager immediately upon receipt of all
   MICAP JBD requisition (A0A) documents.
   4.7.3. The requester, in conjunction with the appropriate fabricating section, determines bits
   and pieces required to manufacture the item, and processes the issue requests. The FSC local
   manufacture manager will assist in verifying parts availability. If the items are issued, the
   bits and pieces, AFTO IMT 350 tag, copy of A0A requisition, DD IMT 1348-6, etc. will be
   forwarded to the repair section. If parts are not available and the requirement is MICAP the
   FSC local manufacture manager will input the bit and piece requirements with TEX "7";
   appropriate MICAP UJC; JCN in the work-order field, aircraft tail number (SRD and WUC)
   in the mark-for, and notify the ACC RSS who will accomplish MICAP verification and
   requisitioning processes. To complete the MICAP process, when required bits and pieces are
   received they will be released to the appropriate shop for local manufacture of the item. The
   request for the local manufacture item will remain on order until the item is complete and
   received by Supply for due-out release (DOR). Any visual aids will reflect the end item and
   the bits and pieces.
   4.7.4. For non-MICAP requirements, the FSC local manufacture manager will back order
   the requirements with the appropriate UJC and JCN in the work order field.
28                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


                                            Chapter 5

                    MAINTENANCE SQUADRON SUPPORT SECTION

5.1. General. Maintenance flight chiefs are the key to successful off-equipment maintenance
and must be fully aware of the impact his/her flight has on sortie generation. The flight's
production relates directly to the unit's overall mission capability; therefore, flight chiefs must
have a complete picture of asset availability and requirements. The flight chief is an asset
manager and must establish production goals based on mission needs. By comparing production
goals against actual output, the flight chief and maintenance supervision can effectively evaluate
the flight's capability. This chapter governs all maintenance back shop supports, excluding
Aerospace Ground Equipment and Propulsion which are covered in Chapter 7 of this instruction.
The Maintenance Squadron and LRS Commander will agree to the extent of participation by
other flights.
5.2. Responsibilities:
     5.2.1. Determine repair priorities and control repair cycle assets located within the repair
     section.
     5.2.2. Update current DIFM status and location of repair cycle assets using CAMS/SBSS
     interface. Provide this data to the FSC when a CAMS/SBSS terminal is not available or the
     system is down or otherwise inaccessible.
     5.2.3. Maintenance technicians/specialists    input      parts   issue   requests   through   the
     CAMS/SBSS Interface using screen #72.
     5.2.4. Store LRUs awaiting parts in a secure location.
     5.2.5. Review D23/D19 for possible cross-cannibalization. Provide the ACC RSS AWP
     monitor with the DIFM document numbers of any cannibalized SRUs.
     5.2.6. Mission impact statements are submitted to the ACC RSS for unacceptable requisition
     status. Impact statements must state the impact to the wing mission due to lack of the part.
     Do not simply state what function the part has on the aircraft or system.
     5.2.7. If possible, leave the advice codes blank on AWP backorders for AFMC managed
     NSNs so program control will assign 6L.
     5.2.8. Shipping AWP items with ERRC "XD" NRTS code 4 can only be accomplished with
     the item manager's approval.
     5.2.9. Advance NRTS of SRUs must have prior approval from the item manager.
     5.2.10. Assist MSL by validating/updating the functional check item list as required.
     Include items that are affected by OFP releases.
     5.2.11. Transport all reparable assets to the FSC IAW Chapter 4 of this instruction. Move
     serviceable assets within 1 hour of status determination; all others within 2 hours.
     5.2.12. Review and update direct NRTS items on the Q04 semi-annually. As a local option,
     use a separate list of direct NRTS items; however, the Q04 is the source document, which
     must be validated. Upon completion of review and update, provide information to MSL.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                             29


   Items identified as direct NRTS have no base repair capability and units must move them
   expeditiously through all segments of the repair cycle for shipment off base.
   5.2.12. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintenance squadron support sections validate the
   Q04 semi-annually and use a separate list for direct NRTS items.
   5.2.13. Assign the correct maintenance action taken codes through the CAMS/SBSS
   Interface using screen #352 (via #497 option 14 with document number input) and annotate
   on AFTO IMT 350/CAMS 122 IAW T.O. 00-20-3. In addition, ensure avionics intermediate
   flight LRU data is attached to condition tags upon turn-in of NRTS items to the FSC.
   5.2.14. Manage and maintain non-deployable/deployable bench stocks IAW AFMAN 23-
   110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 25 and 26, ACC supplements, and the guidance contained in this
   instruction. Use CAMS screen #497 option 4 or SBSS screen #082 for bench stock issue
   request. Deployable bench stocks and/or FSCRSP will deploy during actual contingencies
   and represent the initial source of consumable items.
   5.2.15. Maintain and manage the below listed reports and listings as a minimum:
       5.2.15.1. Daily Document Register (D04)
       5.2.15.2. Priority Monitor Report (D18)
       5.2.15.3. Due-out Validation Listing (M30)
       5.2.15.4. Master Bench Stock Listing (S04)
       5.2.15.5. AWP Validation List (D19)
5.3. Production. To aid repair sections in establishing repair production priorities, obtain via
Portal from the RSS Reports page the D23, Repair Cycle Asset Management List. The D23 is a
multi-purpose document that includes stockage positions for all DIFM items in the repair cycle.
By using the D23, the flight can determine the MICAP position, readiness level, daily demand
rates (DDR) and other data. Repair sections will use a three-part file and the D23, to control
work and provide asset visibility. Production priorities are based on mission need. Production
efforts should be focused on actual mission needs rather than perceived supply shortages such as
those indicated by temporarily high DIFM, AWP and backlog rates. Within each priority, rank
repairs based on DDR, level of fill, test station (mock-up) status/availability and team member
availability.
5.4. Reparable Processing.
   5.4.1. All reparables moving through the repair cycle will have an AFTO IMT 350 (Parts 1
   and 2), or CAMS #122, applicable condition tags, and use the AF IMT 2520, Repair Cycle
   Control log for accountability. Copies 2 and 3 of DD IMT 1348-1A can be used in-lieu of
   the AF IMT 2520 for bases not using SATS.
   5.4.2. Use the AF IMT 2520, Repair Cycle Control Log, to track those items, which
   require multiple shop processing.
   5.4.3. Flight personnel will sign for assets on the units AF IMT 2520, annotate on the log a
   projected “Z” date.
30                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


     5.4.4. Upon asset turn-in, FSC personnel will sign for assets on the repair shops’ AF IMT
     2520. Ensure all parts have the applicable AFTO IMT 350 Part I/II or CAMS maintenance
     snapshot Screen 122 of the completed action IAW T.O. 00-20-2 Para 8-8.
     5.4.5. Repair sections’ D23 monitor verify turn-ins are processed on the D04 the following
     day.
5.5. Requirements Processing. The repair section maintenance technician/specialist orders bits
and pieces via CAMS using its organization and shop code.                      Additionally, the
technician/specialist verifies the impact of all parts requests with the flight chief, production
superintendent, or team leader prior to ordering.
     5.5.1. Shop stock or routine requirements are ordered through the CAMS/SBSS interface
     screen #226. If the CAMS/SBSS Interface is unavailable the technicians/specialists submit
     parts requests to the FSC on a J deck, 8000 series document number (post-post). Accomplish
     a supervisory review after post-post recovery to ensure all parts requests were loaded to the
     CAMS database by reviewing a supply control log inquiry (TRIC SLI) from screen #498
     option 2 for the given work center and date of parts requests.
     5.5.2. Attach a copy of the I004 management notice to part II of the AFTO IMT 350.
     5.5.3. Order assets to repair test stations or mockups with the applicable serial number, SRD
     and UJC (e.g. 1G/AG/BG).
     5.5.4. Procedures for ordering bits and pieces MICAP against aircraft are contained in
     chapter 4 of this instruction and paragraph 5.8 below.
5.6. DIFM Status. Standard DIFM status codes are used. However, items in the repair section
(not AWP) may use the standard DIFM status code or an optional “Z date” DIFM status code.
The first digit of this code is "Z" to reflect, "in-shop" for repair. The second and third digits of
the code are the last two numbers of the Julian date the repair section expects to return the item
to a serviceable condition. For example: DIFM status code "Z89" read on 23 March tells the
user the item is in the repair section and is expected to be made serviceable on 30 March.
Another example: DIFM status on 30 March is FWP so the flight updates the status to "Z99" to
indicate a 9 April ETIC. The repair section inputs DIFM status updates through screen #497
option 18 or screen #480 immediately upon receipt of reparables and again upon any status
change.
5.7. Control of AWP Assets. The repair section stores and controls its AWP assets. When
possible, cross-cannibalization must be utilized to repair assets. In addition, flight personnel
request follow-up or document and convey impact of urgency of need on unacceptable supply
status through the ACC RSS AWP manager.
5.8. MICAP Conditions. The repair section coordinates with ACC RSS when deciding what
actions to take for MICAP conditions. Reference Chapter 4 of this instruction for specific details
concerning MICAP verification. Before deciding to satisfy a MICAP condition, the flight
production superintendent must consider current backlogs, item repair potential, etc. ACC RSS
will determine which item can be obtained in the shortest period of time. When an asset is
repaired to satisfy a MICAP requirement, the repair section will stamp "MICAP" on part 1 of the
AFTO IMT 350. Take the asset to the FSC for priority turn-in processing.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                              31


5.9. Maintenance Turn-around (TRN) Record Update Processing. The AFTO IMT 350,
part II, is delivered to the TRN monitor in the FSC. Verify each TRN with the D04 to ensure
processing. Work centers processing TRNs have the option to maintain AF IMT 2521, Turn-
Around Transaction Log. TRN procedures are used when a repair cycle item is not physically
processed through Supply because the item is repaired and reinstalled on the aircraft/end item.
Reference chapter 1, paragraph 1.6.7 for basic policy guidance. Only maintenance action taken
codes A, F, G, K, L or Z update supply demand data: NOTE: Processing this TRN data is
important because it will generate the stock levels required to support the base repair cycle and
provide information, which is essential to HQ AFMC, to make decisions about purchases,
repairs, and distribution.
5.10. Database Validation. A document validation report (DVR) is requested monthly from
Database Management Section by the MSL for each work center. The flight chief, production
superintendent, or team leader validates the DVR and corrects discrepancies to ensure both the
CAMS and SBSS databases contain the same information.
32                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


                                           Chapter 6

               OTHER MAINTENANCE AND SUPPLY RESPONSIBILITIES

6.1. General. This chapter provides guidance and responsibilities for (and between) other
maintenance and supply functions.
6.2. Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL). The vital role of the MSL becomes even more
essential with the advent of decentralization supply support. The MSL is maintenance’s central
point of contact for resolving logistics support problems between the maintenance and LRS
communities. Since not all maintenance work centers are included in supply decentralization,
MSL will assist those work centers in getting the required supply support to achieve their
mission. MSL is aligned under the Management and Systems Flight but physically resides in
MOF. MSL responsibilities include:
     6.2.1. Act as supply/maintenance liaison.
     6.2.2. Provide support to work centers not operating within guidelines established in this
     instruction. MSL should be visible in the work centers identifying problems, providing
     guidance and assistance as required and resolve problems work centers are having with the
     ACC RSS and LRS.
     6.2.3. Advise and assist maintenance and LRS Training Section to develop a training class
     on COSO, CAMS, and other SBSS training needs for personnel assigned to maintenance
     organizations.
     6.2.4. Conduct semi-annual supply procedural assistance visits to all work centers. As a
     minimum, review, document and provide a formal report to the supported squadron
     commander on problems or suggested improvement areas for the following:
        6.2.4.1. Management control of Tail Number Bin (TNB) and Facilitate Other
        Maintenance (FOM) assets.
        6.2.4.2. Management control of issued DIFM assets.
        6.2.4.3. Management control of assigned bench stock and mobility bench stocks.
        6.2.4.4. Management review and monitoring of supply listings affecting maintenance
        support.
        6.2.4.5. Review their MICAP verification process.
     6.2.5. Coordinate and consolidate input for the direct NRTS listing. The direct NRTS listing
     will contain the following information as a minimum: NSN, part number, WUC, repair
     section and the percent base repair. MSL will forward the approved direct NRTS listing to
     LRS Customer Service or the FSC to have the direct NRTS flag loaded to each stock
     number. MSL will conduct a semi-annual review and validation of the direct NRTS with the
     repair sections.
     6.2.5. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL) forwards the
     approved direct NRTS listing to the FSC to have the direct NRTS flag loaded to each stock
     number.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                              33


   6.2.6. Request a functional check indicator listing from LRS semi-annually. Act as the focal
   point in updating, coordinating, and consolidating this list within maintenance and provide a
   copy of the final list to LRS. Maintain a current copy of this listing after it is coordinated
   with the appropriate work centers. Refer to T.O. 00-20-3, Section III, para 3-9, for required
   entrees for this listing to be sent to LRS. As a minimum include NSN, repair shop, delivery
   destination code, and frequency of functional check.
   6.2.7. Coordinate the development of and update to the quick reference list (QRL) semi-
   annually. Refer to AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 11, Para 11.5 for more
   information.
   6.2.8. Coordinate submission of adjusted stock level requests and perform follow-up action
   when required. Maintain a folder of pending AF IMTs 1996 submitted to LRS Customer
   Service. NOTE: The ACC RSS is responsible for AF IMT 1996 management for bases
   receiving regionalized supply support. Bases will submit initial requests through LRS
   Customer Service Section prior to sending them to ACC RSS.
   6.2.9. Assist in preparing and submitting change requests for RSP authorizations. Maintain
   a suspense file of AF IMTs 1032.
   6.2.10. Participate in the TCTO program. Work with PS&D to ensure an effective program.
   Attend all TCTO reconciliation meetings as an advisor.
   6.2.11. Act as a focal point to coordinate and consolidate 1SH rejects and other management
   notices (e.g. CAMS report screen 113 outputs). Print and distribute them to the appropriate
   work center for resolution. Follow-up daily to ensure 1SH rejects are resolved.
   6.2.12. Request and distribute a DVR from CAMS database management for all work
   centers at least monthly to ensure database accuracy.
   6.2.13. Possess a thorough understanding of ACC’s regionalized supply support (Ref: ACCI
   23-252.
   6.2.14. Prepare, update, and brief slides to wing leadership at the quarterly IREP.
   6.2.14. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) All personnel that prepare slides for the Intermediate
   Repair Enhancement Program attend the meeting and brief their information as required.
6.3. Other LRS support functions.
   6.3.1. The LRS Squadron Training Section will incorporate the COSO concept briefing into
   Blocks I and/or II, LRS customer training. The briefing will include the purpose,
   organization and maintenance/supply interface of the objective wing aircraft maintenance,
   COSO concepts, and ACC RSS.
   6.3.2. Procedures and Accountability will:
      6.3.2.1. Include support to COSO units in LRS after-hours support procedures.
   6.3.3. Customer Service Section will:
      6.3.3.1. Acts as the single point of contact for RSS and maintenance for parts status
      updates.
      6.3.3.2. Attend maintenance meetings as required to provide parts status updates.
34                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


        6.3.3.3. Act as the primary issue submission point for all base customers (except COSO)
        work centers. The Customer Service functions may transfer to any section within the
        Materiel Management Flight (i.e. APS, FSC, etc.) as part of an after-hours operation at
        the option of the LRS commander.
        6.3.3.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) APS is the central after-hours customer service.
        6.3.3.4. Expedite necessary research and process new item record loads when requested
        by the support sections/FSC, or the ISSS/Propulsion/AGE functions.
     6.3.4. Vehicle Operations Section:
        6.3.4.1. Deliver due-out releases (DOR) to customers. Ensure deliveries are within the
        delivery priorities or time definite sweeps are used.
        6.3.4.2. Assist in delivering large or bulky items when requested by the APS/FSC.
6.4. Phase Support Section. The Phase Support Section provides supply support to aircraft
undergoing scheduled inspection. They will have the same basic responsibilities and structure as
the Aircraft Maintenance Support Section. Facilities, supply remote devices, vehicles, manning,
and other necessary resources, will be provided from existing wing resources. Supply personnel
assigned to the ISSS should be rotated back to the LRS complex IAW AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2,
Part 2, Chapter 2, ACC Supplement 1. The following are mandatory requirements:
     6.4.1. Use the owning support section organization code and applicable shop code for all
     supply requests.
     6.4.2. Use the applicable delivery destination for all issue/backorder requests (screen #072).
     However, a delivery destination change is made by the Phase Support Section to the owning
     maintenance flight at post dock prior to transfer of the aircraft (screen #481).
     6.4.3. Maintenance phase personnel will notify the owning production superintendent when
     MICAP backorders occur. Deferred discrepancy requests do not require maintenance flight
     notification; however, they will be validated at post-dock to ensure the support squadron
     scheduling section updates the deferred discrepancy file.
     6.4.4. Maintenance technicians/specialists will use the CAMS/SBSS interface to input issue
     parts request.
     6.4.5. Copies of the I004 management notices are maintained until the aircraft is released
     from the Inspection Section. Transfer responsibilities to manage requirements to the owning
     maintenance flight along with one copy of the I004 management notice upon completion of
     the aircraft scheduled inspection.
     6.4.6. Identify all parts backordered to the Aircraft Maintenance Support Section and PS&D
     for update in CAMS, during the post dock meeting. Update is required upon completion of
     the aircraft scheduled inspection.
     6.4.7. LRS provides the Phase Support Section a block of serial numbers (J deck, 8000
     series) for processing issue requests during post-post processing. The maintenance
     technician/specialist processes all issue requests over a CAMS remote device (screen #497
     option 1 or screen #72) and provides the ISSS with a copy of the I004 management notice.
     The ISSS resolves all rejects and "kill" transactions (screen #497 option 28 with document
     number input). The technician/specialist checks bench stock prior to input of the request.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                          35


  6.4.8. Use the TNB/FOM Asset Management process as outlined in para 2.8 to account for
  aircraft parts undergoing inspection. To identify removed aircraft panels undergoing HPO or
  PE, the attached screw bag may be marked with the aircraft tail number vice using AFTO
  IMT 350. If the panel is routed through the repair cycle, the AFTO IMT 350 must be used.
  A CAMS work-order must be input with the correct AFTO IMT 350 number assigned to the
  work-order prior to routing of the panel.
  6.4.9. Validate all due-outs using the Equipment ID option of screen #514 before
  transferring aircraft to the owning Aircraft Maintenance Squadron.
  6.4.10. Discuss supply status at the daily maintenance meeting.
36                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


                                             Chapter 7

 PROPULSION FLIGHT AND AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT (AGE) FLIGHT
                        SUPPORT SECTION

7.1. General. Units may implement the COSO concept fully or partially within the Propulsion
and AGE Flights to best suit local unit needs to include establishing a separate engine supply
support function in coordination with the LRS Commander. Specific implementation procedures
will be outlined in the base supplement to this instruction. Under the COSO concept, the Flight
Support Section (FSS) assumes additional supply responsibilities. Chapter 2, of this instruction
provides additional guidance in determining specific responsibilities.
7.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) General. The LRS commander opts to partially implement the
COSO concept for the Propulsion and Aerospace Ground Equipment Flights.
7.2. Responsibilities. The FSS will be manned with supply and maintenance personnel with
shift manning structured to fit the needs of the unit. As an integral part of the flight, the FSS will
be managed through the squadron chain of command. In addition, supply personnel assigned to
the FSS should be rotated back to the LRS squadron IAW AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2,
Chapter 2, ACC Supplement 1. Responsibilities should include the following:
     7.2.1. Monitor parts requests from maintenance technicians/specialists, excluding equipment
     and retail sales items, using the CAMS/SBSS interface.
     7.2.2. Assist maintenance technicians/specialists on how to research and verify parts
     requirements.
     7.2.3. Resolve all reject/management notices encountered by verifying and requisitioning all
     exception and advice coded items.
     7.2.4. Provide parts status to the EM Section/AGE scheduler for updating engines/AGE
     deferred discrepancies and TCTOs.
     7.2.5. Manage and maintain the PHB IAW para 2.8 TNB and FOM Asset Management.
     Engine TCI stored and awaiting scheduling are managed and controlled by the EM Section.
     7.2.6. Manage the flight CTK Program, support equipment (to include -21 equipment), and
     test measurement and diagnostic equipment.
     7.2.7. Receive and transport reparables to the applicable repair sections or FSC.
     7.2.8. Input initial DIFM location and status changes immediately after movement of
     reparables (screen #497 option 18 or screen #480).
     7.2.9. Participate in engine/AGE documentation reviews. Validate parts requirements in
     CAMS and SBSS using inquiry screens by serial number (CAMS screen #416 non-MICAP
     and CAMS screen #514 for MICAP) and ensure cancellation of requirements no longer
     needed. Review status and request supply follow-up action if current status does not meet
     mission needs.
     7.2.10. Maintain the T.O. and mobility T.O. library as outlined in T.O.s 00-5-1 and 00-5-2.
     Units may elect to decentralize the T.O. library in other sections.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                              37


   7.2.11. Manage and maintain bench stocks IAW Chapter 1 of this instruction. Routine
   bench stock requirements are submitted through the CAMS/SBSS interface (screen #120) for
   up to 11 line items per screen. Priority bench stock requirements are also done through
   screen #120 but are distinguished by indicating priority fill required and only one line item.
   7.2.12. Store inspection TCTO and TCI assets.
   7.2.13. Maintain and manage the below listed reports and listings as a minimum.
      7.2.13.1. Daily Document Register (D04)
      7.2.13.2. Priority Monitor Report (D18)
      7.2.13.3. Due-out Validation Listing (M30)
      7.2.13.4. Master Bench Stock Listing (S04) (part number sequence)
   7.2.14. Assist in cannibalization decisions by identifying potential candidates to the
   propulsion or AGE flight chief and reconcile CAMS with flight production or EM Section
   daily.
   7.2.15. Maintain security of remote devices and ensure only valid transactions are processed
   on the devices.
   7.2.16. Appoint a reject manager, delinquent document manager and PPCT member.
   7.2.17. Forward a copy of all 290, 323, 468 and 469 reject/management notices to LRS
   Procedures and Accountability Section. As a LRS Commander option, a copy of 296 rejects
   may be forwarded to LRS Customer Service.
   7.2.17. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The LRS commander elects not to forward 296 rejects,
   Item Record of input Stock Number Frozen, to Customer Service.
   7.2.18. Validate and obtain current status for MICAP requirements by using the MICAP
   Asset Status Report (DGWE40) or the MICAP board.
   7.2.19. Ensure mark-for and delivery destination data is correct on all due-outs.
7.3. Requirements Processing.
   7.3.1. CAMS/SBSS input TRICs include the following:
      7.3.1.1. Issues (ISU).
      7.3.1.2. Due-out Cancellation (DOC).
      7.3.1.3. Bench Stock Requests (BSR).
      7.3.1.4. Inquiry Request (SIR).
      7.3.1.5. DIFM Update (DFM).
      7.3.1.6. Shop Stock Requests (SSR).
      7.3.1.7. Due-in/Due-out Update (DIT).
      7.3.1.8. Others TRICs determined locally by the LRS COMMANDER.
   7.3.2. LRS Customer Service provides each FSS with a block of serial numbers for
   processing purposes. These numbers are a J deck, 8000 series used for post-post processing
38                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


     as well as for advice and exception coded requests. The FSS restarts with the beginning
     serial number each calendar day.
     7.3.3. Maintenance technicians/specialists input all issue requests using the CAMS/SBSS
     interface screen #497. All supply interface authorized terminals are identified to the
     Database Management Office for management notice linkage to the FSS CAMS terminal.
     The management notice returned from LRS is printed by the maintenance
     technician/specialist and a copy is provided to the FSS as the controlling document and
     replaces the AF IMT 2414 as the verification document for MICAP and other back ordered
     parts. In addition, the local supplement to this instruction will provide operating procedures
     for reparable processing and flow of documentation.
     7.3.4. Ensure bench stock is checked prior to input of issue requests. The S04, Master
     Bench Stock Listing (part number sequence), will be available for checking assets, which
     may be on-hand.
     7.3.5. Parts requests with no established item record, the FSS will contact LRS Customer
     Service and provide NSN, part number, T.O. reference, and priority. Customer Service will
     then perform all mandatory actions as required by AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter
     27. They will load the item record/part number detail record (1AA) immediately and notify
     the FSS. As a wing/base option, FSS may process new item record loads. Processing will
     then proceed in accordance with provisions outlined in this Chapter. The FSS will process
     part number detail record updates (1AA) when research reveals an incorrect part number is
     loaded or a NSN is loaded without a corresponding part number.
     7.3.5. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The LRS commander authorizes Flight Support Sections
     to process new item record loads.
     7.3.6. Parts requests will be processed according to the requirement's urgency of need. The
     requesting maintenance technician/specialist will pick up property located in the APS/FSC.
     If the requested item is available/issues from other than the APS/FSC, the Vehicle Operations
     section is responsible for delivery (standard delivery timeframes apply as outlined in
     AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 11, unless waived/replaced by time-definite delivery
     schedules).
     7.3.7. Bases using the standard asset tracking system (SATS) will use the AF IMT 2520,
     Repair Cycle Control Log or a like local form to track and control DIFM assets. Bases not
     using SATS units will retain copies 2 and 3 of the DD IMT 1348-1A issue document/due-out
     management notice to process reparable assets to the repair shop or the FSC for direct NRTS
     items.
        7.3.7.1. If the reparable asset and reusable container are available at the time of the issue
        FSS personnel will take the property, AFTO IMT 350 (Reparable Item Processing Tag)
        or CAMS maintenance snapshot Screen 122 of the completed action (IAW T.O. 00-20-2
        Para 8-8), reusable container, and control log to the repair section. Move MICAP items
        immediately and all others not later than 2 hours after receipt of the reparable item in the
        support section. Bases operating a scheduled DIFM run must move MICAPS
        immediately and all others a minimum of twice a day. Support section personnel will
        have repair section signed their control log for the property. Repair Section personnel
        will annotate in the control log with the following data: DIFM asset location, DIFM
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                               39


     status or "Z" status (see paragraph 2.10 of this instruction), signature, date, and time. The
     support section personnel will immediately update the DIFM location/status.
     7.3.7.2. The maintenance technician/specialist brings in the reparable asset and reusable
     container to the FSS within two hours of the issue. Once received, FSS personnel will
     process the property and documentation IAW paragraph 7.3.7.1 of this instruction.
     7.3.7.3. Propulsion FSS personnel will ensure all serially controlled and TCI items being
     tracked on engines have an automated operating time report attached to the appropriate
     condition tag as required by T.O. 00-20-3 prior to processing these parts to the repair
     section or FSC.
  7.3.8. If the part is not available for issue, I004 Management Notice and an I023, Other
  Asset Management Notice (if applicable) will be output. The FSS personnel will review the
  management notice for other possible assets.
  7.3.9. If the part is not available, the technician/specialist enters the document number on the
  end item form and notifies the flight chief. The technician/specialist checks FEDLOG, I&SG
  (CAMS/SBSS interface screen #770), and Technical Order for substitute part numbers/next
  higher assembly, and then have the FSS check the master bench stock listing. These actions
  are annotated on the reverse side of the controlling document (CAMS/SBSS interface screen
  image). The FSS processes the requirement following these procedures:
     7.3.9.1. During post-post, the FSS will manually prepare a DD IMT 1348-1A and
     annotate/stamp the name document "POST-POST DUE-OUT NOTICE FOR
     REPARABLE PROCESSING ONLY."
     7.3.9.2. The FSS retains the management notices containing the input image for future
     reparable processing and ensures CAMS update.
     7.3.9.3. When non-aircraft MICAP incidents occur, (after verifying that other assets are
     not available as stated in paragraph 2.3.9 of this instruction), the FSS will re-input the
     issue with TEX code "M" (cc 51), MICAP flag "N" (cc 54), appropriate UJC in cc 55-56,
     and notify the ACC RSS MICAP by inputting the MICAP into WINMASS with the
     phrase “MICAP Verification Complete, RSS Please Work” in the bullet block. For units
     deployed in support of a Joint Chief of Staff (JCS) mission, use the approved JCS project
     code. If WINMASS is not operational telephone, fax, or E-mail new MICAP
     requirements to ACC RSS.
     7.3.9.4. Delayed discrepancies. The FSS reprints the issue, screen #497 option 11 with
     document number input, TEX M and the appropriate UJC.
     7.3.9.5. For further action/flow of MICAP incidents refer to ACCI 23-252.
     7.3.9.6. When parts due-out release (DOR) from off-base sources the Vehicle Operations
     Section will deliver the part to the FSS. When DORs occur at the FSC as a result of a
     serviceable turn-in, the FSS will be contacted to pick up and sign for the property.
     MICAP DORs will be picked up within 2 hours and all others within 8 hours. If the part
     is not picked up within 8 hours and an extension hasn’t been granted, the FSC may turn
     the asset back into the supply account. Regardless of parts source, the property (with
     attached SATS Label/DD IMT 1348-1A) will be placed in the FSS PHB. Entry will be
     made in the PHB record and CAMS updated.
40                         ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


     7.3.10. Post-post processing is outlined in Chapter 1, para 1.13 of this instruction.
        7.3.10.1. FSS personnel will be members of the PPCT under the direction of the PPCT
        chief during post-post processing.
        7.3.10.2. The LRS Commander will determine the central point for after hours post-post
        processing. Personnel from the FSS will process their transactions to completion.
     7.3.11. The organization commander or superintendent will request initial issue by
     submitting a letter of justification to the LRS Commander or his/her designated
     representative. Letters of justification for initial issue are required only for those repair cycle
     items (alpha budget code) that the customer receives free from supply and DIFM control is
     not established. Initial issue removes a spare from the repair cycle, and the item manager is
     charged with funding replacements for alpha budget coded assets, thus the requirement for
     justification letters. Initial issue requests for organizational funded budget codes 8 and 9
     (XD/XF) repair cycle items do not require letters of justification, since the customer pays the
     standard price. The requesting organization will submit a complete written justification for
     those repair cycle items requiring letters to the Maintenance Support OIC or Superintendent
     for review and approval/disapproval. For urgent situations, verbal approval is authorized; but
     the paperwork must be submitted NLT 24 hours following approval. Once approved, the
     FSS will process the issue request with the appropriate demand code specified in AFMAN
     23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 11. Bases will supplement this paragraph to identify specific
     requirements and responsibilities.
     7.3.11. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The LGRM Flight commander or superintendent
     approves all initial issue requests for repair cycle items that the customer receives free from
     supply and DIFM control is not established. (Alpha Budget Code)
7.4. FSS Security. Restrict access to the FSS to FSS assigned/FSS escorted personnel.
Procedures for physical security and the use of supply remote devices are contained in AFMAN
23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 2, and Chapter 1 of this instruction.
7.5. Supply Remote User Responsibilities. The FSS is responsible to the LRS Commander for
proper supply remote operation. Rejects caused by the FSS will be cleared using the D818 or
reject notice. If rejects cannot be cleared by transaction, request assistance from the LRS reject
manager. Since the FSS will be producing accountable source documents over its remote, the
FSS is also responsible to the LRS Commander for documents generated in the section.
Consequently, the FSS will be provided a complete copy of the Delinquent Document Listing, to
include the Delinquent Source Document (DSD) portion.
7.6. Direct NRTS. The FSS will take repair cycle items identified as direct NRTS to the FSC.
7.7. PHB and FOM asset management. PHB and FOM asset management will be adhere to as
outlined in para 2.8 of this instruction.
7.8. Reparable Status. Standard DIFM status codes are used for items in the repair section.
For items in the repair section and not AWP, the flight has the option of providing a three-
position status code that indicates the ETIC instead of INW. This status code will reflect a first
position of "Z" followed by the last two positions of Julian date (e.g., Z84 = 25 May) that the
flight expects to return that item serviceable.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                                41


7.9. Cannibalization. If the production superintendent and/or flight/section chief decide to
cannibalize, he/she notifies the FSS. Cannibalizations of serially controlled and TCI engine parts
are coordinated with the EM Section. The FSS records the cannibalization in CAMS, and
updates SBSS and WINMASS records with the new job control number. For engine-to-engine
cannibalization the FSS sends the removal (T) copy of the CAMS work-order notification to the
technician/specialist performing the cannibalization action and retains the installation (U) copy
of the CAMS work order notification in suspense until the replacement parts are received. For
engine-to-aircraft cannibalizations, the receiving Aircraft Maintenance Support Section is
responsible for generating the cannibalization work-order (screen #053 option 8) and provides
the work order notifications and I004 management notice printout to the FSS. When the
replacement part is received in the FSS, the FSS forwards the U copy work-order notification to
the scheduler. EM Section complies with the additional guidance contained in T.O. 00-20-2.
ACC IMT 228, Cannibalization Log, will be used to document CANN actions.
   7.9.1. MRSP cannibalizations must be processed IAW the following procedures:
       7.9.1.1. ENTER AN EQUIP-ID OF “AWRSK” on screen 073 and complete all other
       fields to properly load the event so that a cannibalization can be completed.
       7.9.1.2. If "AWRSK" is not loaded to your system, it will automatically load when you
       transmit.
       7.9.1.3. Order your part normally using screen 072.
       7.9.1.4. Use screen 083 to process your CANN as you normally would.
       7.9.1.5. When you process screen 083, it will automatically close the original event and
       pass you to screen 516 to transfer your document number. This will complete the CANN
       scheduling process.
7.10. Reusable Containers. Reusable container storage is the responsibility of the applicable
repair section. Reparable items are to be routed through the repair cycle with reusable container.
When a serviceable item releases (DOR) with a reusable container and the reparable is already in
the repair cycle, the FSS will deliver the container to the applicable repair section. If the
unserviceable item has been shipped off base, the reusable container will be delivered to the local
reusable container storage area.
7.11. Administrative Mark-For Changes. When the flight/section chief decides to use a DOR
asset for another end item, the FSS processes the administrative mark-for change and updates
WINMASS. This is not a cannibalization action. Administrative mark-for changes on engine
TCI will be coordinated with the EM Section. Bases receiving support from the ACC RSS must
notify them of the administrative mark-for change.
7.12. Production Scheduling. See AFI 21-101 and applicable ACC supplements for Propulsion
Flight and scheduling procedures.
7.13. Document Validation Procedures. The FSS reviews the DVR monthly, ensuring that all
supported work center discrepancies are resolved.
42                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


                                           Chapter 8

                            TWO LEVEL MAINTENANCE (2LM)

8.1. General. The Two Level Maintenance (2LM) concept is part of the Agile Logistics
initiative. Although 2LM and Agile Logistics use the same express shipment and FY SRANs,
this guidance supports implementation and operation of the 2LM only.
     8.1.1. The 2LM concept, items having previously been repaired at base, intermediate level or
     three level maintenance (3LM) will now be repaired only at depot level. The impact of this
     is a lengthened pipeline, since all reparable items must move to/from ALCs. To lessen the
     impact, bases must rapidly identify and expedite 2LM assets through the pipeline. 2LM
     NSNs are identified by a level of maintenance (LOM) code equal to “C” (2LM ship to LRS
     Materiel Management Flight) or "D" (R2P, see paragraph 8.7).
8.2. Conversion to 2LM/Periodic Update. MAJCOM HQs (maintenance) and AFMC SPDs
jointly determine what 3LM NSNs will become 2LM during the LRU Repair Location Analysis
meeting (formerly TCAP). After the meeting, NSNs are coded in the D043 (Cataloging System)
and then Stock Number Users Directory D071 (SNUD) passes the code to the SBSS. The HQ
ACC/LGS 2LM Record Validation Program (ACC225) can be used at the base to list all NSNs
coded as 2LM. ACC225 is located on the ACC RSS Reports page. Units provide maintenance
with the ACC225 output at least semiannually and must take the following actions:
     8.2.1. Coordinate results of the ACC 225 with the local maintenance activities. If
     discrepancies exist between the ACC 225 and what maintenance is actually repairing, then
     verify in the D043 that the LOM code is valid. If the LOM code is invalid per D043, then
     process an FRR to correct the LOM code. If the 2LM code is valid then identify the items to
     ACC/LGSI who will then coordinate with the ACC maintenance staff to resolve
     discrepancies.
        8.2.1.1. Cases may exist where common LRUs may convert to 2LM for one MDS and
        remain 3LM for another MDS at the same base. In this situation, the LRU NSN will be
        coded as 2LM, treated as 3LM while in the repair cycle, and processed/handled as 2LM
        when determined as NRTS. Do not take actions in paragraph 8.4 below to flag, freeze, or
        dispose of applicable SRUs. Take immediate actions to identify the LRU NSN to HQ
        ACC/LGSI who will notify ACC maintenance staff of the repair level conflict. ACC
        maintenance staff will coordinate with all the MDS POCs who use the NSN to determine
        if it can be 2LM across all MDS or not. It will be addressed at the next LRU Repair
        Location Analysis meeting (formerly TCAP).
        8.2.1.2. When a 3LM organization, attempts repair of an item coded 2LM, and turns in
        the reparable LRU to the FSC; it will be identified and processed as two level.
        8.2.1.3. Special attention must be given to Awaiting Parts (AWP) requirements during
        and after 2LM conversion. Stop advance NRTS of reparable SRUs for 2LM LRUs
        approximately 45 days prior to conversion. Work closely with depot item managers to
        satisfy AWP requirements before conversion as much as possible. This is especially
        important because, under MSD procedures, depots want to avoid return of end items as
        NRTS 4 with missing parts. If item managers know they will not be able to provide the
        required AWP items, they may grant NRTS 4 authority any time after the conversion
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                                 43


       date.    If you still have outstanding AWP requirements 45 days after 2LM
       implementation, turn in all remaining AWP LRUs as NRTS code "4", condition code
       "G". Ship AWP LRUs to the appropriate repair location, marked "ATTENTION, TWO-
       LEVEL MAINTENANCE OFFICE." The shipments may be consolidated as long as
       proper packaging is used. Insert a list of the AWP requirements that were canceled inside
       the applicable LRU container. Also at I + 45, cancel all remaining SRU/bit and piece
       requirements. Ensure credit is given for all budget code 9 items previously paid for by
       the units. Once the unit has converted to 2LM, new AWP conditions are not authorized.
8.3. Actions required for 3LM LRU NSNs converted to 2LM.
   8.3.1. An NSN is converted from 3LM to 2LM via the LRU Repair Location Analysis
   meeting (formerly TCAP). The NSNs Level of Maintenance code ("C" for 2LM) is
   automatically coded via SNUD images (BME) passed to the SBSS. However, other data
   requires manual modification. Use FRR transactions (SBSS screen FRR 1/485) to:
       8.3.1.1. Load the Level of Maintenance code "D" (2LM Decentralized Support Element
       (DSE) processing) using CC 40 of FRR 1 input to the Repair Cycle record for each LRU
       NSN you desire direct delivery to the FSC referred to as a DSE. Reference AFM 23-110,
       Vol 2, Pt 2, Chapter 9, Requisitioning of Assets for Delivery to DSE paragraph. For
       DSE processing to work, you must establish an FY SRAN for the DSE location
       (reference attachment 2), the Level of Maintenance code must be equal to "D" (2LM),
       and the RID- DODAAC-CONVERSION (013) record must be loaded for the FY series
       SRAN. When the 013 record contains the first three positions of the NSNs warehouse
       location, the supplementary address of the requisition will contain the FY SRAN with the
       applicable signal code, project code, and priority. If you don't have an FY account
       assigned (reference attachment 2), then contact HQ ACC/LGSIP. An FY SRAN must be
       registered with HQ AFMC via HQ ACC prior to using it at the base. After an FY
       account is authorized, load it IAW AFM 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Chapter 27, Attachment P-1
       (FRD screen) and Attachment W-1 (RDC screen). After loading the FY account, process
       your FRR to load the 2LM as a "D". The 2LM Level of Maintenance code will assign
       the project code, priority, and the required delivery date to the requisitions and shipments.
       See below for explanation of the 2LM flags:
C-2LM assets shipped through transportation.
D - 2LM assets shipped directly from the FSC (applies to bases using DSE or R2P processing
procedures only).
NOTE: The repair cycle record must contain a valid ship-to address, or this FRR will reject. If
blank, use a BDR transaction (Screen BDR/219) to load the ship-to address for the NSN.
       8.3.1.2. Move quantities from RTS fields (current and last five quarters), to the
       equivalent NRTS fields. Use FRR 2, screen 486 to add the RTS data to the existing
       NRTS quantities, and use Action Code Z to zero out the quantities from the RTS fields.
       8.3.1.3. Change the NRTS/Condemn days (current and last three quarters) to equal one
       day, per NRTS transaction in that quarter. Use Action Code A to add quantities from the
       corresponding quarter RTS fields. NOTE: The actions in paragraph 8.3.1.2 and 8.3.1.3
       above are designed to reduce percent of base repair (PBR) to zero on the conversion date.
       This will only be performed once. As your maintenance performs "simple repairs", PBR
44                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


        will start to increase. Any repair that requires ordering SRUs is not a "simple repair" and
        is not authorized.
        8.3.1.4. Shop Code -Ensure the designated Repair Activity field on the repair cycle
        record displays the applicable repair activity or 009DN for direct NRTS items. No other
        shop codes are authorized. This will help flightline personnel expedite the assets into
        avionics shops for CND screening and on to FSC for reparable processing. This
        information will also provide better visibility of possible bottlenecks in movement of
        2LM assets in the base repair cycle via the ACC203. NOTE: On the ACC203, the clock
        starts the first day of the backorder when a credit TIN is processed for 2LM assets.
     8.3.2. Perform releveling after taking the actions in paragraphs 8.3.1.2and 8.3.1.3 The FRR
     transactions will store an "R" in the requirements computation field of the item record. The
     requirements scan program will perform requirements computation or file status.
     8.3.3. A base can opt to contact ACCRSS/LGSMM to process TRIC FNL transactions to
     insert "TL" in first two positions of nomenclature field on item records. This can aid in
     identification of 2LM assets during post-post.
     8.3.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The LRS commander opts not to contact
     ACCRSS/LGSMM to process TRIC FNL. The FSC will process TRIC FNL to insert “TL” in
     the first two positions of the nomenclature on item records that are 2LM assets.
8.4. Indentured SRUs for LRUs verified as 2LM. HQ ACC/LGSIP will provide the list of
SRUs that are affected to ACC RSS and the applicable base. In turn, ACC RSS will coordinate
with maintenance at the base to ensure SRUs are not common use with systems remaining 3LM.
If SRUs are used on any MDS or system remaining three-level maintenance, do not take these
actions.
     8.4.1. Contact ACCRSS/LGSMR to delete all existing adjusted stock levels (Screen
     1F3D/372) for all SRU NSNs. They will also process the receipt cancellations (RECCANC)
     for all existing stock replenishment requisitions.
     8.4.2. ACCRSS/LGSMR will load the maximum levels (Type Level D) for quantity of zero
     (Screen 1F3L/152) for all SRU NSNs.
     8.4.3. Return serviceable stock to depots when directed by item managers. Ensure return
     shipment is processed as a Redistribution Order (TRIC A2A) so that you do not pay
     transportation charges from local funds.
8.5. Reparable Asset Management.
     8.5.1. Aircraft Maintenance Support Section. Flight line personnel must be aware of which
     items are under the 2LM concept. The ACC225 is used to identify all 2LM and Agile
     Logistic assets loaded in the SBSS database. Provide a copy of this listing to maintenance, at
     least semiannually. Support sections must expedite these items into the avionics repair shop
     for CND screening.
     8.5.2. Flight Service Center. After the repair shop completes screening of 2LM assets and
     determines NRTS condition, they turn the item in at the FSC.
        8.5.2.1. FSC must obtain a printed listing or file of all 2LM NSNs from the ACC225 for
        use during post-post operations to make sure all 2LM items are properly identified and
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                              45


       processed. This list should be updated by running the ACC223 as required to maintain a
       current, accurate database. The ACC223 produces 1SQ (SNUD Interrogations) for all
       LOM coded NSNs. Review the ACC225 for the appropriate designated base repair
       activity org/shop code in 2LM NSN repair cycle records and ensure no REX codes are
       used to assign 2LM project codes or priorities since SBSS program logic uses the LOM
       code to assign them. Contact ACC RSS Computer Operations for any ACC223 or
       ACC225 program problems at DSN 575-0434.
       8.5.2.2. If your location is under the Repair and Return Packaging (R2P) concept, the
       next step is to check whether the 2LM item is also an R2P candidate. See paragraph 8.7
       for specific R2P information and procedures.
       8.5.2.3. FSC will process turn-in as condition code "F", maintenance action taken code
       "1". Project code "858" will appear on the DD IMT 1348-1A shipment document. Turn-
       ins for R2P items requires additional information. (See paragraph 8.7.2.2) If your
       location (or this particular item) is not an R2P player, expedite movement of the
       reparable item to TMO for shipment. Be sure to inform TMO personnel that the asset is a
       2LM item so they can move the item rapidly through the pipeline.
8.6. Data Tracking/Metrics.
   8.6.1. The ACC203 has been modified to collect repair cycle time.
       8.6.1.1. The ACC203 is processed daily for bases to monitor progress and status. The
       ACC203 also furnishes an end of month report, which will be forwarded electronically to
       ACC/LGPS for use in command metrics (is this still forwarded electronically…if so who
       does it?). Specific information on the program logic for the ACC203 is available from
       ACC RSS, DSN 575-0434.
   8.6.2. Advanced Traceability And Control for Air Force (ATAC-AF) formerly known as
   Reparable Pipeline Visibility (RPV). This system links together DAAS transactions from
   base level and depot computer systems to provide data on 2LM pipeline. ATAC-AF allows
   users from supply, maintenance, and transportation to inquire on specific NSNs and
   document numbers for item status. Additional options will also include measuring pipeline
   segments by MDS, MAJCOM, user base, and depot. All 2LM bases are authorized to use the
   ATAC-AF system. Base Supply users should contact ACC/LGPS for information on
   receiving a user id and password for ATAC-AF.
8.7. Repair and Return Packaging (R2P). R2P is a HQ USAF/LG initiative designed to
improve pipeline velocity both to and from 2LM bases and depots. R2P bypasses base TMO by
using commercial express carriers (such as Federal Express) to move property directly to repair
facilities. Prior to implementation of R2P procedures, bases must obtain approval from HQ
ACC/LGT, the command OPR for the R2P program.
   8.7.1. Local TMO is responsible for training FSC personnel in packaging requirements. FY
   series SRANs have been assigned for each FSC for pick-up of reparable assets (shipments)
   and each APS for delivery of serviceable assets (receipts). See attachment two for the list of
   FY SRANs.
46                       ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


     8.7.2. Base Outbound Procedures. The FSC is responsible for identifying and processing
     R2P shipments. Not all 2LM items are R2P. HQ AFMC determines which 2LM assets are
     eligible to use the R2P procedures. Project code "858" applies to all R2P items.
        8.7.2.1. Local TMO will coordinate with an express carrier to set up a daily pick-up at
        the FSC and delivery to APS. Carrier will preposition their AirWay Bills (AWB) at the
        FSC. These AWBs will be pre-addressed with the FY series SRAN and address of the
        applicable depot repair shop. The printed list of R2P NSNs is separated by applicable FY
        SRANs, so FSC must ensure they use the correct AWB for shipment. Depots also plan to
        include pre-addressed return AWBs inside serviceable R2P LRUs, so look for these in the
        container before filling out a new one. (This sentence says depots plans to include pre-
        addressed return AWB but is it being done yet?)
        8.7.2.2. To process a reparable R2P item in SBSS, include the following items in the
        TIN input: applicable FY series SRAN for the depot repair shop in CC 45-50; TEX code
        "7" in CC 51; and a shipping document number in CC 67-80. Always make sure the FY
        series SRAN on the TIN/SHP matches that on the AWB.
        8.7.2.3. FSC must hand scribe the Transportation Account Code (TAC) and
        Transportation Control Number (consists of the 14 digit shipment document number
        followed by "XXX") onto the AWB. The TAC code should match the item record source
        of supply not the source of repair. The TAC appears on line 16 of DD IMT 1348-1A,
        shipment document. The TAC also appears on the printed list of R2P NSNs for use
        during post-post. Include the TAC on the AWB in order for the carrier to bill the depot
        and not your base O&M account.
        8.7.2.4. Reusable containers must stay with reparable assets as they move through the
        base repair cycle in order to expedite the process. Prior to carrier pick-up, make sure all
        old markings/labels have been obliterated (sprayed over) from the reusable container.
        Advance NRTS when container is not available: FSC must expedite the reparable R2P
        candidate to TMO with a completed AF IMT 451 and carrier AWB.
        8.7.2.5. When carrier picks up items for shipment, they will annotate the AWB with an
        employee identification number. The FSC will enter the time of pick-up and the AWB
        number on the DD IMT 1348-1A shipping document. Send the shipper's copy of the
        AWB to TMO.
        8.7.2.6. For reparables shipped by the FSC to repair activities without CMOS, the FSC is
        required to update the SSC. The Document Control copy of the DD IMT 1348-1A will
        be signed and forwarded to Procedures and Accountability Section. The SSC must be
        updated within four hours from the time the property is picked-up by the express carrier.
     8.7.3. Base Inbound Procedures. Carrier will deliver DSE and R2P items directly to the
     DSE location. DSE personnel handling the incoming items must be limited supply inspectors
     and trained in receipt processing procedures.
        8.7.3.1. DSE personnel sign the carrier AWB to acknowledge receipt. Write the AWB
        number on the DD IMT 1348-1A (from the packing list or inside container). Forward the
        DD IMT 1348-1A to Procedures and Accountability Section. CMOS bases will send a
        copy of the AWB to TMO.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                            47


       8.7.3.2. DSE personnel incheck the property and process receipt transaction. If the
       receipt generates a due-out release (DOR), contact the requesting organization for pick-
       up. If the DOR is for a MICAP requirement, notify the ACC RSS (is this still required?).
       If the receipt is for stock, place in DSE stock or move to the proper storage location.
8.8. Short-Term Deployment Procedures. ACC policy is to expedite reparable 2LM assets
into the repair cycle from deployed locations. Units must not hold reparables until return to
home station. Deployed supply personnel will use post-post shipments to expedite the items
back to depot. Deploying supply personnel must take a copy of the printed ACC225 list
(contains all 2LM NSNs) and a supply of preprinted carrier AWBs for shipment of R2P assets.
   8.8.1. Deployed supply must hand scribe project code "858" on the post-post shipment
   document (DD IMT 1348-1A) and use the green reparable condition tag for all 2LM NRTS
   shipments.
   8.8.2. Shipments of R2P items while deployed to an area supported by a TMO; take the
   reparable asset and the AWB to TMO for shipment. If deployed to an area not supported by
   a local TMO, contact the applicable express carrier's local office for shipment.
48                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


                                            Chapter 9

     TIME COMPLIANCE TECHNICAL ORDER (TCTO) AND TIME CHANGE ITEM
                            MANAGEMENT

9.1. General. Guidance outlined in this chapter supplements AFI 21-101, Chapter 8 and 15 and
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 24. These specific instructions identify how TCTO and
Time Change items will be ordered for those bases operating under the COMO/COSO concept.
9.2. TCTO Management.
     9.2.1. TCTO Initial Action. When a TCTO applicable to unit aircraft/end item is received
     by the MOF PS&D, EM Section and/or Munitions from Maintenance Quality Assurance
     (QA) a meeting will be held to plan and coordinate TCTO compliance. This meeting will be
     chaired by the applicable TCTO managing agency (MOF PS&D, EM , or Munitions).
     Minimum attendees will be owning scheduling agency, QA, FSC TCTO manager, MSL
     Representative, primary and alternate workcenters involved in the TCTO compliance. The
     FSC will notify the managing agency if the stock number is loaded. The meeting is design to
     clearly determine the requirements/action items for all parties involved in the completion of
     the TCTO. This meeting will be documented on an AF IMT 2410, and all attendees will sign
     the form.
     9.2.2. Requirements for TCTO kits and/or parts required to assemble a kit are identified by
     the MOF TCTO manager. Prior to the meeting QA will forward copies of the TCTO to the
     FSC TCTO manager, TCTO managing agency, owning scheduling agency, primary and
     alternate workcenters. Additionally, FSC will request the LRS Customer Service to load the
     TCTO kit NSN. The LRS Commander has the option to allow the FSC TCTO manager to
     load TCTO kit item records.
     9.2.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) The LRS commander takes the option to allow the FSC
     Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO) manager to load TCTO kit item records.
     9.2.3. TCTO Kit Ordering Process:
        9.2.3.1. Kitted TCTOs. The MOF PS&D, EM Section or Munitions will order these kits
        through CAMS. If the TCTO Kit stock number is not loaded the FSC TCTO manager
        will request the LRS Customer Service to load the TCTO kit NSN for the TCTO. The
        LRS Commander has the option to allow the FSC TCTO manager to load TCTO kit item
        records. The FSC TCTO manager notifies the MOF PS&D TCTO manager, when the
        stock number loaded.
        9.2.3.2. Base Assembled TCTO kits:
            9.2.3.2.1. The TCTO managing agency will provide the FSC TCTO manager a list of
            NSNs required for the kit, which is not identified in the TCTO.
            9.2.3.2.2. The FSC TCTO manager will have "K" stock number loaded to identify
            the kit.
            9.2.3.2.3. The FSC TCTO manager will back order the Kit with a TEX "7".
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                           49


         9.2.3.2.4. The FSC TCTO manager will back order each component part using TEX
         "M" and UJC "AU" with the TCTO number in the MARKFOR field. In addition, use
         the applicable org. code and use shop code "TO". Ensure the delivery destination for
         Shop Code "TO" reflects the FSC.
     9.2.3.3. TCTO kits required for the modification of parts or components (base stocks,
     mobile spares, or installed items), will be ordered by the TCTO managing agency using
     CAMS. Ensure the applicable org code and "TO" as the shop code are used to order
     these kits.
  9.2.4. TCTO Kit Receipt Process:
     9.2.4.1. Kitted TCTO’s The SBSS does not automatically release TCTO kit due-outs,
     therefore a notice to bin is always provided. All TCTO kits are forwarded to the FSC
     TCTO manager. In addition to the notice to bin, the SBSS produces a TCTO kit asset
     availability notice (I029 management notice) on the FSC terminal. Forward copies of the
     I029 management notice to the MOF PS&D or EM TCTO kit manager. Place one copy
     of the I029 management notice in the applicable TCTO kit folder. Replace any previous
     notices. A due-out status notification (1SH) transaction (status code "5") is sent to
     CAMS to indicate asset availability.
     9.2.4.2. Base assembled TCTO kits:
         9.2.4.2.1. The FSC will use a local accounting system for tracking component parts
         until kits can be assembled, receipted and assigned a location in the FSC TCTO
         warehouse.
         9.2.4.2.2. When all parts of a kit are received and assembled, the FSC TCTO
         manager processes a "SPR" and "REC" transaction. Notify the TCTO managing
         agency a kit is ready for issue.
  9.2.5. TCTO Kit Issue Process:
     9.2.5.1. The maintenance technician submits a CAMS work-order notification (screen
     122) printout to the FSC TCTO manager for a TCTO kit to be issued. The FSC TCTO
     manager will check the applicable folder to ensure TCTO kits are not issued twice to for
     the same requirement.
     9.2.5.2. The FSC TCTO manager will contact the owning scheduling agency (MOF
     PS&D, AMU Scheduling, EM, AGE, Armament, Munitions) for approval prior to issuing
     a kit for the same requirement twice. For after hours, the Production Superintendent will
     authorize the issue.
  9.2.6. The managing and owning scheduling agency, will maintain a TCTO folder for all
  active TCTOs. In addition, the FSC will maintain a folder for each active TCTO that require
  kit/parts/tool. The FSC TCTO folder will have the TCTO, amendments, an AF IMT 2001 or
  automated version, and all copies of transactions applicable to TCTO.
  9.2.7. Treat inspection TCTOs as normal replacement/wear out requirements. The user is
  responsible for ordering, storing and turn-in of parts for such TCTOs.
50                        ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


     9.2.8. Monthly, each MOF PS&D, EM PS&D, MSL representative, and FSC DIFM monitor
     will conduct TCTO reconciliation as outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 24
     ACCSUP1.
9.3. Time Change Item (TCI) Management.
     9.3.1. Each MOF PS&D maintains overall responsibility for managing the TCI program.
     The EM Section maintains responsibility for managing the engine TCI program. Forecast all
     time change requirements IAW T.O. 00-20-9 and AFI 21-101/ACC SUP 1.
     9.3.2. Each owning scheduling agency will order TCI using CAMS:
        9.3.2.1. If assets are readily available, the owning scheduling agency will order the
        requirements one week prior to the scheduled date.
        9.3.2.2. If assets are not readily available, the owning scheduling agency may order the
        requirement up to 60 days prior to the scheduled date.
     9.3.3. The applicable Maintenance Supply Support Section will code issued time change
     DIFM details "TCG". However, the supply support section will perform daily inventory of
     these assets to ensure 100% accountability.
     9.3.4. Monthly, each MOF PS&D, EM PS&D, MSL representative, and FSC DIFM monitor
     will conduct a reconciliation as outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Part 2, Chapter 24
     ACCSUP1.
     9.3.5. All parts will be placed in the applicable workcenter TNB or PHB.           Normal
     TNB/FOM/PHB tracking will be adhered to in accordance with this ACCI.
     9.3.6. Process cannibalization and administrative mark-for changes as required.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                         51


                                     Chapter 10

                                   IMTS/FORMS

10.1. Prescribed/Adopted Forms.
   10.1.1. Prescribed Forms. ACC IMT 228, Cannibalization Log
   10.1.2. Adopted Forms. AFTO IMT 350, Reparable Item Processing Tag
AFTO IMT 781, Aerospace Vehicle and Flight Data Document
AF IMT 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication
AF IMT 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
DD IMT 1574, Serviceable Tag-Material
AF IMT 1996, Adjusted Stock Level
AF IMT 2520, Repair Cycle Control Log
AF IMT 2521, Turn-Around Transaction Log
AF IMT 3215, IT/NSS Requirement Document




                                       RONALD E. KEYS, General, USAF
                                       Commander

                                       (DAVISMONTHANAFB)

                                       PAUL T. JOHNSON, Brig Gen, USAF
                                       Commander, 355th Fighter Wing
52                     ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) 355 LRS Post-Post Operating Procedures, 23-2
AFI 21-101, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/21/afi21-101/afi21-101.pdf,
Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI21-101_ACCSUP1, https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/21series/AFI21-
101_ACCSUP1.pdf, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-103, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/21/afi21-103/afi21-103.pdf,
Equipment Inventory, Status And Utilization Reporting
AFI 21-103_ACCSUP1, https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/21series/AFI21-
103_ACCSUP1.pdf, Equipment Inventory, Status And Utilization Reporting
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 1, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020201/020201.pdf, Introduction to the Standard Base Supply
System
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 2, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020201/020201.pdf, Organization and Responsibilities
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 2_ACCSUP1,
https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/23series/AFMAN23-
110V2PT2CH2_ACCSUP1.pdf, Organization and Responsibilites
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 9, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020209/020209.pdf, Requisitioning
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 10, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020210/020210.pdf, Receipt Processing Overview
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 11, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020211/020211.pdf, Issue Systems
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 13, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020213/020213.pdf, Returns (Turn-Ins) to the Retail Supply System
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 14, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020214/020214.pdf, Storage and Related Operations
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 20, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020220/020220.pdf, Inventory Procedures
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 21, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020221/020221.pdf, Special Logistic Support Procedures
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 22, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020222/020222.pdf, Equipment Management
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                          53


AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 24, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020224/020224.pdf, Repair Cycle Support
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 24_ACCSUP1,
https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/23series/AFMAN23-
110V2PT2CH24_ACCSUP1.pdf, Repair Cycle Support
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 25, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020225/020225.pdf, Bench Stock Support
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 25_ACCSUP1,
https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/23series/AFMAN23-
110V2PT2CH25_ACCSUP1.pdf, Bench Stock Support
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 26, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020226/020226.pdf, War Reserve Materiel
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 26_ACCSUP1,
https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/23series/AFMAN23-
110V2PT2CH26_ACCSUP1.pdf, War Reserve Materiel
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 27, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020227/020227.pdf, Research and Records Maintenance
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 2, Ch 32, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020232/020232.pdf, Contingency Processing:-Manual Post-Post,
Automated Post-Post, Wartime Processing
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 9, Ch 2, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/23/afman23-
110/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020902/020902.pdf, Mass Responsibilities/Procedures
ACCI 23-252, https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/23series/ACCI23-252.pdf, ACC
Regional Supply Procedures
AFI 33-112, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/33/afi33-112/afi33-112.pdf, Computer
Systems Management

Abbreviation and Acronym
AWB—-Air Ways Bill
ADPE—-Automated Data Processing Equipment
AGE—-Aerospace Ground Equipment
AGETS—-Automated Ground Engine Test Systems
ALC—-Air Logistics Center
AME—-Alternate Mission Equipment
APS—-Aircraft Parts Store
ASAP—-As Soon As Possible
ATAC—AF--Advanced Traceability And Control for Air Force
AWP—-Awaiting Parts
54                    ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


CAMS—-Core Automated Maintenance System
CMOS—-Cargo Movement Operations System
CMRSP—-Consumable Mobility Readiness Spares Package
COSO—-Combat Oriented Supply Organization
CPSE—-Crew and Passenger Support Equipment
CSA—-Combat Supply Activity
CTK—-Composite Tool Kit
DDR—-Daily Demand Rate
DIFM—-Due-In From Maintenance
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) DIFM— Due-In From Maintenance
DLR—-Depot Level Reparables
DRMS—-Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service
DSD—-Delinquent Source Document
DSE—-Decentralized Support Element
DVR—-Document Validation Report
(Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) ECM— Electronic Countermeasure
EM—-Engine Management Section
EOQ—-Economic Order Quantity
ERRC—-Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability, Code
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) ERRC— Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Code
ETIC—-Estimated Time in Commission
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) ETIC— Estimated Time of Completion
FOM—-Facilitate Other Maintenance
FSC—-Flight Service Center
FSS—-Flight Support Section
I&SG—-Interchangeable and Substitute Group
ISSS—-Inspection Systems Support Section
JCN—-Job Control Number
JEIM—-Jet Engine Intermediate Maintenance
LRU—-Line Replacement Unit
LRS—-Logistics Readiness Squadron
MAJCOM—-Major Command
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009         55


MDC—-Maintenance Data Collection
MDS—-Mission, Design and Series
MESL—-Mission Essential Subsystems List
MICAP—-Mission Capability
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) MICAP— Mission Capable
MOC—-Maintenance Operations Center
MOS—-Maintenance Operations Squadron
MRSP—-Mobility Readiness Spares Package
MSD—-Materiel Support Division
MSL—-Maintenance Supply Liaison
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) MSL— Maintenance Supply Liaison
MTF—-Maintenance Training Flight
NRTS—-Not Reparable This Station
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) NRTS— Not Reparable This Station
NSN—-National Stock Number
OFP—-Operational Flight Program
O&M—-Operations and Maintenance
PBR—-Percent Base Repair
PHB—-Parts Holding Bin
POS—-Peacetime Operating Stock
PPCT—-Post-Post Control Team
PSOR—-Primary Source of Repair
PS&D—-Plans, Scheduling and Documentation
QA—-Quality Assurance
QRL—-Quick Reference Listing
RCM—-Repair Cycle Manager
RIMCS—-Reparable Item Movement Control System
RSP—-Readiness Spares Package
RTS—-Reparable This Station
R2P—-Repair and Return Packaging
SATS—-Supply Asset Tracking System
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) SATS— Standard Asset Tracking System
56                    ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


SBSS—-Standard Base Supply System
SNUD—-Stock Number User Directory
SPRAM—-Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized Maintenance
SRD—-Standard Reporting Designator
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) SRD— Standard Reporting Designator
SRU—-Shop Replaceable Unit
TCI—-Time Change Item
TCTO—-Time Compliance Technical Order
(DAVISMONTHANAFB) TCTO— Time Compliance Technical Order
TEX—-Transaction Exception
TMDE—-Test, Measurement & Diagnostic Equipment
TNB—-Tail Number Bin
TO—-Technical Order
TOC—-Technical Order Compliance
TRIC—-Transaction Identification Code
(Added-DAVISMONTHANAFB) TRN— Turn Around
UJC—-Urgency Justification Code
UND—-Urgency of Need Designator
WINMASS—-Windows MICAP Asset Sourcing System
WUC—-Work Unit Code
LM—-Two-Level Maintenance
LM—-Three-Level Maintenance
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                       57


                                      Attachment 2
                                       FY SRANS

A2.1. FY SRANS. The following have been assigned as follows. If they need to be changed or
deleted, please contact HQ ACC/LGSIP at DSN 574-7817/7819.
FY2601-LL FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     9 SUPS - LGSCS - LEAN LOGISTICS
     5901 C STREET
     BEALE AFB CA 95903-1616
FY2602-LL-AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE
     9 SUPS-LGSCA-LEAN LOGISTICS
     5901 C STREET
     BEALE AFB CA 95901-1616
FY2604-LL-FLT SVC CTR-ACFT PARTS STORE
     509 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     705 ARNOLD AVE
     WHITEMAN AFB MO 65305-5065
FY2606-LL-FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     5 SUPS-LGSCS-LEAN LOGISTICS
     230 FIGHTER ROAD
     MINOT AFB ND 58705-5000
FY2607-LL AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE
     5 SUPS-LEAN LOGISTICS
     500 FLIGHTLINE DRIVE
     MINOT AFB ND 58705-5000
FY2609-LL-FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     355 SUPS-LGSCS-LEAN LOGISTICS
     4500 S PHOENIX ST
     DAVIS MONTHAN AFB AZ 85707-5000
FY2610-LL-ACFT PARTS STORE EC130 H/E
     355 SUPS-LGSCA-3-LEAN LOGISTICS
     4500 S PHOENIX ST
     DAVIS MONTHAN AFB AZ 85707-5000
FY4800-LL-FLT SVC CTR/ACFT PARTS STORE
     1 SUPS/LGSC
     180 E. FLIGHTLINE RD
     LANGLEY AFB VA 23665-0565
FY2611-LL-ACFT PARTS STORE A/0A-10/MH60
     355 SUPS-LGSCA-1-LEAN LOGISTICS
     4500 S. PHOENIX ST
     DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB AZ 85707-5000
FY2613-LL-FLT SVC CTR F-117A
     49 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     1258 WAGNER ST
     HOLLOMAN AFB NM 88330-7904
58                ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


FY2614-LL-FLT SVC CTR-F-4E/AT-38B/HH-60G
     49 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     540 DELAWARE AVE
     HOLLOMAN AFB NM 88330-8010
FY2615-LL-ACFT PARTS STORE F-117A
     49 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     1274 WAGNER ST
     HOLLOMAN AFB, NM 88330-7904
FY2616-LL-ACFT PARTS STORE F-4E/AT-38B/HH-60G
     49 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     660 DELAWARE AVE
     HOLLOMAN AFB NM 88330-8012
FY2618-LL-FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     55 SUPS-LGSCS-LEAN LOGISTICS
     BLDG 457, RM 497
     OFFUTT AFB NE 68113-4038
FY2619-LL-AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE
     55 SUPS-LGSCA-LEAN LOGISTICS
     BLDG 457, RM 487
     OFFUTT AFB NE 68113-4038
FY2622-LL-FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     4 SUPS-LGSCS-LEAN LOGISTICS
     1395 ARNOLD AVE
     SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB NC 27531-2507
FY2623-LL-AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE
     4 SUPS-LGSCA-LEAN LOGISTICS
     1185 HANGER ROW
     SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB NC 27531-2591
FY2625-LL-FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     7 SUPS-LGSCR-LEAN LOGISTICS
     426 3RD STREET
     DYESS AFB TX 79607-1510
FY2626-LL-B-1B AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE
     7 SUPS-LGSCX-2-LEAN LOGISTICS
     998 AVE E1
     DYESS AFB TX 79607-1510
FY2627-LL-C-130 AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE
     7 SUPS-LGSCX-2-LEAN LOGISTICS
     926 1ST AVE
     DYESS AFB TX 79607-1510
FY2629-DIRECT DELIVERY HAZMART
     28 SUPS-LGSDH-HAZMART
     702 TWINING ST. BLDG 1911
     ELLSWORTH AFB SD 57706-4839
FY2630-DIRECT DELIVERY-AVIONICS
     28 SUPS-LGSCF-AVIONICS PARTS
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009   59


     1750 BERGSTROM DRIVE/BLDG 7540
     ELLSWORTH AFB SD 57706-4832
FY7432-LL-A-10 PARTS STORE
     99 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     4010 TYNDALL AVE, BLDG 443
     NELLIS AFB NV 89191-6048
FY2636-LL-F-15 PARTS STORE
     99 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     3913 TYNDALL AVE, BLDG 254
     NELLIS AFB NV 89191-6049
FY2638-LL-HH-60 PARTS STORE
     99 SUPS-LEAN LOGISTICS
     5151 ELLSWORTH AVE, BLDG 61686
     NELLIS AFB NV 89191
FY7437-LL-F-22 PARTS STORE
     99 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     4375 TYNDALL AVE, BLDG 290
     NELLIS AFB NV 89191-6078
FY7440-99 SUPS LGSC UAV PSC
     BLDG 273 CML PHN 702 879 3245
     PERIMETER RD
     INDIAN SPRINGS AFAF NV 89018-1050
FY1984-LL-FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     2 SUPS-LGSCR-LEAN LOGISTICS
     46 E. BILLY MITCHELL DRIVE
     BARKSDALE AFB LA 71110-3401
FY2641-LL-AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE
     2 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     ATTN: CAPT TODD
     845 LOGISTIC LANE
     BARKSDALE AFB, LA 71110-2417
FY7430-LL-FLT SVC CTR/ACFT PARTS STORE
     366 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     1315 ALPINE STREET, BLDG 1361
     MT HOME AFB ID 83648-5301
FY2644-LL-FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     27 SUPS-LGSCS-LEAN LOGISTICS
     121 E. ARCADIA AVE
     CANNON AFB NM 88103-5134
FY1770-LL-AIRCRAFT PARTS STORE
     27 SUPS-LGSCA-LEAN LOGISTICS
     206 E. SEXTANT AVE
     CANNON AFB NM 88103-5134
FY2343-LL-FLIGHT SERVICE CENTER
     20 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     552 KILLIAN AVE
60               ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


     SHAW AFB, SC 29152-5125
FY2344-LL-F16 PARTS STORE
     20 SUPS-LGSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     676 SWEENEY STREET
     SHAW AFB SC 29152-5044
FY2652-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     20 CS-SCSJM-LEAN LOGISTICS
     485 FORD STREET
     SHAW AFB SC 29152-5017
FY6800-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     1 CS-SCCJM-LEAN LOGISTICS
     175A SWEENEY BLVD
     LANGLEY AFB VA 23665-2289
FY2603-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     9 COMM-SCCM-LEAN LOGISTICS
     17990 WARREN SHINGLE
     BEALE AFB CA 95903-1616
FY2605-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     509 CS-SCSJ-LEAN LOGISTICS
     1081 ARNOLD AVE
     WHITEMAN AFB, MO 65305-5065
FY2608-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     5 CS-SCSJM-LEAN LOGISTICS
     330 BOMBER BLVD
     MINOT AFB ND 58705-5008
FY2612-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     355 CS-SCSMJ-LEAN LOGISTICS
     3180 S. FIRST ST. (BLDG 1540)
     DAVIS-MONTHAN AFB AZ 85707-5000
FY2617-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     49 CS-SCSJ-LEAN LOGISTICS
     165 ARKANSAS AVE
     HOLLOMAN AFB NM 88330-7701
FY2620-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     55 CS-SCEY-LEAN LOGISTICS
     BLDG 456, RM 18
     OFFUTT AFB NE 68113-2040
FY2624-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     4 CS-SC-LEAN LOGISTICS
     1630 MARTIN ST, STE 120
     SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB NC 27531-2352
FY2628-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
     7 CS-SCSJ-LEAN LOGISTICS
     426 3RD STREET
     DYESS AFB TX 79607-1510
FY2631-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009   61


28 CS-SCSC-LEAN LOGISTICS
1271 SCHRIEVER ST. STE 111
ELLSWORTH AFBSD 57706-4271
FY2642-LL-COMM MATERIAL CONTROL
      2 CS-SCSJM-LEAN LOGISTICS
      ATTN: MS. ROSA RIVERS
      134 DAVIS AVE EAST
      BARKSDALE AFB, LA 71110-3465
FY2643-LL-COMM MATERIEL CONTROL
      366 CS-SC-LEAN LOGISTICS
      365 THIRD AVE
      MT HOME AFB ID 83648-5439
FY2646-LL-COMM MATERIEL CONTROL
      27 CS-SCSJ-LEAN LOGISTICS
      502 S. PERIMETER ROAD

CANNON AFB NM 88103-5000
62                       ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009


                        ATTACHMENT 2 (DAVISMONTHANAFB)
                              TURN-AROUND PROCEDURES

A2.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) MICAP. IAW ACCI 23-252 Chapter 7, Paragraph 7.3.1.,
exhaust all possible base-level resources to satisfy mission capable (MICAP) requirements. By
definition a MICAP condition does not exist until all base-level resources have been verified and
the part cannot be repaired at base level. This includes back shop support.
A2.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) A TRN. 1.6.7. A TRN action is required when a repair
cycle item is not processed through LRS and the item is repaired and reinstalled on the
aircraft/end item. The LRS commander has opted to allow maintenance organizations identified
by the FSC with CAMS/SBSS interface to process TRNs. Use the following processes for all
TRN actions:
A2.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Aircraft Maintenance Support Section Responsibilities:
     A2.3.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Take assets being repaired under the following TRN
     procedures to the appropriate repair shop with the following information:
        A2.3.1.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) AFTO FORM 350, Repairable Item Processing
        Tag, with the TRN Document Number.
           A2.3.1.1.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintenance Organization and shop code,
           00 (constant), and the AFTO 350 tag number) i.e. J721AF00365482.
        A2.3.1.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) CAMS snapshot of job work center event (Screen
        #122).
           A2.3.1.2.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Load this document in CAMS in CAMS as
           UJC “AA” as DUE-OUT. Change status to reflect “ISSUE” upon receipt of asset.
           Upon picking up the repaired item, AMSS will review the D04 to ensure TRNs were
           processed. If the item is not repaired and must be requisitioned as a MICAP, delete
           the TRN document. AMSS establish MICAP documents IAW 23-251, Chap 2, Para
           2.3.10. Process the repairable through FSC and rout as a DIFM asset. NOTE: If the
           item is needed to satisfy a MICAP requirement, clearly mark the front of the AFTO
           Form 350 with “MICAP”. The repair shop will then schedule repair work as required.
           All others AFTO Form 350 tags should be marked as BQ.
A2.4. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintenance Squadron Support Section Responsibilities:
     A2.4.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Process all TRN actions in CAMS using screen #352 or
     use SBSS screen #180.
     A2.4.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Ensure all TRN actions are processed using the
     appropriate org/shop code.
     A2.4.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Ensure TRN processes by using the D04.
     A2.4.4. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Notify AMSS once all repair and TRN data updates are
     complete.
     A2.4.5. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Notify FSC when the AFTO 350 tags are ready for pick
     up.
ACCI23-251_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP_I 16 DECEMBER 2009                                    63


   A2.4.6. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Provide a valid estimated time of completion (ETIC)
   within 24 hrs of receipt.
   A2.4.7. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Submit a POC letter for the shops primary and alternate
   TRN monitor to FSC.
   A2.4.8. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) If the end item cannot be repaired or bits and pieces are
   required to be backordered
   A2.4.9. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) contact the owning organization IAW 23-251, Chap 4,
   Para 4.3.2.7.2.3.
A2.5. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Flight Service Center Responsibilities:
   A2.5.1. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintain overall responsibility for the TRN process.
   A2.5.2. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Appoint a primary and an alternate TRN monitor in
   writing and forward to the supported maintenance production control.
   A2.5.3. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Pick up AFTO Form 350 Part 2 from the back shops.
   As a minimum, accomplish this weekly.
   A2.5.4. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintain a suspense file until the TRN has been
   verified as processed using the D04 or the I122 management notice.
   A2.5.5. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Process all TRNs for units without CAMS or SBSS
   connectivity.
   A2.5.6. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Maintain a letter from each backshop of all assigned
   TRN monitors.
   A2.5.7. (DAVISMONTHANAFB) Provide training as required to ensure the overall
   integrity of the program.
