BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                         33-310

                                                                               11 MARCH 2014

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                                    COLLABORATIVE TOOLS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at
                      http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions for this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/A6XP                                                     Certified by: HQ ACC/A6X
                                                                       (Mr. Robert S. McQuade)
                                                                                       Pages: 12


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management.
It establishes policy on configuration, use and sustainment of Collaborative tools within the Non-
Secure Internet Protocol Router Network/Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
(NIPRNet/SIPRNet) enclaves for all Air Combat Command (ACC) units. Its purpose is to assist
ACC Airmen in quickly establishing standard collaboration sites and using these tools to
increase effectiveness across all operations. Standardization will allow Airmen to rapidly locate
people and decision quality information while supporting the distinct operational requirements of
functional communities. Currently, the tools ACC provides Airmen include Microsoft Office
SharePoint (SP), Task Management Tool (TMT), Office Communicator (OC) and the Evaluation
Management System (EMS). This instruction applies to all active duty ACC activities, units and
installations. This publication does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve
Command units or members. If non-ACC units on ACC installations utilize command resources
and services, they are required to follow this publication unless otherwise approved through the
Plans and Resources Division (ACC/A6X). Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule. The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Send comments and suggested
improvements through command channels using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, to HQ ACC/A6X, 180 Benedict Avenue, Langley AFB VA 23665. MAJCOMs,
NAFs, Wings, Groups, or units may supplement this instruction in order to provide specific
guidance. The parent MAJCOM must approve all supplements prior to publication. Forward
supplements to the parent MAJCOM within 30 days of publication. Unless otherwise specified
 2                                                           ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014


in this instruction, the ACC Communications Directorate (HQ ACC/A6) is the waiver authority
for this instruction. Request for waivers to the basic guidance in this instruction are to be
forwarded through applicable channels to NAFs, or equivalent. NAFs will validate and forward
the request in message or memo format to HQ ACC/A6X with courtesy copies to the A6XP
Plans Branch (HQ ACC/A6XP). Waivers to this volume will remain valid for one year at which
point they must be revalidated if the waiver requirement is still applicable.
ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014                                                                      3



                                          Chapter 1

                                COLLABORATIVE TOOLS

1.1. Introduction. This Air Combat Command Instruction (ACCI) provides guidelines for
collaborative tools ACC uses to deliver and manage information across an integrated AF
enterprise. Collaboration provides an innovative yet systematic enterprise-level approach to
using and managing information. All users must have knowledge, at a minimum, of AFI 33-129,
Web Management and Internet Use, AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, and this
instruction. Apply the rules outlined in the above mentioned publications when using
collaborative tools.
1.2. Purpose. This instruction outlines a standardized environment in which Airmen have
timely, accessible, secure, accurate and relevant information necessary to accomplish daily
missions within AF and Joint environments. Within this document, the term “Airmen” is used as
defined by the Chief of Staff of the Air Force to broadly include all AF military, civilian and
supporting personnel under contract by DOD who develop, acquire access, deliver, use, operate,
or manage collaborative tools on NIPRNet/SIPRNet (unclassified/classified network).
1.3. Use of this Document. The words SHALL and WILL express a provision that is binding.
The words SHOULD and MAY are used when it is necessary to express non-mandatory
provisions. WILL may be used to express a mandatory declaration of purpose or when it is
necessary to express a future requirement.
1.4. Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.4.1. Lead Command. AFSPC is Lead Command for Enterprise Information Services
   (EIS), however, AFSPC’s current infrastructure does not support ACC instance of
   Collaborative Tools.    AFSPC plans to deliver enterprise-level information services to
   enhance AF’s collaboration and sharing information while reducing overall expenditures.
   1.4.2. ACC Director of Communications (ACC/A6): Oversees the ACC EIS program.
       1.4.2.1. Manages requirements, modernization, sustainment,           consolidation   and
       submission of Program Objective Memorandum (POM) inputs.
       1.4.2.2. Provides policy and guidance.
       1.4.2.3. Represents ACC at AF EIS conference/policy governance meetings.
       1.4.2.4. Maintains awareness of AF initiatives for organizational site best practices and
       standards.
   1.4.3. ACC Communication Support Squadron (ACC CSS) will:
       1.4.3.1. Approve new top level site requests.
       1.4.3.2. Direct deployment and execution of AF/ACC EIS training curriculum. Maintain
       course updates as required.
       1.4.3.3. Manage the ACC EIS Change Control Board.
       1.4.3.4. Continuously monitor and analyze the ACC EIS environment for performance
       issues and employ enhancements when required.
4                                                             ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014


    1.4.3.5. Provide customer support for all ACC EIS Site Owners in the form of training,
    consulting services on tool usage, day-to-day assistance and troubleshooting.
    1.4.3.6. Provide and manage service request tracker for Site Owners.
    1.4.3.7. Manage Site Owner permissions.
    1.4.3.8. Maintain an organized network of base site owners along with appointment
    memorandums.
    1.4.3.9. Ensure base site owners are trained on the AF/ACC EIS curriculum within 90
    days of assignment and grant permissions after training is complete.
    1.4.3.10. Provide support for maintaining and administering SP features, including daily
    monitoring, troubleshooting and performance analysis of the system specifically
    supporting ACC capabilities.
    1.4.3.11. Continuously monitor and analyze the ACC EIS environment for performance
    issues and employ enhancements when required.
    1.4.3.12. Perform regular system checks ensuring AF security and system compliance.
    1.4.3.13. Conduct and maintain backups, patches and other system maintenance services
    as required.
    1.4.3.14. Provide ad hoc reports to program office, as needed, for trend analysis.
    1.4.3.15. Update and maintain contingency plan, architecture designs and configuration
    documentation for ACC collaborative environment.
    1.4.3.16. Create top site collections using AF site templates.
    1.4.3.17. Provide technical assistance for ACC users for all collaborative tools. Users
    should contact acc.kosupport@us.af.mil or DSN 575-7195 for assistance with
    SharePoint, Task Management Tool, Office Communicator or Evaluation Management
    System inquiries.
ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014                                                                           5


                                            Chapter 2

                                         SHAREPOINT

2.1. Introduction. SharePoint is a Microsoft developed tool deployed by AF and ACC
NIPRNet/SIPRNet (unclassified/classified network) and is defined as an electronic collaborative
environment. SharePoint technology will allow ACC users to migrate from shared file stores to
a robust collaborative environment that also standardizes information sharing. No element of
information should exist in more than one place within SharePoint. Instead of duplicating
information, there should be links that direct users to one source document. SharePoint contains
collaboration, knowledge, document and forms management. SharePoint will be the primary
tool for management of calendars, announcements, events, document libraries, document
workspaces and workflows. The SharePoint environment is not to be used as a records
repository as defined in AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records. The SharePoint environment
maintains dynamic content (working files) ONLY. ACC users will use these capabilities to
minimize duplication of information.
2.2. Rules and Standards.
   2.2.1. All sites shall follow the ACC provided site templates. The look and feel includes
   standard colors, fonts and backgrounds. Graphics will only be used for navigation and shall
   be minimal in size (i.e., thumbnail or icon size). The approved unit emblem will be located
   in the space provided by the templates and not presented in other locations. All organization
   sites shall be uniform in appearance. Customization on the site must remain very minimal
   and requires ACC CSS approval to avoid any issues for migration to future software
   versions.
   2.2.2. Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is defined as any information that permits the
   identity of an individual to be directly or indirectly inferred, including any information that is
   linked or linkable to that individual, regardless of whether the individual is a U.S. citizen,
   lawful permanent resident, visitor to the U.S. or employee or contractor to the Department of
   Defense.
       2.2.2.1. PII data must not be stored on SharePoint unless its required for daily business
       or mission requirement and is only accessible to the individuals who need the information
       to perform AF business (IAW AFI 33-332). Individuals who post PII information to
       Sharepoint must include FOUO to the folder title (i.e., FOUO - Recall Roster) and
       documents that contain personal information protected under the Privacy Act such as
       recall rosters, personnel rosters, lists or spreadsheets shall be marked "FOR OFFICIAL
       USE ONLY" (IAW DoDM 5200.01, Volume 4, DoD Information Security Program and
       the following statement included on the document: "The information herein is For
       Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected under the Freedom of Information
       Act of 1966 and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended." Once the PII data is no longer
       needed the individual who posted the information must ensure the PII data is removed.
       2.2.2.2. The most common examples of PII are listed below:
           2.2.2.2.1. Complete (9-digit) social security number (SSN).
           2.2.2.2.2. Alien registration number (A-number).
 6                                                                   ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014


            2.2.2.2.3. Driver's license or state identification number.
            2.2.2.2.4. Passport number.
            2.2.2.2.5. Biometric identifiers (e.g., fingerprint, iris scan, voice print).
            2.2.2.2.6. Credit card account number.
            2.2.2.2.7. Home address.
            2.2.2.2.8. Home or cell phone.
            2.2.2.2.9. Education.
            2.2.2.2.10. Full date of birth.
            Note: for a more complete list refer to AFI 33-332.
        2.2.2.3. Site Owners will provide user assistance in locking down PII content by creating
        separate permission groups specifically for PII, however, ultimately the user is
        responsible to ensure PII is secured.
     2.2.3. SIPR SP users must ensure all organizational site content and documents are properly
     classified and safeguarded IAW AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
     2.2.4. All sites must display Site Owner, Primary and Alternate, and contact information.
     Specific business rules for Site Owners and end users within the command are located at
     https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/ACC/staff/a6/KO/ACC%20EIS%20Governance/Forms/A
     llItems.aspx.
     2.2.5. Organization and Team Top Level Sites: ACC CSS is responsible for creating Top
     Level Organization or Team Sites. Each Directorate or Organization must appoint Top Level
     Site Owners, primary and at least one alternate, and submit appointment letters (Attachment
     2) to acc.kosupport@us.af.mil. Top Level Site Owners are responsible for creating
     Organization Subsites.
     2.2.6. Announcements and calendars should be restricted to official business and should be
     captured at the highest applicable level to prevent repetition. Announcements will be set by
     default to expire after a specified period of time.
     2.2.7. Due to space restrictions ONLY appropriate Air Force or business-related photos will
     be utilized within the SharePoint environment.
     2.2.8. No collaborative work will be created, stored or drafted on a My Site. My Sites are
     not appropriate for unofficial personal information, i.e., personal photos, videos, audio or
     graphics files, etc.
2.3. Types of Training. HQ ACC point of contact for Site Owner training is ACC CSS.
Training is mandatory for all appointed Site Owners and should be taken at AF E-Learning via
the AF Portal. All end users should accomplish training via the AF Portal and/or ACC
Productivity Hub at https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/apps/TrainingHub/Pages/Default.aspx.
ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014                                                                      7


                                          Chapter 3

                                OFFICE COMMUNICATOR

3.1. Introduction. Office Communicator 2007 is the client application for real-time
(synchronous) communications. It is the user's primary tool for presence and directory
information, instant messaging, and audio/video-conferencing. Its intuitive design makes it easy
for users to communicate with features like Communicator Call and also has the ability to shift
conversations from instant messages to audio or video-conferences on the fly. It helps users
control incoming communications with alerts and the ability to manually set their status. Office
Communicator 2007 also integrates the entire communications experience throughout Microsoft
Office applications. Presence information appears wherever a contact’s name appears: in a
document workspace, on a SharePoint site, or in an e-mail string.
3.2. Rules and Standards.
   3.2.1. Office Communicator will be activated by all ACC users having access to the
   capability by selecting Start—Programs—Microsoft Office Communicator 2007 R2 and
   entering user’s e-mail address.
   3.2.2. Specific business rules for Office Communicator within the command are located at:
   https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/ACC/staff/a6/KO/ACC%20EIS%20Governance/Forms/A
   llItems.aspx.
   3.2.3. Training Link for Office Communicator:
   https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/apps/TrainingHub/Pages/Communicator.aspx
   3.2.4. Link to Office Communicator information:
   https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/Shared%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=%2
   fShared%20Documents%2fHow%20To%27s%20of%20OCS&FolderCTID=&View=
   %7b950E9EF1%2d860C%2d4AAE%2dBB02%2d00B1CF102114%7d
 8                                                             ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014


                                           Chapter 4

                     EVALUATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (EMS)

4.1. Introduction. HAF/A1 and SAF/CIO-A6 announced the PACAF-developed the
Evaluation Management System application as the “interim Air Force Military Evaluation
Workflow Standard.” In addition to declaring EMS as the interim standard, an AF EIS Program
Management Office was designated to operate and maintain the Air Force Network EIS-hosted
AF EMS instantiation and maintain approved and supported versions for MAJCOM-hosted EMS
instances. The Evaluation Management System is a custom enterprise workflow solution
designed to assist commanders, supervisors, and others involved in the local routing of officer
and enlisted performance reports (PRs) and decorations as outlined in AFI 36-2406, Officer and
Enlisted Evaluation Systems, and applicable Personnel Services Delivery Guide that leverages
the command’s hosted instance. The custom EMS application was developed to meet the unique
workflow requirements and security permissions inherent to the Officer and Enlisted PR
programs and decorations. The goal of EMS implementation is to provide an “interim” AF
enterprise solution while the A1 functional community develops requirements for a long-term
solution.
4.2. Rules and Standards.
     4.2.1. The MAJCOM Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services (ACC/A1) and host
     Force Support Squadron (FSS) Military Personnel Section (MPS) are the functional leads and
     process owners for base-wide implementation and use. The host MPS will appoint primary
     and alternate POCs to implement and support the use of EMS. Additionally, specific
     business    rules   for end users         within  the command are located at
     https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/ACC/staff/a6/KO/ACC%20EIS%20Governance/Forms/A
     llItems.aspx.
     4.2.2. Evaluation Management System training guides are provided by Base FSS Lead EMS
     Site Owners. If requested, ACC CSS will provide training to appointed FSS and CS
     personnel.
ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014                                                                          9


                                            Chapter 5

                            TASK MANAGEMENT TOOL (TMT)

5.1. Introduction. Task Management Tool manages, tracks, suspenses and provides top-to-
bottom visibility of all tasks loaded in TMT. The Task Management Tool is the HQ ACC
tasking solution; all unclassified tasks for release by Commander, ACC (COMACC) will be
loaded in TMT. The ACC Director of Staff (ACC/DS) is the functional lead for TMT.
Directorates/special staff will determine internal policy on tasking within their specific agencies;
however, use of TMT is highly recommended.
5.2. Rules and Standards.
   5.2.1. Licenses. TMT requires a license for those individuals who initiate, manage
   assignments, and complete taskers on behalf of an organization, as well as search history and
   view status of taskers. TMT Edge provides a limited functionality for those individuals who
   only review, answer and close taskers. ACC ensures it does not exceed its authorized number
   of TMT licenses by managing accounts.
   5.2.2. Accounts. Each appointed Wing/Directorate TMT POC is responsible for adding and
   removing their identified users. This POC is also responsible for contacting the ACC CSS at
   acc.kosupport@us.af.mil to request the addition of new members or removal of members
   who leave ACC. Specific business rules for end users within the command are located at
   https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/ACC/staff/a6/KO/ACC%20EIS%20Governance/Forms/A
   llItems.aspx.




                                              DAVID C. UHRICH, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Director of Communications
 10                                                          ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 15 April 2005
Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACCI—Air Combat Command Instruction
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management Systems
DOD—Department of Defense
EMS—Evaluation Management System
EIS—Enterprise Information Services
FSS—Force Support Squadron
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In accordance with
MPS—Military Personnel Section
NIPRNet—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OC—Office Communicator
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
POC—Point of Contact
PR—Performance Review
ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014                          11


SIPRNet—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SP—SharePoint
 12                                                               ACCI33-310 11 MARCH 2014


                                          Attachment 2
             SITE OWNER APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM TEMPLATE

A2.1. The Attachment is an example of the memorandum appointing primary and alternate EIS
SP base site owners.
MEMORANDUM FOR ACC CSS/CC
FROM: ________/____ (Office Symbol)
SUBJECT: Appointment Letter for Primary and Alternate EIS SP Base Site Owner
1. The following personnel are appointed to perform SP Site Owner duties.
   Name, Rank (ALPHA Primary/Alternate Unit/Office                Duty            Date
   Order)                                         Symbol          Phone           Trained



2. The above personnel have reviewed AFI 33-332, paragraph 12.8., as it relates to the posting
and protection of Personally Identifying Information (PII).
3. The above personnel have reviewed and understand these instructions on Collaborative Tools.
4. This letter supersedes any previous letters of the same subject.


                                                      //signed//
                                                      JOHN B. DOE, Colonel, USAF
                                                      Commander
