BY ORDER OF THE                                                           ACC INSTRUCTION 36-2801
COMMANDER AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                 9 MAY 2002

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                          AWARDS AND RECOGNITION PROGRAMS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.



OPR: HQ ACC/CSQ                                                                Certified by: HQ ACC/CS
       (Maj Lisa L. Henry-Hamilton)                                                (Col John C. Rhoades)
Supersedes ACCI 36-2853, 11 October 1996                                                          Pages: 6
                                                                                           Distribution: L

This instruction implements the policy and guidance found in AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Pro-
grams. This instruction also implements the guidance found in AFI 36-3009, Attachment 5, Family Sup-
port Center Program. It outlines the Headquarters Air Combat Command Quarterly and Annual Awards
Recognition Programs. This instruction applies to Headquarters Air Combat Command personnel to
include DRUs/FOAs. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard
(ANG) units or members, except those assigned directly to HQ ACC (quarterly awards only). Send com-
ments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication,
through channels to HQ ACC/CSQ, 204 Dodd Blvd, Ste 212, Langley AFB VA, 23665.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision modifies submission requirements, clarifies who is eligible for awards, updates award cate-
gories, lays out additional responsibilities for CSQ and executive officers, clarifies board scoring proce-
dures, and clarifies board appearance procedures.



1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. HQ ACC/CSQ.
       1.1.1. Manage overall awards program.
       1.1.2. Appoint board members. The senior member will serve as board president.
       1.1.3. Prepare tasking letters requesting nominations from HQ ACC directorates and special staff
       agencies.
       1.1.4. Arrange date, time, and place of board.
2                                                                          ACCI36-2801 9 MAY 2002


       1.1.5. Schedule nominees to meet the board, when applicable, and notify directorate executive
       officers of the board schedule.
       1.1.6. Notify directorate executive officers, prior to the boards convening, of the nominations
       received from their directorate.
       1.1.7. Prepare congratulatory letters for Vice Commander’s signature. Procure plaques for HQ
       ACC award winners.
       1.1.8. Submit annual and quarterly winners to 1 FW as HQ ACC nominees to the Team Langley
       Recognition Boards.
           1.1.8.1. Nominees competing for Team Langley recognition must be stationed on Langley
           AFB. If the HQ ACC winner is not from Langley, the first runner up stationed on Langley will
           be submitted.
       1.1.9. Submit annual enlisted winners to ACC/CCC for competition in the ACC Outstanding Air-
       men of the Year program.
    1.2. Directorate Executive Officers.
       1.2.1. Submit nominees on behalf of the director. One person for each award category will be
       accepted by CSQ (with the exception of Volunteer of the Qtr/Year and Volunteer Excellence
       awards since the criteria for these awards allows family members to compete for this award).
       1.2.2. Check and confirm with CSQ to ensure all nominees submitted for nomination are on the
       list for board consideration.
       1.2.3. Inform nominees of their appointed time to meet the board, if applicable. Inform HQ ACC/
       CSQ of nominees not available to meet the board.
       1.2.4. Provide board members as requested.

2. Eligibility. All Categories -- All personnel assigned to HQ ACC are eligible for all HQ ACC quarterly
and annual awards. This includes personnel not physically located on Langley AFB, but who are in the
HQ ACC chain of command, i.e., personnel or units report to a HQ ACC directorate. Directorates will
select no more than one nominee per category to forward to HQ ACC/CSQ. If the HQ ACC winner in
any category is stationed outside Langley AFB, HQ ACC/CSQ will nominate the first runner-up on Lan-
gley AFB to compete at the Team Langley awards competition. Personnel located at other bases may
participate in both that base’s awards programs as prescribed for tenant units and in the HQ ACC awards
program. However, HQ ACC active duty military enlisted personnel must participate in the HQ ACC
annual awards program to continue to have an opportunity to be selected as the HQ ACC annual award
winner in their category. This is a step toward possible selection as one of the 12 Air Force Outstanding
Airmen of the Year (12 OAY).
    2.1. Company Grade Officer Annual and Quarter Program Eligibility. Company Grade Officers
    (O1-O3), to exclude major selects.
    2.2. Enlisted Program Eligibility:
       2.2.1. Annual Program.
           2.2.1.1. There are three categories of competition: Airman (airman basic through senior air-
           man); NCO (staff sergeant through technical sergeant); and Senior NCO (master sergeant
ACCI36-2801 9 MAY 2002                                                                                   3


          through chief master sergeant).
          2.2.1.2. If a chief master sergeant is selected as the HQ ACC Senior NCO of the Year, he/she
          will represent the headquarters in the ACC Outstanding Airmen of the Year competition.
          Since chief master sergeants are not eligible to compete in the base-level competition, the
          senior master sergeant or master sergeant on Langley AFB finishing the next highest in merit
          will represent the headquarters in the base-level competition.
      2.2.2. Quarterly Program.
          2.2.2.1. There are three categories of competition: Airman (airman basic through senior air-
          man); NCO (staff sergeant through technical sergeant); and Senior NCO (master sergeant
          through senior master sergeant except chief master selectees).
      2.2.3. Nominees compete in the grade held for the longest period of time during the award period.
      For example, if a nominee were a SrA for 85 days of the quarter and a SSgt for only five days, he
      or she would compete in the Airman category. In such cases, nominators attach a note of explana-
      tion to the nomination package.
   2.3. Civilian Annual and Quarter Program Eligibility. There are four categories of competition:
   Professional (GS/GM/UA 12-13); Specialist (GS/GM/UA 9-11 and NFIV); Administrative (GS/UA/
   AS/CC/PS 1-8 AND NF I-III); Craft and Trades (All WG/WL/WS/NA/NL/NS).
   2.4. Volunteer and Volunteer Excellence Eligibility:
      2.4.1. Volunteer--All military, federal civilians, family members, military and federal retirees, and
      teams are eligible to compete to recognize their significant volunteer contributions during the cur-
      rent quarter and year.
      2.4.2. Volunteer Excellence--All federal civilians, family members, military and federal retirees,
      and teams who perform outstanding volunteer community service of a sustained, direct and conse-
      quential nature in the local civilian community, or in the military family community, are eligible.
      (Active duty personnel are not eligible for this award). The Air Force Chief of Staff established
      this awards program to recognize specific personnel for their volunteer community service and
      enhance their visibility throughout the base. Winners will be selected on a quarterly basis and are
      limited to one Volunteer Excellence Award in a lifetime. This award is designed toward rewarding
      sustained, long-term volunteerism.

3. Military (Company Grade Officer/SNCO/NCO/Airman) Submission Requirements:
   3.1. Quarterly Nominations:
      3.1.1. Directorate may submit only one person in each category. Prepare the nomination on AF
      Form 1206. Limit nominations to one AF Form 1206, front-side only, for quarterly nominations.
      Nominations should include specific facts and examples showing that the individuals are excep-
      tional. Achievements should distinguish the nominees from their peers. Use bullet statements.
      Nominations must include the following headings citing examples that occurred during the current
      quarter only:
          3.1.1.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty (0-30 points). The member’s lead-
          ership and job performance in primary duty, including the development of new techniques,
          must contribute significantly to increase mission effectiveness during the current quarter.
4                                                                          ACCI36-2801 9 MAY 2002


          3.1.1.2. Significant Self-Improvement (0-10 points). The member must show this improve-
          ment through off-duty education, achievements in professional or cultural societies or associ-
          ations, development of creative abilities, and so on, during the current quarter.
          3.1.1.3. Base or Community Involvement (0-10 points). The member’s positive leadership
          and involvement in both the military and civilian community during the current quarter.
       3.1.2. Submit quarterly packages to HQ ACC/CSQ NLT the first Monday of April (1st quarter),
       July (2d quarter), and October (3d quarter). The deadline for the last quarter will be announced so
       that it will not conflict with the yearly program.
    3.2. Annual Nominations:
       3.2.1. Directorates may submit only one person in each category. The annual nominee is not
       required to have been a quarterly winner. Quarterly winners do not receive a bye into the annual
       competition.
       3.2.2. Prepare the nomination on AF Form 1206 (both front and backside). Nominations must be
       based on the current calendar year only. Since enlisted winners compete at the ACC com-
       mand-level Outstanding Airmen of the Year, which may lead to Air Force-level competition (12
       Outstanding Airman of the Year (OAY) competition), nominees must also stand the test of a
       "whole life/whole career" scrutiny. If the HQ ACC annual winner cannot compete because he/she
       cannot meet the criteria for the 12 OAY, HQ ACC will submit the next highest finisher that does
       meet the criteria for further competition. Nominations should include specific facts and examples
       showing that the individuals are exceptional. Use bullet statements. Achievements should distin-
       guish the airmen from their peers. Nominations must include the following headings:
          3.2.2.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty (0-30 points)
          3.2.2.2. Significant Self-improvement (0-10 points)
          3.2.2.3. Base/Community Involvement (0-10 points)

4. Civilian Submission Requirements:
    4.1. Quarterly Nominations:
       4.1.1. Directorates may submit only one person in each category. Prepare the nomination on AF
       Form 1206. Limit nominations to one AF Form 1206, front-side only. Nominations should
       include specific facts and examples showing that the individuals are exceptional during the quar-
       ter. Achievements should distinguish the nominees from their peers. Use bullet statements.
       Nominations must include the following headings citing examples that occurred during the current
       quarter only:
          4.1.1.1. Job Knowledge/Outstanding Duty Performance (0-10 points)
          4.1.1.2. Significant Achievements (0-10 points)
          4.1.1.3. Base/Community Service (0-10 points)
       4.1.2. Submit quarterly packages to HQ ACC/CSQ NLT the first Monday of April (1st quarter),
       July (2d quarter), and October (3d quarter). The deadline for the last quarter will be announced so
       that it will not conflict with the yearly program.
    4.2. Annual Nominations.
ACCI36-2801 9 MAY 2002                                                                                    5


      4.2.1. Directorates may submit only one person in each category. The annual nominee is not
      required to have been a quarterly winner. Quarterly winners do not receive a bye into the annual
      competition.
      4.2.2. Prepare the nomination on AF Form 1206. Limit nominations to one AF Form 1206,
      front-side only. Nominations should include specific facts and examples showing that the individ-
      uals are exceptional. Achievements should distinguish the nominees from their peers. Use bullet
      statements. Nominations must include the following headings citing examples that occurred dur-
      ing the calendar year:
          4.2.2.1. Job Knowledge/Outstanding Duty Performance (0-10 points).
          4.2.2.2. Significant Achievements (0-10 points).
          4.2.2.3. Base/Community Service (0-10 points).

5. Volunteer Excellence and Volunteer : The Volunteer Excellence award is a quarterly award only;
the Volunteer award is a quarterly and annual award.
   5.1. Volunteer of the Quarter and Year: Prepare nominations on AF Form 1206, Nomination for
   Award. Nomination should be specific when giving the time frame of the accomplishment. Quarterly
   nominations are limited to 5 – 10 bullet statements using the heading "Volunteer Accomplishments"
   for the current period. Annual nominations may use a one page AF Form 1206 in nominating for the
   annual award. The board will not consider items outside the period.
   5.2. Volunteer Excellence Award: Prepare nominations on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award.
   Nominations should be specific when giving the time frame of the accomplishment, which must be for
   a sustained period of time. Limit nominations to one page, use bullet statements, and use the follow-
   ing heading as related to volunteer accomplishments. This is the only quarterly award category where
   examples that occurred outside of the current quarter may be used.
      5.2.1. Innovative and Creative Ideas (0-10 points). Defined as those that result in change to an
      established policy or procedure or the introduction of a new idea, which is found to be in the best
      interest of the organization.
      5.2.2. Community Involvement/Impact (0-10 points). Defined as the nominee's assumption of an
      active role in military or civilian community service activities and the results realized due to their
      participation.
      5.2.3. Self-Improvement (0-5 points). Defined as additional efforts sought to enhance one's
      knowledge, skills, ability or education.

6. Board Procedures:
   6.1. Airman (E1-E4) nominees for quarterly awards appear before an in-person board in service dress
   uniform, when possible. During this board they are graded on their Military Bearing/Personal
   Appearance and Communication Skills/Ability to Articulate. Each category is awarded points on a
   scale from 0 to 5. The board score is added to the nomination score for a total score. Each board
   member will ask two questions. The questions should require both objective (factual) and subjective
   (opinion) components to the answers. The fact-based aspect of the question will be from AFP
   36-2241, Volume I. The fact portion of the question will measure knowledge and the opinion portion
   of the answer will measure ability to communicate/express oneself.
6                                                                          ACCI36-2801 9 MAY 2002


       6.1.1. A records-only board will be convened if one or more people are not available to appear
       before the board.
       6.1.2. Records-only boards will evaluate all other categories. Selections will be based solely on
       nomination package.

7. Board Member Responsibilities:
    7.1. Prior to the board convening, board members are responsible to receive the nomination packages
    and score them. Board members will evaluate each nominee in a fair and equitable manner.
    7.2. After cumulative scores are tabulated, all board members will rank order the nominees. Board
    members will break their own ties in rank ordering prior to submitting the results to the board presi-
    dent.
    7.3. The board president will compile the rank order results and the person with the lowest score will
    be the board’s recommended choice. Large differences in rank ordering between members may be
    discussed in the event a board member may have missed accomplishments/achievements that other
    members observed. In the event of a tie after rank order compilation, the board president will lead a
    discussion and is responsible for breaking the tie. The board president provides results to HQ ACC/
    CSQ (First Sergeant or designee). All score sheets and rank order sheets are returned to HQ ACC/
    CSQ.



                                                     HAL M. HORNBURG, General, USAF
                                                     Commander
