BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                        11-213

                                                                       30 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                   Operations

                                               DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
                                               OF DISTRIBUTED MISSION OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/A3YA                                          Certified by: HQ ACC/A3Y (Colonel
                                                                          Dennis P. McDevitt)
                                                                                    Pages: 12


This publication implements policy found in AFI 11-202, Vol 1, Aircrew Training and AFI 36-
2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, 5 June 2009, which now includes Distributed
Mission Operations (DMO) program requirements. It prescribes the policies, procedures, and
responsibilities associated with the development and implementation of command DMO
programs. This publication applies to HQ ACC and its subordinate units, and to the Air National
Guard when published in the ANGIND 2. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition    Schedule     (RDS)      located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. We encourage users to make
recommendations to improve guidance in this publication. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.              Forward AF Form 847,
Recommendation to Change a Publication, to HQ ACC/A3YA, 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101,
Langley AFB VA 23665-2778 (E-mail address accdoya2 @langley.af.mil). See Attachment 1
for a glossary of references and supporting information
 2                                                         ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011



                                            Chapter 1

                 INTRODUCTION, BACKGROUND AND COMPLIANCE

1.1. Introduction The Combat Air Forces (CAF) Distributed Mission Operations (DMO)
readiness program emphasizes the virtual training domain and advocates that high fidelity flight
and mission simulators are one of the foundations of an integrated training environment. The
emphasis on the virtual domain is explicitly stated in the CAF DMO vision statement: “Provide
the CAF a persistent virtual training environment to increase operational effectiveness by
integrating DMO as a complement to live fly training.” The Distributed Mission Training
(DMT, expanded in 2006 to DMO) initiative implements Commander, Air Combat Command
(COMACC) 1996 Operational Requirements Document guidance to the ACC Directors of
Operations; Plans and Programs; Requirements; and Communications-Computers Systems to
"implement linked, mission-level simulation training for the Combat Air Forces (CAF). End
state is envisioned as high fidelity simulators at each wing for each Mission Design Series
(MDS), linked to AWACS, JSTARS, RIVET JOINT, GTACS, C4ISR, and other simulators such
as bomber and rescue MDS simulators as appropriate, as well as a dedicated set of adversary
work stations that could present a manned threat. DMT will provide a realistic, full spectrum
combat training system for combat-coded aircraft and aircrews.” The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
1.1.1. Background. The intent of this instruction is to provide a common methodology and
structure for advancing DMO while acknowledging unique MAJCOM requirements. While
individual Wings/ Groups may implement their own mission-dependant approach, the growth of
DMO requires some commonalities for maximizing CAF-wide virtual training capabilities. HQ
USAF PAD 07-13, 25 Jan 08, Annex C- Operations, Plans, and Requirements, Appendix 2-
Functional Delegation Breakout Operations, TAB 1-Distributed Mission Operations states Lead
MAJCOMS- ACC (CAF), Establish policy for DMO training and exercise requirements.
1.2. Compliance: Per AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, 5 June 2009,
section 1.2.3: “Distributed Mission Operations (DMO) allows for routine unit level training
activity by linking live, virtual, and constructive elements and training systems within and across
weapon system platforms. DMO capabilities may be used to accomplish Major Weapon System
(MWS) training table activity, specific mission rehearsal, and test and evaluation of tactics,
techniques and procedures. DMO is also a readiness initiative to train warfighters as they expect
to fight, maintain combat readiness at home or deployed, conduct mission rehearsals in an
environment as operationally realistic as necessary, and provide support to operations.”
Compliance is mandatory for ACC units with Mission Training Center (MTC) and DMO
capability.
ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                3


                                         Chapter 2

                        AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. MAJCOM -ACC will fund and acquire ancillary DMO services such as contracted
instructors as necessary to meet ACC generated training requirements.
2.2. Lead Command (LC) – IAW HQ USAF PAD 07-13, Air Combat Command (ACC) is the
lead command for CAF DMO. ACC will provide DMO capabilities as stated in the 1996 ACC
DMT ORD and current ACC DMO Enabling Concept.
 2.2.1. ACC/A3 is the command lead for Combat Air Forces (CAF) DMO operations and
 implementation. ACC/A3T is the chair of the ACC DMO/LVC O-6 Integrated Process Team
 which includes all A2/3/5/8 directorates with DMO equities.
 2.2.2. ACC/A3 will sponsor the CAF DMO Users Conference annually as a minimum.
 2.2.3. ACC/A3 will sponsor DMO Turkey Shoots or similar virtual competitions with a
 variety of DMO-capable players in various scenarios. ACC/A3T, A3D, A3I, and A3Y will
 assist with respective fighter/bomber, electronic attack (EA) and C2ISR asset scheduling and
 scenario development. These aerial competitions may combine a mix of active duty, ANG,
 AFRC, or contract support teams.
 2.2.4. ACC/A3T and A8A are co-chairs of the CAF DMO Standards Development Working
 Group (SDWG) and the Standards Implementation Working Group (SIWG). Normally co-
 chaired by ACC and ASC/WNS four times per year, meeting locations will vary. Additional
 telephone conferences will be scheduled as necessary. Primary POCs are A3T(O) and A8A(T)
 with assistance from A3Y and A3D as required.
 2.2.5. ACC/A3T, A3Y, A3I, and A3D weapons system/MDS Functional Area Managers
 (FAMs) are responsible for determining and incorporating a mix of live, sim, and DMO
 requirements in annual Ready Aircrew Program (RAP) Tasking Message (RTM) for division-
 level approval.
 2.2.6. As part of the SDWG, A3T and A8A will monitor DMO Test Plan Working Group and
 DMON Configuration Control Board programs.
 2.2.7. ACC/A3J manages the Virtual Flag exercise program and is the ACC POC for
 requesting ACC virtual simulator participation in any joint or coalition event. Detailed
 guidance for VF is contained in COMACC EXERCISE PLAN 88, revised 9 Oct 09: “VF is a
 COMACC-sponsored exercise designed to provide operational and tactical warfighters training
 in synthetic, theater-level, joint combat environments. The primary focus of VF is command
 and control spanning from the Combat Operations floor to the pilot/Joint Terminal Attack
 Controller in a realistic battlespace. VF is designed to prepare CAF personnel in the mission
 execution phase of composite force operations and OPLAN flyout, in a joint and coalition
 environment.”
 2.2.8. ACC TRSS manages selected simulator and Contract Aircrew Training/ Courseware
 Development (CAT/CWD) contracts that directly impact DMO.
 2.2.9. ACC/A8 is the command lead for acquisition, management, and sustainment of CAF
 DMO capabilities. A8A is the DMO requirements execution division with the DMO Program
4                                                  ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011


Element Monitor (PEM for PE 27701, Full Mission Combat Training) residing in A8AT. A8Z
is the OPR for CAF DMO security matters.
2.2.10. User Commands (UCs)- PACAF, USAFE, ANG, AFRC
ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                     5


                                            Chapter 3

                            WING/GROUP RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. Incorporate DMO in unit training plans and develop processes for coordinating and
scheduling DMO training events with other DMO participants. As DMO training continues to
increase fulfilling Ready Aircrew Program (RAP) and other MAJCOM directed training
requirements, units will merge their live fly/control and simulator/DMO schedules into a single
consolidated operations schedule that supports and aligns with unit training plans.
3.2. Participate in DMO Users Conference events.
3.3. Ensure that all DMO-unique entry control and security standard operating
procedures (e. g. foreign national participation, training event classification, etc.) are
established and all operations and maintenance personnel are familiar with those procedures.
3.4. Per AFI 36-2251, the Weapons System Training Planning Team shall incorporate
DMO training requirements into the prime mission system Initial Capabilities
Document/Capabilities Development Document (ICD/CDD). Users will participate in their
respective Weapon System Training Planning Team. DMO processes should also be
documented as well in the Systems Training Plan.
3.5. Develop and update DMO training scenarios which are tactically sound and applicable
to the DMO training domain. The process should take advantage of DMO flexibility to train
those tasks/skill sets which are rarely trained in a live environment or in a standalone simulation
scenario. Consideration should be given to mission rehearsal, deployment spin up, OPLAN
validation.
3.6. Develop requirements for terrain, imagery or map databases applicable to training
and forward them to their respective weapons system SDWG lead.
3.7. Coordination: A centralized office of responsibility can significantly enhance distributed
training program initiatives. DMO-capable organizations should have a dedicated DMO section
or office within the operations group or operations support squadron. As DMO continues to
grow, developing and maintaining virtual training expertise becomes more challenging. To
improve coordination and continuity, the DMO shop should include available elements of
simulator scheduling, government oversight Quality Assurance Personnel, and applicable
government civilian and contract instructor/operator representation.
3.8. Scheduling: Until a single source DMO scheduling application is fielded across the CAF
or fully integrated into the Patriot Excalibur scheduling system, unit schedulers should maintain
cognizance of the resources listed in Attachment 2, DMO Schedule Venues.
 6                                                    ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011


3.9. Reporting: Simulator utilization and concurrency impacts will be reported to USAF A3O-
AT semi-annually per AFI 36-2251 (3 Jun 09) as stated in paragraph 3.1.1.9, 3.1.2.2, and
Attachment 4 TRAINING SYSTEM METRICS.




                                         WILLIAM J. REW, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Vice Commander
ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTIVE INFORMATION

References
DoDD 1322.18, Military Training, 3 Sep 2004
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 20 Nov 2007
CJCSI 3170.01F, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1 May 2007
CJCS Notice 3500.01, 2010-2013 Chairman’s Joint Training Guidance, 31 Aug 2009
AFI 11-202 Vol 1, Aircrew Training, 9 Nov 09
AFI 11-214, Flying Operations, 2 Jun 09
AFI 11-MDS Specific Vol 1, Flying Operations
AFI 13-MDS Specific Vol 1, Command and Control, Missiles, Space Operations
AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development, 31 Jul 2006
AFI 36-2251 Management of Air Force Training Systems, 5 June 2009
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 2007
AFPD 16-10, Modeling and Simulation, 10 Mar 06
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training, 22 Mar 2004
USAF Distributed Mission Operations Implementation Plan, 15 Nov 04, HAF/XO
USAF Program Management Directive 6077(27), Distributed Mission Operations (DMO), 4 Sep
08, SAF/AQQ
HAF Program Action Directive 07-13, Implementation of the Chief Of Staff of the Air Force
Direction to Transform and Consolidate Headquarters Management Functions, 25 Jan 08
COMACC EXPLAN (EXERCISE PLAN) 88, VIRTUAL FLAG, 1 Oct 09
ACC Concept of Operations for Distributed Mission Training, 13 Oct 98
ACC DMT Operational Requirements Document (ORD), 7 Nov 97
CAF DMO Enabling Concept, Approved by ACC/A3, 15 May 08
CAF LVC Enabling Concept, July 2009
ACC Ready Aircrew Program Tasking Messages (RTM), ACC/A3T/A3Y, various dates
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
 8                                                   ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011




Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACCI—ACC Instruction
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CAT/CWD—Contract Aircrew Training/Courseware Development
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CDD—Capabilities Development Document
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DMO—Distributed Mission Operations
DMT—Distributed Mission Training
FAM—Functional Area Manager
HQ USAF—Headquarters US Air Force
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JTAC—Joint Terminal Attack Controller
LC—Lead Command
LVC—Live, Virtual, Constructive
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MEC—Mission Essential Competencies
MTC—Mission Training Center
OPLAN—Operational Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEM—Program Element Monitor
ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  9


PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
PMD—Program Management Directive
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RAP—Ready Aircrew Program
RTM—RAP Tasking Message
SDWG—Standards Development Working Group
SIWG—Standards Implementation Working Group
STP—System Training Plan
TPT—Training Planning Team
UC—User Command
VF—VIRTUAL FLAG

Terms
Concurrency— The condition where the configuration and operation of the training systems
matches configuration and function of the reference prime mission system(s).
Distributed Mission Operations (DMO)— Warfighter training that utilizes the integration
(networking) of live-fly, virtual (man in the loop), and constructive (computer generated)
entities, systems, and environments to complete mission essential competencies required for a
combat ready force. DMO focuses on individual and small team unit-level training, utilizing a
unit’s organic resources to train assigned warfighters to perform their wartime tasks. It also
expands a unit’s training capabilities and resources to facilitate Inter-team training among
geographically separated and composite force teams to execute missions (or significant portions
of missions) and mission rehearsal scenarios.
Lead Command (LC)— The MAJCOM which is the primary operator of a system, subsystem,
or item of equipment. This generally applies to those operational Commands or organizations
designated by Headquarters US Air Force to conduct or participate in operations or operational
testing (See AFPD 10-9). The Air Force assigns responsibility for overall management of each
prime mission system to a LC. The LC contributes to the process of developing and maintaining
a force structure with a balance of complementary capabilities, and it establishes a basis for
rational allocation of scarce resources among competing requirements. In other words, the LC is
responsible for advocating, programming and allocating funding for those systems assigned to it.
Long haul— A distributed training event conducted between Mission Training Centers using the
Distributed Mission Operations Network. Coordination, instruction planning and execution
takes place between two or more sites.
Mission Design Series (MDS)— System by which military aerospace vehicles are identified.
See DoD 4120.15-L, Model Designation of Military Aerospace Vehicles, for a complete
description of this identification system.
 10                                                      ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011


Mission Training Center (MTC)—A secure facility that houses virtual simulators to provide a
DMO capability. Normally contains cockpits, mission consoles, or crew stations plus instructor
operator stations (IOS), a network portal, and briefing/debriefing rooms.
Program Manager (PM)— The DoDD 5000.1 designated individual with responsibility for and
authority to accomplish program objectives for development, production and sustainment to meet
the user’s operational needs. The PM has life-cycle responsibility for the prime mission system.
PM duties include providing assessments of program status and risk to higher authorities and to
the operator or operator's representative; actively managing within approved resources, program
cost, performance, and schedule; and providing assessments of contractor performance. As used
in this instruction applies collectively to System Program Manager and/or Product Group
Manager.
Short haul— A non-distributed training event conducted within an MTC using a local area
network. All coordination, instruction planning and execution takes place internally.
Simulator— A training device that permits development and practice of the necessary skills for
accomplishing operational tasks, to a prescribed standard of competency, in a specific prime
mission system and duty position.
System Training Plan (STP)— The STP is an iterative planning document that defines the
justification, design, development, funding, resources, support, modification, operation, and
management of a Training System. The STP is designed to provide for planning and
implementation of training and to make sure all resources and supporting actions required for
establishment and support are considered. The STP may be a stand-alone document, or it may be
referenced and summarized in the Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP) or Human Systems
Integration (HSI) documents. All references to the STP in this document incorporate the
possibility that the intended documentation may be part of an LCMP or HSI documents.
Training Planning Team (TPT)— An action group composed of representatives from all
pertinent functional areas, disciplines, and interests involved in the life cycle design,
development, acquisition, support, modification, funding, and management of a specific prime
mission training system. The TPT uses the STP to ensure training considerations are adequately
addressed in the prime mission system acquisition and modification processes.
Training Systems Requirements Analysis (TSRA)— The initial step in user requirements
identification. It consists of mission/task analysis, training requirements identification,
objectives/media analysis, and training systems basis analysis. A TSRA integrates the products
of the Instructional System Development (ISD) process and the Systems Engineering (SE)
process to describe the Training System to be procured. It serves as a required input to the
System Training Plan. It is accomplished by the PM in coordination with the LC and UC.
Using Command (UC)— Any Command or organization that possess a prime weapon system
and uses the products of the Training System. The Using Command is responsible for managing
and conducting mission operations using the resources allocated by the Lead Command and
Higher Headquarters. As such, the UC is responsible for defining the system requirements
necessary to conduct and sustain operations. These requirements are submitted to the Lead
Command for advocacy, programming and funding allocation. If only one MAJCOM or agency
possesses the weapon system, that MAJCOM or agency is the designated lead command.
ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                             11


Reference AFPD 10-9 for further guidance on the delineation of responsibilities for Lead and
Using Commands.
 12                                                      ACCI11-213 30 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 2
                              DMO SCHEDULING VENUES

Figure A.2.1. DMO Scheduling Venues
                             DMO Scheduling Venues

   2.1.1 Virtual Event Scheduling Tool (VEST): Part of the ACC/A3Y managed Integrated
         Training Initiative that includes the semi-annual Integrated Training Conference,
         VEST is the online scheduling tool for live and virtual training opportunities larger
         than daily training but smaller than ACC Consolidated Planning Order events. For
         registered users, VEST lists live and virtual local exercises and training partner
         requests in an automated notification format. VEST User Registration website:
         https://iti1.acc.af.mil/WebApplication_Iti/Register/Register.aspx
   2.1.2 DMO Operations and Integration (DMO O&I) Schedule: Northrop Grumman
         maintains the CAF DMO Network (DMON) website for certified sites contains
         information on CAF DMO Standards, the SDWG meeting forum, and the daily
         schedules for long haul (between Mission Training Center sites) training and test
         missions. Website: https://secure.dmodmt.com/
   2.1.3 Distributed Training Operation Center (DTOC) schedule: Managed by the Air
         National Guard’s 132nd Fighter Wing, Det. 1 in Des Moines, IA, DTOC provides
         daily individual and small team training in a wide variety of tailor-made scenarios.
         Approved Air Reserve Component Network (ARCNET) and DMON users may
         request missions at: https://www.airdmt.net/schedule.php
   2.1.4 USAF Distributed Missions Operation Center (DMOC, 705 Combat Training
         Squadron, Kirtland AFB, NM) planning calendar includes information on all VFs,
         joint exercises and events (Fleet Synthetic Training-Joint, Emerald Warrior, Northern
         Edge, Weapons School Mission Integration, Missile Defense Agency, etc.) plus
         dedicated Warfighter Focus Events at https://wwwmil.dmoc.kirtland.af.mil/
   2.1.5 VIRTUAL FLAG Exercise Schedule: Managed by ACC/A3JE, the VIRTUAL
         FLAG schedule is updated on an “as required” basis but no less than monthly, and
         distributed to all DMO POCs, OG/CCs and other interested parties. The current
         VIRTUAL FLAG schedule is posted to the DMOC webpage, the Consolidated
         Planning Schedule SIPR webpage , and the VIRTUAL FLAG Community of Practice
         at https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AC-OP-01-
         20
