BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                        10-260

                                                                        12 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                   Operations

                                                     UNIT LEVEL/UNIT COMMAND AND
                                                   CONTROL OPERATIONS (UL/UC2 OPS)
                                                                      PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: ACC/A3OX                                                          Certified by: ACC/A3O
                                                                          (Col Ted T. Uchida)
                                                                                      Pages: 27




This instruction implements guidance in Joint Publication (JP) 3-30, Command and Control (C2)
for Joint Air Operations; Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness; AFPD 13-1, C2
Enterprise; Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 6-0, Command and Control (C2); AFPD 10-
8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support; and AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management. This
instruction also implements the UL/UC2 OPS system employment parameters presented in
Combat Air Forces (CAF) UL/UC2 OPS Enabling Concept and Air Combat Command (ACC)
UL/UC2 OPS Enabling Concept. This instruction defines specific responsibilities for ACC
Headquarters (HQ) and for ACC wing agencies directly involved with C2 operations and
UL/UC2 OPS. It is designed to facilitate coordination between the diverse set of users and
managers of the system. It applies to ACC HQ and all ACC wings at which UL/UC2 OPS is
currently fielded. This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or the
Air National Guard (ANG). ACC wings fielding UL/UC2 OPS are required to supplement this
instruction with local wing OIs. Wing OIs will not lessen the requirements nor change the basic
content or intent of this instruction. Process all wing OIs in accordance with Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility, using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command to HQ ACC/A3OX, 22 Rickenbacker Road, Langley
AFB, VA 23665. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
 2                                                                                  ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.




      1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................    3
      2.     UL/UC2 OPS Concept of Operations. ...................................................................                        4
      3.     Resource Management Application Operations. ...................................................                              6
      4.     Integrated Information Management System Operations. .....................................                                   7
      5.     Patriot Excalibur Scheduler Operations. ................................................................                     8
      6.     DCO Operations. ...................................................................................................          9
      7.     Alerter Operations. .................................................................................................       10
      8.     UL/UC2 OPS Program Responsibilities. ...............................................................                        10
      9.     UL/UC2 OPS Operational Responsibilities. ..........................................................                         11
      10.    System Deployment. ..............................................................................................           20
      11.    UL/UC2 OPS Training. .........................................................................................              20
      12.    UL/UC2 OPS Help Desk. ......................................................................................                22
      13.    UL/UC2 OPS System Improvement/Change Requests. ........................................                                     23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           24
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    3




1. Overview. UL/UC2 OPS (formerly Theater Battle Management Control Systems-Unit
Level) is the Combat Air Forces (CAF) Command and Control (C2) System of Record for wing
and unit-level operations. It provides the commander of an Air Force installation, an Air
Expeditionary Wing (AEW), or an Air Expeditionary Group (AEG) with a C2 capability through
which to command the full range of installation activities. Facilitated at the operational and
tactical levels, UL/UC2 OPS provides installation/wing commanders and senior leaders an
automated tool designed to provide a responsive, meaningful, and simplified display of crucial
resource and status information relevant to a Common Operating Picture (COP). It provides
wing leaders with a net-centric capability for use across the spectrum of operations using an
already established construct. One of the goals of the UL/UC2 OPS program and this instruction
is to bring ACC wings/units in line with Air Force C2 doctrine and philosophy using established
information sharing capabilities while at the same time training Airmen to employ air, space, and
cyberspace forces anywhere, at any time, across the full range of military operations. To achieve
this goal, all ACC commanders will use UL/UC2 OPS as the primary wing-level C2 system. All
ACC active-duty wings will implement UL/UC2 OPS for C2 management of all
installation/wing activities including but not limited to flight scheduling, resource management,
emergency response, recall, and deployment operations. Note: Those ACC units that are
tenants on other MAJCOM installations will comply with this instruction to the maximum extent
possible. Although this instruction does not apply to AFRC and ANG, AFRC and ANG Total
Force Integration (TFI) classic associate units co-located with ACC wings are encouraged to
utilize UL/UC2 OPS and address UL/UC2 OPS use in their unit Operating Instructions (OIs).
   1.1. General Capabilities. The UL/UC2 OPS suite uses a mixture of Commercial Off-The-
   Shelf (COTS) and Government Off-The-Shelf (GOTS) components to form client/server
   systems for wing-level C2 operations. All system capabilities including scheduling, incident
   management, resource management, collaboration, and alerting can be performed on either
   Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) or Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router
   Network (NIPRNET). The system also has a limited but expanding unclassified to classified
   transfer capability.
   1.2. System Development. The UL/UC2 OPS system is improved and updated using an
   incremental development process. It relies on feedback from system administrators and users
   at the wings/units to develop fixes and improvements. All UL/UC2 OPS operators, including
   users and system administrators are responsible for identifying system shortfalls and making
   recommendations for improved system capability via the system improvement processes
   outlined in section 13 of this instruction.
   1.3. Lead Command. ACC is Lead Command for the UL/UC2 OPS program. As the CAF
   operational lead and Functional Manager for the fielded UL/UC2 OPS program, ACC/A3OX
   acts as liaison with the wing Unit Level Managers (ULMs) and collaborates with other
   functional communities to provide prioritized UL/UC2 OPS operational requirements to
   ACC/A5C. ACC/A5C has lead responsibility for managing requirements, modernization,
   and sustainment; for providing guidance to the UL/UC2 OPS program office at Air Force
   Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC); and for consolidating and submitting Program
   Objective Memorandum (POM) inputs for the overall UL/UC2 OPS enterprise.
 4                                                           ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


     1.4. System Program Office. AFLCMC, Hanscom AFB, MA, is the System Program Office
     (SPO) for UL/UC2 OPS.         The SPO is responsible for executing the ACC/A5C
     guidance/direction for development of UL/UC2 OPS software, changes to UL/UC2 OPS
     hardware configuration, and technical refresh of the authorized Major Command
     (MAJCOM) UL/UC2 OPS assets.
     1.5. Designated Accrediting Authority (DAA). AFSPC/CC is the DAA for the UL/UC2
     OPS system.
     1.6. Wing-Level System Management. The UL/UC2 OPS program is managed at the wing-
     level by the ULM. Each installation/wing employing UL/UC2 OPS will appoint a ULM to
     oversee the overall operation of the installation/wing system. Specific ULM responsibilities
     are addressed in section 9 of this instruction.
2. UL/UC2 OPS Concept of Operations. UL/UC2 OPS is a consolidated automated system
which provides access to a responsive, meaningful, and simplified display of C2 information
relevant to enhanced Situational Awareness (SA) and a full COP at the installation/wing-level.
     2.1. Mandate for Regular System Use. To ensure effective C2 capability for the full range of
     military operations, at home station or deployed, all wings/units will use UL/UC2 OPS on a
     regular/daily basis. Specific responsibilities for wing organizations required to use UL/UC2
     OPS are addressed in section 9 of this instruction. Note: Those ACC tenants on non-ACC
     installations and ACC classic associate TFI units will comply with this instruction to the
     maximum extent possible.
        2.1.1. All groups, squadrons, flights, and personnel involved in the wing C2 process
        must maintain extensive familiarity with UL/UC2 OPS, consistently log into the system,
        and keep information in the UL/UC2 OPS applications current to ensure local
        wing/installation leadership has decision quality information available at all times. If
        necessary information is current/up to date for regular peacetime operations, the
        immediate transition to emergency/contingency or combat operations will be seamless.
        Note: Wings must determine specific schedules for updating UL/UC2 OPS information.
        These schedules should be published in supplements to this instruction and/or wing OIs.
        2.1.2. Although UL/UC2 OPS is the ACC C2 system of record, its regular/daily use does
        not preclude the use of additional systems/sources (including such systems as SharePoint,
        WEB EOC, etc.) to augment UL/UC2 OPS capability in order to meet the specific C2
        needs of the various functional communities at the wing-level.
     2.2. UL/UC2 OPS Use in Combat Operations. UL/UC2 OPS stands as the C2 system of
     record used at multiple locations in the Air Force Central Command area of responsibility.
     As UL/UC2 OPS use expands, additional forward locations will require fully capable
     UL/UC2 OPS operators (both users and system administrators) ready to meet daily combat
     requirements.
     2.3. Key System Applications. The UL/UC2 OPS system utilizes several key applications
     including the Resource Management Application (RMA) which enables resource
     management (section 3); the Integrated Information Management System (IIMS), a dynamic
     incident mapping capability (section 4); Patriot Excalibur (PEX) which provides flight
     scheduling capability (section 5); Defense Connect Online (DCO), a wing-wide collaboration
     capability (section 6); and the Alerter, a wing-wide alerting capability (section 7). As part of
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   5


  a wing’s C2 concept, all UL/UC2 OPS applications must be linked to the key wing
  operational and C2 nodes to give senior leadership full SA and an accurate COP.
  2.4. System Flexibility. UL/UC2 OPS also provides a web portal capability which consists
  of several predefined informational portlets available for viewing information relating to
  weather, base incidents, flight schedule, and aircraft maintenance. This read only capability
  allows each user to arrange the available information into a user defined operational picture.
  Additionally, a limited UL/UC2 OPS wireless capability is available via the local installation
  Virtual Private Network (VPN). The VPN wireless capability is for NIPRNET use only.
  2.5. Secure/Non-Secure System Operations. UL/UC2 OPS can be operated on SIPRNET,
  NIPRNET, or a combination of both (each independent of the other) as determined by wing
  leadership. Both NIPRNET and SIPRNET UL/UC2 OPS systems must be maintained,
  patched, and functional at all times. Note: Whether UL/UC2 OPS is operated on SIPRNET
  or NIPRNET during inspections/exercises is dependent on the inspection/exercise scenario
  and the classification level required.
  2.6. System Hardware Distribution. In order to obtain an information flow adequate to
  provide effective C2 capability for wing leadership, UL/UC2 OPS requires a wing-wide
  client/server system. This system will consist of a sufficient number of servers, disk arrays,
  and client terminals to satisfy wing SA, COP, and C2 requirements.
     2.6.1. To ensure thorough C2 of wing operations, distribute clients base-wide to
     operators in all necessary functional areas. Necessary functional areas include Unit
     Control Centers (UCCs), flying and scheduling organizations/activities, Maintenance
     Operations Center (MOC), Emergency Operations Center (EOC), Crisis Action Team
     (CAT), Installation Control Center (ICC), Command Post (CP), Emergency
     Communications Center (ECC), and other key C2 nodes as required. Note: UL/UC2
     OPS has been tested with a maximum of 260 clients per server network with no
     degradation to system performance. Impact to system performance when more than 260
     NIPRNET clients and 260 SIPRNET clients per installation are operated is unknown.
     2.6.2. The UL/UC2 OPS program and ACC/A3OX currently fund a total of nine
     UL/UC2 OPS servers for each installation/wing: three servers (two servers for
     RMA/IIMS and 1 SQL server for PEX) for the NIPRNET system, four servers (three
     servers for RMA/IIMS and 1 SQL server for PEX) for the SIPRNET system, and two
     servers (one mini tower and one SQL server for PEX) for the UL/UC2 OPS stand-alone
     training suite.
     2.6.3. Fifteen client laptops are provided to each installation/wing for use with the
     UL/UC2 OPS stand-alone training suite.
     2.6.4. The numbers and types of hardware support provided by the program and ACC are
     subject to change based on future system capabilities and needs.
     2.6.5. The individual installations/wings are responsible for their own operational client
     terminals for their NIPRNET and SIPRNET systems.
 6                                                           ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


3. Resource Management Application Operations. The UL/UC2 OPS RMA is a web based
application used to monitor and manage wing and unit asset and resource information and flow
that information throughout the wing as appropriate. During regular/daily operations, the
UL/UC2 OPS RMA will be used to track and manage installation/wing resources including but
not limited to personnel (accountability and recalls), equipment, vehicles, expendables, and
airfield status. Each installation/wing is responsible for supplementing this instruction or
developing operating instructions establishing guidelines for tracking and managing wing
resources using UL/UC2 OPS RMA.
     3.1. RMA Tracking Requirements. A variety of RMA pages are available for squadron,
     group, wing, and tenant unit use. The information contained on these pages must be mission
     specific, necessary for maintaining C2 of the installation/wing, and kept accurate and up to
     date. Work centers, groups/squadrons, etc., as appropriate, will keep their RMA information
     up to date and accomplish various daily activities via the UL/UC2 OPS RMA. The daily
     activities that should be accomplished via the UL/UC2 OPS RMA include but are not limited
     to acknowledgement of commanders directives; development and use of quick reaction
     checklists; recording appropriate events in event logs; changes to and/or acknowledging
     change to DEFCON, FPCON, or INFOCON; publishing MOPP changes; accomplishing
     personnel reporting/accountability and recalls; updating and publishing duress words, chem
     codes, and challenge/reply codes; tracking/updating airfield status; tracking/updating facility
     status information; and tracking/updating critical use vehicle, equipment, and expendable
     data.
        3.1.1. The tracking of vehicle, equipment, and expendable data should include critical
        use or mission essential equipment items/expendables, including but not limited to
        vehicles, such as fire trucks, ambulances, etc.; critical aerospace ground equipment
        (AGE) such as aircraft stairways, auxiliary power units, etc.; fuels; and/or weapons.
        What constitutes essential or critical equipment or expendable items will vary with unit
        mission type and the final determination as to which items are critical use or mission
        essential and will be tracked is left to the discretion of the wing commander. Each
        installation/wing is responsible for supplementing this instruction or developing
        operating instructions specifically defining what essential and/or critical use items will be
        tracked using UL/UC2 OPS RMA.
     3.2. RMA Information Update Requirements. Depending on the C2 needs of the specific
     installation/wing, all squadrons/groups on an installation can maintain a page and post
     information in the RMA such as checklists, personnel and materiel accountability
     information, scheduling and tracking information, significant events and statuses, appropriate
     reports, and other necessary functional information.
        3.2.1. Any squadron/group in the C2 chain of command whose mission is essential to
        maintaining C2 of the installation/wing must have a page, or at least have mission
        specific information displayed in the RMA. Squadron/group menus are manually added
        by a system administrator.
        3.2.2. Any page/information displayed in the RMA must be kept current with valid
        information. If a squadron/group has certain displays, programs, and/or information they
        need to access, these should be linked into UL/UC2 OPS through the RMA.
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                        7


   3.3. RMA Improvement Process. Any UL/UC2 OPS user with suggestions for improved
   UL/UC2 OPS RMA operations must submit a UL/UC2 OPS change request to ACC/A3OX
   through the wing ULM.
4. Integrated Information Management System Operations. The UL/UC2 OPS IIMS is a
thick client application featuring a dynamically updating information system and SA tools that
graphically depict the state of the installation via a single integrated operational picture/base map
function. The IIMS base map provides SA and an accurate COP when updated and it must be
used by all wings/units across the full range of military operations on a regular/daily basis. If the
IIMS base map is kept current during normal peacetime non-emergency use, an immediate
transition to emergency/contingency or combat operations will be seamless. The specific
coverage area of the IIMS base map includes the installation itself plus any area surrounding the
installation deemed necessary for inclusion as determined and defined by wing leadership.
   4.1. IIMS Map Creation and Update Requirements and Responsibilities. The IIMS map
   must be originally created and subsequently updated from authoritative geospatial sources in
   accordance with AFI 32-10112 standards and requirements.
       4.1.1. Accuracy/currency of the UL/UC2 OPS IIMS base map is the responsibility of the
       local base Civil Engineering (CE) squadron’s readiness and emergency management
       flight.
           4.1.1.1. The readiness and emergency management flight coordinates with the
           GeoBase office which is ultimately responsible for creating, maintaining, and
           publishing authoritative geospatial data for the installation/wing and ensures the
           accuracy/currency of the map information consumed in IIMS.
           4.1.1.2. The IIMS base map should be updated at least quarterly or as warranted by
           construction, inspection or any other activity impacting the installation configuration
           and/or requiring IIMS map accuracy.
       4.1.2. Incident/event information is applied to/plotted on the IIMS map via Electronic
       Attack Reports (EARs) input by various agencies (EOC, ECC, CP, UCCs, and/or other
       C2 nodes/UL/UC2 OPS users as designated by the wing commander) across the base that
       have the responsibility and appropriate IIMS permissions to plot EARs on the base map.
           4.1.2.1. EAR plotting/update permission for the IIMS base map is determined by the
           local wing/installation leadership and may vary depending on whether the IIMS is
           being used during regular/daily peacetime operations or exercise/contingency/combat
           operations.
           4.1.2.2. Any EAR event or updated information observed by personnel without IIMS
           plotting permission will be reported to a responsible wing commander designated C2
           node for plotting on the base map.
   4.2. IIMS Regular/Daily Non-Emergency Operations. Management of the IIMS base map
   incident/event reporting process during regular/daily non-emergency operations will be the
   responsibility of CP, ECC, Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC), Fire Department,
   appropriate squadrons, and/or other C2 node(s) as designated by the wing commander.
   Removal/clearing of EARs from the base map will also be a function of the commander
   designated responsible agency/agencies.
 8                                                          ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


        4.2.1. Wing commander designated C2 node(s) must ensure that personnel charged with
        management of IIMS base map incident/event reporting are properly trained in UL/UC2
        OPS and IIMS operations.
        4.2.2. EARs plotted on the UL/UC2 OPS IIMS base map during normal daily non-
        emergency operations may include but are not limited to responses to 911 calls,
        suspicious packages, traffic accidents or other situations that may impact the installation,
        cause adjustment to normal traffic patterns, etc. In addition, the initial stages of any
        developing emergency/contingency situation will also be plotted on the base map by a
        responsible wing commander designated C2 node so that accurate initial data is readily
        available as the EOC, ICC and/or CAT is/are activated and the transition from normal
        operations to contingency/emergency operations occurs.
     4.3. IIMS       Exercise/Inspection/Emergency/Contingency       Operations.         During
     exercises/inspections/contingencies/emergencies, the EOC will assume and maintain
     responsibility for management and currency of the UL/UC2 OPS IIMS base map (this
     responsibility may be delegated to or shared with other appropriate C2 nodes as determined
     by the wing commander). Removing/clearing EARs from the base map will also be a
     function of the commander designated responsible agency/agencies.
        4.3.1. During exercise/inspection/emergency/contingency operations the EOC director
        (or other wing commander designated C2 node) is ultimately responsible for ensuring the
        base map accurately reflects the current conditions on the installation and must ensure
        that the appropriate personnel are properly trained in maintaining the base map.
     4.4. IIMS Map Flexibility. IIMS provides the flexibility to add additional data layers to the
     map ranging from map and satellite imagery to data relating to off base facilities, roads,
     infrastructure and environmental data.
     4.5. IIMS Improvement Process. Any UL/UC2 OPS user with suggestions for improved
     UL/UC2 OPS IIMS operations should submit a UL/UC2 OPS change request to ACC/A3OX
     through the wing ULM.
5. Patriot Excalibur Scheduler Operations. Patriot Excalibur (PEX) provides UL/UC2 OPS
scheduling capability through an interface and is available in either the WinPEX format for thick
client use or ePEX for web client use. PEX is used to schedule all wing flying operations
(combat or peacetime), is populated with critical data on wing flying assets from various
authoritative sources, and should only be operated by properly trained personnel. Each wing is
responsible for developing Operating Instructions and/or procedural guidelines to ensure that
daily and long term wing and squadron scheduling for peacetime and/or combat operations are
conducted using the UL/UC2 OPS scheduler (PEX). Wings will establish and maintain PEX as
the management software for standardization/evaluation (stan/eval) programs as per direction in
Air Force Instruction 11-202, Volume 2, Air Combat Command Supplement 1. In addition, the
PEX scheduler is also used to maintain the wing flying hour program. (Both the wing flying
hour program and the wing stan/eval program are directed and managed at the MAJCOM-level
by ACC/A3T.)
     5.1. Combat Operations. During combat operations the wing’s schedule is developed from
     Joint/Combined Forces Air Component Commander (J/CFACC) taskings contained in the
     Air Tasking Order (ATO). UL/UC2 OPS, in conjunction with the PEX scheduler, has the
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                        9


   capability to receive and parse the ATO and build a wing’s combat flight schedule based on
   the ATO data. Once the wing’s sorties have been committed against ATO taskings, UL/UC2
   OPS passes sortie commitment status and ultimately execution status of the tasked sorties to
   J/CFACC and other required HHQ C2 nodes via interface with Theater Battle Management
   Control System-Force Level.
   5.2. PEX Scheduling Responsibilities. Wing/current operations/squadron flight scheduling
   agencies, as appropriate, will use PEX to the maximum extent possible to manage the flying
   schedule(s) for the wing/squadron(s).
       5.2.1. The appropriate flight scheduling agency will build and update the units’ flying
       schedule in PEX.
       5.2.2. The MOC will ensure that aircraft maintenance problems impacting the schedule
       are entered in the appropriate maintenance applications (Enhanced Maintenance
       Operations Center and/or Integrated Maintenance Data System) and that these
       maintenance impacts are appropriately coordinated with the OG. The OG will ensure
       changes are accurately reflected on the PEX flying schedule.
   5.3. PEX Go-No Go Responsibilities. Aircrew as well as wing and/or squadron schedulers,
   Aviation Resource Managers (1COX2), and squadron leadership, as appropriate, will track
   individual aircrew training currencies, Flight Crew Information File review, medical status
   (duty not including flying), testing and stan/eval currency/status, and any other “go-no go”
   item through reference to the appropriate PEX displays. Note: To ensure appropriate and
   accurate aircrew currency data is maintained, PEX must interface daily with the Aviation
   Resource Management System, which is the Air Force system of record/authoritative data
   source for aircrew currency data.
   5.4. PEX Wing-Level Management. The wing ULM manages all aspects of the UL/UC2
   OPS program and is the main Point of Contact (POC) to ACC/A3OX. However, because of
   their expertise with all aspects of scheduling, wing/current operations/squadron scheduling,
   as appropriate, should appoint a POC to act as a wing-level subject matter expert (SME) for
   PEX. The ULM must coordinate closely with the PEX SME to ensure all PEX related issues
   including the training of users and system administrators and the identification of system
   problems or new requirements are properly accomplished.
   5.5. PEX Improvement Process. Any UL/UC2 OPS user with suggestions for improved
   PEX operations should submit a UL/UC2 OPS change request to ACC/A3OX through the
   wing ULM.
6. DCO Operations. DCO Chat, the Department of Defense approved collaboration/chat tool,
provides a wing/installation-wide collaboration capability for UL/UC2 OPS through an interface.
It provides the capability to open multiple chat rooms at one time, share contact lists, share files,
and launch Adobe Connect Meeting. NOTE: DCO Chat will be used to enhance UL/UC2 OPS
C2 capabilities during real world and/or exercise events; it will not be used in place of UL/UC2
OPS.
   6.1. DCO Rules/Standardization. Regular DCO users should create an account on the DCO
   website and wings should establish local business rules for DCO chat to standardize how the
   application will be used during real world and/or exercise events.
 10                                                        ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


7. Alerter Operations. The Alerter is a domain authenticated notification tool that runs in the
background and displays as a top layer or page to notify UL/UC2 OPS users of specific changes
in conditions (exercise or real-world) including Operation, Information Condition (INFOCON),
Force Protection Condition (FPCON), Defense Readiness Condition (DEFCON), new directives,
Mission Oriented Protective Posture (MOPP) level, alarm condition, Air Defense Warning
(ADW), and Air Defense Emergency (ADE). NOTE: Do not display DEFCON on a NIPRNET
based system.
   7.1. Additional Alerter Notifications. Thirteen different events within IIMS that can also be
   selected, at the discretion of the wing commander, to trigger user notifications through the
   Alerter including attack, biological event, bomb threat, chemical event, crater, explosion,
   fire, intruder, M8 event, M9 event, Master Scenario Events List injection, radiation event, or
   Unexploded Ordnance (UXO).
   7.2. Acknowledgement of Alerter Notifications. Once the Alerter screen displays, the user
   must acknowledge the alert prior to working on other pages. Specific sound files are
   associated with each condition change so that it is not necessary to be at the work station to
   hear the change in condition.
8. UL/UC2 OPS Program Responsibilities. UL/UC2 OPS responsibilities fall under one of
two categories, program responsibilities addressed in this section or operational responsibilities
addressed in the next section. Program responsibilities are broadly defined as those
responsibilities that impact the overall development, acquisition, funding, and management of
the UL/UC2 OPS program. Specific UL/UC2 OPS program responsibilities are as follows:
   8.1. Air Force Life Cycle Management Center. AFLCMC is the UL/UC2 OPS SPO and
   executes ACC/A5C guidance for development/sustainment of UL/UC2 OPS software,
   changes to UL/UC2 OPS hardware configuration, and technical refresh of the authorized
   MAJCOM UL/UC2 OPS assets.
   8.2. ACC/A5C.      ACC/A5C has primary responsibility for managing requirements,
   modernization, and sustainment for the overall UL/UC2 OPS enterprise and will:
       8.2.1. Provide program guidance to the UL/UC2 OPS program office at AFLCMC.
       8.2.2. Consolidate and submit POM inputs for the overall UL/UC2 OPS enterprise.
       8.2.3. Chair the UL/UC2 Requirements Working Group.
   8.3. ACC/A3O. ACC/A3OX, C2 Systems Branch is the CAF operational lead for UL/UC2
   OPS and the UL/UC2 OPS program manager for ACC. A3OX will:
       8.3.1. Provide operational priorities to ACC/A5C for UL/UC2 OPS requirements and
       development.
       8.3.2. Provide overall direction and guidance for implementation and employment of the
       ACC UL/UC2 OPS program including the areas of operations, training, support, and
       sustainment.
       8.3.3. Act as program manager for ACC and advocate for operational inputs to the
       program.
       8.3.4. Develop plans for system implementation/employment, training, and future
       development in conjunction with ACC/A5C and the UL/UC2 OPS SPO.
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                        11


       8.3.5. Consolidate, validate, and prioritize all change requests and improvement
       recommendations received from the respective ACC wing users.
           8.3.5.1. Coordinate and validate change requests and improvement recommendations
           with appropriate staff functional area managers (FAMs).
       8.3.6. Provide Consolidated, validated and prioritized change requests and improvement
       recommendations to ACC/A5C, and the UL/UC2 OPS SPO at the CAF RWG.
       8.3.7. Ensure necessary manpower allocations are in place for UL/UC2 OPS system
       administrators at each wing employing the system to ensure adequate support for
       continued efficient and effective system operation.
       8.3.8. Ensure UL/UC2 OPS kits (training and deployment) are adequate to support all
       deployment and training requirements and are provided for the wings employing the
       UL/UC2 OPS C2 system as necessary to ensure continued system operations at all wings.
       8.3.9. Make available, to each wing employing UL/UC2 OPS, an Operational Support
       Consultant (OSC) in order to provide system support and employment recommendations
       and to develop and maintain training plans to ensure each individual user is fully trained.
       8.3.10. Provide oversight of OSCs assigned to ACC and AFGSC units.
       8.3.11. Ensure that the Tier 1 Help Desk capability is adequately manned to support 24
       hours per day/7 days per week service as needed to:
           8.3.11.1. Provide UL/UC2            OPS   support   for   hardware        and/or   software
           maintenance/troubleshooting.
           8.3.11.2. Provide   support    to    ACC    wings   to    assist   with    UL/UC2     OPS
           issues/problems.
           8.3.11.3. Provide initial UL/UC2 OPS system administrator training as necessary.
           8.3.11.4. Provide any additional logistics, operational, and/or mission support for
           UL/UC2 OPS systems maintained on/by ACC installations/units as determined
           necessary.
9. UL/UC2 OPS Operational Responsibilities. UL/UC2 OPS operational responsibilities are
broadly defined as those responsibilities that impact the wings ability to operate the system
efficiently and effectively. Efficient and effective operation is an outgrowth of system
management and support as well as system operation that enables sufficient information flow so
that an appropriate level of SA and an accurate COP are provided for wing-level personnel. To
achieve this, each wing must develop a UL/UC2 OPS support system and each functional area,
squadron, and/or group must become familiar with their applicable UL/UC2 OPS functions,
displays, and schedules and keep the information on their specific pages, displays, and schedules
updated in order to maximize the system’s potential and reduce redundant data entries. To
ensure user familiarity with the system, as a minimum, the wing/installation ICC, CAT, EOC,
ECC, CP, MOC, squadron and group commanders, flight scheduling organizations/activities, and
UCCs must be adequately trained on and use UL/UC2 OPS. Exception: If an ACC
wing/installation does not operate one or more of the above listed agencies (such as ICC, ECC,
etc.), this instruction does not require that one be established and the specific requirements
 12                                                       ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


identified in this instruction for the specific agency/agencies will not apply for that specific
wing/installation. UL/UC2 OPS operational responsibilities are as follows:
   9.1. Installation/Wing Unit Level Manager. Each installation/wing with UL/UC2 OPS must
   have a wing ULM. The ULM is the single focal point for all installation/wing UL/UC2 OPS
   issues. The ULM is appointed by the wing commander and typically resides in the wing
   plans (XP) office. In those instances where two wings reside on the same installation, such
   as Langley AFB hosting both 633 ABW and 1 FW and Nellis AFB hosting both 57 WG and
   99 ABW, a single ULM will be appointed to serve as the ULUC2 OPS focal point for the
   entire installation. It is critical that the ULM be proactive and well versed in the
   installation/wing’s overall mission and C2 challenges. The installation/wing ULM will:
       9.1.1. Manage and/or provide oversight of all aspects of the installation/wing UL/UC2
       OPS system to include the PEX scheduling component, resource management/tracking
       (RMA) and COP/incident management and tracking (IIMS).
       9.1.2. Establish, evaluate, and/or validate installation/wing UL/UC2 OPS equipment
       requirements as necessary to ensure efficient and effective UL/UC2 operations.
       9.1.3. Develop and administer installation/wing plans for UL/UC2 OPS implementation,
       training, employment, and deployment as necessary.
       9.1.4. Lead a working group of wing level system users/FAMs/SMEs to assist with
       UL/UC2 OPS system management. This wing-level working group should include the
       FAMs/SMEs/users,           wing      communications         squadron    personnel/system
       administrators/configuration manager, and any others deemed necessary and should meet
       at least quarterly as determined by the needs of the installation/wing.
       9.1.5. Act as liaison between installation/wing leadership and the ACC/A3OX.
       9.1.6. Work closely with organizational UL/UC2 OPS FAMs/SMEs throughout the
       installation/wing to ensure effective UL/UC2 OPS implementation, availability of
       training for users and Functional System Administrators (FSAs), and employment and
       deployment plans are developed and employed.
       9.1.7. Manage and facilitate the development and consolidation of installation/wing
       requirement inputs and system change requests and advocate for them with ACC/A3OX.
   9.2. Wing Operational Support Consultant. ACC/A3OX makes available an OSC for each
   wing to which the system is currently fielded. The OSC will function as the wing’s primary
   SME on UL/UC2 OPS system functionality and use. More specifically, the OSC will
   provide operator training as well as operational and technical expertise/support to wing
   leadership. The wing OSC will:
       9.2.1. Conduct UL/UC2 operations and provide support during inspections, exercises,
       and tests as necessary. Apply UL/UC2 OPS capabilities to daily operations and training
       events.
       9.2.2. Develop and implement the wing’s UL/UC2 OPS user training program and
       develop plans and materials as needed to conduct UL/UC2 OPS training to meet
       installation/wing user requirements. Address training focus according to needs identified
       by ACC/A3OX. Note: User training specifics are addressed in section 11 of this
       instruction.
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                  13


     9.2.3. Assist installation/wing leadership and personnel with incorporation of UL/UC2
     OPS capabilities into daily operations and provide any briefings or orientations
     necessary.
  9.3. Communications Squadron, UL/UC2 OPS System Administration, and CLS Support.
  The CS provides technical support for UL/UC2 OPS employment. ACC wings have a
  minimum of two ACC/A3OX funded FSA positions on the CS UMD to specifically support
  the UL/UC2 OPS system. In addition to FSA support, the CS will also provide
  Configuration Management support. ACC units that do not have organic CS support or
  available CS UMD positions may be provided with CLS FSAs/CMs for UL/UC2 OPS and/or
  PEX depending on circumstances. For PEX system administration specifically, ACC/A3OX
  will provide support as required but will not duplicate wing provided services. Wings
  requesting support should contact ACC/A3OX. Finally, ACC/A3OX will provide CLS
  support to satisfy UL/UC2 OPS hardware maintenance and logistics requirements. The CS
  and/or UL/UC2 OPS CLS support will:
     9.3.1. Insure latest builds, spirals, increments, and/or patches are installed on all
     appropriate wing UL/UC2 OPS systems.
     9.3.2. Maintain wing UL/UC2 OPS systems to include NIPRNET, SIPRNET,
     deployment, training and stand-alone systems and clients with the latest software
     releases, Time Compliance Network Orders, and anti-virus software.
     9.3.3. Provide local (Tier 0) Help Desk support for the wing’s UL/UC2 OPS system,
     developing local system troubleshooting and maintenance processes and maintaining 24
     hour/7 days a week stand-by/on-call support as necessary.
     9.3.4. Perform UL/UC2 OPS system restorations, troubleshooting, maintenance, and/or
     backups as required.
     9.3.5. Maintain the wing’s UL/UC2 OPS library consisting of COTS and GOTS
     software, software licenses, database backups, documentation, and all other UL/UC2
     OPS computer program software requiring control.
     9.3.6. Control and maintain the configuration documentation on hardware, software, and
     network baselines.
     9.3.7. Distribute, install, and/or track UL/UC2 OPS hardware, software, and
     documentation as required.
     9.3.8. Ensure UL/UC2 OPS and PEX FSAs receive adequate training on all aspects of
     the job. Note: FSA training specifics are addressed in section 11 of this instruction.
     9.3.9. Assist the wing ULM in identifying new hardware or software requirements.
  9.4. Installation Control Center. The ICC is typically activated during periods of increased
  operations tempo. It provides the wing/unit commander with a single, consolidated
  command and control center from which to monitor, assess, plan, execute, and direct
  strategic actions supporting the installation’s mission. These actions include, but are not
  limited to, the ability to respond and process emergencies and Emergency Action Messages
  through CP; force protection and incident response coordination; providing civil support and
  assisting with deployment, employment and redeployment operations as required, in support
  of the operational mission. The ICC is functionally aligned and serves as a C2 focal point for
14                                                       ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


  all installation subordinate commanders. ICC personnel will use UL/UC2 OPS to monitor all
  wing/installation events either real world or exercise and to maintain SA and a COP across
  the wing/installation. EXCEPTION: An ACC tenant wing on a non-ACC installation
  where the owning MAJCOM provides the installation’s ICC capability but does not use
  UL/UC2 OPS is not required to establish a separate ICC. In this situation the ACC tenant is
  exempt from the ICC requirements listed in paragraphs 9.4 through 9.4.5 but will comply
  with the remainder of this instruction. When activated, the ICC will:
     9.4.1. Use UL/UC2 OPS to run and/or monitor appropriate checklists, log appropriate
     events, issue directives, announce/make DEFCON, FPCON, and INFOCON level
     changes, make MOPP level changes, make changes to exercise/inspection scenarios,
     monitor recalls, track personnel accountability, update appropriate information, and/or
     review scheduled flying activity as required by the situation.
     9.4.2. Use UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) to enhance communication, collaboration, and
     information flow across the installation/wing as necessary.
     9.4.3. Monitor and acknowledge installation/wing alert status/condition changes as they
     are displayed via the UL/UC2 OPS Alerter.
     9.4.4. Under certain conditions, when determined by the installation/wing commander,
     approve EAR inputs to IIMS, although this function will be, under most situations when
     the ICC is activated, the primary responsibility of the EOC/EOC director.
     9.4.5. Keep UL/UC2 OPS updated with other current significant base-wide event
     information that involves base attention or resources.
  9.5. Crisis Action Team. The CAT is typically activated during periods of increased
  operations tempo. It is an organization capable of devoting full-time attention to how the
  crisis affects mission execution and is composed of pre-designated personnel, with possible
  representation from outside agencies as needed. The CAT is scalable and tailorable at the
  discretion of the commander based on the situation. It is intended to focus on the mission
  execution and not the management of a specific incident. CAT personnel will use UL/UC2
  OPS to monitor all wing/installation events either real world or exercise and to maintain SA
  and a full COP across the wing/installation. Exception: An ACC tenant wing on a non-
  ACC installation where the owning MAJCOM provides the installation’s EOC capability but
  does not use UL/UC2 OPS is not required to establish a separate EOC. In this specific
  situation the ACC tenant is exempt from the CAT requirements listed in paragraphs 9.5
  through 9.5.5 but will comply with the remainder of this instruction. When activated, the
  CAT will:
     9.5.1. Use UL/UC2 OPS to run and/or monitor appropriate checklists and recalls;
     monitor wing sortie generation schedules, scheduled flight activity/mission status,
     weather, and runway conditions; prepare and up-channel appropriate operational reports;
     issue appropriate alerts; track personnel accountability; log appropriate events; draft and
     view appropriate directives; and update appropriate information, as required by the
     situation.
     9.5.2. Use UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) to enhance communication, collaboration, and
     information flow across the installation/wing as necessary.
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                15


     9.5.3. Monitor and acknowledge installation/wing alert status/condition changes as they
     are displayed via the UL/UC2 OPS Alerter.
     9.5.4. Under certain conditions, as determined by the installation/wing commander,
     approve EAR inputs to IIMS, although this function will be, under most situations when
     the CAT is activated, the primary responsibility of the EOC/EOC director.
     9.5.5. Keep UL/UC2 OPS updated with other current significant base-wide event
     information that involves base attention or resources.
  9.6. Emergency Operations Center. The EOC is activated during periods of increased
  operations tempo such as emergencies, incident responses, civil support, and varying levels
  of military operations. The EOC is organized into Emergency Support Functions (ESFs) as
  defined in Air Force Instruction 10-2501, and is the central EM C2 element directing,
  monitoring, and supporting an installation’s actions during expanded emergency or
  contingency response operations that require additional support beyond regular/daily
  functions such as major accidents, natural disasters, enemy attack and terrorist use of
  CBRNE materials. The EOC is designated as the focal point for coordination with civilian
  EOCs, ESFs, and first/emergency responders during any Homeland Security incident, natural
  disaster, or other crisis situations. EOC personnel will use UL/UC2 OPS to monitor wing
  response operations and maintain SA across the wing/installation. Exception: An ACC
  tenant wing on a non-ACC installation where the owning MAJCOM provides the
  installation’s EOC capability but does not use UL/UC2 OPS is not required to establish a
  separate EOC. In this specific situation the ACC tenant is exempt from the EOC
  requirements listed in paragraphs 9.6 through 9.6.6 only, and will comply with the remainder
  of this instruction. When activated, the EOC will:
     9.6.1. Use UL/UC2 OPS to monitor all aspects of wing response operations.
     9.6.2. Use UL/UC2 OPS to run and/or monitor appropriate checklists; maintain
     appropriate event logs; prepare and up-channel required reports; execute and monitor
     base recalls; track personnel accountability; issue alerts; draft and view appropriate
     directives; and update and/or disseminate necessary information installation-wide and to
     HHQs, as necessary. This will enable wing leadership to accurately assess and deal with
     incidents and/or events and maintain wing-wide/installation-wide SA.
     9.6.3. Use UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) to enhance communication, collaboration, and
     information flow across the installation/wing as necessary.
     9.6.4. Exercise overall responsibility for the IIMS base map inputs during major
     emergencies or accidents, natural disasters, exercises/inspections and contingency
     operations.
     9.6.5. Clear all emergency updates/EAR inputs to the IIMS base map; however, when
     IIMS inputs are made during times when the EOC is not activated, the process of clearing
     EAR inputs to the map will be assigned to/accomplished by other installation C2 nodes.
     (The appropriate C2 node may prove to be the ECC but could also include the CP,
     BDOC, etc., as determined appropriate by the unit/installation commander.)
     9.6.6. Monitor and acknowledge installation/wing alert status/condition changes as they
     are displayed via the UL/UC2 OPS Alerter.
16                                                        ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


  9.7. Emergency Communications Center. The ECC serves as the installation’s emergency
  call/dispatch center and includes a first responder (fire, police, and medical) central dispatch
  capability which is either physically or virtually co-located. Along with the CP, the ECC
  forms part of an installation’s key full-time 24/7 C2 functional nodes. ECC personnel will
  use UL/UC2 OPS as necessary to monitor wing response operations and maintain SA across
  the wing/installation. Exception: An ACC tenant wing on a non-ACC installation where the
  owning MAJCOM provides the installation’s ECC capability but does not use UL/UC2 OPS
  is not required to establish a separate ECC. In this specific situation the ACC tenant is
  exempt from the ECC requirements listed in paragraphs 9.7 through 9.7.6 only, and will
  comply with the remainder of this instruction. The ECC will:
     9.7.1. Monitor UL/UC2 OPS and provide updated information for UL/UC2 OPS entry
     during base emergency situations as necessary.
     9.7.2. Per wing commander discretion, manage/co-manage the UL/UC2 OPS IIMS base
     map during daily operations. (This responsibility will transfer to the EOC, ICC or CAT
     as the situation warrants.)
     9.7.3. Use UL/UC2 OPS to run and/or monitor appropriate checklists, maintain
     appropriate event logs, view appropriate directives, monitor recalls, track personnel
     accountability and update appropriate information as required by the situation.
     Information that may not be appropriate for posting in UL/UC2 includes law enforcement
     sensitive or Operations Security information.
     9.7.4. Monitor and acknowledge installation/wing alert status/condition changes as they
     are displayed via the Alerter.
     9.7.5. Use UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) to enhance communication, collaboration, and
     information flow across the installation/wing as necessary.
     9.7.6. Exercise initial responsibility for IIMS base map inputs at the onset of an
     emergency and act as a focal point for IIMS base map management during daily
     operations. Note: This responsibility may be assumed by or shared with other
     installation C2 nodes per wing commander discretion. This responsibility will transfer to
     EOC, ICC and/or CAT as the situation warrants.
  9.8. Command Post. The CP serves as an installation’s 24/7/365 C2 node directly
  responsible to the installation commander for installation C2. CP personnel will use UL/UC2
  OPS as necessary to monitor wing operations and maintain SA across the wing/installation.
  Exception: An ACC tenant wing on a non-ACC installation where the owning MAJCOM
  provides the installation’s CP capability but does not use UL/UC2 OPS is not required to
  establish a separate CP. In this specific situation the ACC tenant is exempt from the CP
  requirements listed in paragraphs 9.8 through 9.8.8 only, and will comply with the remainder
  of this instruction. CP will:
     9.8.1. Manage the UL/UC2 OPS Alert Board and ensure items displayed on the Alert
     Board such as DEFCON, FPCON, INFOCON, published directives, and MOPP status are
     current (this responsibility will transfer to EOC, ICC and/or CAT as the situation
     warrants).
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    17


     9.8.2. Per wing commander discretion, manage/co-manage the UL/UC2 OPS IIMS base
     map during daily operations. (This responsibility will transfer to EOC, ICC and/or CAT
     as the situation warrants).
     9.8.3. Monitor and acknowledge installation/wing alert status/condition changes as they
     are displayed via the UL/UC2 OPS Alerter.
     9.8.4. Use UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) to enhance communication, collaboration, and
     information flow across the installation/wing as necessary.
     9.8.5. Use UL/UC2 Ops to orchestrate/control wing/installation-wide completion of
     SITREPs using the collaborative SITREP tool. CP will have primary administrative
     responsibility for ensuring the SITREP is completed by all applicable base organizations.
     9.8.6. Use UL/UC2 OPS to monitor wing sortie generation schedules, status of
     scheduled flying activity, weather, and runway conditions as necessary.
     9.8.7. Use UL/UC2 OPS to run and/or monitor appropriate checklists, view directives,
     initiate and monitor base recalls, update appropriate information, and track personnel
     accountability/status as required by the situation and to support ICC, CAT, and/or wing
     commander requirements.
     9.8.8. Use UL/UC2 OPS to assist with and/or maintain base Event Log. The system can
     be used to track all events of a significant nature that normally require wing senior
     leadership attention or resources, for example major facility evacuations, aircraft/vehicle
     mishaps, damage to the airfield, suspicious packages, various directives, etc.
  9.9. Maintenance Operations Center. The MOC is responsible for coordinating and
  monitoring the status of maintenance operations, as well as sortie and mission generation.
  The MOC is the central point of contact regarding maintenance for all base agencies. The
  MOC produces daily reports summarizing the previous day’s execution of the flight
  schedule, current aircraft mission capability and availability, location of aircraft assigned to
  the installation, and status of any ground emergency. The MOC will:
     9.9.1. Ensure current aircraft mission capability and availability, armaments and
     munitions status, and location of assigned aircraft are current in Enhanced Maintenance
     Operations Center (EMOC) to enable the timely flow of accurate data from EMOC to
     UL/UC2 OPS via external interface.
     9.9.2. Use UL/UC2 OPS to monitor/track wing sortie generation schedules, sortie
     mission status, weather, and status of ground emergencies as necessary.
     9.9.3. Use UL/UC2 OPS to monitor and acknowledge installation/wing alert
     status/condition changes as they are displayed via the Alerter.
     9.9.4. Use UL/UC2 OPS to run and/or monitor appropriate checklists, log appropriate
     events, view directives, monitor recalls, track personnel accountability, update
     appropriate information, and/or review scheduled flying activity as required by the
     situation.
     9.9.5. Use UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) to enhance communication, collaboration, and
     information flow across the installation/wing as necessary.
18                                                       ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


  9.10. Base Defense Operations Center. The BDOC is the installation’s center for integrated
  defense operations. It serves as the focal point for force protection, security and defense
  within the base security zone. BDOCs are generally operated as 24/7/365 C2 functions.
  Exception: An ACC tenant wing on a non-ACC installation where the owning MAJCOM
  provides the installation’s BDOC/SF capability but does not use UL/UC2 OPS is not
  required to establish a separate BDOC/SF capability. In this specific situation the ACC
  tenant is exempt from the BDOC requirements listed in paragraphs 7.10 through 7.10.4 only,
  and will comply with the remainder of this instruction. BDOC/SF personnel will:
     9.10.1. Use UL/UC2 OPS to maintain SA, monitor base force protection posture, and
     update/post alarm/threat conditions as necessary.
     9.10.2. Per wing commander discretion, manage/co-manage the UL/UC2 OPS IIMS base
     map during daily operations. (This responsibility will transfer to EOC, ICC, and/or CAT
     as the situation warrants).
     9.10.3. Monitor and acknowledge installation/wing alert status/condition changes as they
     are displayed via the UL/UC2 OPS Alerter.
     9.10.4. Use UL/UC2 OPS to run and/or monitor appropriate checklists, log appropriate
     events, view directives, monitor recalls, track personnel accountability, update
     appropriate information, and track/monitor status of ground emergencies as necessary.
     9.10.5. Use UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) to enhance communication, collaboration, and
     information flow across the installation/wing as necessary.
  9.11. Group/Squadron Commanders. Group and squadron commanders are responsible for
  keeping personnel and materiel accountability information up to date, scheduling and
  tracking aircraft and aircrew status, tracking significant events and statuses, developing and
  publishing appropriate reports, and updating other functional area information in UL/UC2
  OPS. Group/squadron commanders will:
     9.11.1. Appoint group UL/UC2 OPS POCs to oversee and monitor group/squadron
     UL/UC2 operations. Each POC will be trained on general and group specific UL/UC2
     OPS tasks by the wing ULM or UL/UC2 OPS OSC as required.
     9.11.2. Ensure groups/squadrons perform adequate UL/UC2 OPS RMA updates to allow
     accomplishment of base-wide personnel accountability to facilitate short-notice recalls
     during natural disasters or national emergencies.
     9.11.3. Oversee UCC UL/UC2 operations to ensure efficient data collection and timely
     information input/reporting through UL/UC2 OPS to the ICC and/or CAT.
     9.11.4. Monitor UL/UC2 OPS effectiveness. Ensure group/squadron POC provides
     feedback to the ULM on system performance and capability to meet individual group
     and/or squadron needs.
     9.11.5. Ensure UL/UC2 OPS data is updated to allow for adequate management and
     tracking of critical use equipment items.
     9.11.6. Ensure UL/UC2 OPS is used to maintain a group/squadron Event Log during
     normal non-emergency peacetime operations as well as contingency, and
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                               19


     exercise/inspection operations. During normal non-emergency peacetime operations,
     wing leadership will determine what information will be entered in the Event Log.
     9.11.7. Ensure UL/UC2 OPS is used to run and/or monitor appropriate checklists, view
     directives, monitor recalls, track personnel accountability, and track/monitor status of
     ground emergencies as necessary.
     9.11.8. Ensure UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) is used to enhance communication, collaboration,
     and information flow across the installation/wing.
     9.11.9. Group specific UL/UC2 OPS responsibilities, as a minimum, will include the
     following:
        9.11.9.1. MSG will ensure the UL/UC2 OPS/IIMS base map facility and layout
        information is current at all times. Specifically, the local CE squadron will be
        responsible for creation and updating of the IIMS base map and ensuring its accuracy
        and currency in accordance with the authoritative geospatial information as outlined
        in paragraphs 4.1 through 4.2 of this instruction.
        9.11.9.2. OG is responsible for UL/UC2 OPS/PEX flight scheduling (ATO directed
        during Combat or locally directed during peacetime) and flight operations-related
        schedule deviations, as well as coordinating with MXG to identify and report aircraft
        maintenance-related information affecting daily operations.
        9.11.9.3. MXG is responsible for updating/inputting maintenance-related scheduling
        information during daily operations. These maintenance-related inputs will be made
        by the MOC in EMOC and/or Core Automated Maintenance System/Integrated
        Maintenance Data System, as applicable, and will subsequently update UL/UC2
        OPS/PEX via interface; however, the MOC must coordinate maintenance-related
        scheduling inputs with the OG. The OG will ensure maintenance inputs are
        accurately reflected in the UL/UC2 OPS/PEX flight schedule.
        9.11.9.4. MDG is responsible for ensuring any patient information entered in
        UL/UC2 OPS RMA during daily operations is kept current.
  9.12. Unit Control Centers. The UCC is typically activated during periods of increased
  operations tempo. At the wing-level, UCCs consist of group/squadron level arrangements
  depending on span of control and mission roles. When activated, UCCs will:
     9.12.1. Ensure groups/units perform adequate UL/UC2 OPS RMA updates to allow
     accomplishment of base-wide personnel accountability to facilitate short-notice recalls
     during natural disasters or national emergencies.
     9.12.2. Use UL/UC2 OPS to verify and update personnel accountability during exercises,
     inspections, contingencies, and general recalls.
     9.12.3. Monitor and acknowledge installation/wing alert status/condition changes as they
     are displayed via the UL/UC2 OPS Alerter.
     9.12.4. Monitor UL/UC2 OPS data and ensure subordinate elements make timely
     updates on personnel, facilities, and surrounding areas when appropriate.
     9.12.5. Direct/conduct any Post-Attack Reconnaissance sweeps of the unit facilities and
     areas as directed by the EOC/responsible C2 node and provide updated
 20                                                       ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


       information/plotting of events in the UL/UC2 OPS IIMS and create EARs when
       necessary.
       9.12.6. Use UL/UC2 OPS (DCO) to enhance communication, collaboration, and
       information flow across the installation/wing as necessary.
       9.12.7. Use UL/UC2 OPS to maintain and keep Events Logs current. Significant events
       data to be entered/updated in event logs during exercises/inspections or contingencies
       will include building sweep completion, Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) discovery, recall
       completion, etc.
       9.12.8. Plot relevant events such as UXO discovery, personnel locations, building
       damage, and suspicious packages, on the UL/UC2 OPS IIMS base map.
       9.12.9. Update unit-specific mission information, such as patient and casualty status for
       MDG, etc.
10. System Deployment. UL/UC2 OPS deployment kits are designed to provide the same
capability as the in-garrison SIPRNET UL/UC2 OPS system, only in a mobile format. The
deployment kits have modular designed transit cases that allow for easy palletization and quick
setup and teardown. ACC and the UL/UC2 OPS SPO currently maintain eight deployment kits.
The kits are made available for Air Expeditionary Force support and other deployed support as
required.
   10.1. Deployment Kit Components and Considerations. Each deployment kit provides a
   three server, primary/backup configured system and 15 laptops including client licenses.
   Because the client software can be installed on any client that has the Air Force standard
   desktop client configuration, additional clients beyond the 15 provided in each deployment
   kit can be employed using locally available hardware, provided any necessary additional
   licenses are acquired.
       10.1.1. Currently, no support is included for the PEX scheduler in the deployment kits
       and, as a result, AEW/AEG leadership must prioritize use of available
       infrastructure/hardware and SQL server(s) to ensure PEX scheduling capability is
       established at the deployed location.
   10.2. Unit Type Codes. UL/UC2 OPS has a formally defined deployment capability which
   is supported by two Unit Type Codes (UTCs), one for equipment and one for system
   administrator personnel to activate and maintain the equipment. 6KNYU, Manpower Force
   Requirement, was developed to deploy a system administrator in support of a wing’s
   expeditionary UL/UC2 OPS mission. 6KVU1 is the UL/UC2 OPS equipment UTC which
   deploys the hardware in the deployment kit.
   10.3. Deploying the Equipment. Basing of deployed UL/UC2 OPS equipment is at the
   request of the supported AEW or AEG commander and must be planned well in advance.
   The UTCs for both the equipment and the support personnel must be approved/validated and
   assigned in order to utilize the UL/UC2 OPS equipment/personnel at deployed locations.
11. UL/UC2 OPS Training. A variety of training methods are employed to provide a variety of
different levels of UL/UC2 OPS user and system administrator training. The levels of training
include Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training (MQT),
Continuation Training (CT), and difference training.
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                  21


  11.1. Initial Qualification Training. IQT is designed to provide an overview of and
  familiarity with system capabilities and general functions and consists of on-site classroom
  training, On-the-Job Training, or some combination of the two.
  11.2. Mission Qualification Training. MQT is designed to qualify users and system
  administrators for a specific duty position/mission and also consists of on-site classroom
  training, On-the-Job Training, or some combination of the two.
  11.3. Continuation Training. CT is designed to maintain and improve user and system
  administrator skill levels and generally consists of on-site classroom training.
  11.4. Difference Training. Difference training is designed to update user and system
  administrator skill levels if significant changes are introduced during planned system
  upgrades and generally consists of the developer conducted training for both system
  administrators and wing trainers at a central location using the Train-the-Trainer (TTT)
  approach under which system administrators and installation/wing trainers each attend a TTT
  course and take the information back to their respective installations/wings.
  11.5. Training Accomplishment. Training will be accomplished during normal in-garrison
  peacetime operations and not while deployed. It is essential to have fully capable UL/UC2
  OPS operators ready to meet contingency/combat requirements without having to use
  valuable time to accomplish additional or spin-up training either during or just prior to
  deployment.
  11.6. Operational Support Consultants. The OSC is one of the key user training assets
  available to each wing/installation to which UOL/UC2 OPS is currently fielded. Training is
  one of the primary OSC duties and the OSC will serve as the backbone of the wing’s
  UL/UC2 OPS user training program. OSCs provide both classroom and on-the-job-training
  support to wing UL/UC2 OPS users.
  11.7. UL/UC2 OPS Training Suites. The UL/UC2 OPS SPO has provided each
  installation/wing with a standard UL/UC2 OPS training suite, which consists of a stand-alone
  server and fifteen clients. A PEX server is also required as an integral part of this training
  suite and ACC/A3OX has provided the fielded wings with the required server. The UL/UC2
  OPS training suite with PEX server capability allows accomplishment of end-to-end UL/UC2
  OPS training without interference with the “real world” SIPRNET and NIPRNET systems
  and their daily operations.
  11.8. User Training. User training will, as a minimum, cover the general areas of system
  security and system operations to include RMA operations, IIMS operations, and PEX
  operations. Training will be commensurate with the user’s role within the UL/UC2 OPS
  system.
     11.8.1. Each installation/wing will determine and establish its own training requirements
     for UL/UC2 OPS users. The wing should establish a level of training/training
     requirements for each class or type of user depending on the user’s assigned role or
     specialty area in the wing’s C2 process. It is recommended that all ICC, CAT, and EOC
     users be trained to the MQT level as these users will assume significant responsibilities
     for the management of certain UL/UC2 OPS applications such as the IIMS map.
     Additionally, any user that could assume management responsibilities for UL/UC2 OPS
     applications including but not limited to ECC, CP, and BDOC, or users that will be major
 22                                                        ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


       daily users of the system or any of its applications, such as PEX users responsible for
       flight scheduling, should also receive MQT level training. All other users (UCC,
       squadron, CE, etc.) should receive IQT level training as a minimum. Specifics of wing
       UL/UC2 OPS training should be addressed either in wing OIs or supplements to this
       instruction.
       11.8.2. All training must be kept current with information on the most recent UL/UC2
       OPS software release and all trainers must work closely with ACC/A3OX to ensure the
       most current training is provided.
       11.8.3. The majority of PEX specific training for non-specialized wing users (those not
       requiring specific stan/eval or training flight knowledge) is available through the wing
       OSC. Specialized user training is conducted at the PEX program offices in Valparaiso,
       FL near Eglin AFB FL. Consult the PEX website for specific training information.
       11.8.4. For the 1C3 career field, Air Education and Training Command provides
       UL/UC2 OPS familiarization as a part of their formal 1C3 training course.
   11.9. System Administrator Training. UL/UC2 OPS System Administrator training will be
   provided by ACC/A3OX on an as requested basis. This training will be conducted by Tier 1
   Help Desk personnel. ACC/A3OX will fund up to two TDYs per wing per FY to accomplish
   UL/UC2 OPS system administrator training. Although training will typically be conducted
   at Langley AFB VA, it may also be provided on location at a specific wing/installation
   depending on the situation/justification. All requests for training, either at Langley AFB VA
   or on location, should be submitted to ACC/A3OX.
       11.9.1. PEX specific system administrator training is conducted at the PEX program
       offices near Eglin AFB FL. Consult the PEX website for specific system administrator
       training information.
   11.10. Additional Training Support. If additional or special UL/UC2 OPS training support
   of any kind is required, requests will be coordinated through ACC/A3OX.
12. UL/UC2 OPS Help Desk. Users and system administrators are provided Help Desk
assistance and trouble-shooting support for UL/UC2 OPS in three tiers: Tier 0, provided by and
located at the wing; Tier I provided by and located at HQ ACC; and Tier II, provided by the
developer. Although the PEX program maintains a separate help desk, all units must use the
UL/UC2 OPS Help Desk process for all PEX or UL/UC2 problems. If at any tier, a problem is
identified as not applicable to scheduling or UL/UC2, then the unit will be cleared to work
directly with the PEX Help Desk.
   12.1. Tier 0. Operators at the wing will initially contact the local Tier 0 help desk. If unable
   to resolve the problem locally, the local help desk will contact Tier I at ACC.
   12.2. Tier I. The Tier I Help Desk is maintained under the management and direction of
   ACC/A3OX and will assist wings with any UL/UC2 OPS issues that they are not able to
   resolve locally. Tier I will pass any problems which they cannot resolve on to Tier II.
   12.3. Tier II. Tier II support is provided by the developer through CLS. This support is
   currently provided by Lockheed Martin Mission Systems, Hampton, VA. The Tier II Help
   Desk will either resolve the problem or forward the issue directly to the organization with the
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 23


   expertise to resolve it, such as the PEX Help Desk (in the case of scheduler issues) or Rome
   Labs (in the case of IIMS issues).
   12.4. System Deficiencies. Any problem that cannot be resolved by the Tier II help desk
   will be identified as a system deficiency and corrected at the next appropriate opportunity.
13. UL/UC2 OPS System Improvement/Change Requests. All ACC users of UL/UC2 OPS
have the responsibility to identify system shortfalls and to make recommendations for improved
capability. These system inputs/recommendations from the wing should be routed through the
ULM to the HQ ACC/A3OX. Change requests received by ACC/A3OX will be reviewed and
coordinated with appropriate ACC FAMs as necessary for completeness and validity.
   13.1. Operational Configuration Change Requests (OCCRs) and Baseline Change Requests
   (BCRs). There are two types of change requests, OCCRs and BCRs. The BCR is used to
   identify new system requirements or system level shortfalls that impact all users and
   locations.    The OCCR is situational in nature and is typically used to address
   installation/wing specific concerns/requirements changes.
       13.1.1. Validated OCCRs are forwarded by ACC/A3OX to ACC/A5C for final
       resolution.
       13.1.2. Validated BCRs are assigned a priority rating by ACC/A3OX and then are
       entered into the UL/UC2 OPS Requirements Database as a new entry or merged with
       similar existing entries. Database entered requirements are then reviewed by each user
       MAJCOM, validated, and prioritized for final review by the CAF RWG which meets
       annually to review requirements.
   13.2. The CAF UL/UC2 Requirements Working Group. The RWG validates and prioritizes
   UL/UC2 OPS requirements from the wings and MAJCOMs. The RWG is chaired by
   ACC/A5CA and includes A3OX, FAMs from ACC and the other CAF MAJCOMs, and
   representatives from the SPO. The RWG functions to ensure the development of the
   UL/UC2 OPS system proceeds in a prioritized fashion.




                                           JAMES N. POST III, Major General, USAF
                                           Director of Operations
    24                                                   ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
JP 3-30, Command and Control (C2) for Joint Air Operations, 12 January 2010
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012
AFPD 13-1, C2 Enterprise, 6 August 2012
AFDD 6-0, Command and Control (C2), 1 June 2007
AFPD 10-8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support, 15 February 2012
AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 September 2007 (Certified Current, 23 June 2010)
Combat Air Forces (CAF) Unit Level/ Unit Command and Control Operations (UL/UC2 OPS)
Enabling Concept, 8 June 2012
Air Combat Command (ACC) UL/UC2 OPS Enabling Concept, 19 November 2012
AFI33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 32-10112, Installation Geospatial Information and Services (Installation GI&S), 19 October
2007
.
AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 30 June 2011
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 January
2007.
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AEG—Air Expeditionary Group
AEW—Air Expeditionary Wing
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013                              25


AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BCR—Baseline Change Request
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
C2—Command and Control
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CE—Civil Engineering
CLS—Contract Logistic Services
COP—Common Operating Picture
COTS—Commercial Off-The-Shelf
CP—Command Post
CS—Communications Squadron
CT—Continuation Training
DAA—Designated Accrediting Authority
DCO—Defense Connect On Line
DEFCON—Defense Readiness Condition
EAR—Electronic Attack Report
ECC—Emergency Communications Center
EM—Emergency Management
EMOC—Enhanced Maintenance Operations Center
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
ESF—Emergency Support Function
FAMs—Functional Area Managers
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FSA—Functional System Administrator
GOTS—Government Off-The-Shelf
HQ—Headquarters
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
ICC—Installation Control Center
 26                                               ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013


IIMS—Integrated Information Management System
INFOCON—Information Condition
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
J/CFACC—Joint/Combined Forces Air Component Commander
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDG—Medical Group
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MOPP—Mission Oriented Protective Posture
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSG—Mission Support Group
MXG—Maintenance Group
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCCR—Operational Configuration Change Request
OG—Operations Group
OI—Operating Instruction
OSC—Operational Support Consultant
PEX—Patriot Excalibur
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RMA—Resource Management Application
RWG—Requirements Working Group
SA—Situational Awareness
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SF—Security Forces
SPO—System Program Office
Stan/Eval—Standardization/Evaluation
SM—Subject Matter Expert
TFI—Total Force Integration
TTT—Train the Trainer
ULM—Unit Level Manager
UL/UC2 OPS—Unit Level/Unit Command and Control Operations
ACCI10-260 12 NOVEMBER 2013   27


UMD—Unit Manning document
UCC—Unit Control Center
UTC—Unit Type Code
UXO—Unexploded Ordnance
