BY ORDER OF THE                                                       ACC INSTRUCTION 21-151
COMMANDER AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                          11 MAY 2001

                                                                                      Maintenance

                                                                     ANTENNA MAINTENANCE




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY




OPR: HQ ACC/SCNS                                                       Certified by: HQ ACC/SCN
       (MSgt. LaManual McKinney)                                    (Colonel Gregory L. Brundidge)
Supersedes ACCI 21-151, 5 Dec 1997                                                          Pages: 4
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction establishes guidance for the use of Air Combat Command (ACC) Centralized Antenna
Team (CAT). It implements the direction and guidance found in AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace
Equipment Maintenance, and AFI 21-116, Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics. It
applies to all ACC units and ACC-gained Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units that have antenna
maintenance responsibilities. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). Send
comments and suggested improvements to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through channels, to HQ ACC/SCNS, 180 Benedict Ave, Suite 121, Langley
AFB VA 23665-2777. NOTE: ACC field supplements to this publication require HQ ACC/SCNS
review, coordination, and approval prior to publication.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Removes all references to 24 CS, Howard AFB PN. Changes HQ ACC/SCNC to HQ ACC/SCNS. Para
1.1 changes “two CATs to CAT.”



1. Compositions and Mission:
   1.1. The CAT in ACC is assigned to the 1 CS, Langley AFB VA. This team is under the operational
   control of HQ ACC/SC.
   1.2. The CAT mission is to provide organizational and intermediate (O&I) level and emergency
   maintenance of fixed antenna systems to the CONUS ACC bases.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. HQ ACC/SCNS will:
       2.1.1. Provide policy to the CAT.
2                                                                            ACCI 21-151 11 MAY 2001

       2.1.2. Provide staff surveillance and guidance for antenna maintenance program.
       2.1.3. Receive and validate requests for emergency assistance from units.
       2.1.4. Review and approve Preventive Maintenance Inspection (PMI) schedules.
    2.2. The 1 CS CAT will:
       2.2.1. Perform emergency and corrective maintenance upon request from ACC units.
       2.2.2. Provide scheduled maintenance support to ACC units. Inspection, maintenance, and repair
       actions at these units will include all antennas, counterpoises, transmission lines, and support
       structures for systems/facilities maintained by ACC units, except antennas used in conjunction
       with Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN), Instrument Landing System (ILS), VHF Omni Range
       (VOR), Satellite Communications (SATCOM), Independent Single Sideband Terminal (ISST),
       dual mode antennas, and microwave mobile tactical equipment. Base Civil Engineering is respon-
       sible for any support structures listed on the inventory as real property.
       2.2.3. Confirm the maintenance visit by message addressed to the unit SCX/SCM 12 days prior to
       team arrival. Confirmation message will include name, rank, security clearance, date of arrival,
       duration of visit, and known unit support requirements.
       2.2.4. Provide affected units with antenna inspection schedules IAW TOs 31R1-26GR-251,
       31R1-2UR-31, and appropriate technical manuals to ensure proper PMI intervals and allow unit
       coordination.
       2.2.5. Update and provide a 12-month antenna inspection schedule (Jan-Dec) to HQ ACC/SCNS.
       2.2.6. Submit CAT manning change requirements through HQ ACC/SCNS for validation and HQ
       ACC/SCXA for approval.
    2.3. Units receiving support from CATs will:
       2.3.1. Budget and fund for all PMIs and technical assistance visits, i.e., all TDY per diem, travel,
       and materials.
       2.3.2. Receive incoming briefings and provide necessary support to the team.
       2.3.3. Provide material control assistance on all parts the team requires to include, cranes, tren-
       chers, rental vehicles, etc. When applicable, use highest priority available including, Non-Mission
       Capable Supply (NMCS).
       2.3.4. Be point of contact and representative to the host base for the CAT.
       2.3.5. Provide team’s logistics and administrative support. Provide team chief with copies of
       inspection/visit reports (i.e., Quality Control (QC), Inspector General, staff visits, etc.) pertaining
       to antenna systems.
       2.3.6. Provide a liaison with Base Civil Engineers to include obtaining the necessary construction
       and digging permits, and other required support.
       2.3.7. Be responsible for normal maintenance of Communications Systems Installation Records
       (CSIRs). Accomplish normal Operations and Maintenance changes to CSIRs and make distribu-
       tion IAW existing directives. CAT will annotate changes to CSIRs dictated by CAT actions and
       provide to responsible unit QC section.
ACCI 21-151 11 MAY 2001                                                                                    3

      2.3.8. Take corrective action to clear deficiencies, procure parts/material, etc., as identified in the
      report.
      2.3.9. Obtain all material required for such projects as rehabilitation and one-for-one replace-
      ment. The CAT will provide a list of materials to include national stock number (NSN), or part
      number if no NSN is available, noun, quantity, etc.
   2.4. Units not receiving CAT support will:
      2.4.1. Have PMIs performed at proper intervals by a qualified agency.
      2.4.2. Be responsible for normal maintenance of Communications Systems Installation Records
      (CSIRs). Accomplish normal Operations and Maintenance changes to CSIRs and make distribu-
      tion IAW existing directives.
      2.4.3. Forward any antenna problems not resolved locally to HQ ACC/SCNS for resolution,
      along with recommended corrective action.
   2.5. The Team Chief will:
      2.5.1. Ensure required material and equipment is on hand at the unit being visited prior to travel.
      2.5.2. Upon arrival at TDY locations, personally brief the Communications Commander regard-
      ing the work required, support requirements, equipment downtime requirements, etc.
      2.5.3. During all visits, perform a complete inspection, repair as necessary, and document PMIs
      accomplished IAW applicable directives. Forward any antenna problems not resolved locally to
      HQ ACC/SCNS for resolution, along with recommended corrective action.
      2.5.4. When parts and material for complete repair are not available on the base, restore the
      antenna to operational status if possible. Provide systems flight with a complete list of items
      required to accomplish repair. The supported unit will requisition required items. If required parts
      are not received prior to the completion of other work, the team will depart and make a return visit
      after being advised that all parts are on hand.
      2.5.5. During scheduled PMI visits, ensure all antennas are identified and labeled and antenna
      CSIRs are available and accurate.
      2.5.6. Prepare AFTO Form 217, Certificate of Mobile Depot Maintenance Accomplished, to doc-
      ument work performed at each facility and site.

3. Acceptance of Completed Work. The team chief will prepare AFTO Form 217 in two copies. The
team chief and systems flight commander of the serviced unit will sign the AFTO Form 217. The team
chief will keep one copy and distribute one copy to the unit serviced.

4. Emergency, Urgent, and Routine Maintenance:
   4.1. Requests for emergency maintenance that require TDY assistance may be requested by telecon
   with a follow-up message or letter to HQ ACC/SCNS. Submit requests for urgent or routine mainte-
   nance in writing to HQ ACC/SCNS IAW TO 00-25-108, figure 2-6.
   4.2. The 55 GCCS, Elkhorn NE, Antenna Maintenance work center, will maintain the antennas at
   Scriber Air Station, Elkhorn, and Silver Creek sites.
4                                                                       ACCI 21-151 11 MAY 2001

5. Correspondence: Except as noted in section 4 of this instruction, direct coordination between units
and the antenna maintenance team is encouraged.



                                        JOHN P. JUMPER, General,USAF
                                        Commaner
