BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR COMBAT COMMAND
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                        INSTRUCTION 10-255

                                                                                    12 JUNE 2013


                                                                                        Operations


                                                          HQ AIR COMBAT COMMAND (ACC)
                                                                OPERATIONS CENTER (OC)


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A3O                                                          Certified by: HQ ACC/A3
                                                                        (Maj Gen Charles W. Lyon)

                                                                                           Pages: 31


This instruction implements the AFPD 10-2, Readiness, to establish command and control
structures to support the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and provide continuity of
command and control in the event of hostile action or natural disaster. It establishes and defines
the composition, functions, training requirements, and activation procedures of the Headquarters
Air Combat Command (HQ ACC) Operations Center (OC). It applies to HQ ACC staff agency
personnel performing duties as members of the OC. It does not apply to Air National Guard
(ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) field units and members, but does apply to
ANG and AFRC personnel assigned or attached for duty to HQ ACC. This publication is
affected by the Privacy Act of 1974, Authority: 44 USC 3101. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Contact
supporting records managers as required for approval. Send comments and suggested
improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through normal channels, to HQ ACC/A3O, 22 Rickenbacker Rd, Bldg 10, Langley AFB VA
23665.
2


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Chapter 1 reflects
changes in OC roles and responsibilities since US Joint Forces Command disestablishment.
Chapter 2 includes a new OC organizational chart and codifies each OC position by description,
manning and duties; several new positions have been added, while others have been deleted.
Chapter 3 streamlines and clarifies the ACC Staff’s organizational responsibilities required to
support OC manning and operations. Chapter 4 describes minor changes to OC response
postures, while Chapter 5 has significantly revised training and certification requirements.
Chapter 6 security requirements remain mostly unchanged.
                                                                                                    3


                                           Chapter 1
                            ACC OPERATIONS CENTER (OC)
1.1. General Information. Air Combat Command (ACC) functions in a ‘Component-like’ role
in support of Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Air Force Operations Group (AFOG), Joint Force
Providers (JFP), Joint Force Managers (JFM), and the Global Conventional Joint Force
Coordinator (GCJFC / JS J31). The ACC Operations Center (OC) is the single point of entry and
exit for all operational activities with regard to Joint Operations Planning (JOP), Adaptive
Planning and Execution (APEX), and Global Force Management (GFM). OC responsibilities
cover the entire range of military operations to include current, contingency, crisis, emergent,
rotational, and Joint exercise requirements. In accordance with AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), SecAF delegates authority to Commander, ACC
(COMACC) to:
  1.1.1. Make global allocation nominations for all Air Force conventional forces, including
  assigned and unassigned forces, in response to validated combatant commander requirements.
  (Air Force conventional forces include all forces not designated as mobility or special
  operations, both assigned and unassigned/retained.)
  1.1.2. Report readiness and availability data of Air Force conventional forces to the Global
  Conventional Joint Force Coordinator (GCJFC), Joint Force Providers (JFP), and Joint Force
  Managers (JFMs).
  1.1.3. Publish the Deployment Order (DEPORD) for Air Force unassigned forces upon
  SecDef approval of the Global Force Management Allocation Plan (GFMAP) Annex and
  subsequent modifications.
  1.1.4. Verify accuracy of deployment requirements in Joint Operation Planning and
  Execution System (JOPES) / Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments
  (DCAPES) as the Supporting Combatant Commander for AF unassigned/retained
  conventional forces. In conjunction with HAF, provide MAJCOMs guidance in verifying
  requirements in JOPES/DCAPES.
  1.1.5. Direct Liaison Authorized (DIRLAUTH) with HAF, AFOG, JFPs, JFMs, and GCJFC
  to provide feasibility of Air Force sourcing solutions for conventional forces, to conduct plan
  assessments and to contingency source Air Force conventional forces, assigned and
  unassigned/retained, in support of combatant commanders OPLANs and CONPLANs.
1.2. ACC OC Functions. The primary function of the ACC Operations Center (OC) is to
quickly respond to higher headquarter (HHQ) or AFOG operational, planning, or Joint exercise
taskings involving deployment, sustainment, redeployment, or reconstitution of AF unassigned /
ACC conventional forces. All personnel who serve in the ACC OC perform duties in direct
support of ACC’s AF and MAJCOM operational roles and responsibilities. The major duties of
the ACC OC include, but are not limited to:
  1.2.1. Coordinating, preparing, and/or submitting rotational force schedules, rotational force
  allocation plans, recommended sourcing solution nominations, and military risk assessments
  for the Joint Staff (JS) to be submitted to SecDef for final approval.
  1.2.2. Serving as the single AF voice for all operational conventional force recommended
  sourcing nominations and deployment actions. AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning
4


    and Execution, outlines the procedures/policies in support of Joint processes.
    1.2.3. Nominating and providing forces as directed by the President of the United States
    (POTUS), Secretary of Defense (SecDef), Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), Joint
    Staff (JS), Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF), Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
    (CSAF), Headquarters Air Force (HAF), and AF Operations Group (AFOG).
    1.2.4. Providing feedback, information, and/or recommended sourcing nominations to the
    GCJFC / JS J31, Joint Force Providers (JFP), Joint Force Managers (JFMs), and/or AFOG, as
    appropriate, in response to HHQ, AFOG, and/or Joint Staff Action Process (JSAP) taskings.
    Concur responses require Operations Center Director (O-6 level) approval; Non-Concurs
    responses require approval from a General Officer in ACC OC channels (Figure 2.1.).
    1.2.5. Updating and coordinating with HAF, AFOG, MAJCOMs, Air Force Component
    Commands, and AFPC when sourcing and verifying Joint Operation Planning and Execution
    System (JOPES) Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data (TPFDD) to ensure expeditious
    force deployment.
    1.2.6. Ensuring proper Command and Control (C2) structure for presentation of Air Force
    conventional force capabilities in support of Combatant Commanders (CCDR) and Combatant
    Commands (CCMD).
    1.2.7. Maintaining ACC OC SIPRNET Share Point Homepage site to house pertinent
    reference data for operations.
      1.2.7.1. The site is located at: http://www.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/accat/default.aspx and
      contains information that includes, but is not limited to:
         1.2.7.1.1. Administrative functions, such as contact information, duty rosters, OC
         training materials, checklists, technical support, and links to external agencies.
         1.2.7.1.2. OCDRs, OCIIs, daily update briefs, ACC SITREPs, MESSAGES, and
         ORDERS.
         1.2.7.1.3. OC organizational cell and ACC FAR items.
         1.2.7.1.4. Contingencies and Exercises.
         1.2.7.1.4. Continuity of Operations (COOP) information.
                                                                                                5


                                           Chapter 2
                  ACC OPERATIONS CENTER (OC) ORGANIZATION
2.1. Introduction. The ACC OC functions on behalf of the Commander of ACC (COMACC)
and consists of a Director of Operations, Operations Center Director (OD), Operations Officer
(OPSO), Functional Area Representatives (FAR), and specialized cells, with additional
supporting individuals, organizations, and agencies. The OC Organizational chart is shown in
Figure 2.1. and the Ryan Center OC Floor Diagram is depicted at the end of this chapter in
Figure 2.2.


Figure 2.1. OC Organization.

                                        COMACC                           ACC Command Center

                               Director of Operations
                                        (A3)

  Senior, OD
    (S-OD)

   S-OPSO                   Operations Center Director
      DS                              (OD)

                                                        Operations
                                                       Officer (OPSO)

  Functional Area Reps (FAR)                                      Rotational Rqts Cell

       Emergent Rqts Cell                                     ISR Rqts Cell (A3C & A3M)

           CAF Rqts Cell                                        Operational Policy Cell

           Execution Cell                                       Technical Support Cell

       Joint Exercise Cell                                     ACC: Staff, NAFs, Units

             ACC/AOS                                                      AFPC

                                                                    HAF, MAJCOMs,
      Augmentees & LNOs
                                                                    Air Components

Note: Legend: Solid lines represent direct reporting, dashed lines represent coordination.
6


2.2. General OC personnel responsibilities:
    2.2.1. While performing OC duties, personnel will act for and directly report to the
    Operations Center Director (OD). OC duties will take priority over all other MAJCOM
    Organize, Train, and Equip (OT&E) and staff responsibilities.
    2.2.2. Complete training responsibilities in accordance with this instruction.
    2.2.3. Have an established SIPRNET personal account and a NIPRNET personal account on
    the Langley network systems.
    2.2.4. Be certified by their respective Director / Division Chief that they have completed the
    initial training and are available to receive A3O familiarization training.
    2.2.5. Complete A3O familiarization and certification training as outlined in this instruction.
    2.2.6. Be certified by OC Director of Operations or Senior Operations Director (S-OD), as
    required, prior to being assigned OC duties.
2.3. Commander Air Combat Command (COMACC). COMACC is responsible for the
overall operation and execution of the ACC OC. COMACC delegates these duties to the OC
Director of Operations, as prescribed in this instruction.
2.4. ACC OC Director of Operations.
    2.4.1. Description. The OC Director of Operations, as COMACC’s direct representative, has
    oversight and tasking authority over all OC personnel in support of OC operations and is
    responsible for the overall performance and execution of the ACC OC.
    2.4.2. Manning. COMACC has designated the ACC/A3, Director of Operations, as the ACC
    OC Director of Operations.
    2.4.3. Duties. Director of Operations duties include, but are not limited to:
      2.4.3.1. Responsible for the overall operation and execution of the ACC OC.
      2.4.3.2. Provide General Officer (GO) endorsement for all AF non-concur sourcing
      solution submissions.
      2.4.3.3. Certify all ODs prior to assumption of OC duties.
2.5. Senior Operations Center Director (S-OD).
    2.5.1. Description. The S-OD is responsible for the overall performance and execution of the
    ACC OC.
    2.5.2. Manning. The ACC/A3 has designated the ACC/A3O Division Chief as the Senior
    Operations Director (S-OD). If unavailable, the ACC/A3O Deputy Division Chief will be
    responsible for accomplishing S-OD duties.
    2.5.3. Duties. S-OD duties include, but are not limited to:
      2.5.3.1. Provide administrative, equipment, and facility oversight and support to ensure
      ACC OC capability to sustain 24/7 operations for extended periods.
      2.5.3.2. Develop and publish the OD schedule.
      2.5.3.3. Certify all OPSOs and FARs prior to assumption of OC duties.
                                                                                                   7


     2.5.3.4. On behalf of OC Director of Operations, S-OD may provide routine non-concur
     endorsement / approval for lack of force capability or capacity. S-OD’s signature will be
     provided in the Logbook submission; however, OC Director of Operation’s name will be
     submitted in the Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager (JCRM) non-concur entry. S-
     OD will back-brief the OC Director of Operations when endorsing / approving a non-
     concur nomination. The S-OD may choose to further delegate this responsibility to the
     OD.
2.6. Operations Center Director (OD).
  2.6.1. Description. The OD is OC Director of Operations’ representative for command
  tasking and information during steady state operations and ongoing crises or contingencies.
  The OD is also responsible for directing all OC actions in response to current / contingency /
  crisis operations or HHQ taskings.
  2.6.2. Manning. The S-OD will designate selected ACC/A3 O-6s (or civilian equivalents) as
  Operations Center Directors, in coordination with the OC Director of Operations. OD duties
  will take priority over all other ACC staff functions.
  2.6.3. Duties. OD duties include, but are not limited to:
     2.6.3.1. Provide senior leadership oversight and direction over all aspects of ACC OC
     operations.
     2.6.3.2. Provide OPSO prioritization and direction for daily management of ACC OC
     taskings and operations.
     2.6.3.3. Provide O-6 chop / endorsement for concur responses on all Logbook, JSAP, and
     other taskings released from the ACC OC.
     2.6.3.4. Review, sign and forward packages requesting GO Non-Concur endorsement /
     approval to the S-OD for review, coordination, and action, as appropriate.
2.7. Senior Operations Officer (S-OPSO).
  2.7.1. Description. The S-OPSO is S-OD’s direct representative for daily management,
  leadership and training of the OPSO force.
  2.7.2. Manning. The S-OD may designate an ACC/A3O division Field Grade Officer (FGO)
  (or GS-equivalent) to serve as the S-OPSO.
  2.7.3. Duties. S-OPSO duties may include, but are not limited to:
     2.7.3.1. Oversee and manage OC training and certification programs.
     2.7.3.2. Schedule OPSO manning shifts.
2.8. Director of Staff (DS).
  2.8.1. Description. The DS is responsible to support the S-OD, OD, and S-OPSO for
  coordinating and integrating OC activities, as required.
  2.8.2. Manning. The S-OD may designate an ACC/A3O division FGO (or GS-equivalent) to
  serve as the DS.
  2.8.3. Duties. DS duties may include, but are not limited to:
8


      2.8.3.1. Coordinate OC activities.
      2.8.3.2. Ensure standardized processes and procedures.
2.9. Operations Officer (OPSO).
    2.9.1. Description. The OPSO is the focal point for all OC activities and is responsible for
    management, coordination and execution of all OC activities.
    2.9.2. Manning. ACC/A3O3 will provide oversight and the preponderance of FGOs (or GS-
    equivalents) to support the OC OPSO requirements. Additional OC OPSO manning will be
    provided by other ACC/A3 divisions, as determined by the ACC/A3, in conjunction with the
    ACC/A3O.
    2.9.3. Duties. OPSO duties include, but are not limited to:
      2.9.3.1. Orchestrate all operational activities of the OC.
      2.9.3.2. Review, task, and track all OC taskings to ensure timely, accurate responses are
      submitted to required agencies.
      2.9.3.3. Route and track all packages for appropriate senior leadership approval.
      2.9.3.4. Monitor world events which may require AF response.
      2.9.3.5. Monitor readiness status of forces on Prepare To Deploy Order (PTDO) status and
      initiate corrective action, if required.
      2.9.3.6. Recommend OC recalls, ensure personnel are notified, lead the Stand-Up
      briefings.
      2.9.3.7. Coordinate with outside agencies and other Ops Centers as required.
      2.9.3.8. Submit Logbook Request For Information (RFI) when additional detail is required
      to develop GFM sourcing nominations, as required.
      2.9.3.9. Upon appropriate O-6 / GO approval, make final JCRM / Logbook submissions,
      as required.
2.10. Functional Area Representatives (FAR).
    2.10.1. Description. FARs are the designated authoritative subject matter experts and OC
    representatives for their respective functional areas. They are knowledgeable, experienced,
    and empowered to represent and make decisions on behalf of their Director and Division
    Chiefs.
    2.10.2. Manning. Individual FARs are nominated and provided by their respective
    Directorate / Division Chiefs; the FAR Training Certification Memo is located in Attachment
    2.
    2.10.3. Duties. FAR duties include, but are not limited to:
      2.10.3.1. Identify, source and track all deployed Air Force resources in support of
      contingency operations (including ANG and Reserve resources).
      2.10.3.2. Activate / deactivate Reserve Component (RC) forces using mobilization /
      demobilization processes.
                                                                                                 9


     2.10.3.3. Coordinate with the Execution Cell and AFPC to ensure rapid verification of
     requirements within AFI 10-401 timelines.
     2.10.3.4. Develop and coordinate AF recommended sourcing solutions and nominations.
     As required, coordinate with AFPC, FAMs (Component, MAJCOM, and HAF), and other
     ACC OC members to develop recommended AF global sourcing solutions in response to
     Logbook Request For Forces / Capabilities (RFF/RFC) requirements.
     2.10.3.5. If necessary, initiate Requests For Information (RFI) to the OPSO or appropriate
     OC Cell for action.
     2.10.3.6. Coordinate Severe Mission Impact Reclamas (Condition 2) with the Execution
     Cell.
     2.10.3.7. Monitor the Time Phased Force and Deployment Data (TPFDD) and understand
     the functional UTC Availability System.
     2.10.3.8. Access continuity or tracking logs to answer OC leadership questions about the
     status of open RFFs and other sourcing issues.
     2.10.3.9. Monitor SIPRNET and NIPRNET accounts during normal duty days/hours.
     2.10.3.10. Check appropriate OC (Ryan Center) SIPRNET, NIPRNET and phone / STE
     equipment at least once each month to ensure good connectivity and operability of
     workstations.
     2.10.3.11. Obtain Temporary Line Badge for Ryan Center access during OC recalls,
     exercises, or visits.
     2.10.3.12. Log on SIPRNET/C2 accounts monthly.
     2.10.3.13. Prepare packages/documents for ACC OC Director of Operations information
     or action IAW format guidance in the ACC AO handbook.
     2.10.3.14. Complete training and certification in accordance with Chapter 5 requirements.
     2.10.3.15. Maintain a JCRM account.
     2.10.3.16. Create JCRM nominations, as required.
  2.10.4. For functional areas that are centrally managed and/or sourced, their respective ACC
  OC FARs will facilitate and manage information flow to provide that functional area’s
  sourcing solutions.
2.11. Rotational Requirements Cell.
  2.11.1. Description. Develops, coordinates, and submits global AF sourcing solution
  nominations and risk assessments for conventional AF support forces in response to
  Combatant Commander Fiscal Year (FY) rotational requirements.
  2.11.2. Manning. ACC/A3O5 will provide oversight and qualified individuals to support the
  OC Rotational Requirements Cell taskings. OC members and the ACC Staff provide support/
  augmentation as required.
  2.11.3. Duties.
     2.11.3.1. Exercise overall responsibility to devise, coordinate, execute and improve an
10


       annual process to meet SecAF responsibilities to Joint Staff for sourcing nominations and
       support of the rotational GFM allocation process.
       2.11.3.2. Create, coordinate, and disseminate the annual ACC / SecAF Conventional
       GFMAP Planning Order (PLANORD) consolidating guidance, timelines and deliverables
       necessary to comply with Joint Staff taskings.
       2.11.3.3. Create, staff, and prepare responses to tasks concerning the rotational process:
       Logbooks, JSAPs, ORDERs, and HHQ taskers.
       2.11.3.4. Oversee approval, entry, and submission of conventional AF support force
       sourcing solution nominations into the GFM system-of-record: Joint Capability
       Requirements Manager (JCRM).
       2.11.3.5. Coordinate with the Global Conventional Joint Force Coordinator (GCJFC), Joint
       Force Providers (JFP), Joint Force Managers (JFM), HAF, AFOG, AF Components,
       AFPC, ACC OC, FARs and FAMs.
       2.11.3.6. Assist AFOG in its role as the formal HQ USAF interface to the Joint Staff by
       providing or coordinating on products, briefings and information to support the rotational
       process. This is primarily related to the annual series of Global Force Management Board
       (GFMB) meetings.
2.12. Emergent Requirements Cell.
     2.12.1. Description. Develops, coordinates, and submits global AF sourcing solution
     nominations and risk assessments for conventional AF support forces in response to
     Combatant Commander emergent requirements or change requests.
     2.12.2. Manning. ACC/A3O5 provides oversight and qualified individuals to support the OC
     Emergent Requirements Cell taskings. OC members and the ACC Staff provide support/
     augmentation as required.
     2.12.3. Duties.
       2.12.3.1. Review, assess, and prepare responses to Logbooks, JSAPs, ORDERs, and HHQ
       taskers ensuring AF conventional support force sourcing solution nominations are relevant,
       accurate and risk based.
       2.12.3.2. Oversee approval, entry, and submission of conventional AF support force
       sourcing nominations into JCRM.
       2.12.3.3. Coordinate with Global Conventional Joint Force Coordinator (GCJFC), Joint
       Force Providers (JFPs), Joint Force Managers (JFMs), HAF, AFOG, AF Components,
       AFPC, ACC OC, FARs and FAMs.
       2.12.3.4. Submit Logbook Request For Information (RFI) when additional detail is
       required to develop GFM sourcing nominations.
       2.12.3.5. Upon appropriate O-6 / GO approval, make final JCRM / Logbook submissions.
2.13. CAF Aviation Requirements Cell.
     2.13.1. Description. Develops, coordinates, and submits global AF sourcing solution
     nominations and risk assessments for conventional aviation forces in response to Combatant
     Commander FY rotational requirements. Manages the CAF Scheduling Integrated Product
                                                                                                 11


  Team (SIPT) to schedule CAF aviation assets in support of the GFM process.
  2.13.2. Manning. ACC/A3O8 provides oversight and qualified individuals to support the OC
  CAF Requirements Cell.
  2.13.3. Duties.
     2.13.3.1. Review, assess, and prepare responses to Logbook, JSAPs, ORDERs, and HHQ
     taskers, ensuring AF sourcing solution nominations are relevant and accurate.
     2.13.3.2. Coordinate with Global Conventional Joint Force Coordinator (GCJFC), HAF,
     AFOG, AF Components, ACC OC, FARs and FAMs.
     2.13.3.3. Submit Logbook Request For Information (RFI) when additional detail is
     required to develop sourcing recommendation.
     2.13.3.4. Upon appropriate O-6 / GO approval, make final JCRM / Logbook submissions.
2.14. Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Requirements Cell.
  2.14.1. Description. The ISR Cell provides full time support in planning, analyzing and
  monitoring TPFDDs, to include requirements determination, sourcing, verification, validation
  and execution. It also functions as the JOPES/DCAPES Support Element (ISR). Leads ACC
  Functional Area Managers (FAMs) in verifying ISR assets to the combatant commanders and
  is the point of contact for MAJCOM shortfalls and reclamas.
  2.14.2. Manning. ACC/A3C and ACC/A3M will provide oversight and qualified individuals
  to support the OC ISR Cell. FARs, other OC Cells, and the ACC Staff will provide support as
  required.
  2.14.3. Duties.
     2.14.3.1. Analyze and manage ISR Time Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD).
     2.14.3.2. Provide full time support in planning, analyzing and monitoring TPFDDs to
     include requirements determination, sourcing, verification, validation and execution.
     2.14.3.3. Provide JOPES/DCAPES support (ISR) command power users of Deliberate and
     Crisis Planning and Execution Segments (DCAPES) via the Global Command and Control
     System (GCCS).
     2.14.3.4. Analyze and manage ACC Reclama / Shortfalls and manage and provide AF
     collaborative sourcing solutions to quick turn requirements – Reclama / Shortfall process
     facilitator.
     2.14.3.5. Build all deployment/redeployment ISR aviation and personnel rotational
     requirements in accordance with ACC’s Consolidated Planning Schedules (CPS).
     2.14.3.6. Analyze and manage Air and Space Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) forces
     and Combat Air Forces (CAF) Time Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD) databases
     of Operation Plans (OPLAN).
     2.14.3.7. Provide direct interface with subordinate, ancillary, and supported organizations
     in providing ACC and ACC-gained ARC forces in support of campaign, deliberate, crisis,
     or exercise planning through JOPES/DCAPES.
2.15. Execution Cell.
12


     2.15.1. Description. The Execution Cell provides full time support in planning, analyzing
     and monitoring TPFDDs, to include requirements determination, sourcing, verification, and
     execution. It also functions as the JOPES/DCAPES Support Element (ECS and Aviation).
     Leads ACC Functional Area Managers (FAMs) in verifying Combat Air Forces to the
     combatant commanders and is the point of contact for MAJCOM shortfalls and reclamas.
     2.15.2. Manning. ACC/A3O3 will provide oversight and qualified individuals to support the
     OC Execution Cell.
     2.15.3. Duties.
       2.15.3.1. Analyze and manage Air and Space Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS)
       forces and Combat Air Forces (CAF) Time Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD).
       2.15.3.2. Provide full time support in planning, analyzing and monitoring TPFDDs to
       include requirements determination, sourcing, verification, and execution.
       2.15.3.3. Provide JOPES/DCAPES support (ECS and Aviation) command power users of
       Deliberate and Crisis Planning and Execution Segments (DCAPES) via the Global
       Command and Control System (GCCS).
       2.15.3.4. Analyze and manage ACC Reclama / Shortfalls and manage and provide AF
       Collaborative Sourcing solutions to quick turn requirements – Reclama / Shortfall process
       facilitator.
       2.15.3.5. Build all deployment/redeployment CAF AEF aviation personnel Deployment
       Requirements Manning Document (DRMD) rotational requirements in accordance with
       ACC’s Consolidated Planning Schedules (CPS).
       2.15.3.6. Analyze and manage Air and Space Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) forces
       and Combat Air Forces (CAF) Time Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD) databases
       of Operation Plans (OPLAN).
       2.15.3.7. Provide direct interface with subordinate, ancillary, and supported organizations
       in providing ACC and ACC-gained Air Reserve Component (ARC) forces in support of
       campaign, deliberate, crisis, or exercise planning through JOPES/DCAPES.
2.16. Operational Policy Cell.
     2.16.1. Description. Provides DoD, Joint, and AF operational planning and/or execution
     policy, guidance, and doctrine subject matter expertise.
     2.16.2. Manning. ACC/A3O5 will provide oversight and qualified individuals to support the
     OC Operational Policy Cell taskings. OC members, ACC Staff, and ACC organizations /
     agencies provide support/ augmentation as required.
     2.16.3. Duties.
       2.16.3.1. Develop, coordinate, and submit inputs identifying AF policy impacts and issues
       with regard to DoD, JS, and AF operational planning and/or execution document /
       publication reviews.
       2.16.3.2. Develop and review briefings and documents involving operational planning and
       execution policy, guidance, or doctrine in support of force management, generation, or
       training events.
                                                                                                  13


2.17. Technical Support Cell (TSC).
  2.17.1. Description. The Technical Support Cell is directly responsible for the installation,
  configuration, and restoration of all information systems within the Operations Center.
  2.17.2. Manning. ACC/A3O3 will provide oversight and qualified individuals to support the
  Technical Support Cell. If required, other ACC staff directorates and agencies may be tasked
  to provide Technical Support Cell augmentation to support surge operations.
  2.17.3. Duties.
     2.17.3.1. Resolve information systems and network degradation issues.
     2.17.3.2. Maintain accountability for all OC network equipment.
     2.17.3.3. Schedule VTCs in support of ACC joint force mission.
     2.17.3.4. Manage, update, and provide administrative support for OC SharePoint site.
     2.17.3.5. Control OC Entry Authorization List (EAL) by verifying individual security
     clearances. Ensure OC FARs are listed on the EAL.
     2.17.3.6. Validate and submit network user account requests.
     2.17.3.7. Implement computer security policies in accordance with all applicable guidance
     to safeguard systems and information. Report security incidents and execute corrective
     actions.
2.18. Exercise Cell.
  2.18.1. Description. Acts as a liaison for OC participation in exercises and optimizes the
  benefits of participating in these exercises. Note: Duties performed in the Exercise Cell are
  not in direct support of ACC’s AF and MAJCOM operational roles and responsibilities;
  therefore, the Exercises Cell may not be recalled to the OC for contingencies.
  2.18.2. Manning. ACC/A3O3, with assistance from ACC/A3Y, will provide oversight to
  support the OC Exercise Cell. ACC/A9L may provide qualified individuals to capture and
  compile exercise lessons learned, as required.
  2.18.3. Duties.
     2.18.3.1. ACC/A3O3 will conduct OC briefings and facilitate information flow for OC
     exercise participation.
     2.18.3.2. ACC/A3Y will provide supplemental guidance (generate briefings for exercise
     overview and draft memos, as required), to clarify exercise planning, execution, and
     evaluation functions and responsibilities.
     2.18.3.3. ACC/A3Y will initiate and lead ACC’s program management for each exercise,
     to include coordinating with OC Execution Cell for filling validated exercise requirements
     as outlined in AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, and
     supplemented by ACC.
  2.18.4. ACC/A3Y and ACC/A9L personnel support the OC as LNOs. As a result, they are
  not required to complete OC training and certification as described in Chapter 5. However, it
  is highly recommended they become familiar with OC policy, procedures, and guidance.
14


2.19. Augmentees & LNOs.
     2.19.1. Augmentees.
       2.19.1.1. Description. OC augmentees are personnel temporarily assigned to the OC, as
       required, to augment or support the primary OC positions outlined in this instruction.
       2.19.1.2. Manning. Augmentees are normally provided from HQ ACC-assigned active
       duty personnel, ANG, AFRC, or civilians.
       2.19.1.3. Duties. May include any of the duties outlined in this instruction for other OC
       personnel or supporting tasks assigned by the OD or OPSO.
     2.19.2. LNOs.
       2.19.2.1. Description. LNOs provide information crossflow between the OC and their
       sending organizations.
       2.19.2.2. Manning. Supplied by appropriate organizations, as required.
       2.19.2.3. Duties. Provide organizational subject matter expertise.
     2.19.3. Augmentees and LNOs are not required to complete OC training and certification, as
     described in Chapter 5. However, it is highly recommended they become familiar with OC
     policy, procedures, and guidance.
                                              15


Figure 2.2. OC Floor Diagram (Ryan Center).
16


                                             Chapter 3
                                  STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES
3.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the ACC Staff’s organizational responsibilities
required to support OC manning and operations. It also outlines AFPC’s supporting role to the
OC.
3.2. ACC/A3.
     3.2.1. Provides the force pool for OD and OPSO manning. GS personnel may be used as
     ODs and OPSOs provided their grade level is commensurate with the position requirements.
     Special consideration should be taken into account when using GS personnel due to the OC’s
     dynamic work environment and possible short-notice and extended hours of operation.
     Contractor personnel will not be used for OD or OPSO manning requirements.
     3.2.2. OD manning. Due to the requirement to provide O-6 Chop (endorsement) and being a
     high profile position, the OD force pool is limited to O-6s. To ensure proper proficiency
     levels, the OD pool should be limited to 6-8 individuals.
     3.2.3. The Director of Operations may approve select GS-14s (or higher) to fill OD positions.
     3.2.4. S-OD, in conjunction with the OC Director of Operations, will identify the specific
     individuals available from within ACC/A3 to perform OD duties.
     3.2.5. OPSO manning. Due to the high profile and demanding pace of the OPSO position,
     the OPSO force pool is limited to FGOs (or GS civilian equivalents). In order to ensure
     proper proficiency levels, the OPSO pool should be limited to approximately 8-10 individuals.
     3.2.6. On a case-by-case basis, the S-OD may approve select GS-13/14s to fill OPSO
     positions; however, consideration must be given to the ability to work extended duty hours
     when selecting GS personnel for this position.
     3.2.7. ACC/A3, in conjunction with A3O, will identify individuals available to perform
     OPSO duties. ACC/A3O provides the preponderance of the OPSO force pool; however,
     additional OPSOs should be identified from other ACC/A3 divisions.
3.3. ACC Directors / Division / Agency Chiefs.
     3.3.1. ACC Directors / Division / Agency Chiefs will identify the appropriate number of their
     personnel needed to sustain maximum surge operations for an indefinite period of time.
     3.3.2. Designate highly qualified staff officers, NCOs, General Schedule (GS) civilians,
     and/or contractors to serve in the ACC OC. Designated GS and contractor personnel must be
     deployable in support of ACC OC COOP execution. Contractors may not fill any duty
     position that empowers that individual to make decisions on behalf of their Director or
     functional community.
     3.3.3. Send a completion memo (Attachment 2) to ACC/A3O3 indicating their OC
     representatives meet the minimum requirements and have received directorate training
     specified in Chapter 5 of this instruction.
     3.3.4. Ensure OC personnel are listed on the appropriate Entry Authorization List (EAL) or
     have an Operations Center (Ryan Center) entry badge. Coordinate the EAL through
     ACC/A3O3. Directorates must make arrangements to escort their personnel not on the EAL
                                                                                                  17


  or that do not have an entry badge.
  3.3.5. Develop detailed procedures and reference material for all functional tasks their
  representatives may be required to perform in support of OC operations. Provide their FARs
  specific guidance and/or training to successfully perform FAR duties.
  3.3.6. Ensure all designated OC representatives keep Langley EMNS updated with current
  contact information, to include checking the box labeled ACC Operation Center Personnel.
  3.3.7. Ensure the On-Call roster for OC personnel is updated on the OC SharePoint website
  and contains office, home, cell, and pager contact numbers for all identified personnel.
  3.3.8. Ensure personnel (other than LNOs and Augmentees) selected for OC duty complete
  training (initial, recurring, continuation) and certification in accordance with Chapter 5 of this
  instruction prior to assuming OC duties.
3.4. ACC/A3O3, Current Operations Branch.
  3.4.1. Prepare a monthly certification memo on newly trained OC personnel (OD, OPSO, and
  FAR) for ACC/A3O approval (Attachment 2).
  3.4.2. Coordinate OC hours of operation based on the current manning level as determined by
  the ACC OD.
  3.4.3. Schedule and publish OC manning for ODs, OPSOs, Execution Cell and Technical
  Support Cell.
  3.4.4. Publish and maintain ACC OC instructions, checklists, continuity folders, and OC
  training materials (web-based, etc) for ODs, OPSOs, JSE and IM support.
  3.4.5. Update OC recall rosters monthly. Directorates are responsible for providing accurate
  and timely FAR recall listings to ACC OPSO. All printed rosters must contain the following
  statement, “This document contains information which must be protected IAW AFI 33-332
  and DoD Regulation 5400.11; Privacy Act of 1974 as Amended Applies and it is For Official
  Use Only.”
  3.4.6. Ensure GCCS capability is available to the OC.
  3.4.7. Develop, schedule and conduct OC training in support of Chapter 5 requirements.
  3.4.8. Provide storage for classified material. Individuals are responsible for marking and
  destroying their classified working papers.
  3.4.9. Provide OC Operations and Support.
  3.4.10. Provide OC Admin/Network Support to include NIPR / SIPR, GCCS, STE, and PDS
  Red Switch.
  3.4.11. Provide Automated Message Handling System (AMHS) expertise.
  3.4.12. Provide/coordinate/process Partial Mobilization/Mobilization (PM/Mob) orders for
  ARC forces.
  3.4.13. Maintain responsibility for OC COOP programs and coordinate with A3OH.
  3.4.14. Provide OC manning, as required.
3.5. ACC/A3O5, Future Operations.
18


     3.5.1. Manage, coordinate, and develop inputs to APEX and GFM rotational sourcing and
     emergent requirements for AF conventional support forces.
     3.5.2. Respond to sourcing issues during routine daily operations.
     3.5.3. Provide JCRM and Logbook expertise and submissions.
     3.5.4. Provide operational planning and/or execution policy subject matter expertise (DoD,
     Joint and AF).
3.6. ACC/AOS.
     3.6.1. Coordinate the movement and flow of CAF aircraft with the OC as required.
     3.6.2. Provide weather briefing support.
3.7. ACC Staff, NAFs, Units.
     3.7.1. Provide reachback support , as required, to deployed warfighters.
     3.7.2. Provide sustainment support, as required.
3.8. ACC Command Center (ACC/A3OC).
     3.8.1. Provide 24 / 7 / 365 interface with 15 ACC Wings, 3 NAFs and HHQ Command Posts
     and ACC Leadership. COMACC’s interface with subordinate wings.
     3.8.2. Maintain contact lists.
     3.8.3. Process operational reports (OPREPS, SIRs, IRs, etc).
     3.8.4. OPR for Emergency Mass Notification System (EMNS).
     3.8.5. Assists ACC OC with Recalls.
     3.8.6. Conducts ACC-wide emergency action training scenarios.
     3.8.7. Maintain C2 support with OC Director of Operations, OD, and OPSO.
3.9. AFPC.
     3.9.1. AFPC maintains two General Schedule (GS) employees as OC LNOs, permanently
     assigned to HQ AFPC with temporary duty to the OC as mission dictates.
     3.9.2. Deploy LNO(s) to the OC within 48 hours of OC recall.
     3.9.3. Provide LNO(s) to participate in OC exercises to maintain C2 relationships and
     proficiency.
     3.9.4. Ensure LNO(s) coordinate activities with ACC for execution of GFM, Adaptive
     Planning Execution (APEX) and Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) Force Generation.
     3.9.5. Ensure the LNO(s) coordinate within ACC/A3O and ACC OC, as appropriate, by using
     established protocols to facilitate communication, support, and the smooth/timely execution of
     ECS related operational activities.
     3.9.6. Ensure the LNO(s) keep the ACC OC informed of AFPC/DPW actions/activities which
     impact or may impact ACC’s ability to fulfill its responsibilities as Air Force Joint Force
     Provider (AF JFP).
     3.9.7. Ensure the LNO(s) are available for limited periods of extended duty.
                                                                                                  19


                                          Chapter 4
                                OC RESPONSE POSTURES
4.1. Introduction. The ACC OC will respond and be manned according to three levels of
activity: Level 3, Steady-state operations; Level 2, Surge operations; and Level 1, Maximum
Surge operations. The OD may tailor manning requirements in accordance with the situation at
any level of operation.
4.2. Response Posture Overview.
  4.2.1. Level 3, steady-state / routine operations (no contingency or crisis). The OC operating
  hours will be directed by the most current OD for Level 3 operations. Normally, during ACC
  duty hours the OC will be manned by an OPSO, and other personnel as required, to meet
  ACC’s routine force provision mission requirements. Responsibilities for other OC personnel
  are further delineated in paragraph 4.3. At all times there will be a designated OC Director
  available. The OPSO will be responsible for the opening and closing checklists. Note: After
  OD-defined operating hours, weekends, and holidays, the OD and OPSO are on-call through
  the ACC Command Center. The OPSO will make a daily check of the OPSO organization
  email boxes and check AMHS for any possible taskings during weekends, holidays and
  COMACC directed ACC Family Days.
  4.2.2. Level 2, surge operations. The OC will be manned as required to provide information
  for force provision, Course of Action (COA) development, execution planning, or sustainment
  in support of a contingency/crisis. The actual hours of operation are dependent upon the
  contingency/crisis scenario and will be defined and approved by the OD in the form of an
  OCDIR. Refer to the OCDIR listing on the ACC OC Home Page (SIPRNET) for the most
  current OC hours of operation. The OPSO position may remain manned 24/7 or if OD
  directed, will secure the OC during non-duty hours and forward the OD/OPSO phone lines to
  the ACC Command Center. The ACC Command Center will contact the on-call OPSO / OD
  on any OC issue after posted duty hours.
  4.2.3. Level 1, maximum surge operations. The OC will be fully manned, all personnel in-
  place at the Ryan Center (Bldg 10), for 24/7 operations. The OD may adjust manning
  requirements depending on circumstances and has authority to release non-essential
  personnel. Each specialty will provide continuous manning for work shifts as determined by
  the OD. Changeover briefs during 24-hour operations will normally be at 0700 hours and
  1900 hours. Changeover times may vary depending on the contingency / crisis / scenario and
  will be defined and approved by the OD in the form of an OCDIR. Refer to the OCDIR
  listing on the ACC OC Home Page (SIPRNET) for the most current OC hours of operation.
  Note: Not all HQ ACC directorates/divisions have sufficient manning to sustain continuous
  OC presence. Although OC FARs work for the OC Director during recall operations,
  respective Directors / Division Chiefs will coordinate directly with the OD to determine
  appropriate manning levels, responsibilities, support, and recall procedures. ACC/A3O3 will
  maintain an electronic letter on the OC SharePoint Training sub-site that exempts those
  functional areas from continuous OC presence.
4.3. Steady-State (Level 3) Operations.
  4.3.1. Level 3 manning is used for steady-state / routine operations. Steady-state / routine
  operations are defined as normal operations where there are no contingencies /crisis or other
20


     situations that require Level 1 or 2 manning. The ACC OC is still responsible for routine/on-
     going contingency operations that are handled during normal duty hours. While all force
     provisioning requires a sense of urgency, steady-state operations do not require the ACC OC
     to operate at Level 1 or 2 manning. Functional Directors / Division Chiefs areas must keep
     their FARs informed on the current situations and taskings to allow for smooth transitions.
     4.3.2. Most members can accomplish their OC duties from their primary duty locations. OC
     members are not required to stay in the OC, but they must either report in at the OC or check
     their OC SIPRNET and NIPRNET organization boxes from their office, no later than mid-
     morning.
     4.3.3. General duties.
       4.3.3.1. OC members will check their OC e-mail accounts at least twice each workday (no
       later than mid-morning and prior to COB) to process taskers.
       4.3.3.2. OC members will ensure their functional area OC recall roster is current and
       ensure on-call personnel are annotated on the OC SharePoint site, two weeks in advance
       (as a minimum).
       4.3.3.3. OC members should maintain a log of the issues and events of the shift activities.
       It is recommended FARs maintain a contingency continuity book, log, or discussion board
       on their directorate sub-site (found on the OC SIPR SharePoint Page), so personnel have a
       reference for previous actions taken and so FARs have the ability to answer questions
       about issues from the OD, OPSO and outside agencies.
       4.3.3.4. The outgoing OC members will conduct a changeover briefing with the on-coming
       OC member and ensure they are aware of open/upcoming taskers and the current OCIIs
       and OCDIRs.
       4.3.3.5. All oncoming OC members must check the OCDIR Read File .
       4.3.3.6. Each FAR will report to and check the connectivity of their OC station/desk at
       least once every month.
     4.3.4. Steady-State Manning Hours.
       4.3.4.1. Duty Hours, Monday-Friday:
          4.3.4.1.1. OD – As required
          4.3.4.1.2. OPSO – 0700-1700hrs
          4.3.4.1.3. Technical Support Cell – 0800-1700hrs
       4.3.4.2. Duty Hours during weekends, holidays, and COMACC directed ACC Family
       Days:
          4.3.4.2.1. All positions on telephone standby.
          4.3.4.2.2. OPSO will check inboxes and AMHS each day in the morning.
4.4. Surge (Level 2) Operations.
     4.4.1. Surge operations are defined as crisis operations where there are contingencies or crises
     that require the ACC OC to maintain short term Level 1 or 2 manning. Typical contingency /
     crisis operations are incidents or events, (natural or man-made), that place a
                                                                                                 21


  base/command/nation in immediate danger or incidents that require immediate humanitarian
  assistance and support which the military can provide. These events require quick reaction to
  ensure the initial security and safety of ACC forces and to provide the fastest response of
  forces requested to assist during the crisis. OC personnel will use quick reaction checklists to
  ensure critical actions are completed first. All quick reaction checklists will be stored on the
  SIPRNET shared drive, the OPSO binder and the relocation kits in the OC.
  4.4.2. The OC will be at Level 1 or 2 manning for the duration of an incident at the discretion
  of the COMACC, ACC/A3, or OD.
  4.4.3. During Level 1 or 2 Operations, OC members will report to the OC and remain on duty
  until released by the OD or shift change as defined by the applicable OCDIR. Members must
  check out with the OPSO or OD on duty before departing for alternate work locations.
  Exception: positive checkout is not required for regular shift change turnover.
4.5. Maximum Surge (Level 1) Operations.
  4.5.1. Maximum surge operations are defined as incidents or contingency operations that
  require the ACC OC maintain long term Level 1 or 2 manning.
  4.5.2. The OC will be manned for the duration of an incident at the discretion of COMACC,
  ACC/A3, or OD.
4.6. Notification / Recall Procedures.
  4.6.1. OC recalls will be conducted at the discretion of COMACC, ACC/A3, S-OD, or on-
  duty OD. At a minimum, the OC notification procedures will be exercised via a quarterly OC
  recall (as determined by the S-OD). If the OD directs a full recall of the OC the OPSO will
  follow applicable checklists and the ACC Command Center will recall the applicable OC
  FARs. When recalled, military personnel will report for duty in uniform; GS and contractor
  personnel will report in appropriate attire. If an OC representative cannot be contacted, the
  OD will contact the applicable Director / Division Chief for an immediate replacement. The
  OC will be capable of full operations within 2 hours of activation. All OC members will
  ensure they have checked ACC Ops Center Personnel under Emergency Message Notification
  System (EMNS) (under Self Service Actions, My Info). EMNS will be the primary OC recall
  system.
  4.6.2. Notification/Recall Options.
     4.6.2.1. Full OC Recall. All members required to report to the OC to be briefed on an
     incident or contingency/crisis operation. A full OC recall will be directed at least once
     each quarter by the S-OD to exercise the recall system.
     4.6.2.2. Select OC Recall. Selected members are recalled to the OC based on the expertise
     needed for the situation. When possible, a selected recall enhances efficiency.
     4.6.2.3. During off-duty hours (holidays, weekends, and COMACC directed ACC Family
     Days) taskers may come in that require immediate action. The OPSO will make the initial
     assessment on who should be recalled and then coordinate with the OD for approval to
     recall personnel.
4.7. Relocation Operations.
  4.7.1. Relocation Actions. If the ACC OC is forced to relocate due to natural or man-made
22


     disasters/incidents, ACC OPORD 3-04 (COOP) will be followed and the ACC COOP
     Program Manager will be notified. The OD/OPSO will take relocation kits to the nearest safe
     area and establish temporary OC operations until they are able to return safely to the area or a
     relocation team is dispatched and operational. Two relocation kits will be stored in the OC
     (OD and OPSO configured) with the following items: laptop computer, continuity binder, a
     hard copy of Quick Reaction Checklists (QRCs), basic administration supplies and a STU-III
     or STE (to include the Fortezza Card) secure phone. The OC Relocation Team will
     accomplish the following tasks:
       4.7.1.1. Re-establish connectivity from the temporary location (SIPRNET, NIPRNET,
       telephone) and continue ACC OC operations to the maximum extent possible while
       reconstituting the current OC.
       4.7.1.2. Review the ACC Continuity of Operation (COOP) Plan and pre-identify each
       functional area relocation team member. During COOP relocations, Directorates will
       specify relocation personnel in addition to the FARs required by the OD to perform
       operational actions. Reference ACC OPORD 3-04.
       4.7.1.3. Prior to departing, the Director of Operations or OD will, in coordination with the
       Directorates and the ACC COOP Program Manager, confirm the appropriate mix of ODs,
       OPSOs, FARs, and FAMs required to sustain operations from the temporary location. Each
       scenario is different and actual manning requirements are situation dependent so this will
       likely be a continuous / iterative process.
     4.7.2. OC OPSO will prepare / maintain backup log of open issues / taskers worked from the
     temporary location.
                                                                                                23


                                            Chapter 5
        ACC OPERATIONS CENTER (OC) TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION
5.1. Introduction. Personnel selected for OC duty must complete all required training (initial,
recurring, continuation) and certification items specified in this chapter prior to assuming OC
duties.
5.2. Training Responsibilities. The ACC/A3O Deputy for Force Generation is responsible for
the development, currency, maintenance, and scheduling of all OC initial, familiarization, and
continuation training. ACC/A3O3 will conduct Ops Center initial training in accordance with
ACC Operations Center Syllabus of Instruction.
5.3. Training Concept. All personnel selected for OC duty will go through an initial
qualification training and certification program. After initial certification, personnel will be
required to attend quarterly continuation training sessions. Training sessions (time and date) will
be updated and posted on OC Training SharePoint sub-site.
  5.3.1. Directorate training. An individual must complete the specific directorate training
  responsibilities listed in Table 5.2.
  5.3.2. A3O familiarization training. ACC/A3O will provide familiarization briefings and
  tours on specific equipment operations and force provision concepts and procedures.
5.4. Training Schedule.
  5.4.1. OC initial qualification and familiarization training (provided by ACC/A3O3) will be
  given on a quarterly or as needed basis in accordance with ACC Operations Center Syllabus
  of Instruction.
  5.4.2. OC continuation training (organized by ACC/A3O3) will occur quarterly; OC assigned
  personnel are required to attend. The ACC/A3O Deputy for Force Generation has the
  authority to exempt any OC personnel from any or all OC continuation training. Training
  exemptions will be documented and filed on the OC SharePoint Training sub-site.
5.5. Documentation. ACC/A3O3 will maintain training records on the OC SharePoint Training
sub-site that will document and archive FAR training, training exemptions, and certificates of
completion. Certificates of completion should be sent via Email:
acc.a3oocurrentops@langley.af.smil.mil.
5.6. Certification.
  5.6.1. Each directorate / division chief will ensure their representatives are trained and
  qualified in their functional areas before they are assigned to OC duty. Once individuals are
  selected for OC duty based on the minimum qualifications listed in Table 5.1., directorates
  must submit a FAR Training Certification Memo (Attachment 2), distributed by ACC/A3O3
  Training Manager, and tracked via SIPR SharePoint Training Sub-Site. (Email:
  acc.a3oocurrentops@langley.af.smil.mil to request form).
  5.6.2. OC Director of Operations will certify all ODs prior to assumption of OC duties.
  5.6.3. OC S-OD will certify all OPSOs and FARs prior to assumption of OC duties.
24


5.7. Minimum Qualifications:
Table 5.1. Minimum Qualifications.
                          OD / S-OD        OPSO              FAR


     Rank                 O-6              O-4               As determined by
                                                             Directorate
     Clearance            Top Secret       Top Secret        Secret
     Operational          Recommende       Recommended       Recommended
     Experience           d
     HQ ACC               6 Months         6 Months          Mandatory
     Experience           Mandatory        Mandatory
     C2 Systems Access    Mandatory        Mandatory         Mandatory
     (JCRM/JOPES/D
     CAPES)
     SIPR Account         Mandatory        Mandatory         Mandatory

     Intelink Account     Mandatory        Mandatory         Mandatory


5.8. Directorate Training Responsibilities:
Table 5.2. Directorate Training Responsibilities.
     Training Event                    OD / S-OD        OPSO              FAR
     Item 1: ACC STARS                 Mandatory        Mandatory         Mandatory
     Item 2: AMHS Training             Desired          Mandatory         Recommended
     Item 3: JOPES Support             Not Required Recommended           Recommended
     Personnel Course
     Item 4: CWPC                      Not Required Recommended           Recommended
     Item 5: JPOC                      Not Required Mandatory             Recommended


5.9. Continuation Training Topics: Continuation training will be conducted on a quarterly
basis. Recommended topics are listed in Table 5.3.
                                                                                      25


Table 5.3. Continuation Training Chart.
TRAINING EVENT                         OD / S-OD        OPSO              FAR
1st Qtr: Orders/Messages Review        Optional         Mandatory         Mandatory
2nd Qtr: Hurricane prep/DSCA
                                       Mandatory        Mandatory         Mandatory
Exord review/COOPEX
3rd Qtr: Rotational Sourcing           Optional         Mandatory         Mandatory
 th
4 Qtr: JCRM Review                     Optional         Mandatory         Mandatory


5.10. Training Event POCs: Training Event POCs are listed in Table 5.4.
Table 5.4. Training Event POC Contact Information.
Training Event                                         POC                DSN Phone
ACC Staff Training to Assure the Right Start           ACC/CSQ            574-7795
(STARS)
AMHS                                                   ACC/A3O3           575-1152
JOPES Support Personnel Course                         ACC/A3OR           574-0466
Contingency Wartime Planners Course (CWPC)             ACC/A3OR           574-5725
Joint Planners Orientation Course (JPOC)               ACC/A3OR           574-7061
Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager (JCRM)         ACC/A3OR           574-5725
Logbook                                                ACC/A3O3           574-7739
OC Brief                                               ACC/A3O3           574-7739
APEX, GFM, JOPES/DCAPES                                ACC/A3O5           574-5725
Recurring OC Training sessions                         ACC/A3O3           574-7739
26


                                            Chapter 6
                                 SECURITY PROCEDURES
6.1. Security Procedures. OC members must possess at least a SECRET clearance and be on
the appropriate EAL or possess an OC entry badge. Directorates are responsible for processing
required paperwork to ensure access is available for applicable personnel. Directorates must
make arrangements to escort personnel not on the EAL or without an entry badge.
6.2. Visitors Without Security Clearance. There are a series of rotating blue lights in the OC;
these lights will be turned on anytime personnel without proper clearances are in the OC / Ryan
Center work area.
6.3. OPSEC/COMSEC Procedures. OC personnel must follow strict OPSEC and COMSEC
procedures. No cellular phones, Personal Data Assistants (PDA), pagers or Blackberry devices
are allowed in the OC; these items may be temporarily stored in the cabinet at the Ryan Center
entryway. OC members will forward or place telephones on hold prior to briefings; open
unclassified lines are not allowed during classified briefings.
6.4. Unattended Classified Materials. Although the OC is cleared for open storage of
classified materials, personnel will not leave classified papers unattended on their desks unless
they are in binders or folders with proper classification markings on the outside. These binders
or folders will be positioned in a manner that prevents passers-by from viewing their contents.
6.5. Document Shredding. To avoid classified material from becoming inadvertently
compromised, all documents, including unclassified working papers, will be shredded when no
longer required. A shredder is located on the OC floor. No paperwork of any kind will be mixed
with the garbage/trash.
6.6. Classified Information Control. The OD and OPSO are directly responsible for the
overall control of classified information; however, each OC member has the responsibility to
exercise control over his/her functional area work station.

CHARLES W. LYON, Major General, USAF
Director of Operations
                                                                                       27


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 Nov 2012
ACCI 10-208, Continuity of Operations Program, 3 Jun 2008
ACCI 90-107, Availability of Key Members of the ACC Staff, 6 Dec 1999
AFI 10-204_ACCSUP, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 9 Feb 2012
AFI 10-244_ACCSUP, Reporting Status of Aerospace Expeditionary Forces, Aug 2008
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 Sep 2012
AFI 10-420_ACCSUP, Combat Air Forces Aviation Scheduling, 27 Jun 2012
AFI 10-401_ACCSUP, AF Operations Planning and Execution, 21 Feb 2012
Global Force, Management Implementation Guidance (GFMIG), FY12-13
GFMIG, Supplemental Annex to Section III, GFM Allocation Business Rules, 25 Oct 2012
CJCSI 1301.01D, Joint Individual Augmentation Procedures, 12 Feb 2011
CJCSM 3122.01A, JOPES Volume I, 29 Sep 2006
CJCSM 3122.02D, JOPES Volume III, 1 Apr 2011
CJCSM 3150.16D, JOPES Reporting Structure, 1 Dec 2008
CJCSG 3130, Adaptive Planning and Execution (APEX) Overview and Policy Framework, 30
Apr 2012
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 Apr 2009


Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not prescribe any forms.


Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF — Air Expeditionary Force
ACC — Air Combat Command
ACCI — ACC Instruction
AFFOR — Air Force Forces
AFOG — Air Force Operations Group (HQ AF/A3O-OB)
28


AFPC — Air Force Personnel Center
AFRC — AF Reserve Command
AMHS — Automated Message Handling System
ANG — Air National Guard
AO — Action Officer
APEX — Adaptive Planning and Execution
ARC — Air Reserve Component
BSD — Battle Staff Directives
C2 — Command and Control
CAF — Combat Air Force
CCD — Combatant Command
CCDR — Combatant Commanders
CJCS — Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
COA — Course of Action
COMACC — Commander, ACC
COMAFFOR — Commander Air Force Forces
COMSEC — Communications Security
CONPLAN — Concept Plan
COOP — Continuity of Operations
COOPEX — COOP Exercise
CPS — Consolidated Planning Schedules
CSAF — Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
CWPC — Contingency Wartime Planning Course
DCAPES — Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments
DIRLAUTH — Direct Liaison Authorized
DRMD — Deployment Requirements Manning Document
DS — Director of Staff
DSCA — Defense Support of Civil Authorities
EAL — Entry Authority List
ECS — Expeditionary Combat Support
EMNS — Emergency Mass Notification System
FAM — Functional Area Manager
FAR — Functional Area Representative
                                                               29


FGO — Field Grade Officer
FY — Fiscal Year
GCCS — Global Command and Control System
GCJFC — Global Conventional Joint Force Coordination
GCJFC — Global Conventional Joint Force Coordinator (JS J31)
GFM — Global Force Management
GFMAP — Global Force Management Allocation Plan
GFMB — Global Force Management Board
GO — General Officer
GS — General Schedule
HAF — Headquarters, Air Force
HQ — Headquarters
IM — Information Management
IR — Incident Report
ISR — Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
JCRM — Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager
JCS — Joint Chiefs of Staff
JFM — Joint Force Managers
JFP — Joint Force Providers
JOP — Joint Operations Planning
JOPES — Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
JPOC — Joint Planning Orientation Course
JS — Joint Staff
JSAP — Joint Staff Action Process
JSE — JOPES/DCAPES Support Element
LNO — Liaison Officer
MAJCOM — Major Command
NIPRNET — Normal Internet Protocol Router Network
OC — Operations Center
OCDIR — Operations Center Directive
OCII — Operations Center Information Item
OD — Operations Director
OPLAN — Operation Plan
30


OPORD — Operations Order
OPREP — Operational Report
OPSEC — Operational Security
OPSO — Operations Officer
OT&E — Organize, Train and Equip
PDA — Personal Data Assistants
PDS — Protected Distribution System
PLANORD — Planning Order
PM/Mob — Partial Mobilization/Mobilization
POTUS — President of United States
PTDO — Prepare to Deploy Order
QRC — Quick Reaction Checklist
RC — Reserve Component
RFC — Request For Capability
RFF — Request For Forces
RFI — Request for Information
SecAF — Secretary of Air Force
SecDEF — Secretary of Defense
SIPRNET — Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SIPT — Scheduling Integrated Program Team
SIR — Secure Incident Report
SITREP — Situation Report
SME — Subject Matter Expert
S-OD — Senior Operations Director
STARS — Staff Training to Assure the Right Start
STE — Secure Telephone Equipment
TPFDD — Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data
TSC — Technical Support Cell
VTC — Video Teleconference
                                                                                                 31


                                          Attachment 2
                      OC FAR TRAINING CERTIFICATION MEMO


MEMORANDUM FOR A3O                                                           (date)
FROM: (your division)
SUBJ: OC Functional Area Representative (FAR) Training Certification for (Rank/Name, OC
Duty Position)


1. The following training events were completed prior to A3O OC FAR certification:


EVENT                                                                 DATE COMPLETED


ACC Staff Training to Assure the Right Start (STARS)                  __________________
ACC OC Familiarization Brief (Policies/Procedures)                    __________________
ACC OC Facilities Tour                                                __________________
GFM 101 Course                                                        __________________
Shadow Tour                                                           __________________


2. I have conducted an interview with this individual, laying out expectations and certify this
individual has completed all of the required OC training identified for the duty position specified
above and is authorized to provide a Division position for Force Provisioning within their area of
expertise.




                                                     //////Signed//////
                                             (YOUR DIV CHIEF’S NAME)
                                             Chief, (appropriate Division)
