BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                       AIR COMBAT COMMAND
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                                  INSTRUCTION 10-208
                                                                                                             3 JUNE 2008
                                                                                       &HUWLILHG&XUUHQW6HSWHPEHU
                                                                                                                Operations

                                                                                       CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS
                                                                                                (COOP) PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:           This publication is available digitally.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A3OP                                                                                   Certified by: HQ ACC/CC
                                                                                                    (Gen John D. W. Corley)
                                                                                                                   Pages: 22

This instruction implements portions of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness, 1 March
1997 and AFPD 10-8, Homeland Security, 1 October 2003. It describes procedures for implementing por-
tions of Presidential Decision Directive 67, Enduring Constitutional Government (ECG) and Continuity
of Government Operations, October 21, 1998; Department of Defense (DOD) Directive 3020.26, Defense
Continuity Program (DCP), 8 September 2004; DOD Directive 3020.36, National Security Emergency
Preparedness, 2 November 1988, DOD Instruction 3020.39 Integrated Continuity Planning for Defense
Intelligence, August 3, 2001, and guidance contained in Federal Preparedness Circular (FPC) 65, Federal
Executive Branch Continuity of Operations (COOP), 15 June 04. This AFI is applicable to Headquarters,
Air Combat Command, ACC Numbered Air Forces, and ACC Wings and requires they establish continu-
ity of operations (COOP) programs and publish COOP plans. This instruction provides guidance for
establishing programs to ensure continuity of Air Combat Command’s essential operations across a wide
range of potential emergencies. It does not apply to the Air National Guard Bureau (NGB) or Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members. Send comments and suggested improvements to this
instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to HQ ACC/
A3OP, 22 Rickenbacker Boulevard, Langley Air Force Base, 23665. Maintain records created as a result
of prescribed processes IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting
records managers as required. Waiver authority for this instruction or any portion herein is the HQ ACC/
A3 except where noted.

Chapter 1— ACC COOP PROGRAM POLICY AND GUIDANCE                                                                                  3
      1.1.   General Air Force Guidance. .....................................................................................   3
      1.2.   ACC COOP Program Guidance. ...............................................................................          3
      1.3.   ACC COOP Program Policy. .....................................................................................      4
      1.4.   ACC Organizational Responsibilities. ......................................................................         5
      1.5.   ACC Minimal Requirements for a COOP Program. .................................................                      6
2                                                                                                         ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


Chapter 2— ACC COOP PLAN PLANNING GUIDANCE                                                                                                     8
      2.1.    COOP Planning Factors. ............................................................................................              8
      2.2.    Elements of a Viable COOP Plan: .............................................................................                    8
      2.3.    Writing the COOP Plan. ............................................................................................             11
      2.4.    COOP Plan Operational Phases: ................................................................................                  12
      2.5.    Executing COOP Plans. .............................................................................................             13
      2.6.    Classifying COOP Plans. ...........................................................................................             13
Figure 2.1.   Classification Matrix. ................................................................................................         13
      2.7.    COOP Plan Review. ..................................................................................................            14

Chapter 3— HQ ACC OPERATIONS ORDER                                                                                                            15
      3.1.    Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   15
      3.2.    Applicability. .............................................................................................................    15
      3.3.    COOP Program Responsibilities. ..............................................................................                   15
      3.4.    Emergency Relocation Site POC. ..............................................................................                   17
      3.5.    Exercises and Training. ..............................................................................................          17

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               18
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                                    3


                                                Chapter 1

                        ACC COOP PROGRAM POLICY AND GUIDANCE

1.1. General Air Force Guidance. DODD 3020.26, Defense Continuity Program, defines Continuity of
Operations as an internal effort within each Branch of Government assuring the capability exists to con-
tinue essential functions across a wide range of potential emergencies, including natural or man-made
disasters, accidents, technological and/or attack-related emergencies. COOP involves continuity of DoD
mission essential functions (MEFs) through plans and capabilities governing command succession, emer-
gency authority delegation, safekeeping vital resources, facilities and records, and improvising or acquir-
ing the resources necessary to continue MEFs.
   1.1.1. All levels of organizations must be prepared to respond to a wide range of potential emergen-
   cies; however, the cause is immaterial as the result is still the same; potential loss of essential man-
   power and resources required to execute ACC’s assigned mission essential functions.
   1.1.2. An effective COOP program requires dynamic institutionalized business practices and a redun-
   dant command, control, communication, computer and intelligence (C4I) infrastructure that is robust
   enough to enable the commander to direct forces and timely affect the necessary actions required to
   achieve the organization’s mission essential functions. Additionally, appropriately trained personnel
   and data files are necessary to enable personnel to carry out necessary functions at the relocation site.

1.2. ACC COOP Program Guidance. A COOP program is the commander’s insurance policy for mis-
sion assurance. An effective COOP program will recognize risk to operations and provide a viable mitiga-
tion strategy. The principal building block of continuity of operations plan is a set of well defined and
understood MEFs which are those functions that must be uninterrupted or resumed rapidly after a disrup-
tion or risk mission failure. The goal of the COOP program is to identify an organization’s MEFs and
assure the availability of staff and equipment required to execute those MEFs with minimal interruption
in operations.
   1.2.1. The Air Force has a tiered COOP response framework focused on critical mission essential
   functions. However, 100 percent of mission capability does not need to be available immediately to
   respond to an emergency. ACC organizations must determine critical capabilities, high priority loca-
   tions, and percentage of the capability needed in a no-warning scenario to support Combatant Com-
   mander’s (COCOM’s) mission requirements. In addition, ACC directorates must identify which tasks
   enable or support critical missions and ensure an appropriate capability level is maintained over the
   time continuum. ACC subordinate organizations (C-NAFs, Centers, DRUs and Wings) must also have
   a COOP plan reflecting an acceptable level of mission resumption and reconstitution.
   1.2.2. For a COOP program to succeed, all programs designed to enhance mission effectiveness must
   adopt an integrated approach to apply the appropriate capabilities and/or controls against recognized
   risks. Success in meeting objectives requires a shift from risk aversion to risk management and
   accepting risk at the appropriate organizational level. A careful balance between risk mitigation
   through effective integration with the Critical Infrastructure Program (CIP), Emergency Action Plan
   (EAP), Counterterrorism (CT), Anti-terrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP), Information Assurance (IA),
   physical risks in the emergency management (EM) programs and other mission continuation pro-
   grams will guide each command organization to develop its best solution.
4                                                                              ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


    1.2.3. There will always be risk: no plan can cover every eventuality. Therefore, ACC organizations
    should apply a deliberate risk management process to determine which risks may be mitigated,
    accepted or transferred. HQ ACC and subordinate organizations will determine an appropriate bal-
    ance in mission risk, based on the Risk Management Process (see references) including an analysis of
    the mission, threats and causes. It must assess mission criticality, the degree to which mission delays
    can be tolerated, and the risk probability/severity to which the facility, people and the infrastructure
    are exposed. ACC risk management activities will focus toward these objectives: (1) eliminate the
    threat, (2) eliminate the vulnerability, (3) reduce the risk, and/or (4) reduce the exposure.
    1.2.4. The Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA) process provides an opportunity to
    evaluate the health and risk of each required capability while establishing priorities among capabili-
    ties. ACC will apply the CRRA construct to identify the capabilities and controls necessary to ensure
    mission continuation and decrease the risks identified in the deliberative risk management process.
    ACC will identify program overlaps and prioritize support to those requirements that most success-
    fully mitigate risk and ensure mission continuity.
    1.2.5. ACC’s COOP program will evaluate and prioritize every organization’s mission. Consider
    COOP in the initial risk assessment any time mission locations change and/or new construction is pro-
    posed to identify potential problems early in the process. COOP plans should address the deliberate
    risk management process and include applying controls identified to mitigate risk, including those
    from one’s Critical Infrastructure Program.
    1.2.6. Several options are available to ensure COOP capability while maintaining fiscal accountabil-
    ity: devolution of critical mission command and control to alternate locations which share similar
    Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
    (C4ISR) capability, creating dual-use facilities based on mission priorities, virtual C4ISR capability
    through secure portals or routinely diversifying the mission utilizing enhanced communication capa-
    bility to continue mission integration, and ensure computer and communication systems are aligned
    with SAF/XC systems architecture solutions.
    1.2.7. A COOP program must be flexible enough to provide risk mitigation and continuity of opera-
    tions through the full spectrum of contingencies. A COOP program is embedded into day-to-day
    activities as well as providing mission assurance following a significant event ranging from a local-
    ized emergency to a no-warning regional attack.

1.3. ACC COOP Program Policy. All major ACC organizational levels will incorporate and institution-
alize COOP concepts into relevant doctrine, policies, strategies, programs, budgets, training, exercises
and evaluation methods. For purposes of this instruction, the following are considered major organiza-
tional levels (HQ ACC, ACC directorates, C-NAFs, Centers, DRUs and Wings) and will develop and
publish a COOP plan. Relief from this requirement must be approved by the ACC/CV. Existing wing con-
tinuity plans may satisfy this requirement if written in accordance with para 2.2., see para 2.3.1.2. for for-
matting instructions.
    1.3.1. The aforementioned organizations will plan, budget and be prepared to execute applicable
    combatant commanders (COCOMs), Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) and Commander, Air Com-
    bat Command (COMACC) derived MEFs following disruptions to home station operations. Addition-
    ally, commanders will ensure forces are available to support civil authority requests for assistance and
    to prevent, protect against and respond to domestic security events.
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                               5


   1.3.2. ACC maintains continuity of operations with an integrated program designed to support the Air
   Force’s warfighting capability after a disaster or while under attack. The key elements necessary to
   maintain continuity and enhance decision-making are command and control, through organizing
   appropriate personnel, communication, computers and information. Continuity is achieved through
   robust participation in a COOP planning and training program with senior leader involvement across
   all command levels. The ACC continuity program enhances the Air Force’s support requirements in
   the continuity of government (COG) program.
   1.3.3. All ACC personnel, including assigned contractors, will know the necessary actions to accom-
   plish in case of an emergency. This may be as simple as to go home for dispersal or respond in more
   detail based on assigned responsibilities.

1.4. ACC Organizational Responsibilities.
   1.4.1. The Director of Air and Space Operations (ACC/A3) is the ACC senior official designated to
   manage, oversee and ensure readiness and compliance with the Air Force COOP program, policies
   and responsibilities.
      1.4.1.1. ACC/A3O is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for HQ ACC COOP policy.
          1.4.1.1.1. Appoints the Command’s COOP Program Manager.
          1.4.1.1.2. Manages the Command’s overall COOP program.
          1.4.1.1.3. Publishes ACCI 10-208 establishing overall ACC COOP guidance.
          1.4.1.1.4. Provides clarification on policy and guidance to ACC organizations on COOP plan-
          ning and execution.
          1.4.1.1.5. Publishes the HQ ACC Operations Order 3-04 and the ACC/A3 Continuity of Oper-
          ations Plan.
          1.4.1.1.6. Provides the forum by which the ACC directors apprise the ACC/CC and ACC/CV
          on the risk to HQ Operations and recommended mitigation strategy.
          1.4.1.1.7. Serves as the POC for all COOP planning issues with HAF.
          1.4.1.1.8. Represents ACC at AF and DOD COOP conferences and meetings.
          1.4.1.1.9. Ensures ACC organizations develop and maintain the COOP plan.
      1.4.1.2. ACC/A5P is the OPR for HQ ACC COOP programming.
   1.4.2. ACC organizations (ACC directorates, C-NAFs, Centers, DRUs and Wings) will:
      1.4.2.1. Appoint a Lead COOP planner in writing and forward a copy of the appointment letter to
      ACC/A3O. The lead planner will:
          1.4.2.1.1. Represent their organization at command-level COOP meetings and conferences.
          1.4.2.1.2. Publish organization COOP plan.
          1.4.2.1.3. Provide guidance and training to organizational personnel on COOP planning and
          execution.
          1.4.2.1.4. Organize a COOP working group to facilitate COOP preparation and execution
          within their organization.
6                                                                            ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


       1.4.2.2. Incorporate and institutionalize COOP concepts into relevant doctrine, policies, strate-
       gies, programs, budgets, training, exercising and evaluation methods.
       1.4.2.3. Initiate and maintain a comprehensive and effective COOP program, adequately planned,
       programmed and budgeted to ensure mission essential functions are continued under any circum-
       stance, local or national, that threatens the Command’s ability to perform them.
       1.4.2.4. Ensure missions directly supporting the National Military Command System and combat-
       ant, sub-unified and Air Force component commands are covered in their organizations’ COOP
       programs so as to provide continuous uninterrupted support.
       1.4.2.5. Develop, coordinate and maintain COOP plans. Review annually and update as changes
       warrant.

1.5. ACC Minimal Requirements for a COOP Program.
    1.5.1. At a minimum, COOP programs will include the following elements:
       1.5.1.1. Program guidance.
       1.5.1.2. Plans and Procedures. Include essential functions, delegation of authority, orders of suc-
       cession, alternate operating facilities, interoperable communications, vital records and databases,
       and human capital.
       1.5.1.3. Essential functions.
          1.5.1.3.1. Identify and prioritize essential functions to delineate planning parameters.
          1.5.1.3.2. Critically analyze all functions and identify only those that are essential to mission
          effectiveness. Identifying too many or too few MEFs increases the risk of failure in a COOP
          situation. Using organization interdependencies will reduce the number of MEFs required.
       1.5.1.4. Delegation of Authority. Clearly established Delegations of Authority are vital to ensur-
       ing all personnel know who has authority to make key decisions. These will take effect when nor-
       mal channels of direction and control are disrupted and terminate when these channels are
       restored.
       1.5.1.5. Orders of Succession for key positions to include devolution of control.
       1.5.1.6. Alternate Operating Facilities.
          1.5.1.6.1. Identify and prepare alternate operating facilities for continuity of operations.
          1.5.1.6.2. Ensure site provides: required space and equipment, capability to perform MEFs,
          logistical support, and consideration for health, safety, and security of employees.
       1.5.1.7. Interoperable Communications. These must be tested quarterly to validate their viability.
       1.5.1.8. Vital Records and Databases. These must be readily accessible to personnel to accom-
       plish their MEFs.
          1.5.1.8.1. Organizations must identify, capture and protect all official electronic and physical
          records on office file plans. Prior to use, they must coordinate information systems and data-
          bases through the supporting records manager to the Command Records Manager to ensure
          the same management of electronic records as any legacy physical records. They must ensure
          all software, equipment and technical documentation used to perform MEFs are available to
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                                    7


        access records for their full life-cycles. Records custodians must mark vital records on file
        plans.
        1.5.1.8.2. Organizations must ensure network experts back-up all electronic records on a
        revolving 90- to 180-day basis. Records custodians must maintain a current copy of vital
        records at an off-site location. For vital electronic records, they maintain a weekly back-up at
        that location.
        1.5.1.8.3. The two minimum categories are:
            1.5.1.8.3.1. Emergency Operating Records.
            1.5.1.8.3.2. Legal Financial Records.
     1.5.1.9. Human Capital. This area includes dismissal or closure policies, status of non-emergency
     employees, sample communications, methods of communication, pay and benefit issues, and
     employee’s roles and responsibilities to include contractor personnel.
     1.5.1.10. Test, Training, and Exercises to assess and validate plans, policies and procedures for:
        1.5.1.10.1. Alert, notification and deployment if necessary.
            1.5.1.10.1.1. Test these three events annually and provide documentation of completion.
            1.5.1.10.1.2. Identify training requirements.
            1.5.1.10.1.3. Develop a Multi Year test training and Exercise plan and calendar.
        1.5.1.10.2. Data redundancy, fail-over computer applications and communications.
        1.5.1.10.3. Personnel readiness for relocation and performing functions. Ensure currency of
        knowledge and skills to carry out COOP MEFs.
        1.5.1.10.4. Validating other equipment necessary to perform essential functions.
        1.5.1.10.5. Issues resolution through an active after-action program.
        1.5.1.10.6. Logistics (including any COOP associated facilities).
        1.5.1.10.7. Funding and acquisition.
     1.5.1.11. Devolution of Control and direction - delineate how MEFs will be affected and contin-
     ued during increased threat situations or catastrophic emergencies.
     1.5.1.12. Reconstitution. Consider the impact that an event causing the unit to relocate would
     have on efforts to restore the organization back to normalcy. A balance is needed between the per-
     sonnel needed to support MEFs from the alternate location versus the manpower required to
     reconstitute full-up operations at home station.
8                                                                            ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


                                                Chapter 2

                            ACC COOP PLAN PLANNING GUIDANCE

2.1. COOP Planning Factors. While a COOP plan cannot provide for all possible events or execution
variables, develop as comprehensive a plan as possible. COOP plans should address the following plan-
ning factors:
    2.1.1. The plan should be flexible enough to allow a favorable response to any situation, disaster or
    hostile attack that could occur with or without warning, during or after duty hours, and provide for
    continuity staffs’ alert, notification and movement. Be prepared to respond so as to execute mission
    essential functions during the crisis and reconstitution phases of operations.
    2.1.2. Identify and prioritize mission essential functions. Determine which functions can be deferred
    until restoration can be achieved as not all functions an organization performs are mission essential.
    2.1.3. Delineate delegation of authority and order of succession for key positions such that organiza-
    tion MEFs can be successfully executed. Coordinate order of succession with the Judge Advocate
    General’s office for legal sufficiency.
    2.1.4. Designate alternate headquarters, emergency relocation teams (ERT), and staff at each com-
    mand level, down to the lowest level necessary to ensure critical MEFs continue.
    2.1.5. Ensure relocation sites have the means to store and/or access the vital records and documents,
    materiel, and databases required to execute organization MEFs.
    2.1.6. Coordinate with other base tenants (including non-ACC organizations) and the host base to
    prevent overlapping or conflicting plans, relocation sites, or other support issues.
    2.1.7. Seek senior leader guidance to establish the operational risk threshold for the organization.
    Risk must be mitigated through the COOP plan or accepted by the commander.
    2.1.8. Develop training, testing and exercises to evaluate the continuity program and its plans. Include
    everything necessary for crisis response and MEF evaluation.
    2.1.9. During increased alerts, Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs) or actual threats, use COOP
    planning elements to maintain continuity of operations, to include relocating Operations Center
    Response Team members, battle staff personnel, or other emergency relocation teams.
    2.1.10. Integrate Operations Security (OPSEC) requirements into continuity planning and execution.
    Develop security classification guidance for each organization’s COOP program (See para 2.6.).
    2.1.11. Meet guidance contained in DODD 3020.26, Defense Continuity Program, AFPD 10-2,
    Readiness, AFPD 10-8, Homeland Security, AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, AFI 10-208, this
    Instruction, and organization war and emergency management (EM) plans. See Federal Preparedness
    Circular (FPC) 65, Federal Executive Branch Continuity of Operations (COOP), for additional plan-
    ning factors that may be adopted to create a viable plan.

2.2. Elements of a Viable COOP Plan:
    2.2.1. PLANS AND PROCEDURES. A COOP plan shall be developed and documented that, when
    implemented, will provide for continued performance of an organization’s MEFs under all circum-
    stances.
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                                   9


     2.2.1.1. Activation and Relocation
     2.2.1.2. Alternate Facility Operations
     2.2.1.3. Reconstitution (Termination and Return to Normal Operations)
  2.2.2. Mission Essential Functions. The identification and prioritization of MEFs is a prerequisite for
  an effective COOP plan because it establishes the planning parameters that drive agency efforts in all
  other planning and preparedness areas. Essential functions are those functions that enable agencies to
  provide vital missions, exercise C2 over assigned forces, maintain the safety and well being of
  assigned personnel to include contractors, and sustain the base infrastructure during an emergency.
     2.2.2.1. Determine which functions must be continued under all circumstances. When identifying
     essential functions, agencies must consider those functions that must continue with minimal dis-
     ruption or cannot be interrupted without compromising organization’s ability to perform the mis-
     sion. Agencies must be capable of sustaining these essential functions until normal business
     activities can resume or up to 30 days.
     2.2.2.2. Prioritize MEFs based on the criticality and time sensitivity of the function. To the extent
     possible, agencies should prioritize these functions against likely COOP triggers and scenarios.
     The prioritization of MEFs may require adjustment dependent on world events that initiated
     COOP activation.
     2.2.2.3. Establish staffing, resource requirements, and any other supporting activities needed to
     perform MEFs within 12 hours of COOP activation and until normal business activities can
     resume or up to 30 days. Develop a roster of personnel needed to accomplish the MEFs. COOP
     personnel must be fully equipped, properly trained, and possess the authority to perform MEFs.
         2.2.2.3.1. Determine the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities required for COOP opera-
         tions based on the organization MEFs. Individuals must have appropriate security clearances
         and Information Assurance training.
         2.2.2.3.2. Select the appropriate mix of personnel to satisfy the knowledge, skills, abilities,
         and security clearance requirements needed to perform essential functions. The organization
         should attempt to minimize the number of ERT personnel, but designation should ultimately
         be driven by the capability required to successfully accomplish organization MEFs.
  2.2.3. Delegation of Authority. To ensure rapid response to any emergency situation requiring COOP
  implementation, units should pre-delegate authorities for making policy determinations and other
  decisions at Headquarters, field levels, and other organizational locations, as appropriate. Clearly
  established delegations of authority are vital to ensuring all agency personnel know who has authority
  to make key decisions in a COOP situation. Generally, pre-determined delegations of authority will
  take effect when normal channels of direction and control are disrupted and will terminate when
  acceptable lines-of-communication are restored at the original site.
     2.2.3.1. Identify functions that must be accomplished during a COOP situation and delineate the
     limits to authority for personnel that will relocate to the emergency relocation site to execute orga-
     nization MEFs.
     2.2.3.2. Ensure that officials who might be expected to assume authority in a COOP situation are
     trained to carry out emergency duties. Training of these officials should be conducted at least
     annually.
10                                                                            ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


     2.2.4. Orders of Succession. Agencies are responsible for establishing, promulgating, and maintain-
     ing orders of succession to key positions. Such orders of succession are an essential part of agency
     COOP plans to ensure personnel know who has authority and responsibility if agency leadership is
     incapacitated or unavailable in a COOP situation. Standing orders must enable the ERT to manage and
     direct operations while remaining a viable part of the Department of Defense throughout any emer-
     gency.
        2.2.4.1. Establish an order of succession to key leadership positions. Coordinate order of succes-
        sion with the Judge Advocate General’s office for legal sufficiency.
        2.2.4.2. Revise order of succession as necessary and distribute revised versions promptly as
        changes occur. Consider designating OPR for updating and promulgating order of succession.
     2.2.5. Alternate Operations Facility(ies). All agencies must identify and prepare alternate operating
     facilities as part of their COOP plans, and prepare personnel for the possibility of an unannounced
     relocation of MEFs and/or COOP personnel to these facilities. Identifying and acquiring operating
     facilities should, at a minimum, include consideration of the following:
        2.2.5.1. Geographical location of the facility.
        2.2.5.2. Power, telecommunications and internet grids serving the facility.
        2.2.5.3. Performing a risk assessment of the relocation facility.
        2.2.5.4. Ensuring the availability of necessary logistics and infrastructure so that the organization
        can continue to perform their MEFs during an emergency from the alternate location.
        2.2.5.5. Reducing or mitigating disruptions to relocated or transferred operations.
        2.2.5.6. Safety and security of relocated personnel.
        2.2.5.7. Achieving a timely and orderly recovery from an emergency and resuming full and nor-
        mal operations.
     2.2.6. Interoperable Communications. The ability of an agency to execute MEFs at its alternate oper-
     ating facilities is dependent upon the identification, availability, and redundancy of critical communi-
     cations and information technology (IT) systems. The IT solution must allow the ERT to maintain
     connectivity between key government leadership, internal elements, other agencies, critical custom-
     ers, and the public (e.g. secure and non-secure phone, video conferencing, fax, and messaging capabil-
     ities, etc.) during crisis, disasters, or wartime conditions. All necessary and required communications
     and IT capabilities must be operational as soon as possible following COOP plan activation, but in all
     cases within 12 hours of notification.
     2.2.7. Vital Records and Databases. The COOP plan must account for the identification and protec-
     tion of vital records, systems, and data management software and equipment, to include: classified or
     other sensitive data, as applicable, items necessary to perform essential functions, and to reconstitute
     normal agency operations after the emergency. To the maximum extent possible, agencies should
     pre-position and update, on a regular basis, duplicate records or backup electronic files.
        2.2.7.1. Emergency Operating Records. These include records and databases essential to the con-
        tinued functioning or reconstitution of an agency during and after a COOP event.
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                                     11


       2.2.7.2. Legal and Financial Records. These include vital records critical to carrying out agency
       essential legal and financial functions and protecting the legal and financial rights of individuals
       directly affected by agency activities.

2.3. Writing the COOP Plan. Use a format that meets organization needs and addresses the planning
factors, risks and controls IAW this and other applicable instructions. Write your plan with sufficient
detail to provide clear guidance during the stresses of a disaster, but flexible enough to be adaptable to the
unforeseen. Use the following guidelines:
   2.3.1. Approved formats:
       2.3.1.1. OPlan format (see War & Mobilization Plan, Vol 1 (WMP-1), Basic Planning and
       AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance.)
       2.3.1.2. Combined within existing wing plans. Example may be the unit’s Survival, Recovery, and
       Reconstitution (SRR) plans. Such a plan would be titled "COOP/SRR- (organization designa-
       tion)."
   2.3.2. Concentrate initial efforts on successor survival, devolution of command, relocating key per-
   sonnel, reestablishing command and control, and operational and communication capabilities at the
   designated relocation site.
       2.3.2.1. Choose alternate sites within commuting distance for localized disasters; choose an emer-
       gency relocation site at a location far enough away from the host location to minimize its vulnera-
       bility to an area-wide, man-made or natural disaster. Force Protection and security considerations
       must be maintained if locating off a military installation.
       2.3.2.2. Organizations should have at least one predetermined local relocation site to continue
       MEFs with minimum delay or disruption. Take maximum advantage of existing compatible facil-
       ities, including co-location and/or “hot bunking” arrangements with other organizations, either
       on-base or at another nearby authorized facility. Be prepared to designate/occupy an ad hoc site if
       the predetermined site is unusable.
       2.3.2.3. Ensure essential command, control and communication systems are available at the relo-
       cation site and, if required, the emergency relocation site. List any required emergency communi-
       cations nodes. Describe communications procedures. Maintain all necessary files, documents,
       computer software and databases required to execute COOP plans for immediate Emergency
       Relocation Cell (ERC) use.
       2.3.2.4. Relocation facilities must be operational no later than 12 hours after activation, but orga-
       nizations may specify more stringent guidelines in their plans. Organizations must be able to sus-
       tain operations at their relocation for up to 30 days.
       2.3.2.5. Plan for at least part of your relocatees to work from home. A pandemic or other medical
       emergency could restrict or eliminate gatherings, and alternate site size restrictions could limit the
       number of workers.
       2.3.2.6. Identify critical requirements and procurement needs. Develop logistics plans to sustain
       operations at the emergency relocation site, if required.
       2.3.2.7. Coordinate with the host base all support requirements they would be tasked to provide
       IAW host-tenant agreements.
12                                                                                ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


     2.3.3. Ensure applicable Emergency Action Procedures and Force Protection Conditions will direct
     Operations Center Response Team members and/or battle staff personnel to consider COOP imple-
     mentation. Describe the procedures for advisories, alerts, and COOP plan execution.
     2.3.4. Describe organizational structure, command succession and delegation of authority to appro-
     priate staff.
     2.3.5. Identify any higher headquarters reporting requirements. Refer to AFI 10-206, Operational
     Reporting.
     2.3.6. Describe possible shortfalls and limiting factors, and periodically report readiness levels to the
     unit commander.
     2.3.7. Include contact information, such as telephone numbers of alternate facilities and ERT notifi-
     cation methods and procedures.
     2.3.8. Establish training requirements and procedures to train or identify qualified personnel to fill
     COOP positions critical to maintaining command and control during emergencies, including the ERT
     and the reconstitution team.
     2.3.9. Each major subordinate organization (HQ ACC/directorate, C-NAF and wing) within ACC
     must have a Continuity Plan that details their MEFs and the personnel and equipment required to per-
     form them in the event their host base becomes unusable. These plans will:
         2.3.9.1. Contain directorate/C-NAF/wing-specific details that complement the headquarters over-
         all plan, and list mission essential documents and equipment. Ensure both documents and equip-
         ment are readily available or can be transported to the relocation and/or alternate site. Establish
         personnel manning requirements and procedures to ensure sufficient, qualified personnel are
         available throughout the duration of the emergency.
         2.3.9.2. The Continuity Plan requirement for wings may be met with existing emergency opera-
         tions plans at the commander’s option.
     2.3.10. Each organization will provide HQ ACC/A3O with a current electronic copy of the organiza-
     tion’s COOP Plan.

2.4. COOP Plan Operational Phases:
     2.4.1. Normal (steady state) operations phase. Maintain COOP preparedness to ensure the emergency
     relocation site (ERS) readiness, and personnel availability and accountability. As the likelihood of
     COOP execution increases, whether by natural disaster or attack, begin to plan for or actually estab-
     lish an initial operating capability for critical missions at a relocation site before the event occurs. This
     could also include sending non-essential personnel home as their dispersal location.
     2.4.2. Local area relocation phase. Focus on previously identified MEFs and other essential activities.
     Organizations should provide C2 agencies manpower, equipment, and capability status at alternate
     location(s). Refer to AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting for reporting requirements. Address com-
     mand staff restoration, capabilities, and functions as time and resources permit.
     2.4.3. Emergency Relocation Site Activation and relocation phase (0-12 hours). Give priority to sup-
     porting military operations, maintaining C4ISR functions, transferring personnel and computer data/
     applications necessary to support operations, transferring/reestablishing command post and Operation
     Center operations, personnel accountability, and damage assessment. When requested, plan on pro-
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                                 13


   viding defense support to civil (DSCA) authorities, to include law and order restoration. Commanders
   will designate other ACC bases as ERSs to allow the continuity of the unit’s MEFs when a cata-
   strophic event makes continuing operations at the host base infeasible.
   2.4.4. Reconstitution phase. The COOP reconstitution phase will focus on mission accomplishment
   versus facility recovery. Plans should reflect that relocation and reconstitution activities may occur
   simultaneously.
   2.4.5. Return to normal operations phase. Begin implementing plans to resume normal operations.
   Supervise an orderly return to the normal operating facilities, or movement to another facility, tempo-
   rary or permanent. Maintain communication with C2 agencies during transition and report mission
   manpower and capability.

2.5. Executing COOP Plans. Take the following actions if an emergency does or might require execut-
ing COOP plans.
   2.5.1. Be prepared to activate the emergency relocation site with or without warning, during or after
   duty hours consistent with your pre-planned “trigger” event(s), including FPCONs.
   2.5.2. If the organization’s primary facility becomes unusable, the emergency relocation site should
   assume responsibilities automatically or as quickly as possible in a no-warning situation. Report these
   actions to HQ ACC, the Air Force Operations Center or, if activated, the Air Force Emergency Oper-
   ations Center IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting.
   2.5.3. Monitor the HQ status and be ready to assume your support responsibilities if your facility is
   designated as the ACC Headquarters ERS.

2.6. Classifying COOP Plans. Individual plans in their entirety are normally classified SECRET, based
on the organization mission criticality assessment. Exercise extreme caution when compiling information
in a COOP plan as all COOP-related information is sensitive. Individual unclassified items, when
grouped together, may reveal information that is classified. Some COOP plan sections, when not associ-
ated with COOP, may be FOUO at a minimum such as alert notification rosters, transportation modes, and
etc. Other plan sections, such as specific execution details, command devolution, specific unannounced
site location(s), and LIMFACs are classified SECRET as a minimum. Deconflict guidance from this
instruction with security guides from related programs; defer to the highest classification mandated.
Direct classification questions to ACC/A3O. Figure 2.1. provides a matrix for quick reference.

Figure 2.1. Classification Matrix.


      Subject Requiring Protection         Protection Required During:
                                             Planning Preparation Execution Reconstitution
      Concept of Operations                     S            S         S         S
      Date Operations Begin                      -            C             U             U
      Deployment Location                        S            S             U             -
      Residual Capabilities after Exec           -            -             -             S

   2.6.1. Relocation Sites:
14                                                                            ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


        2.6.1.1. HQ ACC emergency relocation site is SECRET.
        2.6.1.2. Information that does not reveal actual emergency relocation site locations, including
        nicknames if not associated with the site name/location, is FOUO at minimum.
        2.6.1.3. Facility descriptions, schematics or drawings if not associated with its supporting organi-
        zation are FOUO, at a minimum.
     2.6.2. COOP-related personnel information.
        2.6.2.1. Individual continuity relocation strength (by wing/directorate) and staff composition by
        location, when not associated with MEFs, is FOUO at a minimum. When combined to form
        strengths and composition for an entire organization (center/HQ), relocation strength can be clas-
        sified up to SECRET, depending on the most likely causative factor for COOP execution.
        2.6.2.2. Continuity alert rosters and relocation staff rosters are FOUO at a minimum (to protect
        Privacy Act information) if they don’t contain specifics as to location and roster function. Destroy
        old rosters using classified destruction procedures for OPSEC and Privacy Act reasons.
     2.6.3. Whether relocation and/or reconstitution sites have been or remain active is FOUO at a mini-
     mum, but unannounced sites remain classified if activation was the result of an attack versus a natural
     disaster or accident.
     2.6.4. Specific procedural details are classified up to SECRET depending on the most likely causative
     factor for COOP execution.
     2.6.5. Exercise, test and/or training material that does not reveal specific COOP-related objectives,
     plan deficiencies or segments being tested/exercised are FOUO at a minimum. Specifics relating to
     demonstrated capabilities and/or deficiencies are classified SECRET.
     2.6.6. Assessments/reports that reveal threats, vulnerabilities, weaknesses, or security issues with any
     portion of a COOP plan or associated site; and any mitigation/correction plan are classified SECRET
     at a minimum.

2.7. COOP Plan Review. Review your COOP plan annually, and update as required to ensure it can be
executed immediately.
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                                15


                                               Chapter 3

                                  HQ ACC OPERATIONS ORDER

3.1. Introduction. The HQ Operations Order and organizational COOP plans, in total, will provide con-
tinuity for identified MEFs during conditions when normal operations have been impaired or made
impossible. This chapter tasks ACC organizations to plan for developing mission assurance strategies. Air
Staff guidance addresses both relocation (within commuting distance) and dispersal (beyond commuting
distance) to cover events that may affect operations. Plans should be flexible enough to allow execution
whether initiated by an event that affects the entire base/region or is localized to a few buildings. For
required contents, see Chapter 2.

3.2. Applicability. This chapter applies to the following HQ ACC organizations:
   3.2.1. HQ ACC (Commander, Vice Commander, Director of Staff).
   3.2.2. HQ ACC A-Staff (HQ ACC//A1/A2/A3/A4/A5/A6/A7/A8/A9).
   3.2.3. HQ ACC Support Staff (HQ ACC//CG/CR/FM/HC/HO/IG/JA/PA/ST/SE/SG).
   3.2.4. HQ ACC Emergency Relocation Site (ERS).

3.3. COOP Program Responsibilities.
   3.3.1. The ACC Operations Division (HQ ACC/A3O) is designated the HQ ACC COOP program
   OPR and will:
       3.3.1.1. Appoint a Continuity of Operations Program Manager.
       3.3.1.2. Formulate guidance for developing viable organizational COOP programs to facilitate
       inter- and intra-command coordination as appropriate, and to oversee and assess the command’s
       COOP readiness status.
       3.3.1.3. Plan and publishe the ACC Ops Order 3-04 ACC Continuity of Operations.
       3.3.1.4. Establish and host the HQ ACC COOP Working Group.
           3.3.1.4.1. Any sub-working groups formed to manage individual COOP issues will report to
           the HQ ACC COOP Working Group.
           3.3.1.4.2. Task any organization in HQ ACC or command activity deemed necessary to
           accomplish the COOP mission.
       3.3.1.5. Ensure the completed COOP Plan meets all requirements set forth in the cognizant Air
       Force and ACC Instructions.
   3.3.2. HQ ACC directorates will:
       3.3.2.1. Appoint a representative to serve on the HQ ACC COOP Working Group. Notify HQ
       ACC/A3O in writing within one week of any appointment change.
       3.3.2.2. Designate directorate personnel to perform COOP duties.
   3.3.3. Directorate COOP POC Responsibilities.
       3.3.3.1. Represent the directorate at the HQ ACC COOP Working Group meetings.
16                                                                       ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


     3.3.3.2. Provide organization specific functional expertise and support to HQ ACC/A3O.
     3.3.3.3. Coordinate all COOP planning and execution activities throughout the directorate.
     3.3.3.4. Prepare and maintain directorate COOP Plans IAW Chapter 2. Plans must be reviewed
     annually. Send COOP updates to the ACC COOP Program Manager (ACC/A3OP).
     3.3.3.5. Develop/update directorates MEFs.
     3.3.3.6. Develop/update directorate-level strategies that support operations if HQ ACC is lost.
     3.3.3.7. Train directorate personnel on COOP expectations and duties.
     3.3.3.8. Exercise the directorate COOP plan annually.
     3.3.3.9. Document expenditures relating to COOP.
     3.3.3.10. Ensure directorate COOP alert notification procedures are effective.
        3.3.3.10.1. If applicable, provide guidance for directorate personnel who will telecommute.
        3.3.3.10.2. Provide guidance for directorate personnel who are not ERS members and are on
        standby.
     3.3.3.11. Maintain a directorate COOP program continuity book in both hard copy and electroni-
     cally. This ensures accessibility at the relocation site. At a minimum, the book will contain:
        3.3.3.11.1. A complete list of directorate MEFs.
        3.3.3.11.2. A current personnel roster with primary and alternate(s) against each authorized
        relocation position.
        3.3.3.11.3. Document data and equipment listings identifying items prepositioned at organiza-
        tion ERS; also items contained in organization emergency kits. Update these listings as
        changes occur.
        3.3.3.11.4. Copy of the HQ ACC Ops Order 3-04.
     3.3.3.12. Ensure organization manpower authorizations, assigned against each unit manpower
     document (UMD), can adequately maintain the organization’s functional requirements for a relo-
     cated or reconstituted ACC Headquarters. Identify personnel to support Op Order 3-04.
        3.3.3.12.1. Determine, from among the qualified personnel, those who are able to serve on the
        ERT. In doing so, consider extenuating circumstances such as medical conditions, family
        responsibilities, and other circumstances that may prevent an individual from serving effec-
        tively on the ERT.
        3.3.3.12.2. Ensure individuals designated as relocates are qualified to accomplish relocation
        duties. Supervisors of designated relocatees should familiarize themselves with their responsi-
        bilities: see AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force. Civilians must also refer to
        AFI 36-507 and know their responsibilities before accepting such a position. All primary and
        alternate relocatees must possess a clearance commensurate with their duties. Relocatees
        assigned to the relocated/reconstituted the Operations Center must possess a minimum
        SECRET clearance IAW ACCI 10-255.
     3.3.3.13. Ensure ACC/A3O has a current electronic copy of the directorate Continuity of Opera-
     tions Plan.
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                                  17


      3.3.3.14. Conduct an annual review of the directorate COOP program.
      3.3.3.15. Report COOP LIMFACs in any area to HQ ACC/A3O annually by 31 May. Detail man-
      ning shortfalls, document/data/equipment problems, workspace limitations, and any other prob-
      lem adversely affecting the directorate or HQ ACC continuity of operations. Classify in
      accordance with para. 2.4. of this instruction. Negative reports are required.

3.4. Emergency Relocation Site POC. Prepares and publishes a Supporting Plan that enables the Op
Order 3-04. Review annually; update whenever the situation changes. These plans will contain:
   3.4.1. Detailed procedures for executing the supported command MEFs under conditions outlined in
   AFI 10-208 and this Instruction.
   3.4.2. A roster with job descriptions for positions listed for the relocation team, to include necessary
   equipment, files, and software for each position. This listing should also contain the same information
   for the relocated directorate Operations Center Response Team cadre (primary and alternates), if
   applicable.
   3.4.3. A listing of common-use documents, data and equipment required to support emergency relo-
   cation and reconstitution missions for the directorate team as a whole, and instructions on how to
   access electronic versions from the relocation or reconstitution site.
   3.4.4. Organization-specific guidance on COOP alert and notification procedures (both duty hours
   and after duty hours), personnel actions for both relocatees and non-relocatees, and critical communi-
   cations links with organizations outside the relocation or reconstitution site.

3.5. Exercises and Training.
   3.5.1. HQ COOP exercises may be conducted either stand-alone or in conjunction with any suitable,
   larger scale exercise that satisfies COOP exercise requirements.
   3.5.2. HQ ACC will develop and maintain a training program, including basic training packages for
   designated directorate representatives. Training modules will only address the overall COOP pro-
   gram, not directorate functional expertise. All members of the Emergency Relocation Team, both
   relocatees and ERS staff augmentees, must maintain the knowledge and skills needed to perform their
   functional duties during an emergency.



                                               JOHN D. W. CORLEY, General, USAF
                                               Commander
18                                                                      ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, USC, Section 8013(g)
Executive Order 12656, Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities, 18 November 1988
Presidential Decision Directive 67, Enduring Constitutional Government and Continuity of Government
Operations, 21 October 1998 (This publication is classified Top Secret.)
DOD Implementor to PDD 67, 1998 (This publication is classified Top Secret)
Federal Preparedness Circular 65, Federal Executive Branch Continuity of Operations (COOP), 15 June
2004
DODD 3020.26, Defense Continuity Program, 8 September 2004
DODD 3020.26P, OSD Continuity of Operations Plan, 29 January 1997
DODD 3020.36, National Security Emergency Preparedness, 2 November 1988 and C1, 12 March 1993
DODD 3020.39, Integrated Continuity Planning for Defense Intelligence, 3 August 01
DODD 3020.40, Defense Critical Infrastructure Program, 19 August 2005
DODI5100.73, Major DoD Headquarters Activities, 1 December 2007
CJCSM OPORD 3-04, Continuity of Operations Plan for the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
AFDD 2-8, Command and Control, 16 February 2001
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 1 March 1997
ADPD 10-8, Homeland Security, 1 October 2003
AFPD 10-24, Air Force Critical Infrastructure Program, February 2006
AFPD 10-25, Full Spectrum Threat Response, 18 July 2002
AFPD 63-1, Capability-Based Acquisition System, 10 July 03
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 4 October 2004
AFI 10-208, Continuity of Operations (COOP) Planning, 24 October 2005
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 4 May 2005
AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development, 30 July 2004
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, 21 July 1994
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records.
AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                          19


HAF COOP OPORD 3-04 Continuity of Operations Plan, Headquarters, Department of the Air Force
(HQ USAF COOP), 11 September 04
AFTTP(I) 3-2.34, Risk Management, February 2001
War and Mobilization Plan, Volume 1 (WMP-1) Basic Planning, June 1999
The National Response Plan, December 2004
Defense Continuity Program Security Classification Guide, 15 December 2005 as with amendments
ACCI 10-255, CONTINGENCY ACTION TEAM (CAT), 17 February 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
C-NAF—Component-Numbered Air Force
C2—Command and Control
C4I—Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence
C4ISR—Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance
COCOM—Combatant Commander
CIP—Critical Infrastructure Program
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
COG—Continuity of Government
COOP—Continuity of Operations
CRRA—Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
DCP—Defense Continuity Program
DOD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DSCA—Defense Support of Civil Agencies
EAP—Emergency Action Plan
ERC/T—Emergency Relocation Cell/Team
ERS—Emergency Relocation Site
FPC—Federal Preparedness Circular
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
HAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force (Secretariat and Air Staff)
HQ USAF COOP—Headquarters United States Air Force Continuity of Operations
IA—Information Assurance
20                                                                           ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
MEF—Mission Essential Function
OCRC—Operation Center Response Cell
OPORD—Operations Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SRR—Survival, Recovery, and Reconstitution
UMD—Unit Manning Document

Terms
Command and Control (C2)—The authority that a commander in the Armed Forces lawfully exercises
over subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and responsibility for
effectively using available resources and planning the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating
and controlling military forces to accomplish assigned missions. It also includes responsibility for health,
welfare, morale and discipline of assigned personnel. Command and control operations represent the
execution direction of the commander’s warfighting intent. Command and control functions are
performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications, facilities and procedures
employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating and controlling forces and operations to
accomplish the mission
Command and Control Systems (C2 Systems)—The facilities, equipment, communications,
procedures, and personnel essential to a commander for planning, directing and controlling operations of
assigned forces pursuant to the mission assigned. For aerospace forces, this includes mission essential
technology elements and processes necessary to perform their assigned command and control functions.
Continuity of Government—A coordinated effort within each government branch to ensure the
capability to continue its minimum essential responsibilities in a catastrophic crisis. Continuity of
Government depends on effective continuity of operations plans and capabilities. DOD Continuity of
Government activities involve ensuring DOD MEF continuity via plans and procedures governing
succession to office; emergency delegations of authority (where permissible and in accordance with
applicable law); safekeeping vital resources, facilities and records; improvisation or emergency
acquisition of vital resources necessary for MEF performance; and the capability to relocate essential
personnel and functions to, and sustain MEF performance at alternate work site(s) until normal operations
can be resumed.
Continuity of Operations (COOP)—An internal effort within individual components of the Executive,
Legislative, and Judicial Branches of Government assuring the capability exists to continue uninterrupted
essential component functions across a wide range of potential emergencies, including localized acts of
nature, accidents, and technological and/or attack-related emergencies. COOP involves plans and
capabilities covering the same functional objectives of Continuity of Government, must be maintained at
ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008                                                                                   21


a high level of readiness, and be capable of implementation both with and without warning. COOP is not
only an integral part of Continuity of Government and Enduring Constitutional Government (ECG), but is
simply "good business practice" and part of the Department of Defense's fundamental mission as a
responsible and reliable public institution.
Crisis—An incident or situation involving a threat to the United States, its territories, citizens, military
forces, possessions, or vital interests that develops rapidly and creates a condition of such diplomatic,
economic, political, or military importance that commitment of U.S. military forces and resources is
contemplated to achieve national objectives.
Critical Infrastructure Program (CIP)—USAF CIP is a capability focused mission assurance program
that encompasses Air Force and non-AF owned assets and infrastructures (foreign and domestic), both
physical and cyber, that are essential to planning, mobilizing, deploying, executing and sustaining
military operations on a global basis, assuring their availability when required.
Defense Continuity Executive Steering Group (Continuity ESG)—Se nior re pr ese nt ati ve s from
designated OSD Components, Joint Staff, Military Services, and Defense Agencies that serve as the
"board of directors" for the DCP to provide guidance and oversight for DOD continuity-related activities,
while developing and implementing a DOD-wide continuity strategy for the twenty-first century threat
environment. The Continuity ESG also adjudicates functional disputes concerning the use of common
DOD continuity resources that support the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff.
Defense Continuity Program (DCP)—An integrated program comprised of defense policies, plans,
procedures, assets, and resources that ensures continuity of DOD Component MEF under all
circumstances, including crisis, attack, recovery, and reconstitution. It encompasses the DOD
Components performing Continuity of Operations, Continuity of Government, and Enduring
Constitutional Government functions across the spectrum of threats to continuity.
Enduring Constitutional Government (ECG)—A cooperative effort among the Executive, Legislative,
and Judicial Branches of Government, coordinated by the President, to preserve the capability to execute
constitutional responsibilities in a catastrophic crisis. ECG is the overarching goal; its objective is the
preservation of the constitutional framework under which the Nation is governed. ECG requires orderly
succession and appropriate transition of leadership, and integrated performance of essential functions by
all three Branches of Government.
Emergency Relocation Site (ERS)—The location that ACC will locate to in the event that Langley AFB
becomes unusable.
Information Assurance (IA)—Information operations that protect and defend information and
information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality and
non-repudiation. This includes providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating
protection, detection, and reaction capabilities.
Mission Essential Function (MEF)—The specified or implied tasks required to be performed by, or
derived from statute or Executive order, and those organizational activities that must be performed under
all circumstances to achieve DOD Component missions or responsibilities in a continuity threat or event.
Failure to perform or sustain these functions would significantly impact DOD ability to provide vital
services, or exercise authority, direction and control.
22                                                                           ACCI10-208 3 JUNE 2008


National Security Emergency—Any occurrence including, but not limited to, natural disaster, military
attack, technological failures, civil unrest, or other disruptive condition that seriously degrades or
threatens the national security of the United States.
Operation Center—Location from where the response cell performs force global force management
duties. A colonel will be designated as chief of the Operations Center Response Team at all times.
Operation Center Response Cell—Those individuals under the direction of the chief of the operations
center. These individuals will be determined by the chief of the operations center and generally will
consist of the following areas of responsibilities: Chief of the Operations Center, Operations Officer,
Information Manager, Function Area Mangers, JOPES Support Element, System Administrators.
Reconstitution—Restoration of Langley AFB after an area-wide catastrophe to a capability that allows
HQ ACC to reassume its mission essential functions.
Relocation—Transferring an organization’s ERS from their normal operations site to an alternate site
when the normal site is rendered unusable due to an attack or disaster.
Relocation Site—An organization’s local area site, on or off base, that can support the logistics and
communications necessary to continue an organization’s mission essential functions. Contrast with
reconstitution above.
Supported Commander—Has primary responsibility for all aspects of a task assigned by the Joint
Strategic Capabilities Plan or other joint operation planning authority. In joint operation planning, refers
to the commander who prepares operation plans or operation orders responding to CJCS requirements. In
the support command relationship context, the commander who receives assistance from another
commander's force or capabilities and who ensures that the supporting commander understands the
assistance required. See also supporting commander.
Supporting Commander—Provides augmentation forces or other support to a supported commander or
who develops a supporting plan. Includes the designated combatant commands and Defense agencies as
appropriate. In a support command relationship context, the commander who aids, protects, complements
or sustains another commander's force, and who provides the assistance required by the supported
commander. See also supported commander.
