BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                              64-101

                                                                                                                      6 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                                                              Contracting

                                                                  CONTRACTOR VISITS AND MANAGEMENT
                                                                           OF CONTRACTOR RELATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: A copy of this publication can be found digitally at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ ACC/JA                                                                         Certified by: HQ ACC/JA (Brig Gen
                                                                                                      Christopher F. Burne)
                                                                                                                  Pages: 30




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 64-1, The Contracting System.
It sets forth responsibilities and procedures for arranging and monitoring official visits by
contractors to general officers and other personnel in Headquarters Air Combat Command (HQ
ACC) and visits by ACC personnel to contractor facilities. It also establishes rules on
government and contractor personnel relations in HQ ACC. This publication applies to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and individual Reservists and Air National Guard Units
assigned to ACC. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Record Disposition Schedule (RDS). This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.




SECTION A—RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                               2
       1.     Overview. ..............................................................................................................   2
 2                                                                                             ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


        2.     Specific Responsibilities. ......................................................................................             3

SECTION B—RULES FOR CONTRACTOR VISITS                                                                                                        4
        3.     General. .................................................................................................................    4
        4.     Visits by Retired Senior DoD Personnel. ...........................................................                           4
        5.     Contractor Visits and the Procurement Integrity Act (41 U. ..........................                                         5
        6.     Contractor Visits and Other Post-Government Employment Restrictions. ...                                                      6

SECTION C—PROCEDURES FOR VISITS FROM CONTRACTORS AND TO
          CONTRACTOR FACILITIES BY OFFICIALS                                                                                                 7
        7.     Contractor Visits to HQ ACC/CC, CV, ACC General Officers and Two-
               Letter Directors. ...................................................................................................         7
        8.     Contractor Visits to Other HQ ACC Staff Elements. .......................................                                     8
        9.     Government Personnel Visits to Contractor Facilities. ....................................                                    8

SECTION D—RULES AND PROHIBITIONS AGAINST DISCLOSURE OF
          GOVERNMENT INFORMATION                                                                                                             8
        10.    General. .................................................................................................................    8

SECTION E—CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL RELATIONS                                                                                                    10
        11.    General. .................................................................................................................   10
        12.    Gifts, Contractor Owned Facility and Equipment, Voluntary Services and
               Product Demonstrations. .....................................................................................                13
        13.    Training. ...............................................................................................................    14
        14.    Transportation and Travel Rules. ......................................................................                      15
        15.    Awards and Time Management. ........................................................................                         16
        16.    Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) Personnel. .                                                        16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              18

Attachment 2—CONTRACTOR VISIT REGISTRATION MEMORANDUM                                                                                       20

Attachment 3—DEMONSTRATION AGREEMENT - STATEMENT OF
             UNDERSTANDING                                                                                                                  21

Attachment 4—ACC CONTRACTORS IN THE WORKPLACE “DASH-1”                                                                                      23


Section A—RESPONSIBILITIES

1. Overview.
     1.1. Productive interactions between ACC personnel and industry partners are desirable and
     should be encouraged to ensure that the government understands the marketplace and can
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                         3


   award a contract or order for a required product or an effective solution at a reasonable price.
   Access to current market information is critical for ACC program managers as they define
   requirements and for contracting officers as they develop acquisition strategies, seek
   opportunities for small businesses, and negotiate contract terms. Our industry partners are
   often the best source of this information. Early, frequent, and clear communication between
   ACC and its current and potential suppliers helps promote common understanding of matters
   of mutual interest to include ACC’s short-term objectives and needs, and long-term goals.
   The full benefit of ACC’s relationship with industry partners can only be achieved by having
   fair and transparent dialogue in a manner which protects sensitive information, operations,
   sources, methods, and technologies.
   1.2. Contractor visits to general officers and other personnel in HQ ACC are a matter of
   command, congressional, and often public interest and must be evaluated to ensure visit
   arrangements are appropriate and managed in a courteous and professional manner. All ACC
   personnel who interact with contractors have an ethical responsibility to avoid even the
   appearance of impropriety when facilitating or arranging contractor visits. ACC’s interaction
   with industry can positively impact the ACC mission – but there are specific rules for such
   encounters. ACC personnel must be aware of these rules to avoid ethical missteps and
   procurement integrity violations.
   1.3. The requirements in this instruction govern contractor visits with ACC personnel. All
   HQ ACC organizations and personnel will comply with these rules and policies when
   processing requests for visits with contractors.
   1.4. Visits of HQ ACC personnel to contractor facilities are also a matter of broad interest.
   All such visits must be planned to ensure appropriate ethical rules are followed and to avoid
   any inappropriate appearance of partiality or endorsement.
   1.5. ACC’s reliance on contractor personnel to perform its mission makes it imperative that
   all HQ ACC personnel recognize the important distinctions between government employees
   and contractor personnel. This instruction sets out those distinctions.
   1.6. In addition to contractor visits, this instruction also applies to other information
   exchanges with individuals and entities who are not part of the United States Government
   concerning matters which relate to potential, pending, or ongoing procurements as well as
   operational metrics and any other non-public information which may be used to measure or
   define government requirements in present or future procurements. Such information
   exchanges include, but are not limited to: documentary correspondence, e-mail and other
   electronic correspondence, telephone conversations and video-teleconferences.
2. Specific Responsibilities.
   2.1. HQ ACC/Acquisition Management Integration Center (AMIC) is the process owner
   managing the HQ ACC Contractor Visit Program.
   2.2. HQ ACC/AMIC will work closely with ACC/CCE, CVE, and DS staff to determine
   appropriate host directorate or special staff agency, identified as Visit OPR, for any
   contractor visits to the ACC command section. The Visit OPR will be responsible for
   coordinating the contractor visit. Visit OPR will be responsible for all administrative
   planning for the visit, to include escort and similar host responsibilities. HQ ACC/AMIC
 4                                                                ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


     will provide additional guidance, as required, on contractor visits with directorate general
     officers and directors assigned to HQ ACC.
     2.3. For all other contractor visits, the host directorate or special staff agency executive
     officers are the Visit OPRs for scheduling, coordinating, and planning contractor visits within
     their directorate (e.g., visit with directorate deputies and their divisions).
     2.4. The Visit OPR responsible for a particular contractor visit will review the AMIC
     provided list of contractors approved to visit HQ ACC. If the requesting contractor’s name is
     not listed, the Visit OPR will refer them to the AMIC for assistance. The purpose for AMIC
     preapproval is to ensure the subject matter of the proposed briefing or content discussed
     during the visit do not adversely affect ongoing source selections or result in a perception
     of preferential treatment or favoritism.
     2.5. Contractors who desire to visit HQ ACC are required to register with AMIC.
     Registration consists of signing a memorandum (see Attachment 2) and submitting it to
     AMIC. The purpose of the registration is for contractors to acknowledge that they had an
     opportunity to review and will comply with the rules for contractor visits in this instruction.
     AMIC will compile a list of registered contractors (‘contract visit registration list’) and make
     the list available for Visit POCs to review when a visit request occurs. Registration is valid
     for a period of 24 months (‘registration period’). AMIC will maintain the registration list;
     however, it is the contractor’s responsibility to ensure they re-register with AMIC at the end
     of the registration period as necessary.
     2.6. The Visit OPR will ensure contractor requests to conduct a product or concept
     demonstration are submitted using the ACC Demonstration Agreement – Statement of
     Understanding (see Attachment 3, Table A3.1). See paragraph 12.3 for additional
     guidance.
     2.7. HQ ACC/AMIC is the initial POC (“gatekeeper”) to which other HQ ACC staff can
     refer third parties when private parties inquire about information concerning requirements,
     acquisitions (potential, pending or in-progress), or operational metrics which relate to present
     or future requirements. In such situations, HQ ACC/AMIC will ordinarily provide the third
     party with the contact information for the responsible contracting or acquisition program
     office, or other appropriate OPR. HQ ACC/AMIC is also the POC for receiving unsolicited
     proposals.
     2.8. HQ ACC/JAQ provides legal advice concerning the propriety of contractor visits and
     queries for acquisition related information to affected ACC organizations.

Section B—RULES FOR CONTRACTOR VISITS

3. General. Former Department of Defense (DoD) employees (retired or separated, military or
civilian) often gain employment with contractors who seek to do business with HQ ACC.
Typically, these former employees will seek an audience with directors or above on the HQ ACC
staff to establish relationships or facilitate an exchange of information. HQ ACC personnel must
know and adhere to DoD ethical guidelines when a contractor visit request is received.
4. Visits by Retired Senior DoD Personnel.
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                         5


   4.1. Personal Visits. Retired DoD officials who visit HQ ACC activities for purely personal
   reasons should be accorded billeting and other privileges and courtesies authorized by law
   and regulation as commensurate with the retiree’s status.
   4.2. Representing Contractors. As with personal visits, retired DoD officials visiting HQ
   ACC activities to conduct business on behalf of any Air Force or Department of Defense
   contractor may be accorded billeting and other privileges and courtesies authorized by law
   and regulation as commensurate with the retiree’s status. They should not, however, be
   given preferential access to government personnel or government information. In such cases,
   the individual must be treated in the same manner as any similarly situated representative
   who is not a retired DoD official. In other words, access to senior leadership and access to
   information that has not been publicly released may be provided only to the extent similarly
   situated non-retiree representatives would receive such access and information. The guiding
   principle should always be to avoid even the appearance of impropriety, favoritism or unfair
   advantage.
   4.3. Representing Other Non-Federal Entities. A retired DoD official visiting ACC activities
   and installations on behalf of a Non-Federal Entity (NFE) other than a contractor (e.g., a
   professional association) must be treated in the same manner as any similar representative
   who is not a retired senior official. (However, they should, as with personal visits, be
   accorded billeting and other privileges and courtesies authorized by law and regulation as
   commensurate with the retiree’s status.) An NFE represented by a retired DoD official may
   be provided support for its events only in accordance with the requirements of DoD 5500.07-
   R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER); DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information
   Act Program; and AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, and only to the extent that
   support would be provided to a similar NFE represented by an individual who is not a retired
   senior official.
   4.4. Social Events. Retired DoD officials may be encountered at social events, conferences,
   or other events. Conversations during these encounters may turn to business matters between
   the Air Force and the contractors or other NFEs which these retired senior officials represent.
   ACC personnel must ensure that during these conversations they do not provide any
   information that would not be provided to other individuals representing similar contractors
   or NFEs who are not retired DoD officials.
5. Contractor Visits and the Procurement Integrity Act (41 U. S.C. Section 423).
   5.1. During the conduct of any federal agency procurement of property or services,
   competing contractors are prohibited, prior to the award of a contract, from knowingly
   soliciting or obtaining (directly or indirectly) any proprietary or source selection information
   regarding such procurement, from any officer or employee of an agency.
   5.2. One-Year Ban on Accepting Compensation from a Contractor (41 U.S.C. Section
   423(d), FAR 3.104-3(d)). A former government employee may not accept compensation
   from a contractor that has been awarded a contract, as an employee or consultant of the
   contractor, within 1 year after the former government employee:
      5.2.1. Served as the procuring contracting officer, the source selection authority, a
      member of the source selection evaluation board, or the chief of a financial or technical
      evaluation team on a contract in excess of $10,000,000 awarded to that contractor.
 6                                                                ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


        5.2.2. Served as the program manager, deputy program manager, or administrative
        contracting officer for a contract in excess of $10,000,000 awarded to that contractor.
        5.2.3. Personally made a decision to: (A) award a contract, subcontract, modification of a
        contract or subcontract, or a task order or delivery order in excess of $10,000,000 to that
        contractor; (B) establish overhead or other rates applicable to a contract or contracts for
        that contractor that are valued in excess of $10,000,000; (C) approve issuance of a
        contract payment or payments in excess of $10,000,000 to that contractor; or (D) pay or
        settle a claim in excess of $10,000,000 with that contractor.
        5.2.4. The prohibition does not apply to accepting compensation from any division or
        affiliate of a contractor that does not produce "the same or similar products or services"
        as the entity of the contractor that is responsible for the contract the employee was
        involved in (such as a commercial division of the contractor).
        5.2.5. Current and former government employees can request a legal opinion or “30-day
        letter” from HQ ACC/JAC on whether the one-year compensation ban applies to them
        with regard to any company.
     5.3. Refer all requests for contractor visits involving a potential violation of the Procurement
     Integrity Act to HQ ACC/JAQ for a legal review.
6. Contractor Visits and Other Post-Government Employment Restrictions. The JER, DoD
5500.07-R, paragraph 9-800, states that current DoD employees shall not knowingly deal, on
behalf of the government, with former DoD employees, if the former employee’s participation in
the transaction would violate any statute, or DoD directive, regulation, or policy. Thus,
government employees should not deal with a former employee if they believe that doing so
would violate any law or regulation. As a courtesy, contractors may be reminded of the potential
post-government employment restrictions which may apply to the visit and their responsibility to
adhere to any bans that apply. The following bans may potentially apply to a contractor visit:
     6.1. Lifetime Representation Ban (18 U.S.C. Section 207(a)(1)). Military officers and
     federal civilian employees who participated personally and substantially in a government
     contract or other particular matter are prohibited for life from representing the contractor (or
     any other third party) before the Air Force or any other federal agency, in connection with
     that contract or matter. The ban does not apply to enlisted personnel.
     6.2. Two-Year Representation Ban (18 U.S.C. Section 207(a)(2)). Military officers and
     federal civilian employees who had a contract or other particular matter under their official
     responsibility during their last year in the government may not, for two years, represent the
     contractor (or any other third party) before the Air Force or any federal agency, in connection
     with that contract or matter. The ban does not apply to enlisted personnel.
     6.3. “One-Year No Contact Rule” (18 U.S.C. Section 207(c)). Retired senior officials are
     prohibited from contacting any employee of their former agency on behalf of a third party
     within one year of their retirement in connection with any matter on which the third party
     seeks official action by the agency.
     6.4. One-Year Ban Regarding Foreign Entities (18 U.S.C. Section 207(f)). Flag and general
     officers and SES employees may not, for one year after leaving the government:
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                            7


     6.4.1. Represent a foreign government or foreign political party before any US
     government agency with intent to influence a decision by a US government agency.
     6.4.2. Aid or advise a foreign government or foreign political party with intent to
     influence a decision by a US government agency.
  6.5. Ban on Representation during Terminal Leave (18 U.S.C. Sections 203 and 205).
  Military officers and government civilian employees are prohibited from representing any
  person, company, or organization (other than the US) before the Air Force or any other
  federal agency. The ban does not apply to enlisted personnel.

Section C—PROCEDURES FOR VISITS FROM CONTRACTORS AND TO
CONTRACTOR FACILITIES BY OFFICIALS

7. Contractor Visits to HQ ACC/CC, CV, ACC General Officers and Two-Letter
Directors.
  7.1. Requests for contractor visits to General Officers and two-letter directors are usually
  first received by their administrative staff. These requests should be routed to the responsible
  Visit OPR as set forth in paragraph 2.2. and paragraph 2.3.
  7.2. Requests for strictly personal visits should be referred to the appropriate administrative
  staff for action. However, visits by consultants and/or retired DoD personnel seeking to
  introduce contractor personnel to HQ ACC/CC, CV and HQ ACC two-letter directors will
  not be considered personal visits. Handle such visits as contractor visits as described in this
  instruction.
  7.3. On receipt of a contractor visit request, the responsible Visit OPR will review the AMIC
  contractor visit registration list to ensure the pertinent contractor is registered. If the
  contractor is not registered, the Visit OPR will refer the contractor to AMIC for assistance.
  7.4. The Visit OPR will schedule the contractor visit with the appropriate administrative
  staff of the person being visited.
  7.5. Should the Visit OPR have concerns about the visit request, the appropriate ACC staff
  agency (HQ ACC/AMIC or HQ ACC/JAQ) shall be available to provide advice and
  assistance.
  7.6. In the event a contractor is visiting HQ ACC to discuss matters related to an existing
  contract with the Air Force or DoD, ACC staff shall be mindful to ensure that the contractor
  does not stray into topics that may involve a current or pending solicitation which is defined
  as being after the point when the sources sought notice to the public has been posted. If
  visiting contractor is a bidder or a potential bidder on a current or pending solicitation,
  discussions with the contractor shall not be held by individuals who are or may be on the
  source selection team. Direct these discussions to the contracting officer.
  7.7. AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, is the
  governing directive for foreign visitors to US military installations and defense contractor
  facilities. If the foreign official or contractor is visiting in support of a Foreign Military Sales
  Case or is representing their government, then a Foreign Visit Request (FVR) must be
  initiated through their respective embassy in Washington D.C. or through SAF/IAPD.
  Otherwise, foreign contractor visits fall under the purview of the National Industrial Security
 8                                                                ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


     Program (DoD 5220.22-M National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual)
     [NISPOM]. Contact ACC/IAS for assistance on questions or additional information.
     7.8. If the visiting team includes distinguished visitors, the Visit OPR will contact the
     protocol office (HQ ACC/DSP) for coordination.
     7.9. Prior to contractor visits to HQ ACC, the Visit OPR will make the necessary
     arrangements to facilitate contractor entry onto the base.
8. Contractor Visits to Other HQ ACC Staff Elements. For visits to HQ ACC staff elements
not otherwise falling under paragraph 7, the individual staff element, in accordance with the
guidance in this instruction, will process contractor visits.
9. Government Personnel Visits to Contractor Facilities. An invitation from a contractor to
an Air Force employee to visit the contractor’s facility should be managed consistent with the
guidance for contractor visits. Note: This provision does not apply to visits associated with a
current Air Force contract with the host contractor. Invitations addressed to HQ ACC/CC, CV
and two-letter directors should be managed consistent with the guidance set out in paragraphs
7.1., 7.3., 7.4., 7.5., and 7.6. of this instruction. As part of the coordination with HQ
ACC/AMIC, the Visit OPR will ascertain whether the contractor has a government contract
management office in its facility. If it does, the proposed visit will also be coordinated with that
office to ensure the commander or director is apprised of any relevant issues the local contract
management office believes are relevant prior to the visit.

Section D—RULES AND PROHIBITIONS AGAINST DISCLOSURE OF GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION

10. General.
     10.1. Protected Information. Government employees must safeguard proprietary, source
     selection, classified, Privacy Act, and other sensitive and nonpublic information. Release of
     certain types of information to unauthorized contractor personnel to analyze, create charts
     and graphs, enter into databases, etc., could violate the Procurement Integrity Act, the Trade
     Secrets Act, the Privacy Act, or other laws or regulations and could subject the releaser to
     civil and/or criminal penalties and adverse personnel actions. In general, contractor
     employees should not participate in developing Government requirements or in evaluating
     offers in response to one. While they can be tasked to do these things under a contract, their
     company could be prohibited from competing for that particular requirement in any
     subsequent contract competition. Additionally, it may not be readily apparent what
     information may be available to contractors under the contract. It is important to be aware of
     protecting information of military value and to understand Privacy Act concerns about
     releasing information about individuals, and the protection of the day-to-day For Official Use
     Only (FOUO) information.
     10.2. Official Duties. Regardless of whether a specific restriction applies to limit or prohibit
     the dissemination of particular information, government employees are generally prohibited
     from using duty time or other government resources to answer questions or produce data for
     the benefit of private party requestors unless such tasks are part of their official duties or
     otherwise authorized by statute or regulation (5 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR)
     2635.705). This general prohibition does not preclude brief courtesy responses to provide
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                    9


  requestors with appropriate points of contact or to refer requestors to publicly available
  material.
  10.3. Prohibition Against Giving Preferential Treatment (5 CFR 2635.101(b)(8)).
  Government employees are prohibited from giving preferential treatment to any private
  individual or company. The preferred (and the legally prudent) method of disseminating
  information is to give all interested contractors the same information at the same time.
  10.4. Prohibition Against Disclosure of Non-Public Information (5 CFR 2635.703(a)).
  Employees will not disclose non-public information to further the private interests of any
  individual, company, or organization. Non-public information means information the
  employee gains by reason of federal employment, and he or she knows (or reasonably should
  know) has not been made available to the general public. All government contracts that
  authorize contractor employees to access Privacy Act material must contain the appropriate
  Privacy Act restriction clauses. (See Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 24).
  10.5. Prohibition Against Disclosure of Information Related to a Source Selection.
  Government employees will not disclose contractor bid or proposal information or source
  selection information. (See 41 U.S.C. 423(a), (f)(1), (f)(2) and Federal Acquisition
  Regulation (FAR) 3.104-4(a).) Note: This is information related to a specific source
  selection.
  10.6. Prohibition Against Disclosure of Advance Procurement Information. According to
  the FAR, a high level of business security must be maintained in order to preserve the
  integrity of the acquisition process (FAR 5.401(a)). According to FAR 5.401(b) and (c),
  government employees participating directly or indirectly in the acquisition process may not
  disclose:
     10.6.1. Information on plans that would provide undue or discriminatory advantage to
     private or personal interests.
     10.6.2. Information received in confidence from an offeror.
     10.6.3. Information otherwise requiring protection under the Joint Ethics Regulation,
     DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, or AFI 33-332,
     Air Force Privacy Act Program.
     10.6.4. Information pertaining to internal agency communications; for example,
     technical reviews, market research reports, acquisition strategy documents, etc.
  10.7. Prohibition against Release of Information about a Procurement before Solicitation is
  Issued. Information concerning proposed acquisitions will not be released outside the
  government before solicitation except for pre-solicitation notices in accordance with FAR
  14.205 or FAR 36.213-2, long-range acquisition estimates in accordance with FAR 5.404, or
  synopses in accordance with FAR 5.201. Within the government, such information will be
  restricted to those having a legitimate interest in the information (also known as ‘need to
  know’).? Releases of information will be made to all prospective offerors as nearly as
  possible at the same time, so one prospective offeror is not given an unfair advantage over
  another (FAR 14.211(a)).
     10.7.1. Sensitive Government Meetings. Government personnel must exercise great care
     against unintentional disclosure of information protected by the Procurement Integrity
 10                                                               ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


       Act and the Trade Secrets Act to a contractor employee. Government personnel must be
       aware of the identity and status of all participants at any meeting in which sensitive DoD
       information will be discussed and must ensure contractor personnel are allowed to attend
       the meeting only if they have a legitimate contractual purpose for attending and have
       signed the appropriate nondisclosure agreement.
       10.7.2. Non-disclosure Agreements. Government personnel must ensure that all
       contractor employees who are granted access to another contractor’s information in
       furtherance of a contract task must sign the appropriate non-disclosure agreements.
   10.8. Organizational Conflicts of Interest. Government personnel should guard against
   providing contractors access to non-public information that could give them an unfair
   advantage in a current or future competition for contract work, allowing contractor
   employees to unfairly set or influence government requirements, or allowing a contractor to
   evaluate its own performance or subcontractor’s performance. Contractors with unmitigated
   or unacceptable conflicts may be excluded from future contract competitions and may be
   subject to other administrative actions. (See FAR 9.5).
   10.9. Trade Secrets Act. The Trade Secrets Act states that, unless authorized by law, an
   employee may not publish or disclose any information that comes to him or her in the course
   of employment or official duties and that concerns or relates to the trade secrets, processes,
   operations, style of work, or apparatus, or to the identity, confidential statistical data, amount
   or source of any income, profits, losses, or expenditures of any person, firm, partnership,
   corporation, or association (18 U.S.C. Section 1905).
   10.10. Intelligence. Release of intelligence to contractors must be in compliance with AFI
   14-303, Release of Intelligence to US Contractors.
   10.11. Classified Material. If a visiting contractor proposes discussion of any classified
   material, the hosting office will take action to obtain and process a visit authorization letter
   (VAL) from the contractor’s security office in accordance with DoD 5220.22-M, National
   Industrial Security Program Operating Manual Supplement; see AFI 31-401, Information
   Security Program Management). Direct any questions concerning this requirement to HQ
   ACC/A7FI.
   10.12. Release of classified and unclassified information to foreign nationals or individuals
   representing foreign companies is governed by AFI 16-201.

Section E—CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL RELATIONS

11. General. Defense contractors have always been an element of the Air Force workforce.
However, it has become common in government offices for there to be a greater presence of
contractor employees working directly alongside government workers. Because Government
employees and contractor employees may work in close proximity and on similar issues as part
of the same team, the distinction between Government and contractor employees may blur. Even
though contractor and government employees may work closely on a particular project, the
distinction that they work for different bosses who may hold different interests clearly exists.
Recognition of these distinctions, coupled with mutual respect and professionalism, provide a
successful work environment. As discussed below, these differences create a unique relationship
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                     11


in the workplace. Being familiar with this information is essential for maintaining the
appropriate relationships with contractor employees.
   11.1. Contract. A contractor is awarded a contract to provide a product or service to an ACC
   organization. Employees of the contractor will carry out the tasks required under the
   contract. Whenever a contractor employee issue is discussed, there should be due
   consideration that he or she is an employee of the contractor, not the government. Any
   actions regarding the contract must be directed to the contracting officer.
      11.1.1. The contract defines the duties of the contractor and the payment to which the
      contractor is entitled as a result of fulfilling the requirements of the contract. The
      contracting officer is the point of contact for both the Government and the contractor for
      all matters arising under the contract.
      11.1.2. A person other than a contracting officer cannot: clarify, make, or infer legal
      interpretations on the scope or intent of the contract for the contractor; approve the
      contractor's procedures that change/differ from contract specifications; and/or direct or
      request any task not specifically provided/required in the contract.
      11.1.3. A contracting officer is designated by a written warrant which sets forth his or
      her authority to enter into agreements with contractors and obligate federal funds. No
      other Government employee, whether military or civilian, may enter into agreements or
      obligate federal funds with commercial entities with the limited exception of Government
      Purchase Cardholders and properly appointed Ordering Officers acting within their
      authority.
      11.1.4. An unauthorized commitment is created when a government employee, other than
      a contracting officer or a purchase cardholder, acts outside of the limits of his/her
      authority and obligates the Government. Unauthorized commitments can result when
      government personnel who are not authorized to obligate the government task a
      contractor to perform work or change the terms of a contract. Precaution should also be
      taken to educate and prevent a contractor, acting under apparent or implied authority,
      from obligating the Government by making a purchase.
          11.1.4.1. Ratifications are approvals, after the fact, of unauthorized commitments.
          The procedures and requirements for ratification are outlined at FAR 1.602-3.
          Ratifications may be exercised only when certain requirements are met. For example,
          supplies or services have been provided and accepted by the Government; the
          contracting officer determines the price to be fair and reasonable; and funds are
          available, and were available, at the time the unauthorized commitment was made. If
          any of these requirements are not met, an unauthorized commitment may not be
          ratified. As the authority to ratify is dependent upon the monetary value of the
          unauthorized commitment, contact HQ ACC/A7K for additional information.
          11.1.4.2. In some cases, approval to ratify an action will not be given and the
          employee could be held personally responsible for payment to the contractor or to the
          government for all costs of the unauthorized commitment. Whether or not ratification
          is possible, disciplinary action may result that could affect the employees’ personnel
          status. These type of adverse consequences can largely be avoided by ensuring that
12                                                             ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


         staff members understand and respect the difference between procurement authority
         and the chain of command.
     11.1.5. Contractor employees may be employed within an organization under a variety of
     contract vehicles. Examples include advisory and assistance contracts (e.g., CAAS),
     multiple award schedules issued by the General Services Administration (GSA), or
     engineering and technical support service contracts. Each of these contracts may be
     managed by various contracting offices; it is thus important to know who the correct
     point of contact is for the contractor employees in your work area. Additionally, ACC
     policy requires consultation with the Advisory and Assistance Services (A&AS) Program
     Manager, HQ ACC AMIC/DRA, prior to selecting a method for hiring a contractor to
     work in an organization.
     11.1.6. The contractor performs work based on the statement of work for which they
     have a written contract. It is very important that the statement of work be as clear and
     precise as possible. Contractors should not be tasked or requested to perform work over
     and above or different from the work they are contracted to do without appropriate
     coordination through the Contracting Officer Representative (COR)/Quality Assurance
     Evaluator (QAE) or other on-site Government representative and the contract’s
     contracting officer. Generally speaking, Government personnel should never directly
     task the daily activities of contractor employees.
  11.2. Personal Services vs. Non-personal Services. A personal services contract is
  characterized by the employer-employee relationship, and such employees are normally
  obtained by direct hire under competitive appointment or other procedures required by the
  civil service laws. Personal services contracts trigger certain rights and responsibilities,
  including payment of benefits, tax withholding and conflicts of interest statutes. Obtaining
  personal services by contract, rather than by direct hire, circumvents those laws unless
  Congress has specifically authorized acquisition of the services. An example of a personal
  service contract is where physicians are under contract to work at a military treatment facility
  (5 U.S.C. Section 3109 and FAR 37.104). A non-personal services contract is a contract
  under which the personnel providing the services are not subject to the supervision and
  control usually prevailing in relationships between the government and its employees, such
  as a contracted janitor.
     11.2.1. Under a non-personal services contract, the contractor dictates its employees’
     compensation, benefits and rewards. The government contracts for the contractor,
     specifies the job in a statement of work or task order, and limits reviews and approvals to
     the work products, not to the individual performance of contractor personnel.
     Government personnel must respect the employer-employee relationship between
     contractors and their employees and must not interfere with the contractor employee’s
     chain of command.
 11.3. Contractor personnel are not government employees and should not be treated like
 government employees. Do not use the terms “government” and “contractor” personnel
 interchangeably. Contractor personnel should be clearly identified with distinctive badges
 ensuring that government employees and members of the public understand their status. All
 contractor personnel attending meetings, answering Government telephones, and working in
 other situations in which their contractor status is not obvious to third parties are required to
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                         13


   identify themselves as such to avoid creating an impression in the minds of members of the
   public or Congress that they are Government officials. FAR 37.114.
   11.4. If practicable, office space should be arranged so as to clearly identify the contractor’s
   work area. For example, provide the contractor with a separate office space or work area,
   including those within an Integrated Product Team (IPT) location. This will assist in
   avoiding any appearance of a personal service relationship between government employees
   and contractor personnel.
   11.5. Contractor official e-mail accounts should include “CTR” as “Personnel Type” in their
   Simple Mail Transport Protocol (SMTP) address in the Global Address List (GAL).
   Contractor identification should also extend to voice mail.
   11.6. Government personnel must be aware of potential issues raised when contractor work
   products are created in the government workplace, e.g., intellectual property rights. The
   terms of the specific contract will determine the contractor’s rights. Any questions should be
   directed to the contracting officer.
   11.7. If contractor personnel are suspected of violating the law (including, but not limited to,
   Procurement Integrity statutes and regulations), Government personnel must notify their
   chain of command and the contracting officer.
   11.8. Government personnel must be sensitive to and avoid inappropriate appearances
   created by close relationships between government employees and contractor personnel.
   Government personnel should consult with the Ethics Advisor at HQ ACC/JAC in resolving
   any questionable inappropriate relationships.
   11.9. Government personnel must maintain close contact with on-site contractor personnel in
   order to accurately assess performance/progress. However, only the contractor’s task leader
   may assign tasks to individual contractor personnel.
   11.10. Government personnel may not require contractor personnel to perform “out of
   scope” work, personal services, or “inherently governmental functions.” The services that
   the contractor is required to provide through its personnel are set forth in the contract.
   11.11. Government personnel may not give an incumbent contractor an unfair competitive
   advantage by including its personnel in meetings to discuss aspects of a re-competition or by
   allowing the contractor’s personnel to overhear or gain access to planning information.
12. Gifts, Contractor Owned Facility and Equipment, Voluntary Services and Product
Demonstrations.
   12.1. Government personnel may not solicit or accept gifts from contractor personnel. As
   contractor employees working for the government, they are considered “prohibited sources”
   pursuant to paragraph 1-222 of the Joint Ethics Regulation (DoD 5500.07-R). This
   prohibition includes soliciting contractors and their personnel to provide or contribute to gifts
   such as a retirement gift for a government employee. In addition, government employees
   may not solicit Combined Federal Campaign (CFC) or Air Force Assistance (AFA)
   contributions from contractor personnel.
      12.1.1. Government personnel may not use contractor-owned facility and equipment
      unless it is in accordance with the terms of a contract, permitted under an applicable
      exception to the JER “gift” rule or a specific statute (e.g., 15 U.S.C. Section 3710a allows
 14                                                                  ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


         the government to use the resources of an industry partner under a Cooperative Research
         and Development Agreement (CRADA), see also AFI 61-302, para. 4.1). Consideration
         should be given to whether there is actual or perceived favoritism, preferential treatment,
         official endorsement, conflict of interest or impropriety, and whether it is in the best
         interest of the government. Before accepting any gift or use of facility and equipment
         from a contractor, whether from the company as an organization or from a specific
         contractor employee, consult with the Ethics Advisor at HQ ACC/JAC.
      12.2. Voluntary services are those services rendered without a prior contract for
      compensation or without an advance agreement that the service will be gratuitous. The
      government may not accept voluntary services except for emergencies involving the safety of
      human life or the protection of property. In particular, a contractor cannot be asked or
      allowed to begin working prior to the start of the contract. Acceptance of voluntary services
      could result in an unlawful augmentation of funds and a possible Anti-deficiency Act
      violation which could subject the responsible government individual to criminal liability
      and/or adverse personnel actions.
      12.3. Coordinate all offers from a contractor for product demonstrations with HQ
      ACC/AMIC. The offer must be formalized in writing with the unit’s servicing contracting
      office (See Attachment 3, Demonstration Agreement -Statement of Understanding). Note:
      This limitation does not apply to demonstrations of products produced through a government
      contract intended for other than marketing purposes. Product demonstrations may not be
      used as a subterfuge to obtain the use of products without charge. Do not agree to evaluate a
      contractor’s products as part of the vendor demonstration or as compensation for the free use
      of the product. Air Force sponsorship or appearance of such sponsorship or endorsement is
      prohibited.
13. Training. As a general rule, contractors are responsible for complying with the terms of a
contract which necessarily includes any specific knowledge or skills identified in either the scope
of work or under the personnel qualifications section of the contract. Companies are responsible
for the individual development, including training, of their employees. Meeting minimum
contract personnel qualification requirements is a contractor responsibility.
      13.1. Government-Provided Training. The government may provide training to contractor
      personnel only if the contract requires it or it does not create a conflict or give the appearance
      that the government is favoring a contractor. If the government considers these issues and
      determines that allowing contractor personnel to attend government training is appropriate,
      then an analysis must be done to ensure such expenditure does not violate a fiscal law or
      regulation. Generally, if the government has statutory authority to expend funds on training
      for non-government personnel, then it is a permitted activity. In most instances, there is no
      clear statutory authority. In those cases, the government must determine if training is a
      “necessary expense” under the relevant program appropriation (31 U.S.C. Section 1301(a)).
      This involves weighing the cost associated with training non-government personnel against
      the benefit gained by the government in support of the appropriation that will incur the
      expense. If it is determined that training is required, it should be included in the contract. A
      program manager should not authorize training for contractor personnel without contracting
      officer coordination and approval. Any questions in this area should be coordinated by the
      contracting officer with HQ ACC/JAQ and HQ ACC/FM.
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                        15


   13.2. Contractor-Provided Training. Accepting a gift of training from a contractor (a
   prohibited source) is generally prohibited under 5 CFR 2635, Subpart B. There are some
   statutory and regulatory exceptions to these prohibitions that may permit government
   employees to take advantage of free contractor training. When offered a gift of training, a
   government employee’s first step should be to contact the Ethics Adviser at HQ ACC/JAC.
   The Ethics Adviser will determine if a particular exception would permit the employee to
   accept the training. If an exception applies, the Ethics Adviser must then determine if any
   appearance issues would preclude accepting the gift. If the Ethics Adviser determines that an
   exception applies and no substantial appearance of a conflict of interest arises from accepting
   the gift, then the counselor may advise an employee that he or she may accept the gift of free
   training.
       13.2.1. Training provided to government employees by a contractor in accordance with a
       statement of work in a government contract or that is intended to facilitate the use of
       products or services that have been provided under a government contract is not
       considered to be a “gift.” In these instances, government employees may attend such
       training.
14. Transportation and Travel Rules. With the prevalence of workplaces shared by
government and contractor personnel, issues sometimes arise concerning the use of
transportation that is provided either by the government or by the contractor. There are statutes
and regulations concerning the use of government transportation and the use of contractor-
provided transportation. These rules may not be obvious and actions that may appear to be in the
best interests of the government and the contractor may violate these rules. The following are the
basic rules in this area. All questions in this area should be directed to HQ ACC/A4R.
   14.1. Official travel by Air Force employees must be funded by the federal government
   unless travel or transportation services have been accepted and processed in accordance with
   the Air Force’s gift acceptance procedures in AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air
   Force, and Chapter 4 of the Joint Ethics Regulation. Official duty travel expenses paid for
   by an outside (non-government) source in excess of $250 will be reported every six months
   on a Standard Form (SF) 326, Semiannual Report of Payments Accepted from a Non-Federal
   Source (41 C.F.R. § 304-6.4.).
   14.2. Personal travel or transportation service provided by a contractor is considered a gift to
   the employee from a prohibited source. It may only be accepted if one of the exceptions
   allowing the acceptance of a gift from a prohibited source applies or if the government
   employee pays fair market value for the transportation.
   14.3. It is permissible for a government employee and a contractor employee who are on
   official travel to share the cost of a taxi. Sharing the cost of the taxi ride is permissible
   because each traveler would pay his or her pro-rata share to the neutral provider of the
   transportation. The government employee should, however, consider whether sharing a taxi
   might constitute an appearance of a conflict of interest. For example, it is not advisable for a
   contracting officer in the midst of a source selection to share a taxi with an employee of one
   of the offerors.
   14.4. Air Force employees who are engaged in official travel in a vehicle paid for by the Air
   Force (including a GOV) may not permit contractor personnel to ride in the vehicle.
   However, Air Force employees may permit contractor personnel to share transportation when
 16                                                             ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


   traveling pursuant to an Advisory and Assistance Services (A&AS) contract that has a
   provision for direct reimbursement of the contractor for travel expenses.
   14.5. This section does not include all of the rules relating to gifts of goods and services and
   transportation and travel provided by a Contractor or the government. It is not a substitute
   for contracting advice, ethics advice, and/or legal advice. The rules in this area can be
   complex and application depends on the specific facts of a situation. Questions in this area
   should be directed to the Ethics Advisor at HQ ACC/JAC.
15. Awards and Time Management.
   15.1. Awards. Outside of the terms of a government contract, the government should not
   provide individual contractor employees with awards or recognition based upon performance
   of their duties. Contractor employees do not work for the government; they work for the
   contractor. Contractor employees receive their awards and performance incentives from their
   contract supervisor. If individual contractor personnel have performed exceptionally well or
   made a contribution which significantly exceeds the terms of the contract, the government
   may acknowledge that contribution by a “token of appreciation” (i.e., letter of appreciation or
   commander’s coin, etc.) to the individual’s company. This “token of appreciation” should be
   coordinated with the contracting officer before sending to the contractor – who can then
   present it to its contractor employee.
   15.2. Participation in Morale Building Events. Since contractor personnel are not
   government employees, the government cannot grant contractor personnel the same duty
   time activities as government employees. A contractor has a legal right to establish rules of
   conduct and attendance for its employees. Interfering with these rules may create a liability
   for which the contractor may claim compensation.
   15.3. The government may permit contractor personnel working on-site to attend
   social/morale and welfare events, when using time the government is not being charged for
   and when the government believes it would enhance performance. In these situations, it is
   the contracting officer who must make the determination as to whether the performance of
   contractor personnel would be enhanced by attending such a function. Regardless, the
   contractor personnel must make arrangements with their contractor supervisor for appropriate
   leave or other status under the contract. Care must also be taken neither to permit the
   contractor to subsidize the Air Force event, which would be a gift from a prohibited source,
   nor to allow government funds to pay for the morale and welfare of unauthorized persons.
   While it is commendable to work productively with contractors as part of a team,
   government employees have a responsibility to manage government resources carefully. The
   overarching ethical principle is to avoid any action that creates even an appearance of
   violating either the law or ethical standards.
16. Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) Personnel. An FFRDC
is a unique organization that assists the United States Air Force and other agencies with special
long-term scientific research and analysis, development and acquisition, and/or systems
engineering and integration needs that cannot be met as effectively with in-house or contractor
resources. In order to discharge their responsibilities, FFRDC personnel may have access,
beyond that which would be common in a typical contractual relationship, to government and
supplier data, including sensitive and proprietary data, and to government employees and
facilities. ACC personnel must ensure that tasks assigned to FFRDC personnel and the access
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                    17


granted to information, government employees and facilities, is consistent with the purpose and
mission of the FFRDC, as required to be set out in its sponsorship agreement, contract or other
legal instrument defining the relationship between the agency and the FFRDC. (See FAR
35.017).




                                           GILMARY M. HOSTAGE III, General, USAF
                                           Commander, Air Combat Command
 18                                                              ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), 28 February 2013
Title 18 U.S.C., Section 207, Restrictions, Graft, and Conflict of Interest, 29 October 1992
Title 18 U.S.C., Section 1905, Disclosure of Confidential Information Generally, 13 September
1994
Title 41 U.S.C., Section 423, Restrictions on Disclosing and Obtaining Contractor Bid or
Proposal Information or Source Section Information, 4 January 2011
5 CFR 2635, Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch, 7 August
1992
Office of Management and Budget Memorandum, “Myth-Busting”: Addressing Misconceptions
to Improve Communication with Industry during the Acquisition Process, February 2, 2011
DoD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual Supplement,
28 February 2006
DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, Incorporating Change 1,
24 April 2012
DoD 5500.07-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, 17 November 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 7 December 2006, Certified Current 1 March 2011
AFI 14-303, Release of Intelligence to US Contractors, 1 April 1999
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 1 December 2004
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, 26 November 2003
AFI 61-302, Cooperative Research and Development Agreements, 30 May 2001
Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFA—Air Force Assistance
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                  19


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMIC—Acquisition Management Integration Center
A&AS—Advisory and Assistance Services
CAAS—Combined Advisory and Assistance Services Contract
CFC—Combined Federal Campaign
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CTR—Contractor
DoD—Department of Defense
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FFRDC—Federally Funded Research and Development Center
FVR—Foreign Visit Request
GAL—Global Address List
GOV—Government Vehicle
GSA—Government Services Administration
HQ ACC—Headquarters Air Combat Command
IAW—In Accordance With
IPT—Integrated Product Team
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
NFE—Non-Federal Entity
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
SES—Senior Executive Service
SMTP—Simple Mail Transport Protocol
SSA—Source Selection Authority
U.S.C.—United States Code
VAL—Visit Authorization Letter
Terms
This instruction does not have any terms.
 20                                                              ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                CONTRACTOR VISIT REGISTRATION MEMORANDUM

From: (COMPANY NAME AND ADDRESS)

To: Headquarters Air Combat Command, Acquisition Management Integration Center

Subject: CONTRACTOR VISIT REGISTRATION REQUEST

1. (Company name) requests to register for inclusion on the list of contractors authorized to visit
Headquarters Air Combat Command.

2. (Company name) acknowledges the following:

       a. that AMIC has made available to (Company name) a copy of Air Combat Command
       Instruction 64-101, Contractor Visits and Management of Contractor Relations, for
       review;

       b. that officers, agents, and representatives of (Company name) understand and will
       abide by the applicable rules contained therein, and will not knowingly seek nor discuss
       information which may potentially provide (Company name) or any of its subsidiaries
       and affiliate companies an unfair advantage in a current or future government
       procurement.

3. Furthermore, (Company name) understands that this registration is valid for a period of 24
months and re-registration will be required at the end of a registration period. It is the
requestor’s responsibility to ensure registration is completed in a timely manner in order to avoid
delays in scheduling a visit request due to invalid or lapsed registration.




(Company Name) Representative                                Date
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                                         21


                                          Attachment 3
      DEMONSTRATION AGREEMENT - STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING

Table A3.1. Sample Demonstration Agreement – Statement of Understanding.
DEMONSTRATION AGREEMENT - STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING
HEADQUARTERS ACC (_____) DIVISION, DIRECTORATE OF (_____)
JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS (JBLE), VA

STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING

1. __________________________________, hereinafter called Vendor or Contractor, proposes,
of its own free will and initiative and without any cost or obligation to the Government, to
perform the following services for the sole purpose of evaluation:
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________

2. Contractor understands this evaluation by Government personnel is without monetary
consideration. The Government is not obligated for the cost of any materials, supplies, or labor
for this effort.

3. The results of the Government evaluation may not be used as an endorsement by the
Government of: (1) the services rendered; or (2) the Contractor performing the services.

4. The demonstration is for evaluation purposes only and the Government is not obligated at this
or at any future time to purchase the services or any similar services.

5. The services being demonstrated or evaluated by the Government shall not be altered or
modified without the Contractor's expressed consent.

6. The Contractor will provide a briefing on a plan to perform the evaluation. The briefing(s) will
be presented on (date(s) and time(s)) __________________________________________.

7. The Contractor will indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the U.S. Government from and
against any and all claims, demands, or suits including attorney's fees, arising out of, claimed on
account of, or in any manner predicated upon the loss of or damage to property of, or injuries or
death of any and all persons whatsoever, including the agents or employees of the Contractor,
which was in any manner caused by or attributed to this demonstration whether caused by the acts
or omissions of the Contractor, his agents, employees, or other third parties, while in, on, or about
the demonstration site, ___________________________, including defects or malfunction of the
products or equipment used by the Contractor in this demonstration.

8. Contractor is responsible for any damage to Government Property caused by the product or by
Contractor's employee in conjunction with this commercial demonstration.
 22                                                             ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013


9. A copy of Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 15.6, Unsolicited Proposals, will be
furnished under separate cover to the Vendor/Contractor.

10. Endorsements of Authorized Representatives:


_________________________________             HQ ACC_______________________
Name of Vendor/Contractor                     Name of AF Organization


_________________________________             _________________________________
Name/Title of Authorized Representative       Name/Title of Authorized Representative


_________________________________
_________________________________
_________________________________             _________________________________
Address (include city, state, and zip code)   Date/Signature of AF Organization Rep.


_________________________________
Date/Signature of Authorized Rep


APPROVED:


_________________________________
Name/Rank/Grade
Chief, XXXX Division
Directorate of XXXX
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013                                                              23


                                     Attachment 4
               ACC CONTRACTORS IN THE WORKPLACE “DASH-1”

A4.1. Reference handbook on workplace related issues involving contractors. Copies may be
obtained by request to ACC/JAQ.

Table A4.1. DASH-1.
24   ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013   25
26   ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013   27
28   ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013
ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013   29
30   ACCI64-101 6 AUGUST 2013
