BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                        32-1056

                                                                         16 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                       AIRFIELD PLANNING AND DESIGN


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/A7ZP                                                     Certified by: HQ ACC/A7
Supersedes: ACCI32-1056, 23 March                                   (Colonel Timothy A. Byers)
            2005                                                                     Pages: 12


This instruction implements policy guidance in AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. Use
this instruction with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning
and Design, AFI 32-7063, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Program and AFJPAM 32-
8013 Volumes I and II (FM 5-430-00-2), Planning and Design of Roads, Airfields, and Heliports
in the Theater of Operations. This ACCI outlines procedures for temporary and permanent
airfield waivers, land use in the clear zone/accident potential zone siting requests and waiver
reviews. It applies to all Air Combat Command (ACC) airfields, Numbered Air Forces (NAF)
and base agencies having responsibilities for coordinating, processing and managing these
processes. Section 8 applies to ACC NAF only. References providing additional information
are included in Attachment 1. This instruction does not apply to ACC-gained Air National
Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this document are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-
123 (to be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with
the      Air     Force       Records       Disposition    Schedule      (RDS)      located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims.          Contact supporting records managers as
required. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through channels to HQ ACC/A7ZP, 129 Andrews St, Langley AFB VA
23665-2769.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
establishes a requirement for newly assigned wing/installation commanders to submit an airfield
waiver review to the ACC Installations and Mission Support Directorate (HQ ACC/A7) within
 2                                                        ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010


90 days of accepting command and on a biennial cycle thereafter. It introduces the use of web-
based technologies (ACC Integrated Planning Community of Practice (CoP) and GeoBase) to
airfield planning and design processes. Additionally, it updates the A-series HQ ACC office
symbols involved with processing airfield waivers and siting requests. It also establishes ACC
policy for NAF to implement airfield and heliport planning and design criteria for contingency or
allied nation airfields (in-theater/area of responsibility) where they serve as the air component
and designated senior airfield authority for the Unified Combatant Command.
1. General Information. Facilities or structures in violation of airfield planning and design or
airspace imaginary surface criteria, jeopardize safe aircraft operations; airfield waivers are
therefore reserved for significant mission requirements, conditions and/or situations for which no
viable, practicable alternative that meets criteria exists. Land uses within the clear zones and
accident potential zones (on- and off-base) must be managed IAW the Air Installation
Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) program guidelines to protect the installation’s flying mission
and to encourage local municipalities to manage off-base development within these zones to
protect the public from the noise and safety impacts created by aircraft operations.
2. ACC Integrated Planning Community of Practice (CoP): The ACC Integrated Planning
CoP workspace provides a web-based collaborative environment for the ACC planning
community to share and disseminate information pertaining to airfield planning and design
processes. The Airfield Planning and Design folder within the ACC Integrated Planning CoP
contains sub-folders for wing-approved airfield construction and air show waivers, airfield
waiver requests requiring ACC Vice Commander (HQ ACC/CV) approval, and clear
zone/accident potential zone siting requests requiring HQ ACC/A7 approval for each ACC base.
The ACC Integrated Planning Branch (HQ ACC/A7ZP) manages content, view, upload and
membership privileges.
     2.1. A Civil Engineering (CE) representative from each ACC base (normally the community
     planner) will be assigned as a member and granted upload privileges for their respective
     base’s folders.
     2.2. To facilitate its use, ACC Airfield Operations Branch (HQ ACC/A3AO), ACC Aerial
     Events Scheduling Branch (HQ ACC/A3OA), ACC Standardization Branch (HQ
     ACC/A3TV), ACC Maintenance Policy Branch (HQ ACC/A4QM), ACC Air Traffic Control
     and Landing Systems (ATCALS) Branch (HQ ACC/A6OA), ACC Infrastructure Support
     Branch (HQ ACC/A7CI), ACC Physical Security Branch (HQ ACC/A7FS), ACC Flight
     Safety Branch (HQ ACC/SEF), and the ACC Ground Safety Branch (HQ ACC/SEG) will
     assign and maintain at least two (action officers) members.
3. Airfield Waiver Requests.
     3.1. Approval Authority: HQ ACC/CV is the approval authority for waivers of airfield and
     heliport planning and design criteria other than construction and air show waivers. This
     authority is conveyed in Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport
     Planning and Design, Paragraph A2.2.3. Each base will establish local procedures for
     processing waiver requests.
     3.2. Waiver Request Requirements. Waiver requests for permanent and temporary waivers,
     as defined in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph A2.2.2, must present compelling justification to
     violate criteria, and contain information that clearly demonstrates no viable, practicable
ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                       3


  alternative that meets criteria exists. Waiver requests must meet all requirements of UFC 3-
  260-01, Paragraphs A2.2.1 - A2.2.5, and A2.2.6.4. These requests must include:
     3.2.1. A complete description of the facility or condition requiring a waiver including,
     but not limited to, facility dimensions, construction materials, supporting equipment,
     utilities and appurtenances, height above ground level, facility use/contents, and number
     of occupants.
     3.2.2. Identification of all criteria that will be violated. Include the specific references
     from UFC 3-260-01 and location including distances from the runway, taxiway, apron or
     applicable regulated airfield clearance/imaginary surface.
     3.2.3. Waiver type - either permanent or temporary, as defined in UFC 3-260-01,
     Paragraph A2.2.2.
     3.2.4. For waivers classified as temporary as defined in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph
     A2.2.2, indicate the estimated start date of the violation and programming actions to be
     taken to eliminate the waived condition (include Airfield Obstruction Reduction Initiative
     (AORI) data to include project number, description, programmed fiscal year, estimated
     cost, and estimated completion date to eliminate the violation).
     3.2.5. A site plan that portrays all proposed facilities, utilities, infrastructure, and support
     equipment (including but not limited to concrete slabs, bollards, generators, air
     conditioning (AC) units, external fuel tanks) with respect to regulated airfield surfaces
     and imaginary surfaces. The site plan must be dimensioned or drawn to scale. It must
     also depict the ground elevation at the site and the runway or overrun surface elevation
     perpendicular to the site.
     3.2.6. A complete justification for the waiver including an explanation why all applicable
     criteria cannot be met.
     3.2.7. The results of an alternatives analysis.        Submit a summary of the analysis
     including, but not limited to, the following:
         3.2.7.1. Description of each alternative/site considered.
         3.2.7.2. Risks and benefits associated with each alternative.
         3.2.7.3. Reasons for selecting alternative that violates criteria over one that does not.
     3.2.8. The results of an operational risk analysis completed in accordance with AFI 90-
     901, Operational Risk Management and UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph A2.2.2.2.2. Normally
     the base Civil Engineer (CE) representative leads this effort with assistance and active
     participation of all installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraphs
     A2.2.2.2.1 and A2.2.6.4. The results shall include a description of all safety precautions
     and mitigative measures to be implemented to minimize the risks associated with the
     violation and may be recorded on ACC Form 167, ACC Operational Risk Management
     (ORM) Worksheet.         Examples include, but are not limited to, obstruction
     lighting/markings, NOTAMs, identification on the Airport Diagram published in the DoD
     Terminal Flight Information Publication (FLIP), and/or airfield restrictions published in
     the Base Airfield Operations Instruction (BAOI) and the Air Mobility Command (AMC)
     Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report (ASRR). Information and guidance on the
     Operational Risk Management process can be found on the ACC Chief of Safety (HQ
 4                                                        ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010


        ACC/SE) website at https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/se/ and at the USAF Risk Management
        Information System (RMIS) website at https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/ where there is an
        automated tool for generating an ORM analysis.
        3.2.9. Also include a copy of FAA Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed Construction or
        Alteration, if the violation requires FAA notification in accordance with UFC 3-260-01,
        Paragraph 1.2.2. Although the form may be submitted to the single-point FAA Express
        Processing Center via U.S. Postal Mail, the preferred method is via e-file. The e-filing
        process, new user registration, and mailing address are provided at
        https://oeaaa.faa.gov/oeaaaEXT/portal.jsp.
        3.2.10. Documentation showing the waiver request has been coordinated with all
        installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraphs A2.2.2.2.1 and A2.2.6.4.1,
        appropriate NAF Chief of Safety (SE), and approved for submission by the
        Wing/Installation Commander. Maintain airfield waiver documentation IAW the Records
        Disposition Schedule (RDS).
            3.2.10.1. Exemption: NAF coordination for Nellis AFB, a direct reporting unit.
     3.3. Waiver Request Submission.           Wing/Installation Commanders will ensure CES
     (normally the community planner) uploads a copy of each waiver request to their respective
     base’s Airfield Waiver Requests folder located on the ACC Integrated Planning Community
     of Practice for dissemination to HQ ACC/A7 prior to the design start or funding of the
     facility or condition violating criteria.
4. Airfield Construction Waivers.
     4.1. Approval Authority. The Wing/Installation Commander is the approval authority for
     approving temporary waivers for construction activities on the airfield. This authority is
     conveyed in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraphs A2.2.3.4 and A2.2.6.4.7. These waiver requests are
     prepared, coordinated and approved at the installation level. Each base will establish local
     procedures for processing and approving these types of waivers. Maintain construction
     waiver documentation IAW the RDS.
     4.2. Waiver Request Requirements. These waiver requests will include, at a minimum:
        4.2.1. All information required for a permanent/temporary waiver request, as specified in
        Paragraphs 3.2.1 - 3.2.8 (except 3.2.4) of this instruction.
        4.2.2. A safety plan based on the safety considerations and special safety requirements
        during construction outlined in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraphs, A15.6.3 and A15.6.7.
        4.2.3. Coordination with all installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraphs
        A2.2.2.2.1 and A2.2.6.4.1.
        4.2.4. A copy of the FAA Form 7460-1, submitted to the FAA in accordance with UFC
        3-260-01, Paragraph A2.2.6.4.7 and Paragraph 3.2.9 of this instruction.
     4.3. Approved Waiver Submission. Wing/Installation Commanders will ensure CES
     (normally the community planner) uploads a copy of each approved waiver package to their
     respective base’s Airfield Construction Waivers folder, located on the ACC Integrated
     Planning CoP, for dissemination to HQ ACC/A3AO, HQ ACC/A4QM, HQ ACC/A6OA, HQ
ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                      5


   ACC/A7ZP and HQ ACC/SEF IAW UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph 2.2.3.4.                      Include brief
   description of project in file name (i.e. Relocate BAK-12).
5. Air Show Waivers.
   5.1. Approval Authority. The Wing/Installation Commander is the approval authority for
   approving temporary waivers for air shows. This authority is conveyed in UFC 3-260-01,
   Paragraph A2.2.3.4. These waiver requests are prepared, coordinated, and approved at the
   installation level. Each base will establish local procedures for processing and approving
   these types of waivers. Maintain air show waiver documentation IAW the RDS.
   5.2. Waiver Request Requirements. These waiver requests will include, at a minimum:
      5.2.1. All information required for a permanent/temporary waiver request, as specified in
      Paragraphs 3.2.1 - 3.2.8 (except 3.2.4) of this instruction.
      5.2.2. Coordination with all installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraphs
      A2.2.2.2.1 and A2.2.6.4.1.
   5.3. Approved Waiver Submission. Wing/Installation Commanders will ensure CES
   (normally the community planner) uploads a copy of each approved waiver package to their
   respective base’s Air Show Waivers folder, located on the ACC Integrated Planning CoP, for
   dissemination to HQ ACC/A3OA, HQ ACC/A3AO, HQ ACC/A4QM, HQ ACC/A6OA and
   HQ ACC/SEF IAW UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph 2.2.3.4. Include the year of the air show in
   the file name (i.e. 2006 Air Power Over Hampton Roads).
6. Aircraft Parking Plans.
   6.1. Revisions to aircraft parking plans, (Base Comprehensive Plan (BCP) Map E9.1,
   Proposed Aircraft Parking Plan), do not require HQ ACC approval as long as no violations of
   airfield planning and design criteria result from their implementation. Maintain aircraft
   parking plan maps IAW the RDS.
   6.2. Violations of airfield planning and design criteria associated with implementation of
   aircraft parking plans require HQ waiver approval. Waiver requests must be submitted IAW
   requirements presented in Section 3, above.
7. Clear Zone/Accident Potential Zone Siting Requests.
   7.1. Approval Authority. HQ ACC/A7 siting approval is required to site a new use or
   facility within the Land Use Control Area of the 3000’ x 3000’ end of runway clear zone that
   violates AICUZ land use compatibility recommendations or guidance in AFI 32-7063, Air
   Installation Compatible Use Zone Program, Paragraph 5.2.2. Additionally, HQ ACC/A7
   siting approval is required to site a new use or facility within Accident Potential Zones I or II
   located on installation property, that violate (AICUZ) land use compatibility
   recommendations. These siting requests must include:
      7.1.1. A complete description of the facility or equipment being sited, including but not
      limited to, facility dimensions, height above ground level, facility use/contents, and
      number of occupants.
      7.1.2. Identification of all criteria that will be violated. Include the specific references
      from UFC 3-260-01.
 6                                                           ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010


        7.1.3. A site plan that portrays all proposed facilities, utilities, infrastructure, and support
        equipment (including but not limited to, concrete slabs, bollards, generators, AC units,
        external fuel tanks) in the clear zone with respect to the runway threshold, extended
        runway centerline, mandatory frangibility zone and applicable imaginary surfaces. The
        site plan must be dimensioned or drawn to scale.
        7.1.4. The results of an alternative analysis. Submit a summary of the analysis including,
        but not limited to, the following:
            7.1.4.1. Description of each alternative/site considered.
            7.1.4.2. Risks and benefits associated with each alternative.
            7.1.4.3. Reasons for selecting alternative that violates criteria over one that does not.
        7.1.5. The results of an operational risk analysis completed IAW AFI 90-901 and UFC 3-
        260-01, Paragraph A2.2.2.2.2. Normally the base CE representative leads this effort with
        assistance and active participation of all installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01,
        Paragraphs A2.2.2.2.1 and A2.2.6.4. The results shall include a description of all safety
        precautions and mitigative measures to be implemented to minimize the risks associated
        with the violation and may be recorded on ACC Form 167. Examples include, but are
        not limited to, obstruction lighting/markings, NOTAMs, identification on the Airport
        Diagram published in the DoD Terminal FLIP, and/or airfield restrictions published in
        the BAOI and AMC ASRR. ORM process information and guidance can be found on the
        HQ ACC/SE website at https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/se and at the USAF RMIS website at
        https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil where there is an automated tool for generating an ORM
        analysis.
        7.1.6. Documentation showing the siting request has been coordinated with all
        installation agencies identified in AFI 32-7063, Paragraphs 1.3.4.2 and approved for
        submission by the Wing/Installation Commander. Maintain site plan documentation
        IAW the RDS.
     7.2. Siting Request Submission. Wing/Installation Commanders will ensure CES (normally
     the community planner) uploads a copy of each siting request to their respective base’s Clear
     Zone and Accident Potential Zone Siting Requests folder located on the ACC Integrated
     Planning Community of Practice for dissemination to HQ ACC/A7 for processing.
8. Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design In-Theater/Area of Responsibility. NAF will
lead the development of an instruction for implementing airfield and heliport planning and
design criteria IAW UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph 1.2 and AFJPAM 32-8013 Volumes I and II (FM
5-430-00-2) for contingency or allied nation airfields where they serve as the air component and
designated as the senior airfield authority by their Unified Combatant Command.
9. Airfield Obstruction Reduction Initiative (AORI). All correctable violations of airfield
planning and design criteria, regardless of classification (waiver, exemption, permissible
deviation, or non-classified), must be programmed for elimination IAW HQ USAF AORI
guidance and identified in the wing’s AORI database. If the violation can not be corrected with
in-house resources, base CE must complete the design and the wing must prioritize the project
and aggressively pursue a funding authorization request to execute the required corrective action.
Pending corrective action of non-classified violations, the wing must conduct an operational risk
ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                     7


analysis to access the hazards and implement the necessary operational restrictions to mitigate
the risks and process a temporary airfield waiver request IAW UFC 3-260-01, Attachment 2 and
Paragraph 3 of this instruction. Maintain AORI database records IAW the RDS.
10. Training. The Civil Engineering Squadron (CES) staff personnel assigned airfield planning
and design responsibilities must complete the Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
(AFCESA) Airfield Criteria Course, version 2.0 computer-based training (CBT) course. They
should also make this CBT available to other installation agencies involved with the processing
and coordination of waiver requests, to include project managers for airfield construction
projects. The Airfield Criteria Course and other airfield planning and design resources are
available for download at the ACC/A7ZP Integrated Planning Dashboard on the AF Portal.
11. Airfield Waiver Reviews.
   11.1. Although ACC bases must conduct an annual operational risk management review of
   all HQ-approved permanent and temporary (non-permanent) airfield waivers, the wing is
   only required to submit a waiver review to HQ ACC/A7 within 90 days of a new
   Wing/Installation Commander accepting command and biennially thereafter. The review
   must validate a requirement for a waiver still exists and all appropriate safety precautions,
   mitigative measures and conditions of approval required by the waiver approval authority are
   being implemented. Waivers which are no longer required shall be cancelled. During the
   review, the GeoBase data stewards must verify that all required mission data layer (MDL)
   attributes for airfield waivers, exemptions, and permissible deviations are populated. Also,
   ensure the facilities classified as permissible deviations comply with deviation siting criteria
   contained in UFC 3-260-01, Attachment 14. Maintain airfield waiver review documentation
   IAW the RDS.
       11.1.1. The installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraphs A2.2.2.2.1 and
       A2.2.6.4.1 must participate in the airfield waiver review.
       11.1.2. The CES representative will brief the Facility Board and the Airfield Operations
       Board, and ensure the results are included in the respective meeting minutes.
   11.2. Airfield Waiver Review Submission. Wing/Installation Commanders will ensure CES
   (normally the community planner) uploads a copy of the airfield waiver review to their
   respective base’s Airfield Waiver Review folder located on the ACC Integrated Planning
   Community of Practice for dissemination to HQ ACC/A7 for processing.
12. Leveraging GeoBase Technology: The GeoBase “One Installation…One Map”
architecture is the Air Force foundation and ACC standard for geospatial mapping used for
managing airfield obstructions and airfield imaginary surfaces data. The data is stored and
maintained within the USAF spatial data standard (SDS) compliant MDLs developed
specifically for creating a virtual world to visualize airfield waivers, exemptions and permissible
deviations by assigned obstruction identifier numbers. This solution aligns ACC geospatial
technology investments with the enterprise-wide mission of the USAF, creates a robust
geospatial airfield planning and design tool accessible via the AF Portal, and shows obstructions
normally depicted on BCP Map E-1. In addition to being able to visualize data, the populated
attributes to include photographs of airfield obstructions within the MDL can be used for
obstruction and waiver analysis, and conducting annual airfield waiver reviews.
 8                                                       ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010


     12.1. Although traditionally CES has been responsible for maintaining all base
     comprehensive maps, within GeoBase each MDL is managed by functional area. In ACC,
     the assigned data steward for the airfield obstructions MDL is airfield management and the
     airfield imaginary surfaces MDL is community planning. They manage the quality, content,
     and access of their respective MDL and are responsible for populating and editing the MDL
     attributes to ensure their accuracy.
     12.2. Each ACC base Geospatial Integration Offices (GIO) will provide technical guidance
     for the assigned airfield obstructions and airfield imaginary surfaces data stewards to
     populate and manage the MDL attributes. The GIO uploads the MDL to their respective
     base’s GeoBase folder located on the ACC GeoBase Data Library for dissemination to ACC
     Geospatial Information Branch (HQ ACC/A7IG) for publishing alongside the common
     installation picture (CIP) on the HQ ACC GeoBase Portal Viewer located at
     https://rso.my.af.mil/accgeoprod/.

13. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
ACC Form 167, ACC Operational Risk Management (ORM) Worksheet
FAA Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration




                                            RONALD E. KEYS, General, USAF
                                            Commander
ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7063 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/32/afi32-7063/afi32-7063.pdf), Air
Installation Compatibility Use Zone
AFI 90-901 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/90/afi90-901/afi90-901.pdf),
Operational Risk Management
AFMAN 37-123 (to be AFMAN 33-363) (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/37/
afman37-123/afman37-123.pdf) , Management of Records
AFJPAM 32-8013, Volumes I and II (FM 5-430-00-2) (https://134.11.61.26/CD6/Publications/
DA/FM/ByPub.htm) , Planning and Design of Roads, Airfields, and Heliports in the Theater of
Operations
UFC 3-260-01 (http://www.hnd.usace.army.mil/techinfo/UFC/UFC%203-260-01.pdf),
Unified Facilities Criteria Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) (https://afrims.amc.af.mil)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—-Air Combat Command
AC—-Air Conditioner
ACCI—-Air Combat Command Instruction
AF—-Air Force
AFCESA—-Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—-Air Force Reserve Command
AICUZ—-Air Installation Compatible Use Zone
AMC—-Air Mobility Command
ANG—-Air National Guard
AORI—-Airfield Obstruction Reduction Initiative
ASRR—-Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report
ATCALS—-Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
BAOI—-Base Airfield Operations Instruction
BCP—-Base Comprehensive Plan
CBT—-Computer Based Training
CE—-Civil Engineer
 10                                                 ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010


CES—-Civil Engineering Squadron
CoP—-Community of Practice
CV—-Vice Commander
DOD—-Department of Defense
FAA—-Federal Aviation Administration
FLIP—-Flight Information Publication
FY—-Fiscal Year
HQ—-Headquarters
HQ ACC/A3AO—-Airfield Operations Branch
HQ ACC/A3OA—-Aerial Events Scheduling Branch
HQ ACC/A3TV—-Standardization Branch
HQ ACC/A4QM—-Maintenance Policy Branch
HQ ACC/A6OA—-ATCALS Branch
HQ ACC/A7—-Director of Installations and Mission Support
HQ ACC/A7CI—-Infrastructure Support Branch
HQ ACC/A7FS—-Physical Security Branch
HQ ACC/A7Z—-Programs Division
HQ ACC/A7ZP—-Planning Branch
HQ ACC/A7IG—-Geospatial Information Branch
HQ ACC/SEF—-Flight Safety Branch
HQ ACC/SEG—-Ground Safety Branch
IAW—-In Accordance With
MDL—-Mission Data Layer
NOTAM—-Notice to Airmen
NAF—-Numbered Air Force
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—-Operational Risk Management
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
RMIS—-Risk Management Information System
SE—-Safety
TERPS—-Terminal Instrument Procedures
UFC—-Unified Facilities Criteria
ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                      11


USAF—-United States Air Force

Terms
ACC A7ZP Integrated Planning Dashboard—This functional area serves as the forum for
integrating all planning resources, tools, and authoritative information, to include being a one-
stop shop for ACC planning needs. The dashboard resides on the AF Portal and accessible via
the Air Force Indexes Functional Areas A-Z Listing at http://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/afp40/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=function&pageId=681742&channelPageId=-
946890&parentCategoryId=-946890.
Airfield Obstruction Reduction Initiative—This is an USAF initiative launched to eliminate
correctable violations from AF airfields. Additional information and guidance is available at
http://www.afcesa.af.mil/ces/cesc/airfield/cesc_aori.asp.
Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report—Provides basic airfield and suitability
information, airfield restrictions, and other information for select airfields. The latest edition of
ASRR information is available at the on-line AMC Airfield Database at
https://www.afd.scott.af.mil.
Airport Diagram—The airport diagram is published in the Terminal High and Low Altitude
FLIP booklets and most are accessible at http://164.214.2.62/products/digitalaero/index.html.
Base Airfield Operations Instruction—Defines local procedures for Airfield Management and
Air Traffic Control at the base, to include among other things general information regarding
airfield facilities and aircraft restrictions.
Base Comprehensive Plan Map E-1, On-Installation Obstructions to Airfield Criteria—
This plan graphically shows obstructions to air navigational and ground movement of aircraft
within installation boundaries. Specific requirements are contained in the Master Statement of
Work, Air Force Comprehensive Planning at http://www.afcee.brooks.af.mil/ec/mmgpg/pages/
reference/sow/mastersow.pdf. The specific requirements for this map should be leveraged into
GeoBase mapping layers.
Base Comprehensive Plan Map E9.1, Proposed Aircraft Parking Plan—This plan indicates
proposed parking positions in the operational and aircraft maintenance areas of all aircraft
required to support the installation’s mission. Specific requirements are contained in the Master
Statement of Work, Air Force Comprehensive Planning at http://www.afcee.brooks.af.mil/ec
mmgpg/pages/reference/sow/mastersow.pdf. The specific requirements for this map should be
leveraged into GeoBase mapping layers.
Community of Practice—A Community of Practice (CoP) workspace provides a web-based
collaborative environment where members of a group use shared information and administrative
and communications tools to conduct business, manage a project, keep abreast of important
group issues and solve group problems.
GeoBase—The GeoBase vision is "One Installation…One Map" with a mission to "attain,
maintain and sustain one geospatial infrastructure supporting all installation requirements".
GeoBase service is made available via the existing base communications network using
geographic information systems (GIS) and similar technologies. Existing mission systems and
processes are enhanced by visualizing their assets and information via an installation map.
 12                                                       ACCI32-1056 16 NOVEMBER 2010


Notice to Airmen (NOTAM)—An unclassified notice, containing information concerning the
establishment of, condition of, change in any aeronautical facility, service, procedures or
hazards, the timely knowledge of which is essential to personnel concerned with flight
operations. Flight Safety and Local NOTAMs can be viewed at the Defense Internet NOTAM
Service website at https://www.notams.jcs.mil/.
Mission Data Layer—An individual data source that can be geospatially represented, either
directly or through data joins or links, and stewarded by a single data owner.
Obstruction Identifier—The identifier includes the base four-letter installation code, followed
by a unique three-digit number. Following the three-digit number include a letter “W”,
indicating an airfield waiver, a letter “E”, indicating an exemption, or a letter “D”, indicating a
permissible deviation (i.e. MUHJ001W, MUHJ002E, and MUHJ003D).
