BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                    COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 32-1033
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX (AEDC)
                                                                        19 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                       SPACE UTILIZATION AND MOVE
                                                    REQUEST POLICY AND PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on releasing this publication


OPR: AEDC/TSDC                                                        Certified by: AEDC/TSD
                                                                           (Mr. Clark Brandon)
                                                                                       Pages: 8




Arnold Engineering Development Complex Instruction (AEDCI) 32-1033 provides
Commander’s intent and guidance related to the space utilization and move request/authorization
processes. Maintain all records required to comply with this publication in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of records in accordance with the Air
Force           Records              Disposition          Schedule           located          at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command.


1. Policy This policy governs the processes for individual and group workspace reassignments,
as well as the process for space allocation requests at Arnold AFB. All employees who move
from one workspace to another must use the computers and telephone instruments (hereafter
referred to as Information Technology (IT) equipment), as well as the telephone numbers and
furniture, located in the new workspace. Employees will not move IT equipment, telephone
numbers or furniture items, unless specifically authorized to do so via the process described in
this instruction.
 2                                                    AEDCI32-1033 19 SEPTEMBER 2013


2. Roles and Responsibilities
     2.1. Employees seeking to move from one workspace to another must complete and submit
     an Individual Move Request (IMR). Paragraph 6 explains how to access/submit the IMR.
     2.2. Supervisors must review and endorse IMRs when/if warranted.
     2.3. Two-letter or three-letter supervisors must review and validate Group Move Requests
     (GMRs) and Space Allocation Requests (SARs). Responsibility to validate and endorse
     SARs may not be delegated below the three-letter level (including contractor equivalent
     managers). Paragraph 6 explains how to access/submit the GMRs and SARs.
     2.4. The Chief, Plans & Operations Section, Test and Base Communications Branch, ensures
     implementation of IT aspects of this instruction.
     2.5. The Base Civil Engineer develops and executes facility space-optimization strategies
     and implements civil engineering aspects of this instruction.
     2.6. The Space Utilization Working Group (SUWG) chair (or designee) reviews and
     approves/disapproves IMRs, GMRs, and SARs. The Deputy Base Civil Engineer is the
     SUWG chair.
     2.7. The Move Coordinator (MC) facilitates the IMR, GMR, and SAR processes. The base
     operating support contractor provides an individual to perform the MC functions.
3. Process
     3.1. Individual Move Request (IMR) Process (See Fig. A2.1):
        3.1.1. Individuals seeking to relocate from one workspace to another must complete and
        submit an IMR a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to the requested/required move date.
        3.1.2. Supervisors of employees seeking individual moves must review and endorse
        IMRs.
        3.1.3. IMRs must be fully coordinated and approved before employees initiate any part
        of a physical relocation from one workspace to another.
        3.1.4. A relocating employee must transport data/information from their current
        computer to the computer in the new location; the employee may temporarily store and
        transfer the data/info. However, employees shall not use thumbdrives or any other
        unauthorized medium. Employees may contact the help desk at 454-4040 or may find
        instructions           for           temporary          data        storage        at
        https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/1273/SiteCollectionDocuments/Win7-XFERDATA.mht.
        3.1.5. If the SUWG chair/designee approves an IMR, the MC will facilitate the move as
        expeditiously as possible. If IT assistance is required for the new workspace, the MC
        will notify appropriate IT staff.
     3.2. Group Move Request (GMR) Process (See Fig. A2.2):
        3.2.1. Supervisors shall submit a GMR when/if proposed “group moves” (affecting three
        or more employees) are necessary. Submit GMRs at least four (4) weeks prior to the
        desired move date.
AEDCI32-1033 19 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                3


      3.2.2. Affected individuals (i.e., those comprising a proposed group move) must also
      submit IMRs as described in paragraph 3.1. This is necessary because different
      information is required in the IMR versus the GMR.
      3.2.3. Two- or three-letter supervisors must review, validate, and endorse all GMRs
      before the MC or SUWG will take action.
      3.2.4. If the SUWG chair/designee approves a GMR, the MC will facilitate the request as
      expeditiously as possible. If IT assistance is required for any of the new workspaces, the
      MC will notify appropriate IT staff.
   3.3. Space Allocation Request (SAR) Process (See Fig. A2.3):
      3.3.1. Supervisors shall submit a SAR (a) when/if new facilities space requirements arise
      (i.e., the requesting organization needs more space than they currently have), or (b) when
      “repurposing” existing facilities is necessary. Submit SARs as far in advance of the
      desired implementation date as possible because implementation may be very difficult to
      accommodate.
      3.3.2. Two- or three-letter supervisors must review, validate, and endorse all SARs
      before the MC or SUWG will take action.
      3.3.3. If the SUWG chair/designee approves a SAR, the MC will facilitate the request as
      expeditiously as possible. If IT assistance is required for the new workspace, the MC
      will notify appropriate IT staff.
      3.3.4. Requestors must understand that some SARs are more difficult to accommodate
      than others are, and some requests may be incompatible with long-term AEDC facility
      plans. In some cases, SARs may experience long delays before implementation. Some
      requests may be denied.
4. Physical Movement of Furniture, Chairs and Boxes
   4.1. Employees shall not move government-owned furniture (desks, chairs, tables, etc.) from
   the old workspace to the new workspace. If the new workspace lacks any essential furniture,
   notify the MC (see para 2.7).
   4.2. In general, contracted movers will handle physical movement of boxes containing work-
   related materials. However, DoD personnel may move their own work-related boxes if they
   choose to do so.
   4.3. All employees must move their own personal property (e.g., pictures, wall hanging
   items, memorabilia, personal items on/inside furniture, etc.), whether in boxes or otherwise.
5. Physical Movement of Information Technology Assets
   5.1. Computers: Generally, employees may not move government-owned computers from
   their old workspace to their new workspace. However, if requested and the IT staff
   determines physical movement of desktop or laptop computers is most cost efficient, the
   support contractor movers will physically move the computers. If desired, DoD personnel
   may move their own computers with IT staff approval and after proper coordination with the
   helpdesk.
 4                                                   AEDCI32-1033 19 SEPTEMBER 2013


     5.2. Telephones (CAUTION): Employees who move from one workspace to another shall
     not unplug or attempt to relocate telephones because doing so may damage equipment. Only
     authorized IT employees may disconnect and relocate telephone assets.
6. AEDC employees and supervisors: access IMRs/GMRs/SARs on-line on the AEDC Team
home page under the “Request Services” link (right side of home page) or by using this link
https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/teamaedc/AEDC%20Move%20Request/Forms/MyItems.aspx.




                                           RAYMOND G. TOTH, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
AEDCI32-1033 19 SEPTEMBER 2013                              5


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Adopted Forms
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Complex
AEDCI—Arnold Engineering Development Complex Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DoD—Department of Defense
GMR—Group Move Request
IMR—Individual Move Request
IT—Information Technology
MC—Move Coordinator
SAR—Space Allocation Request
SUWG—Space Utilization Working Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
 6                                              AEDCI32-1033 19 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                    Attachment 2
           SPACE UTILIZATION AND MOVE REQUEST PROCEDURES

Figure A2.1. Individual Move Request (IMR) Process
AEDCI32-1033 19 SEPTEMBER 2013                  7


Figure A2.2. Group Move Request (GMR) Process
 8                                               AEDCI32-1033 19 SEPTEMBER 2013


Figure A2.3. Space Allocation Request (SAR) Process
