BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  ARNOLD ENGINEERING AND
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX INSTRUCTION
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX                                                           21-3

                                                                                  14 MARCH 2014

                                                                                      Maintenance

                                                                                 TOOL CONTROL


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: TSS                                                                  Certified by: AEDC/TSS
                                                                                  (Col Rick Petito)
                                                                                         Pages: 10
Supersedes:    AEDCOI 21-3,
               February 2011


The objectives of the tool control program are to prevent and eliminate foreign object damage to
aircraft, test articles, and support equipment through strict effective control and accountability of
assets. This operating instruction is applicable to all AEDC and contractor personnel working in,
on, around, or traveling through test cell, plant and machine shop areas. DoD and operating
contractor personnel working at Arnold Engineering Development Complex (AEDC) Tunnel 9,
White Oak, Maryland, and the National Full-Scale Aerodynamics Complex (NFAC), Moffett
Field, CA California, will use this instruction as a guide to develop and implement an effective
tool control program approved by Operating Location Directors and coordinated through the Test
Systems Division. All other personnel working at these facilities (e.g., sub-contractors, test
customers, etc.) will follow the requirements in Attachment 2. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records               Disposition          Schedule             (RDS)            located           at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                                AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes to this publication are org changes and a reclassification of the publication from an
AEDCOI (Operating Instruction) to an AEDCI (Instruction).
1. Roles and Responsibilities
     1.1. AEDC Commander (AEDC/CC) is responsible for all assets and resources at AEDC to
     conduct maintenance and execute this instruction.
     1.2. TSS Chief or equivalent functional authority for maintenance has primary responsibility
     for the tool control program.
     1.3. The operating contractor is responsible for executing an effective tool control program.
     The tool control program outlined in this instruction represents the minimum program
     requirements.
     1.4. General Program Guidelines
        1.4.1. Work centers and the TIC will design CTKs and ITKs to provide a quick
        inventory and accountability of tools. Develop a simple inventory method, using a
        “show” (e.g., a shadow of the tool) and “know” (knowledge of tool or kit location)
        concept. Clearly mark all CTKs, ITKs, and tools with the assigned identification
        number. Inspect all tools prior to use and conduct a Supervisor’s Inspection at least every
        180 days for serviceability. All inventories and inspections will be documented on the
        locally developed form, Tool Control Inventory Record, maintained in each tool kit.
        1.4.2. The operating contractor will designate and document tool kit custodians to
        manage and control each tool kit. Custodians are responsible for tool accountability and
        control within their respective tool kits.
        1.4.3. The operating contractor will determine the type, size, and number of tool kits
        required for their work centers and approve the MIL for each kit.
        1.4.4. A MIL is developed for each CTK and ITK. A copy of the MIL will be kept in the
        tool kit and a master MIL will be maintained by the TIC at all times for inventory
        purposes. The master MIL may be electronic. The MIL remains valid until contents
        change. Pen and ink changes are permissible and require the change originator’s initials
        and the date of the change. MILs do not require replacement solely to update signature
        and/or pen and ink changes.
        1.4.5. MILs must be standardized across the Complex to ensure proper documentation
        and the following minimum criteria must be met: contents must be identified on the MIL
        by drawer/section indicating the number and type of items in each drawer/section; the
        type of items listed must be sufficiently detailed to ensure the item can be identified for
        search and/or replacement purposes; the TIC maintains a template which is to be used for
        all MILs.
        1.4.6. If chits/dog tags/identification tags or similar tags or dust caps are attached to
        tools/equipment, they will be listed on the MIL.
        1.4.7. Document all actions concerning the tool kit on the locally developed form, Tool
        Control Inventory Record, maintained in each tool kit. This includes documenting
AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014                                                                             3


       removed/broken/replaced CTK items, TMDE items being calibrated, and other items
       requiring special inspections.
       1.4.8. Each tool contained in a CTK or ITK will have an assigned location identified
       either by inlay cuts in the shape of the item, shadowed layout, label, or silhouette. The 2-
       colored inlay cut is preferred. Silhouettes should only be used when logistics prevent
       inlay cuts. No more than one item is stored in a cutout, shadow, or silhouette except for
       tools issued in sets such as drill bits, allen wrenches, apexes, or paired items (e.g., gloves,
       booties).
       1.4.9. Consumables should not be placed in tool kits. Consumables include safety wire,
       adhesives, wire bundle lacing, solder, etc. If a consumable item must be placed in a tool
       kit, it will be treated the same as all other tools in the kit.
       1.4.10. Industrial shop machinery accessories/attachments need not be controlled as
       tools. However, these items will be maintained in designated storage locations for
       accountability and inventory purposes in a neat, clean, orderly fashion. These items will
       be either in use on the designated piece of equipment or properly stored in the designated
       location.
       1.4.11. Remove pocket clips from tools when possible (flashlights, continuity testers,
       small screwdrivers, tape measures, mirrors, etc.) prior to placement in tool kits. These
       items must be annotated “with clip” or “without clip” on the MIL.
       1.4.12. Any tool normally used with a blade, such as a utility knife or hacksaw, will be
       stored with the blade installed and the MIL will be annotated “with blade.” If a blade is
       temporarily unavailable, annotate the mission blade on the locally developed form, Tool
       Control Inventory Record, maintained in each tool kit.
       1.4.13. Remove internal components such as spare bits, blades and light bulbs from tools
       such as utility knives and flashlights. If spare items are not removed, the MIL will be
       annotated “with # blades/bits stored internally” and these spare components will be
       subject to inventory.
       1.4.14. Shop rags will be controlled using the “clean rag in, in use, soiled rag bin”
       method which means these are the only locations rags are permitted at any time.
       1.4.15. Any tool, to include test meter leads/circuit jumpers and jumper adapters, taken
       into a FOD critical area must be controlled as defined in this instruction. Test meter
       leads/circuit jumpers and jumper adapters are permitted outside the scope of tool control
       if and only if they meet the following criteria:
              1.4.15.1. Must NOT be taken into FOD critical areas.
              1.4.15.2. Must be stored in a designated area.
1.4.15.3. The storage area must be kept Neat, Clean, Orderly.

              1.4.15.4. Torque wrenches will be cycled six (6) times at the highest setting in
              the direction of intended use before actually using it. Torque wrenches will be
              stored at the lowest scale setting. Do not use torque wrenches in the lowest 20%
              of range. Do not use torque screwdrivers in the lower 25% of range.
4                                                                AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014


    1.5. Marking and Tool Identification
       1.5.1. All tools and tool kits (to include any storage containers designated to be affixed
       to the tool kit) will be marked with the locally assigned identification number, and all
       contents will be subject to the guidelines of this instruction. All assigned CTKs, ITKs,
       tools, and equipment assigned to these kits must be etched, stamped or marked. All tools,
       with the exception of those maintained in an office environment used solely within that
       office area, will be assigned a tool kit and be maintained in the tool control program.
       1.5.2. Small tools or items that cannot be marked as described above (such as drill bits,
       Allen wrenches, apexes, etc.) are to be maintained in a container marked with the tool kit
       number and the number of tools contained. The container and the MIL will be marked
       “XX pieces plus case” and an asterisk will be placed on the MIL denoting the items are
       too small to mark. Tools that consist primarily of a shank such as rotary files need not be
       etched but will be stored in a container. All individually shadowed items in a tool kit will
       be marked with the tool kit identification number.
          1.5.2.1. Drill bits maintained in drill bit indexes do not have to be individually etched
          to the CTK or ITK. The index will be identified to the tool kit in accordance with
          paragraph 5.5.2.
       1.5.3. Fiberglass-handled hammers will be mechanically etched on the metal head only
       (not on handle) in a non-impact area. A permanent marker may be used to mark on the
       handle but the marking must remain legible at all times.
       1.5.4. It is not necessary to mark TMDE assets with the tool kit number. Utilize the
       existing bar code number on the AFTO Form 65 (metallic), TMDE (Bar Code Label,
       Aluminum), or AFTO Form 66 (non-metallic), TMDE (Bar Code Label, Polyester),
       attached by PMEL. The MIL will state the identification number(s) of assigned TMDE
       items.
       1.5.5. Items that are assembled and are not intended to be disassembled during use
       require only one mark/etch/stamp and one entry on the MIL (scribes, flashlights, etc.).
       1.5.6. The TIC will remove the identification number from unserviceable and excess
       tools when they are no longer assigned to a tool kit.
       1.5.7. Hazardous or flammable materials such as hand grease guns, dispensing cans,
       spray bottles, pump oilers, and similar containers will be stored in approved storage units
       and be marked with the type of grease, fluid, or other liquid and the military specification
       (MILSPEC) of the contents, if available.
    1.6. Tool Accountability, Control, and Inventory
       1.6.1. Accountability means knowing where tools are and who has responsibility for
       them. Operating contractor supervisors, through CTK custodians, are responsible for tool
       and equipment accountability and control. When a person signs for a tool or piece of
       equipment, he or she is accountable for it until it is returned to its assigned location and
       accountability is transferred.
       1.6.2. Chit systems, AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, or a locally approved form
       will be used for accountability and control of CTKs, equipment, and tools. When using a
       chit system, chits are issued by the TIC to individuals in sets. The number of chits in the
AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014                                                                        5


     set will be determined by the supervisor and coordinated with the TIC. The TIC will
     maintain records of issuance. Each chit will be marked with a positive identifier, such as
     an employee number. Upon issuance, the chit set(s) becomes the responsibility of the
     owner and must be available for inspection upon request. Chits are used when checking
     out tools for temporary use (limited to one shift) and only if the tool will be used outside
     the immediate area (defined as within sight and/or sound); when checking out tools for
     more than one shift use AF Form 1297. Tools checked out on AF Form 1297 for long-
     term use must be physically verified at least every 30 days and a new AF Form 1297
     must be issued.
     1.6.3. Account for all CTKs, tools, and dispatchable equipment at the beginning and end
     of each shift. Document shift inventories on locally developed form, Tool Control
     Inventory Record, maintained in each tool kit. CTKs not used on a particular day need
     not be opened simply for the purpose of inventory.
     1.6.4. Perform and document a visual inventory of all CTKs and ITKs when issued for
     use, when transferred to another person, after last use during a shift, and prior to
     operation of any major system, test article, or equipment when maintenance actions were
     performed (engine run, system checkout, before closing a confined space, etc.)
     1.6.5. If tools are required at a remote job site, create a temporary tool kit by checking
     out a selection of tools from a CTK or ITK. Temporary tool kits will be utilized for the
     shortest period necessary and will be controlled, inventoried, and secured in the same
     manner as a permanent kit if utilized for more than one shift.
     1.6.6. If tools/CTKs are required to be transferred from one employee to another at a job
     site, the individuals involved in the transfer will conduct a joint inventory and document
     accordingly.
     1.6.7. Each work center/craft supervisor will devise a system that works best for the area
     to ensure positive control of rechargeable power tools and batteries.
  1.7. Locally Manufactured or Modified Tools and Equipment. The Operating
  Contractor’s Design Engineering section coordinates on all requests for approval and use of
  locally designed or modified tools or equipment that carry loads, change torque, or present
  potential to damage government resources. A copy of the approval and certification letter
  will be maintained by the TIC for each locally manufactured/modified item assigned to a tool
  kit. A copy of the certification letter will also be maintained in the affected CTK or ITK.
  NOTE: This procedure does not apply to local manufacture, modification or design of tools
  authorized in specific technical data.
  1.8. Tool Security
     1.8.1. Tool kit locks will be used to provide a physical barrier to opening the container
     lid or door and prevent the unauthorized removal of tools.
     1.8.2. Access to keys for all CTKs and ITKs must be available at all times to permit
     DOD audits and ensure access to tools can be achieved without regard to specific
     employee availability.
     1.8.3. All tools, equipment, CTKs, and ITKs must be secured, if practical, when left
     unattended.
 6                                                                  AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014


        1.8.4. Expendable/consumable tools will be strictly controlled and access limited to
        supervisory personnel. Items will be exchanged on a one-for-one basis. The number and
        type of expendable/consumable tools will be determined by the supervisor and
        coordinated with the TIC. High-use items such as blades and bits should be limited to the
        amount normally used in a 90-day period. All requests for additional
        expendable/consumable tools will be made to the TIC.
        1.8.5. Replacement tools will be strictly controlled and access limited to supervisory
        personnel. Items will be exchanged on a one-for-one basis. The replacement tool will be
        identified by the supervisor and replacements will be coordinated with the TIC. All
        requests for additional tools will be routed through the TIC.
     1.9. Lost Item/Tool Procedures.
        1.9.1. Supervisors ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with lost tool procedures.
        1.9.2. The person identifying the missing item/tool will search the immediate work area
        for the item/tool. If not found after completing an initial search, the individual will notify
        the supervisor, test engineer, or equivalent.
           1.9.2.1. The supervisor, test engineer or equivalent will direct a thorough search and
           immediately notify the Operations Center (Ops) and FOD Council. The supervisor or
           test engineer will assess the operational impact and determine if any operations
           should be discontinued. If during the search the item/tool is found, notify the Ops.
               1.9.2.1.1. If after a thorough search the item/tool is not found, a lost tool report
               will be initiated. Discontinued operations may only resume when the item is
               found or the area(s) is cleared for return to service by concurrence of AEDC’s
               FOD Council and responsible division or branch chief.
2. Metrics. Award Fee Key Performance Indicators are used to monitor effectiveness of the
tool control program.
3. Flowchart. See Attachment 2, Tool Control Audits.
4. Records. TSS personnel maintain the following records of contractor maintenance
performance and results of government tool stewardship and unauthorized tool observations:

Figure 1. Records
Required Quality Record                             Custodian
Tool Stewardship Observation Reports                TSS Microsoft Access Database
Unauthorized Tool Observation Reports               TSS Microsoft Access Database




                                               RAYMOND G. TOTH, Colonel USAF
                                               Commander
AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014                                                                   7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
TO 32-1-101, Maintenance & Care of Hand Tools
AFI 21-101, Aerospace and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
Prescribed Forms
AEDC-881, Unauthorized Tool Observations
AEDC882, Tool Stewardship Observations
Adopted Form
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Complex
ASRS—AEDC Status Reporting System
CMMS—Computerized Maintenance Management System
CTK—Consolidated Tool Kit
DO—Domestic Object
DOD—Domestic Object Damage
FO—Foreign Object
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
ITK—Individual Tool Kit
LMT—Locally Manufactured/Modified Tools
MIL—Master Inventory List
MILSPEC—Military specification
Ops Center—AEDC Operations Center
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
TIC—Tool Issue Center
TMDE—Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment

Terms
Chit set— Numbered tags, manufactured of metal, plastic or some material not easily damaged,
used to identify a person who borrows a tool from a tool kit or shadow board.
Consolidated Tool Kit— A multi-user container used to store tools or equipment, enabling
effective/efficient control of tools and ease of inventory.
 8                                                                AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014


Unauthorized tool— Any tool not controlled through the tool control program to include
personal tools
Consumables— Items used in conjunction with tooling/equipment yet, after limited usage, do
not maintain their original configuration and are considered used up. Examples are safety wire,
solder, tape, sanding disks, grinding wheels, string, chalk, etc.
Daily tool kit inventory— A documented verification that all items are in place and missing
items are documented and reported.
FOD critical areas— The AEDC runway, taxiway, and aircraft parking ramp areas when in an
operational status. In the industrial area, examples include all test plants, facility ducting, test
stands, test cells and test carts.
Individual Tool Kit— A single-user tool kit used to store tools or equipment, enabling
effective/efficient control of tools and ease of inventory.
Locally Manufactured/Modified Tools— Tools and equipment that are designed, developed,
built, or modified locally.
Military specification— Shop machinery accessories/attachments. Tool type items such as dies,
fixtures, tool holders, chucks, machine tool wrenches, and special valve wrenches that are
designed for use exclusively with a specific asset. Common tool items such as screwdrivers,
Allen wrenches, sockets, pliers, and wrenches are not normally considered accessories or
attachments.
Supervisor’s inspection— A comprehensive inspection/inventory of all tool kits conducted at
least every 180 days. The purpose of this inventory is to perform an extensive inspection of all
tools, to include condition, identification markings, and accuracy of the MIL. Inspect all tools for
serviceability and review lost tool reports. Document these inspections and maintain the most
current inventory documentation on file. This inspection also verifies that each kit contains the
required type and quantity of tools and eliminates excess and duplicate tools.
Tool— Any instrument or object used to perform work on components, equipment, and facility
systems.
Tool Issue Center— The area designed to issue and accept return of tool kits and perform
inventory changes with configuration control of documentation for all kits within the tool control
program. Primary source of replacement tools and contact point for maintenance and control of
all lost tool reports.
Tool kit custodian— Assigned owner of a tool kit (e.g., Area Supervisor, Working Foreman,
Engineer, Craftsman, etc.)
Tool serviceability— The physical condition of a tool item that renders it safe and capable of
use for its intended purpose. Conditions that render a tool unserviceable include dullness of
cutting surfaces, structural damage due to loose or cracked handles, corrosion, nicks, cracks,
mushrooming of striking surfaces, or critical dimensional changes that would cause the tool to
cause personal injury or damage to the equipment being serviced. Reference: TO 32-1-101.
Tool Kits— Any tool kit that may be used in a test cell, plant, machine shop area, and/or FOD
critical areas.
AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014                            9


                                   Attachment 2
                             TOOL CONTROL AUDITS

Figure A2.1. Tool Control Audits
 10                                                              AEDCI21-3 14 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 3
                     TEST CUSTOMER AND SUB-CONTRACTORS

A3.1. AEDC tool control for test customers and sub-contractors will: Be enforced in all
FOD critical areas. For the purpose of brevity and clarity, tool control requirements are defined
as follows.
   A3.1.1. Test customers and sub-contractors working in FOD critical areas are required to
   comply with the intent of local tool control operating instructions. It is understood that it is
   not practical to meet all the stringent requirements of the local instruction; however, meeting
   the spirit and intent is implied and required. Spirit and intent are defined as meeting the
   following minimum requirements:
       A3.1.1.1. All tools must be marked to identify the owner and/or tool kit.
       A3.1.1.2. All tools must have a method for quick on-the-spot inventories and must be
       secured when not in use.
       A3.1.1.3. Inventories must be accomplished and documented upon the first opening and
       last closing of every shift.
       A3.1.1.4. Lost tools must be immediately reported to the test engineer or test/facility
       responsible person.
A3.2. TST: Will be responsible for briefing test customers on tool control requirements.
A3.3. ATA program/project managers shall: Ensure all ATA contracts with sub-contractors
address tool control IAW Attachment 2 requirements.
A3.4. Government program/project managers shall: Ensure all government contracts with
sub-contractors address tool control IAW Attachment 2 requirements.
A3.5. TSS will periodically conduct no-notice spot checks to: Ensure compliance; however,
all ATA and government knowledgeable personnel have a responsibility to report any observed
non-compliance to the AF project manager.
