BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                    COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 10-1
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX
                                                                             8 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                 Operations

                                                                   CRISIS ACTION TEAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AEDC/CS                                                         Certified by: AEDC/CC
                                                                        (Col Raymond Toth)
Supersedes:   AEDCOI 10-1,                                                          Pages: 8
              25 October 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 10-105, Crisis
Command and Control, and AFMD 4, Air Force Mission Directive 4, Air Force Materiel
Command. This Arnold Engineering Development Complex (AEDC) instruction standardizes the
Crisis Action Team (CAT) organizational structure and processes within the Installation. It
introduces the CAT organization; defines organizational responsibilities; establishes crisis
response policy; and details the tasking authorities during crisis or contingency response
operations. This plan is compatible with the Arnold Air Force Base Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan (CEMP) 10-2. The Incident Commander (IC) is in command and control of
the mishap or incident scene until the determination is made to turn the site over to the
designated Air Force investigation team.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The Operating Contractor
will follow records management requirements in accordance with the contract.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Complete re-write of Operating Instruction changing it from an Operating Instruction to an
Instruction.
 2                                                                  AEDCI10-1 8 AUGUST 2014


1. Roles and Responsibilities
     1.1. Commander or designated representative will:
        1.1.1. Task installation organizations with appointing a representative to be a member of
        the CAT IAW paragraph 2.1 of this instruction.
        1.1.2. Review and/or approve outgoing reports to higher headquarters (HHQ), as
        applicable.
     1.2. Tasked Organizations. Installation organizations tasked by the Commander to be CAT
     members will:
        1.2.1. Designate a primary and alternate CAT member in writing.
        1.2.2. Ensure security clearances of personnel designated to support the CAT are clearly
        stated and verified by information security professionals in writing.
        1.2.3. Ensure personnel tasked are thoroughly knowledgeable of their responsibilities.
     1.3. CAT Director will:
        1.3.1. Direct strategic actions for the installation during crisis or contingency response in
        concert with the Commander.
        1.3.2. Ensure the CAT acts in concert with the Emergency Operations Center (EOC),
        which provides tactical support for the IC.
        1.3.3. Ensure compliance with taskings and directives IAW applicable Battle Staff
        Directives (BSDs) and Center Command Directive (CCDs).
        1.3.4. Issue Installation Command Directives (ICDs) to appropriate personnel as
        applicable.
        1.3.5. Task applicable offices of primary responsibility (OPRs) with actions as
        event/incident dictates.
     1.4. CAT Members will:
        1.4.1. Be available (24/7) or, if unavailable, identify a designated representative.
        1.4.2. Be knowledgeable and capable of representing their organizations during
        contingencies.
        1.4.3. Advise and assist in resolution of problems which involve the member’s area of
        expertise.
        1.4.4. Participate in training sessions and exercises.
     1.5. Support Team will:
        1.5.1. Accomplish initial and refresher training on an as-needed/ just-in-time basis to
        support long-term installation crisis response.
        1.5.2. Support the CAT and/or EOC Directors as required.
        1.5.3. Directorate of Personnel (AEDC/DP) will assign active duty members to the
        support team and will advise the Operations (Ops) Center of any changes.
AEDCI10-1 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                         3


   1.6. Operations Center and CAT Liaison will:
       1.6.1. Serve as 24/7 points of contact (POCs) for the CAT.
       1.6.2. Advise major command (MAJCOM) and Air Force Test Center (AFTC)
       Headquarters of CAT activation and deactivation.
       1.6.3. Accomplish initial CAT situational briefing.
       1.6.4. Provide follow-up briefings if the EOC is not activated or available.
       1.6.5. Review and brief the Commander and CAT Director on all incoming message
       taskings or directions.
       1.6.6. Disseminate applicable taskings to the appropriate OPR for action.
       1.6.7. Submit reporting on tasking progress/completion to applicable organizations.
       1.6.8. Initiate all HHQ reports (i.e. operational report (OPREP), situation report
       (SITREP), commander’s critical information requirement (CCIR), etc.) and ensure
       Commander or designated representative approval has been received prior to submission
       IAW AFI 10-206 and MAJCOM supplements.
       1.6.9. Participate in training sessions and exercises.
       1.6.10. Utilize crisis/contingency chronological log to provide continuity and a historical
       account of the situation.
2. Policy
   2.1. General. This instruction is applicable to AEDC personnel assigned to and in support
   of the CAT, whose ultimate goal is to provide optimal responses to crisis, contingency,
   exercise, and wartime operations and provide timely responses to HHQ taskings. The CAT
   provides the Commander with a corporate approach to time-sensitive operations and a
   flexible support staff tailored to meet support requirements during times of crisis.
       2.1.1. Attachment 2, Figure A2.1, depicts an example of normal operational structure
       and communications between the AEDC/CC, CAT, EOC, and supporting organizations.
       2.1.2. Circumstances which may require activation of the CAT include but are not
       limited to:
            2.1.2.1. Major natural disasters.
            2.1.2.2. Major peacetime accidents and complex catastrophes.
            2.1.2.3. AF, MAJCOM, and local exercises.
            2.1.2.4. Defense readiness responses.
       2.1.3. The CAT may be convened by direction from HHQ, AEDC/CC or the CAT
       Director.
       2.1.4. Primary CAT members convene as required, depending on the type and tempo of
       operations.
4                                                                   AEDCI10-1 8 AUGUST 2014


    2.2. Structure. The AEDC/CC will activate the CAT to support contingency and crisis
    operations. If required, subject matter experts (SMEs) are located within the EOC structure.
    Composition of the CAT is as follows:
       2.2.1. AEDC Commander (AEDC/CC)
       2.2.2. AEDC Executive Director (AEDC/CA)
       2.2.3. AEDC Chief of Staff (AEDC/CS)*
       2.2.4. Test Operations Division (TST)
       2.2.5. Test Systems Sustainment Division (TSS)
       2.2.6. Test Support Division (TSD)
       2.2.7. Contracting Execution Division (AFTC/PZ)
       2.2.8. Staff Judge Advocate (AEDC/JA)
       2.2.9. Financial Management and Comptroller Division (AEDC/FM)
       2.2.10. Safety Office (AEDC/SE)
       2.2.11. Public Affairs (AEDC/PA)
       2.2.12. Operating Contractor’s General Manager
       2.2.13. NOTE: * Signifies the individual serving as the CAT Director to the
       Commander. All organizations on the installation may be recalled by the Commander to
       serve in an advisory capacity to support the CAT during a crisis or contingency.
       2.2.14. The Ops Center will provide a representative to act as the CAT Liaison between
       the Commander, CAT, and Ops Center.
       2.2.15. Recall Procedures.
       2.2.16. The Ops Center will:
           2.2.16.1. Initiate the recall to include specific reporting instructions.
       2.2.16.2. Maintain a listing of Primary CAT members and an expanded list of SMEs in
       support of the CAT.
           2.2.16.3. Maintain the AEDC Recall Roster Main Page IAW AEDCI 10-201,
           Notification, Recall and Alert Procedures. The Main Page of the recall roster will
           identify CAT members.
    2.2.17. CAT members will respond to all recalls as directed.
    2.3. Operations.
       2.3.1. The CAT will receive an initial situational briefing by the Ops Center liaison to
       provide an overview of the situation which necessitated the CAT activation.
       2.3.2. If activated, follow-on briefings will be conducted by the EOC Director. If not, the
       Ops Center liaison will accomplish the briefings. AFMC BSDs and AFTC CCDs will be
       disseminated by the Ops Center to the Commander, CAT Director, and appropriate OPR
       as applicable.
AEDCI10-1 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                         5


      2.3.3. The CAT Director will draft ICDs for Commander approval and the Ops Center
      will disseminate the directives to all appropriate organizations in support of the crisis or
      contingency.
      2.3.4. The CAT will participate in local- and HQ-level exercises as deemed appropriate
      by the Commander.
      2.3.5. The CAT Director will conduct post operations hotwash briefing/analysis with all
      participating organizations following exercises or operations as required.
3. Training and Exercises
   3.1. Training
      3.1.1. Initial training for CAT members, Support Team personnel and Ops Center
      controllers will include the Air Force Emergency Response Operations (AERO) course as
      directed by AFI 10-2501, AF Emergency Management Program and Planning
      Operations, and should be conducted within 60 days of assignment to the CAT or
      Support Team. Ops Center controllers will accomplish this in conjunction with initial
      controller training.
      3.1.2. CAT members will accomplish refresher training at least semi-annually IAW
      AFMCI 10-105.
      3.1.3. Training will be conducted by the following organizations:
          3.1.3.1. The Wing Inspection Team (WIT) Chief will conduct initial and refresher
          training for CAT members.
          3.1.3.2. Ops Center CAT liaison will conduct initial and refresher training for Ops
          Center controllers and the Support Team for duties in support of the CAT.
          3.1.3.3. Emergency Management (EM) will conduct initial and refresher training for
          the Support Team for duties in support of the EOC.
   3.2. Exercises. The CAT will be exercised at least annually. Exercises may be combined
   with installation, MAJCOM, or Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) level exercises.
      3.2.1. Participation in real-world events may be substituted for annual exercise
      requirements if it is of sufficient scope and length to meet requirements. Waivers to the
      exercise requirement must be submitted to HHQ IAW AFMCI 10-105.
      3.2.2. Individual exercise response objectives and requirements may be combined with
      other exercise functional objectives into a single event.
      3.2.3. Annual Continuation of Operation Plan (COOP) requirements will be conducted
      as part of the exercise program.




                                            RAYMOND G. TOTH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                                        AEDCI10-1 8 AUGUST 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 Jan
2007
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 Sep 2011
AFMCI 10-105, Crisis Command and Control, 24 Dec 2013
AFMC HOI 10-1, Crisis Response – Air Force Materiel Command Crisis Action Team (CAT)
and Battle Staff, 6 Dec 2012
Arnold Air Force Base (AAFB) Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) 10-2,
Sep 5, 2012

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFB—Arnold Air Force Base
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Complex
AEDC/CC—Commander
AEDC/CA—Executive Director
AEDC/CS—Chief of Staff
AEDC/DP—Personnel Division
AEDC/FM—Financial Management and Comptroller Division
AEDC/PA—Public Affairs Office
AEDC/SE—Safety Office
AFIMS—Air Force Incident Management System
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFTC—Air Force Test Center
AFTC/PZ—Contracting Execution Division
BSD—Battle Staff Directive
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CCD—Center Command Directive
CCIR—Commander’s Critical Information Requirement
COOP—Continuation of Operation Plan
EM—Emergency Management
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
AEDCI10-1 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                           7


ICD—Installation Command Directive
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPREP—Operational Report
OPS CENTER—Operations Center
SITREP—Situation Report
SME—Subject Matter Expert
TSD—Test Support Division
TST—Test Operations Division
TSD—Test Support Division
TST—Test Operations Division
TSS—Test Systems Sustainment Division
WIT—Wing Inspection Team

Terms
AEDC Operations Center— A Command and Control (C2) center from which the Commander
and staff direct actions in support of the unit’s assigned mission. The Ops Center is the focal
point for the unit operations and, as such, receives and disseminates orders, information, and
requests necessary for the C2 of the assigned forces and operations.
Command and Control (C2)— The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. C2
functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications,
facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating and
controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.
Contingency— A situation requiring military operations in response to natural disasters,
terrorists, subversives, or as otherwise directed by appropriate authority to protect US interests.
Crisis— An incident or situation involving a threat to a nation, its territories, citizens, military
forces, possessions, or vital interest that develops rapidly and creates a condition such as
diplomatic, economic, political or military importance that commitment of military forces and
resources is contemplated to achieve national objectives.
Emergency Operations Center— For the purposes of the Air Force Incident Management
System (AFIMS), the EOC is the C2 support element that directs, monitors, and supports the
installation’s actions before, during, and after an incident. The EOC is activated and recalled as
necessary by the Commander. The EOC updates the Commander with ongoing incident status
and seeks support when on-scene requirements surpass the installation’s inherent capability and
the installation’s cumulative capabilities.
Hotwash— An after-action review with the intent to formulate lessons learned and establish the
best practices.
 8                                                      AEDCI10-1 8 AUGUST 2014


                                   Attachment 2
         OPERATIONAL COMMUNICATION/STRUCTURE FLOWCHART

Figure A2. 1. Operational Communication/Structure Flowchart
