BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                     COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 65-105
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX
                                                                             21 MARCH 2013

                                                                       Financial Management

                                                               FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AEDC/FMP                                                          Certified by: AEDC/FM
                                                                         (Col David V. Raths)
Supersedes:   AEDCI65-105, 16 June 2004,                                              Pages: 14
              AEDCI65-107, 2 July 2004


This instruction describes how government personnel at Arnold Engineering Development
Center (AEDC) will perform project-level financial management. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Corrected office symbols to reflect realigned functions and updated organizational structure.
Added Section 6, Rate Development and Review, to allow deletion of AEDCI 65-107, AEDC
Rate Development. Added references that provide additional guidance on subject matters
included herein. Replaced Sections 6.7.3 and 6.7.4 with new Section 5.7.3. Added language and
otherwise updated to assure compliance with 2003 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)
regarding billing DoD customer.
1. Scope. This instruction establishes the framework for meeting the minimum requirement to
support financial management and funding policies at AEDC using a job order cost accounting
system. This requirement is directed in Department of Defense (DoD) FMR Regulation
7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation.
 2                                                            AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013


2. Responsibility and Authority. AEDC’s Comptroller Directorate (AEDC/FM) is responsible
for establishing a cost and control system enabling successful business practices.
3. Description Of Activities. An annual workload plan is developed that organizes and
prioritizes all projects at AEDC. This annual workload plan results in tasks that may be analyzed
according to cost, schedule status, and the identification of areas that need adjustment. AEDC
uses the following structure to organize the job order accounting process and to collect financial
data for analyzing cost and scheduling.
     3.1. Establishment of a Project or Job. All tasks at AEDC have a project number. A project
     is established after the Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) process for Reimbursable Budget
     Authority (RBA) jobs and after the approval through the Capability Analysis and Risk
     Assessment (CARA) process (detailed in AEDCI 90-700) for Direct Budget Authority
     (DBA) jobs.
        3.1.1. RBA Jobs. All requests for test services/products will be identified on either an
        AF Form 185, Project Order; DD Form 448, Military Inter-Departmental Purchase
        Request (MIPR); commercial test contract; or any other official document described in
        DoD 7000.14-R., FMR Vol. 11A, Chapter 1. To record the project in the accounting
        system, an AEDC Form 875, Reimbursable Order Worksheet, will be completed and sent
        to the AEDC Financial Analysis (AEDC/FMA) office.
            3.1.1.1. Test services/activities will not commence until an appropriate reimbursable
            order or funding document has been received by AEDC (i.e., AF Form 406,
            Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD) in accordance with
            AFMCI 65-602, Paragraph3.1. DD Form 448; AF Form 185; etc.). Commercial
            funds must be deposited with the United States Treasury before work begins.
            Reimbursable work will be executed only to the extent that reimbursable orders are
            received. Reimbursable orders must be supported by valid obligation of customer
            funds or advance deposit of funds from non-federal customers.
            3.1.1.2. Cost-reimbursable customer orders from prior fiscal years carried over into
            the current fiscal year will have estimates and actual work priced at the appropriate
            customer classification and associated product/service rates for the fiscal year in
            which the work is performed (e.g., FYXX rates effective until 30 Sep XX, then
            FYXX+1 rates applied to customer orders).
            3.1.1.3. Commercial contracts are to support specific projects. Even though the
            commercial customer may qualify for a DoD rate, the projects should be treated as a
            commercial contract. A DoD sponsoring activity may request additional performance.
            However, the new requirements must be set up as a separate project and funded by
            the DoD agency. Modifications to the scope of a commercial contract must be made
            through the commercial entity and not the DoD sponsoring agency.
        3.1.2. Pre-Statement of Capability (SOC)/Technical Consulting Costs. AFMCI 65-602,
        Paragraph. 2.1.7 applies to all requesting activities when providing pre-SOC or technical
        consulting to either potential new customers or current customers introducing a new
        project, task, program, or effort. Costs incurred for preparing information for potential
        new projects or technical consulting will not exceed $5,000. Once pre-SOC or technical
        consulting information is provided and the requesting activity has determined to proceed
AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013                                                                           3


     with the effort, the costs incurred by AEDC will become billable and reimbursement
     actions from the requesting activity will begin. Users must be informed in advance when
     pre-SOC costs will require reimbursement. For non-federal customers, additional work
     after pre-SOC or technical consulting will not be performed until full funding is received
     and deposited in the appropriate account at AEDC. If the proposed project, task,
     program, or effort does not materialize for AEDC, the $5,000 fee or the lesser cost
     incurred by the requesting activity’s requests are charged to institutional funds.
  3.2. Work Breakdown Structure (WBS). The AEDC Corporate Board establishes the local
  WBS. This structure serves many purposes and facilitates planning by providing a formal
  structure for reporting and organizing work.
  3.3. Work Phase (WP). A WP is a planning tool used to organize all tasks into a program
  specific set of work packages. Each set of work packages is defined with a WP code
  dependent upon the type of task for that work package. The WP code is comprised of the
  following definition levels:
     3.3.1. Level 1. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) mandates the most basic
     division/phase of a project (e.g., plan, design, fabricate, install, test, remove, data, report).
     3.3.2. Level 2. Resource Types are the type of resources that the project in Level 1
     consumes or uses.
     3.3.3. Level 3. Resource Categories are the category of resources that the project in
     Level 2 consumes or uses.
  3.4. Cost/Schedule Estimates. Estimating costs is a critical task at AEDC, which is required
  to accomplish a project. Estimates must be accurate to avoid program delays and strained
  customer relations. The cost estimate is based on expected resources used in each work
  phase. It is used to determine the Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB). The PMB is
  the time-phased resource plan for a project and is used to track cost and schedule
  performance. For RBA customers the cost estimate is used to request funds.
     3.4.1. RBA Jobs. AEDC/FM determines the method for reimbursement as required by
     AFMCI 65-602, Chapter 2, Paragraph 2.1.3. Virtually all AEDC testing is performed on
     cost-reimbursable basis. The customer classification determines the type of cost that is
     reimbursed.
     3.4.2. Cost-Reimbursable Orders (DoD FMR 7000.14R, Vol. 11A, 020703). The
     amount stated in a cost-reimbursable order shall be a sound estimate of the costs to be
     billed in performance of the work or service ordered. Estimates shall be determined upon
     the basis of the specific work to be performed. Funding on hand shall be the ceiling
     amount for purposes of reimbursement of the currently funded work or services ordered.
     The United States government agencies performing activity and requesting activity shall
     perform timely renegotiations for revisions to ceiling amount of cost-reimbursable orders.
     3.4.3. Customer Classification. AFMCI 65-602 and DoD FMR 7000.14-R., Volume
     11A, Chapter 1, Addendum 1, identify and summarize customer classification categories
     for organizations requesting AEDC services/activities. Table 1 summarizes customer
     classification categories.
 4                                                            AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013


Figure 1. Customer Classification
Customer Classification                   Description

DoD Customer **                           Service Components (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine)

Non-DoD, Federal Customer **              National Aeronautical Space Agency, Department of
                                          Transportation, Department of Energy, etc.

Non-Federal Customer ***                  Private and commercial entities, state and local government,
                                          education

Foreign Customer ****                       Foreign Military Sales, foreign private and commercial
                                            entities
____________________________________________________________________________________
NOTE
* Project Managers (PMs) may use the AEDC Customer Classification Process Flowchart (Attachment
2) to classify customers requesting services/activities. The Job Order Cost Accounting System (JOCAS
II) will process bills for customer orders allocating appropriate indirect, overhead, and additive costs in
accordance with (IAW) reimbursable policies and customer classifications.

** DoD customer classification for billing purposes is available to non-federal customers when the
requesting activity provides appropriate contractual language IAW DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 11A,
Chapter 12, 120203.B.4 and AFMCI 65-602, Paragraph 2.1.3.2. Under this regulation, the requesting
activity must provide AEDC Contract Procurement (AEDC/PKP) with the DoD contract number and
full text of the requirement paragraph to justify the sponsored customer receiving a preferential DoD-
based rate.

*** While Commercial Pricing Legislation permits AEDC to provide services/activities to United States
domestic commercial entities, DoD policy provides additional guidance for foreign governments or
companies (OUSD Ltr (Bolino), 31 Jan 95). If a foreign government or company can test with United
States content/United States partner, they will be classified as a non-federal customer. However, if a
foreign government or company desires to test a foreign made system without United States
content/United States partner, they will be considered a foreign customer and Commercial Pricing
Legislation does not apply.

**** AEDC may provide testing for Foreign Military Sales (FMS) customers only through the FMS
procedures authorized under the Arms Export Control Act. The Department of State and Secretary of
the Air Force/International Affairs will identify and approve friendly foreign nations eligible for FMS
program status. Once approved, the Defense Security Assistance Agency will oversee all FMS
programs. When FMS customers are present at AEDC, services/activities provided are subject to
regulations IAW DoD 7000.14R, Volume 15. AEDC Plans and Programs (AEDC/XP) foreign affairs
officer and AEDC Intelligence Office (AEDC/XP2) must be notified prior to initiating any proposed test
project that involves any foreign customer.
AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013                                                                       5


     3.4.4. Non-Competition with Industry. DoD Directive 3200.11 requires the AEDC/CC
     to ensure that AEDC facilities are not competing with United States private industry in
     providing services to commercial users or non-DoD government users. The use of
     AEDC facilities by private organizations and commercial enterprises shall not increase
     the cost to operate AEDC and shall not be factored into the decision-making process for
     sizing and maintaining the infrastructure. The directive defines a commercial enterprise
     as any US commercial user (a profit-making organization or individual), or a
     nongovernment sponsored university.
        3.4.4.1. The AEDC Contract Directorate (AEDC/PK) will submit a notice drafted by
        the 704 Test Group (704 TG) to the Federal Business Opportunities (FedBizOpps)
        annually, prior to the first day of October, outlining the anticipated commercial
        workload based on requirements submitted by the test squadrons to the AEDC CARA
        process.
        3.4.4.2. Work or services requested by activities that do not support a DoD contract
        will have a completed AEDC Form 877, Commercial Certification Statement
        Form, prior to entering into a test contract, AEDC Form 849 (adopted). The Program
        Manager (PM) will use a staff summary package to obtain coordination through 704
        TG and concurrence of AEDC/PK and the AEDC Commander (AEDC/CC).
        AEDC/PKP will retain the approved commercial certification statement and other
        supporting documentation in the test contract file. The requirement to maintain these
        files is determined by AEDC/PK.
        3.4.4.3. Defense contractors, for the purpose of performing work to carry out DoD
        contracts, shall be permitted access to AEDC test and evaluation capabilities without
        regard to the provisions against competing with private sector test capabilities.
     3.4.5. Cost-Sharing Options. The AEDC/CC may opt to pursue a cost-share agreement
     with a requesting activity in lieu of reimbursement policies prescribed in DoD FMR
     7000.14R, Volume 11A, Chapter 1. Methods for applying cost-share agreements may be
     communicated using a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRDA) or
     Memorandum of Understanding/Agreement (MOU/A). When administering a cost-share
     agreement, current governing policies and regulations associated with these documents
     must be followed.
        3.4.5.1. Under certain circumstances, a specific customer order performed at AEDC
        may provide a benefit to both AEDC and the requesting activity. When both parties
        receive benefit from a given test and where joint participation is desirable, the
        government’s PM will evaluate and determine the value added from the specific
        project and present the results to the AEDC/CC. The AEDC/CC may then determine
        that the total direct costs for that specific project may be shared in direct ratio to the
        amount of benefit received by each of the participants. The AEDC/CC may establish
        a “not-to-exceed” dollar threshold amount for direct costs to be borne by AEDC on
        any cost share agreement, preventing unknown or growing cost burdens to AEDC and
        its institutional funds. All applicable projects will be reviewed and recommended on
        a case-by-case basis.
        3.4.5.2. Another alternative is an incremental cost-sharing agreement for
        “opportunity use.” Under this method, the requesting activity pays only the
6                                                               AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013


           incremental cost generated when they share a facility/service for a test that is already
           scheduled on behalf of AEDC for its own purpose. The requesting activity may use
           the same facility/service at the same time for their separate purpose; however, there is
           no cost sharing “benefit” between AEDC and the requesting activity. An example
           might include the added direct cost of additional labor, article set-up, instrumentation,
           data collection, etc., plus any other incremental costs for whatever service the
           requesting activity requires above and beyond what AEDC uses for its planned
           purposes. This alternative also must be approved by the AEDC/CC on a case-by-case
           basis.
    3.5. SOC Preparation or Project Plan Once the estimate is completed, the SOC or project
    plan is prepared. The SOC or project plan is, in effect, the program baseline and once signed
    by AEDC and the customer, indicates a mutual agreement for the PMB. If significant
    changes to the program occur, e.g., the customer or AEDC initiates an action that causes the
    estimated cost or schedule to be adjusted, an amendment to the baseline and a revised SOC
    may be required. Once signed/approved, the program is rebaselined, forming a new PMB.
    3.6. Work Authorization AEDC project work authorization represents the funding limit to
    which the support contractor may accrue total billable costs.
       3.6.1. Squadron commanders have been delegated the authority to inform the test support
       contractor to commence work on customer orders. This must be accomplished by
       documented procedures (e-mail, memorandum, etc.), not verbally. Resource advisors are
       responsible for entering authorization amounts into the accounting system after receiving
       approval from appropriate WBS manager.
       3.6.2. AEDC Project Work Authorization Procedure. Assigned resource advisors will
       approve AEDC project work authorization after the following procedures are
       accomplished.
           3.6.2.1. Government PM submits AEDC project work authorization requests, in
           writing, to the appropriate squadron commanders.
           3.6.2.2. Squadron commanders approve the AEDC project work authorization
           request and forward to the appropriate resource advisor.
           3.6.2.3. Resource advisors verify the AEDC project work authorization to the
           customer and ensure that funds are deposited at AEDC.
           3.6.2.4. Resource advisors then approve/disapprove the AEDC project work
           authorization and send a message to the support contractor’s program control office
           and the government PM.
    3.7. Cost Tracking/Program Management. For each job, the program manager is responsible
    for validating charges, identifying questionable charges, researching and correcting
    questionable charges, and tracking project execution against the PMB. FM is responsible for
    monitoring the overall financial condition of AEDC. A variety of reports, notices, revisions,
    and analysis techniques are used for managing the work process.
       3.7.1. JOCAS II. JOCAS II tracks costs and cost summaries back to their original points
       of input to maintain a complete audit trail of all cost accounting data.
AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013                                                                      7


  3.7.2. Project Documentation. The PM and AEDC/FM use project plans, SOCs, Project
  Deviation Notices (PDN), Project Change Agreements (PCA), and project plan revisions to
  assist in the monitoring of the financial flow of the job or project.
        3.7.2.1. PDN. The contractor performing the work shall notify the government in
        writing 2 working days after determining that any of the following conditions exist:
            3.7.2.1.1. It is determined that one or more project deliverables cannot be met.
            3.7.2.1.2. Any change greater than 1 week from latest Air Force approved
            schedule milestone date or any change in fiscal year resources execution is
            anticipated.
            3.7.2.1.3. The project cost is anticipated to change by ten percent or more from
            the current approved estimate for the current-year effort to include all costs
            excluding Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) or $25,000, whichever is
            less.
        3.7.2.2. AEDC Project Plan Revision. A Project Plan shall be revised any time the
        total cost is anticipated to deviate from the Project Plan by 15 percent or more, or a
        change in ability to meet project objectives is identified by a PDN, unless waived by
        the Air Force PM or representative. The revision shall be submitted to the
        government within ten working days after the need for revision is known.
        3.7.2.3. AEDC Project Change Agreement. A PCA is issued to document a scope
        change to the approved project plan. Reasons for a PCA include a project resource
        change or an increase/decrease in the level of effort.
     3.7.3. Tracking Project Progress. The PM will use an appropriate technique, such as
     Earned Value Management (EVM) to track and report project progress. The appropriate
     technique and reporting method depends on project magnitude and is the discretion of the
     responsible Group or Squadron.
     3.7.4. Billings, Overtime, and Lost Test Time (LTT).
        3.7.4.1. Billings. Customers are responsible for all direct costs. However, AEDC
        will not typically invoice small project overages up to $3,000 or 1% of Reimbursable
        Order Number (RON) value. AEDC/CC will determine the appropriate amount of
        indirect costs to charge non-DoD, federal and non-federal customers (DoD FMR
        7000.14R, Volume 11A, 120203.B.2.2.b). Per the 2003 NDAA, DoD customers are
        billed for no indirect costs. Appropriate costs will automatically be generated to
        customer bills through JOCAS II. When billing labor to customers, the government
        PM will estimate and charge regular and/or overtime rates for personnel costs.
        Contractor labor cost will be furnished to JOCAS II via a contractor upload file.
        Appropriate labor rates for government manpower will automatically be generated to
        customer bills via JOCAS II.
        3.7.4.2. Lost Test Time (LTT). LTT occurs only during a scheduled test period
        within the “test phase” of an AEDC project. LTT costs are associated with
        unproductive testing “above and beyond” normal equipment start-up and operating
        inefficiencies common to all testing (common start-up/operation inefficiencies costs
        are part of the standard rates charged to customers). While LTT does not impact all
8                                                        AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013


    customers, LTT cost is nevertheless an inherent cost of testing. As such, LTT can
    properly be charged directly to all requesting activities, typically on a direct basis.
    However, the AEDC/CC has the authority to cover certain LTT cost with AEDC
    institutional funding and has established the following policy for charging LTT at
    AEDC:
       3.7.4.2.1. All customer-caused LTT, to include customer test article, model
       failure, performance, data anomaly, and other actions resulting from omission or
       commission on the customer’s part, is charged to the requesting activity’s project.
       3.7.4.2.2. AEDC procedures specify that testing will be suspended during certain
       weather conditions to avoid damage to the test article and AEDC systems. Under
       these circumstances LTT stemming from conditions beyond AEDC’s control is
       charged to the requesting activity’s project. Customers may request testing to
       continue at their risk.
       3.7.4.2.3. When LTT occurs as a result of AEDC personnel action, to include
       inappropriate actions by omission or commission on AEDC personnel’s part
       which results in consequential LTT, then AEDC institutional funds are used to
       pay the LTT costs.
       3.7.4.2.4. The cost of LTT that results from AEDC equipment failure or other
       maintenance problems is shared between AEDC and the requesting activity’s
       funding. The 704 TG and the 704 MXG make the determination of the amount
       charged to the customer.
       3.7.4.2.5. The decision as to which LTT category applies is made by the test
       squadron commander or his designee. In situations where there are multiple
       causes and/or shared-cost charging is deemed appropriate, the decision to “split-
       charge” LTT costs is made the 704 TG and the 704 MXG.
       3.7.4.2.6. The government PM is responsible for communicating LTT policies
       and clauses to all requesting activities. They should also document LTT policy
       within the appropriate agreement between AEDC and the requesting activity.
       3.7.4.2.7. Additional guidance on LTT is included in AAFB COI 99-1, Lost Time
       Assessment.5.7.5. Termination, Aborts, and Cancellations (DoD FMR 7000.14R,
       Volume 11A, 020708 and 120203.C and AFMCI 65-602, Paragraph 1.1.12, 2.1.5,
       and 2.6.3). This guidance is applicable to all requesting activities without regard
       to their customer classification category. Requesting activities may terminate or
       reschedule test facilities at any time prior to testing by providing written
       notification to the PM.
    3.7.5.1. A termination/rescheduling clause will be included on all customer orders or
    agreements (project orders, test contracts, SOCs) before testing starts and/or material
    activity costs are incurred between AEDC and requesting activities. The requesting
    activity must be informed, in writing, that they are liable for any costs associated with
    performing requested activities at AEDC.                 The following standardized
    termination/rescheduling clause identified in Figure 1 will be inserted in all orders or
    agreements. Modifications to the standardized termination/rescheduling clause must
    be coordinated through AEDC Staff Judge Advocate (AEDC/JA), AEDC/PK, and
AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013                                                                         9


          AEDC/FM to ensure appropriate authority and terminology is used in the termination
          clause implemented on customer orders.

Figure 2. Termination/Rescheduling by Contractor/User
a. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, the Contractor/User may terminate or reschedule
test facilities at any time prior to testing by providing written notification to the AEDC DoD test
program manager. If Contractor/User elects to terminate or reschedule this contract, the
Contractor/User shall reimburse the government for all obligations incurred up to the date of
receipt by AEDC of its termination or rescheduling notice, including all costs incurred in
restoring the facility to the condition it was in before preparations were made to conduct the test
and for any other costs resulting directly from the termination or rescheduling.

b. The rights and remedies of the Government provided by this clause are in addition to any
other rights and remedies provided by law or this contract.

          3.7.5.2. Identifying Termination Costs. Costs incurred due to the termination of
          orders shall be reimbursable to AEDC when those orders are terminated by the
          requesting activity, including when the test requirement is cancelled, but only to the
          extent that the costs incurred do not exceed the amount of fixed-price orders or the
          funded amount for cost-reimbursable orders.
          3.7.5.3. Examples of termination costs. Examples include costs incurred after
          acceptance of the order, preparation costs for testing, costs incurred to the point of
          termination, costs to restore AEDC facilities to the original condition prior to
          customer test commencement, and other allocable incurred costs of customer caused
          cancellations, aborts, or rescheduling.
          3.7.5.4. The liability for termination, abort, and cancellation will not exceed costs
          incurred, except for those facilities scheduled in advance for a specific period.
          Liability may include lost reimbursements if the performing activity (AEDC) is
          unable to schedule substitute workload (AFMCI 65-602, 2.1.5). In this case, the PM
          and appropriate supervisors will present a case to the AEDC/CC, who will then
          determine appropriate action.
          3.7.5.5. Examples of liability from termination, abort and cancellation. Examples
          include costs accrued for idle workforce while they are being rescheduled as a result
          of a cancelled test or facility specific maintenance and repair costs incurred as a result
          of a single user.
   3.8. Project Completeness. Upon project completion, Project Managers will submit a
   Project Completion Notice; upon receipt of a PCN, resource advisors will mark the project
   inactive in all applicable systems.
   3.9. Budgetary Planning. The purpose of budgetary planning is to identify out-year
   workloads, estimate their costs, identify required support, and develop a time-phased budget.
   The budgetary planning cycle begins with an annual call from the test organizations to test
   requesters (customers) requesting a forecast of test requirements to determine the test
   workload. The DBA program planning is accomplished using a prioritization system called
10                                                           AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013


  CARA. The current year CARA and test workload projects are the basis for the development
  of the AEDC workload plan, which includes all sources of funds allocated against all projects
  or jobs. The AEDC workload plan includes the contracts and government-responsible work.
  3.10. Glossary of Financial Terms and Procedures.
     3.10.1. Anti-Deficiency Act, Title 31, US Code, Sections 1341 and 1517, are probably
     the most important statutes affecting the obligation of funds at the activity level. The
     principal provisions are as follows:
         3.10.1.1. Prohibits any officer or employee from making or authorizing an obligation
         in excess of the amount available in an appropriation or in excess of the amount
         permitted by agency regulations.
         3.10.1.2. Forbids the government from obligating funds in advance of appropriations.
     3.10.2. RBA Deferral. A RBA deferral is the consequence of actions that result in the
     over commitment, over-obligation, or over-expenditure of funds available for a RBA
     project at hand. JOCAS identifies these costs as unfunded, and will not allow billing to
     the customer until there is an increase in RBA funds available.
         3.10.2.1. Deferral Management. Deferrals are worked by PM for the first 2 fiscal
         years of the deferral. During this time frame, every effort should be made to resolve
         deferrals as quickly as possible. Deferrals deemed uncollectable by the PM after the
         2-year period will be identified to the AEDC/FM by e-mail or letter. The letter or e-
         mail should include the job order number, fiscal year, amount of deferral, and
         previous actions taken to resolve the deferral, including any written correspondence
         to customers.
         3.10.2.2. Deferral Management Review Process.           Deferrals of greater than
         $10,000.00 or 10 percent of project cost are reported to AEDC/FM each month. In
         addition, all deferrals will be reported in AEDC/FM matrix weekly activity report.
     3.10.3. Direct Cost. A direct cost is any item of cost incurred by a project that can be
     readily and specifically identified or assigned to any final cost objective. Direct costs
     include, but are not limited to, labor and related benefits, material, travel and per diem,
     transportation, dedicated equipment, and contractual services assigned directly or through
     standard rates. All contractor costs (except contractor support costs attributable to
     several programs per AFMCI 65-602, paragraph 2.35) are considered direct to AEDC.
     3.10.4. Indirect Cost. An indirect cost is any item of cost that is incurred by a direct
     mission element for joint objectives and therefore, cannot be identified specifically with a
     single final cost objective. Indirect costs may be incurred by direct and/or indirect cost
     centers.
     3.10.5. Fiscal Year. For the United States government, this is from 1 October to 30
     September.
     3.10.6. Funds Status. There are several stages of accountability of funds in the execution
     phase, e.g., commitment, obligation, and expenditure.
AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013                                                                       11


           3.10.6.1. Commitment. An accounting procedure whereby funds are administratively
           reserved for something to be bought in the near future. This procedure precedes
           obligation actions and is normally based on firm directives, orders, or requests.
           3.10.6.2. Obligation. Obligates the government to make a future payment of the
           actual cost of services or articles ordered by a signed contract. The obligation is
           carried in official accounting records and legally sets aside a specified sum of funds
           to be expended through completion of the contract.
           3.10.6.3. Expenditure. Actual payment for services or goods received.
       3.10.7. Excess Fund Balance Management. Every effort should be made by the PM to
       clean up excess fund balances remaining on completed test projects. These balances
       should be identified to the customers for withdrawal when the test has been in closeout
       status for a reasonable time to clear any outstanding charges.
       3.10.8. JOCAS II is an expense accumulation and billing system designed to identify
       total resources expended in the completion of a job order by type of Element Expense
       Investment Code, by Responsibility Center/Cost Center, and by Fund Code.
4. Rate Development and Review. AEDC/FMP shall:
4.1. Provide guidance for rate development methodologies to the contractor via the annual
Request for Proposal Letter to the contractor.
   4.2. Review all contract proposals for rate development to ensure they are consistent with
   Air Force guidance.
   4.3. Present rate recommendations, methodologies, and financial impacts to the AEDC
   Enterprise Integration Team (EIT) and the AEDC Corporate Board as part of the initial
   program assessment, prior to the start of a fiscal year.
   4.4. Review rate performance, validate rate accuracy, and assess financial impacts at least
   quarterly, presenting results to the AEDC Corporate Board.
   4.5. Track rates and validate them quarterly. Changes that exceed five percent plus or minus
   will be identified to AEDC Corporate Board for possible rate adjustments.
5. Records AEDC. Financial Services maintains a copy of funding documents until funding is
expired. This is contingent upon type of funding utilized and varies across fund sources.
6. Metrics. External and Internal audit reports will measure the effectiveness of this instruction.
7. Flowchart. AEDC Customer Classification & Billing Determination Flowchart (Attachment
2).




                                             ARTHUR F. HUBER II, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 12                                                          AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Department of Defense FMR Regulation 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial
Management Regulation.
Economy Act, Title 31, United States Code (U.S.C.), sections 1535 and 1536.
Project Order Act, Title 41, U.S.C., section 23.
AFMCI 65-602, Uniform Reimbursement and Pricing Procedures.
Department of Defense Directive 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base.
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (OUSD) Letter, 31 Jan 95.
Anti-deficiency Act, Title 31, United States Code (U.S.C.), Sections 1341 and 1517.
AEDC 64-200, Test Contracts.
AEDCI 90-700, Capability Analysis and Risk Assessment.
AAFB Center Operating Instruction (COI) 99-1, Lost Time Assessment.
Prescribed forms
AEDC Form 875, Reimbursable Order Worksheet (ROW
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
AF Form 185, Project Order
DD448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
AEDC Form 849, Test Contract

Abbreviations and Acronyms.
704 MXG—AEDC Maintenance Group
704 TG—704th Test Group
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Complex
AEDC/CC—AEDC Commander
AEDC/FM—AEDC Comptroller Directorate
AEDC/FMA—AEDC Financial Analysis
AEDC/FMP—AEDC Financial Plans and Programs Division
AEDC/JA—AEDC Staff Judge Advocate
AEDC/PK—AEDC Contract Directorate
AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013                             13


AEDC/PKP—AEDC Contract Procurement
AEDC/XP—AEDC Plans & Programs
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
CARA—Capability Analysis and Risk Assessment
CRDA—Cooperative Research and Development Agreement
DBA—Direct Budget Authority
DoD—Department of Defense
EVM—Earned Value Management
FMR—Financial Management Regulation
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
GFE—Government Furnished Equipment
IAW—In Accordance With
JOCAS—Job Order Cost Accounting System
LTT—Lost Test Time
MIPR—Military Inter-Department Purchase Request
MOU/A—Memorandum of Understanding/Agreement
MRTFB—Major Range Test Facility Bases
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
PCA—Project Change Agreement
PDN—Project Deviation Notice
PM—Project Managers
PO—Project Order
RBA—Reimbursable Budget Authority
REO—Reimbursable Order/Request
ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude
ROW—Reimbursable Order Worksheet
SOC—Statement of Capability
WBS—Work Breakdown Structure
WP—Work Phases
 14                                                     AEDCI65-105 21 MARCH 2013


                                     Attachment 2
          CUSTOMER CLASSIFICATION & BILLING DETERMINATION

Figure A2.1. Customer Classification & Billing Determination
