BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                     CENTER INSTRUCTIONS 99-100
DEVELOPMENT CENTER
                                                                             16 AUGUST 2012

                                                                           Test and Evaluation

                                                                   TEST AND EVALUATION
                                                                  PROJECT MANAGEMENT


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AEDC/TST                                                          Certified by: AEDC/TST
                                                                          (Col. William Bailey)
                                                                                      Pages: 13
Supersedes:   AEDCI 99-100, 27 May 2009


This instruction outlines the AEDC government processes for determining program
requirements, planning and managing Test and Evaluation (T&E) projects, and executing the
program feedback program. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary

Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication; route
AF IMT 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command.

This instruction applies to all T&E projects provided by AEDC to a reimbursable program.
Programs include Department of Defense (DoD) Agencies and Services, non-DoD government
agencies, Foreign Military Sales, and domestic and foreign commercial corporations engaged in
aerospace design and development. The Air Force Test Manager (TM) has the primary
responsibility on behalf of the Test Division Chief (TST Chief) and the appropriate Complex
Director to ensure the program’s expectations are met and are consistent with the signed
Statement of Capability or AEDC test contract (required for projects funded by a commercial
entity). For commercially-funded projects, the TM assigned by the appropriate Director, acts as
the Contracting Officer’s (CO) technical liaison. The CO is the primary representative to the
 2                                                               AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012


program for all test services accomplished under AEDC test contracts. Only services consistent
with the terms of the AEDC test contract can be accomplished.

The National Full-Scale Aerodynamics Complex (NFAC) uses a separately managed information
technology provider and access to the AEDC servers and software programs is not possible for
all NFAC personnel. Subsequently, NFAC must meet the intent of all test documentation
requirements and processes outlined in this instruction using a local database approved by the
Director, or by hardcopy documentation. This includes, but is not limited to, all required Matrix
procedures.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised. Revisions include deleting references to obsolete
AEDC instructions and updating organizational office titles.
1. Responsibility and Authority
     1.1. The Test Approval Authority (TAA) shall:
        1.1.1. Approve all Risk Priority Code (RPC=1) test projects.
        1.1.2. Delegate all other test approval responsibilities as outlined in this instruction.
     1.2. The TST Chief shall:
        1.2.1. Ensure Complex Directors apply appropriate procedures in accordance with this
        instruction.
        1.2.2. Coordinate with the Maintenance Division, Test Systems Division, Contracting
        Directorate (AEDC/PK), and          Mission Support Division, as appropriate, when
        incorporating new workload to evaluate potential impact to existing schedules. For any
        test requiring extensive facility modifications, conduct early coordination with
        appropriate divisions to allow proper funding, investment, and maintenance planning.
        1.2.3. Approve SOCs and all Project Change Agreements (PCA). This responsibility
        and authority is assigned to the Director at both Tunnel 9 and NFAC.
        1.2.4. Ensure that financial policies for T&E projects are adhered to as specified in
        AEDCI 65105.
        1.2.5. Chair the Test Strategy Panel (TSP) in accordance with AEDCI 64-200.
        1.2.6. Chair the Safety Review Board (SRB) and approve all Risk Priority Code
        (RPC=2) test projects.
        1.2.7. Develop and maintain training guidelines for TMs.
     1.3. The Complex Director shall:
        1.3.1. Ensure TMs are trained to manage T&E projects accomplished by the operating
        contractor to include preparation and evaluation of Rough Order of Magnitudes (ROM)
        and SOCs. TM training will be documented in the individual’s training plan.
        Additionally, ensure TMs properly execute all duties and responsibilities listed in this
        instruction.
AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012                                                                     3


     1.3.2. Maintain records and status of program inquiries for a minimum of two years.
     1.3.3. Add potential test entries/removals to the integrated schedule that identify the test
     unit, approximate duration, and an assessment of the probability of occurrence in
     accordance with AEDCOI 21-205.
     1.3.4. Ensure requirements are met for all test programs where the user will directly
     reimburse the government in accordance with AEDCI 64-200.
     1.3.5. Review workload and schedule requirements submitted with ROMs and SOCs.
     1.3.6. Implement the guidelines established by the TST Chief for the management of test
     projects.
         1.3.6.1. Ensure that appropriate program management controls (program reviews,
         anomaly resolutions, cost management, etc.) are established.
         1.3.6.2. Review test projects to ensure that AEDC policies on safety, security, and
         environmental compliance are being followed.
         1.3.6.3. Approve, by exception only, a Technical Review Board (TRB) for standard
         or routine testing to be accomplished without requiring a board. This approval must
         be documented and included in the electronic project folder.
         1.3.6.4. Chair the SRB and approve all low-risk (RPC=3) test projects. Ensure
         compliance with established SRB requirements to include identification and
         mitigation of all health and safety hazards per the requirements established in SH&E
         Standard A4, System Safety.
         1.3.6.5. Chair the Test Readiness Review (TRR) for all test projects. Ensure each
         TRR is documented for each project, as prescribed in this instruction.
         1.3.6.6. Inform the TST Chief as early as possible, of any test requiring extensive
         facility modifications, to allow proper funding, investment, and maintenance
         planning.
         1.3.6.7. Review the SOC and all subsequent PCAs necessary to document changes in
         test projects prior to forwarding to the TST Chief for approval and release to the
         program.
         1.3.6.8. Monitor performance of TMs to ensure that the project tasks are consistent
         with the program requirements and appropriate Air Force regulations. Review
         documented program comments and ensure appropriate response is taken.
  1.4. The Complex Technical Director shall:
     1.4.1. Chair the TRB or complete the TRBs requirements in the event there is no board
     required (see para 1.3.6.3.). Ensure the TRB is accomplished by appropriate technically
     qualified personnel and is conducted and documented in accordance with this instruction.
  1.5. The TM shall:
     1.5.1. Document the program’s test requirements.
4                                                             AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012


       1.5.2. Determine program requirements with sufficient detail to initiate ROM and SOC
       planning. For commercial programs, ensure that the planning initiated for the ROM
       and/or SOC is in accordance with AEDCI 64-200.
       1.5.3. Coordinate with the operating contractor to review AEDC workload forecasts,
       investment program schedules, and maintenance schedules in order to ensure
       executability.  Provide inputs to the Director for workload and test schedule
       requirements.
       1.5.4. Accomplish the activities outlined in paragraph 2 of this instruction.
       1.5.5. Ensure the AEDC operating contractor provides necessary documentation to
       comply with safety, security, and environmental regulations during preparation, delivery,
       and post delivery activities necessary to meet the requirements of the SOC.
       1.5.6. Ensure a TRB is conducted.
           1.5.6.1. Provide the TRB chairman and board members with TRB charts prior to the
           commencement of the board.
       1.5.7. Schedule a SRB prior to or in conjunction with the TRR. Select SRB members
       based on Director’s direction. Provide the SRB chairman, board members, and any other
       designated individuals with SRB charts prior to commencement of board.
       1.5.8. Schedule a TRR to ensure operational readiness prior to initial operation,
       checkout, deployment, or test. The TRR and SRB may be held as one review at the
       discretion of the Director. Documentation must reflect the accomplishments of both
       reviews. The TRR must be conducted at least 24 hours prior to testing. Select TRR
       board members based on the Directors direction. Provide the TRR chairman, board
       members, or other designated individuals with TRR charts prior to commencement of
       review based on the Director’s direction.
       1.5.9. Ensure the project is properly closed out. For commercial projects, ensure the
       AEDC Contracting (AEDC/PK) has the necessary information to close out the test
       contract, in accordance with AEDCI 64-200.
       1.5.10. Ensure new requirements for active test projects are documented in the project
       change process of Matrix. The planning process outlined in paragraph 2.2. shall be
       followed to revise the SOC to reflect the changes.
       1.5.11. In accordance with AEDCI 64-200, ensure scope changes for tests and projects
       accomplished on AEDC test contracts administered by AEDC/PK are documented by a
       coordinated and signed contract modification.
       1.5.12. Maintain an electronic project folder for all test projects in Matrix. As a
       minimum, the electronic project folder will contain all documentation requirements listed
       in this instruction: initial program contact; ROM; SOC; PCA; TRB; SRB; TRR;
       applicable funding document(s), AEDC 801(s), and Earned Value Management data (if
       applicable).
       1.5.13. Provide the Director early notice of any test requiring extensive facility
       modifications to allow for proper funding, investment, and maintenance planning.
    1.6. The Resource Advisor (RA) shall:
AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012                                                                    5


       1.6.1. Ensure funds are available and authorized to support the Complex Director’s
       requirements.
       1.6.2. Establish a project in PeopleSoft based on the input of the TM. Transmit received
       funding documents to AEDC/FM.
   1.7. The CO shall: prepare, administer, and close out AEDC test contracts in accordance
   with AEDCI 64-200. The CO shall receive all funds defined in the SOC and funds required
   for all subsequent modifications to the SOC (only applicable to commercial programs).
2. Roles and Responsibilities
   2.1. Determine program requirements:
       2.1.1. The appropriate Complex Director shall approve and sign the ROM for submission
       to the test program. (Note: ROMs for commercial programs will be approved by the
       Director and then forwarded to the CO for test contract transmission to the program
       office.)
       2.1.2. The TM shall, upon receipt of program inquiry/requirement:
          2.1.2.1. Using the project home page of Matrix, create a test inquiry to assess the
          level of information provided and obtain additional information, as needed.
          2.1.2.2. Determine if the requirement is best satisfied by AEDC. If not, try to
          determine the best source, refer the program to that source, and close out the program
          inquiry.
          2.1.2.3. Assess how the current integrated schedule and workload impacts AEDC’s
          capacity and capability to initially meet the program’s technical and schedule
          requirements. Complete a ROM and coordinate with the operating contractor on
          current workload plans, capacity/capability assessment, and the integrated schedule in
          order to make a recommendation to the appropriate Director regarding AEDC’s
          ability to satisfy program requirements. Submit entries as either firm test
          requirements or tentative test entries during the monthly test integrated schedule
          meeting (per AEDCOI 21205.) (Note: Modification for commercial projects shall be
          accomplished and documented in a contract modification signed by the CO in
          accordance with AEDCI 64-200.)
          2.1.2.4. Close out inquiry record and direct to the appropriate AEDC process
          specified in paragraph 2.2., or terminate with no further action.
   2.2. Plan Test Projects:
       2.2.1. The TM shall:
          2.2.1.1. Develop the initial ROM when potential programs request a quote for test
          services and sufficient information is available to do a ROM estimate for cost of
          anticipated services.
              2.2.1.1.1. In accordance with AEDCI 65-105 obtain a rate determination based
              upon program type from the program inquiry system, or through direct
              communications with the program.
              2.2.1.1.2. Request Complex Director’s approval to develop a ROM for the test
6                                                     AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012


       program.
       2.2.1.1.3. Develop a ROM. Although ROMs are normally submitted through the
       Director in written format, he/she may approve other means of communications
       (e.g., telephone.) If other means are used, the information will be documented in
       the electronic project file. If requested, ensure the AEDC operating contractor
       submits the ROM for Director’s approval by the agreed-upon date.
       2.2.1.1.4. Coordinate all communications with the program and track
       progress/expenditures for the ROM activity. The cost of developing the ROM
       will not exceed five thousand dollars without the approval of the Director.
       2.2.1.1.5. Close out program’s inquiry by ensuring that the program’s test
       services request is followed up by initiating a ROM, or terminate with no further
       action required.
    2.2.1.2. Coordinate with the program office and obtain decision and funding
    information to proceed with the development of a SOC. (Note: If the program does
    not want a SOC, update the test inquiry in Matrix and close out the project).
    2.2.1.3. Work with programs and the AEDC operating contractor to determine the
    required test pace to accomplish the program’s requirements on time.
    2.2.1.4. Request the appropriate RA to establish a project Job Order Number (JON).
    2.2.1.5. Coordinate AEDC operating contractor’s assistance in developing the SOC
    and completing the TRB, SRB and TRR.
    2.2.1.6. Lead the test project team in developing the SOC, track the project funding,
    and coordinate communication with the program to ensure the SOC meets their
    requirements.
    2.2.1.7. Obtain a program-signed SOC prior to performing work.
       2.2.1.7.1. In the event a signed SOC is not available but it is deemed necessary to
       begin work:
           2.2.1.7.1.1. The Director may authorize work in phases 1-4 provided program
           funding is available; if funds are not available a Request for Planning Funds
           letter must be sent to the program office with the Director’s concurrence. This
           letter shall include the project name, project number (JON), amount of
           funding requested, and a brief description of the activity to be performed.
           2.2.1.7.1.2. Work in phase 5 must be approved by the TST Chief.
    2.2.1.8. Forward the SOC and all PCAs to the Director for review en-route to the
    TST Chief for approval (for Tunnel 9 and NFAC the Director is both the reviewer
    and approval authority.) Once approved, forward to the program for final
    negotiations. (Note: Commercial program SOCs or pending SOC revisions are
    forwarded through the Director, TST Chief, then to the CO for test contract release to
    the program.)
    2.2.1.9. Coordinate the review and obtain approval signatures for all scope changes
    to the baseline SOC, as required. Provide updates to the integrated schedule in
AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012                                                                   7


         accordance with AEDCOI 21-205, reflecting any revisions coordinated with the
         program.
         2.2.1.10. In the event the program or AEDC needs to revise the SOC, coordinate the
         planning and request a PCA using the project change process of Matrix.
         2.2.1.11. Support test plan development by writing, reviewing, and participation in
         the Test Plan Working Group as required.
            2.2.1.11.1. Ensure AEDC Test Plan approval and compliance.
         2.2.1.12. Schedule a TRB for each project.
            2.2.1.12.1. Coordinate with the AEDC operating contractor and program office
            for preparation of material to be reviewed by the TRB. Provide the TRB
            chairman, board members, and any other designated individuals with review
            material prior to commencement of the board.
            2.2.1.12.2. Select and invite board members based on the Technical Director’s
            direction and in accordance with para. 1.3.6.3.
            2.2.1.12.3. The TRB can be conducted by a board or by the Technical Director.
            The type of TRB review will be determined by the Director in accordance with
            para. 1.3.6.3.
            2.2.1.12.4. Develop a corrective action plan, including schedule for any
            deficiencies discovered during the TRB. The corrective action plan will be
            reviewed and approved by the Director prior to completion of the SRB. Ensure
            TRB proceedings, deficiencies, and corrective actions are documented in an
            official project file.
         2.2.1.13. Schedule and conduct a SRB prior to the scheduled start of testing, per the
         requirements in the AEDC SH&E Standard A4, System Safety. Accomplishment of
         the SRB shall be documented on the Project Safety Review Object in Matrix. The
         SRB must be accomplished with sufficient time to correct identified issues.
         2.2.1.14. Schedule and conduct a TRR prior to the scheduled start of testing. The
         results of the TRR shall be documented on the AEDC Form 905, Test Operational
         Readiness Review Record and attached to the Project Object in Matrix.
     2.2.2. The RA shall:
         2.2.2.1. Establish a project JON, receive the funding document, forward the funding
         document to AEDC/FM for entry into PeopleSoft, and authorize funds on the project
         when directed by the Director. If appropriate, the RA will ensure that the charges for
         preparation of the ROM are transferred from the planning JON to the test or project,
         in accordance with AEDCI 65-105.
         2.2.2.2. Process material requisitions for government-furnished equipment, as
         directed by the TM.
  2.3. Manage Test Projects:
     2.3.1. The Complex Director shall:
8                                                          AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012


       2.3.1.1. Coordinate with the operating contractor to commence work on test projects.
       2.3.1.2. Conduct monthly Test Management Reviews (TMR) with assigned TMs.
       Invite TST Chief to all monthly reviews.
    2.3.2. The Complex Technical Director shall:
       2.3.2.1. Approve all Quick-Look Reports (QLR), Letter Reports (LR) and Technical
       Reports (TR) IAW AEDCOI 99-10 before the TM transmits them to program
       personnel.
    2.3.3. The TM shall:
       2.3.3.1. After the acceptance of the SOC but prior to test start, provide the program
       with an AEDC IMT 801 to be returned to the Director.
       2.3.3.2. Request the level of funding for the project with Director’s concurrence and
       forward funding level to the appropriate RA for input in PeopleSoft per the SOC.
       2.3.3.3. Track the status of each activity identified in the SOC. For cases where the
       program provides incremental funding of a project, ensure funding increments are
       received in a manner that will prevent work delays. Document any funding delays in
       an email or memo, attach it to the electronic project file in Matrix, and send a copy to
       the Director.
       2.3.3.4. Coordinate communication of technical requirements between the AEDC
       operating contractor and the program. Ensure that the work performed is consistent
       with the project SOC. If the program has a need for a new requirement, work with
       them and the AEDC operating contractor to define the modifications and complete a
       PCA or a revised SOC, as appropriate.
       2.3.3.5. Use existing processes (e.g. Hold and Impound procedures) to review and
       correct significant test anomalies in order to prevent test article or facility damage or
       failure. Additionally, test article anomalies such as component and/or test article
       failures will be communicated immediately to the Program Manager (Sponsor) for
       Deficiency Reporting/Watch Item List consideration.
       2.3.3.6. Assess program cost, schedule, and technical performance at least monthly.
       Review programmatic and technical status with the appropriate Director and program,
       as necessary, and immediately relay any potential cost increases/decreases that
       warrant revising the project SOC. Be prepared to discuss with the Director at the
       monthly TMR.
       2.3.3.7. If issues arise during testing, the TM will gather data to develop options and
       present a recommendation to the Director and the program.
       2.3.3.8. Conduct the post-test review with the program within five business days of
       test completion.
       2.3.3.9. For commercial programs, notify the CO that the project is complete,
       provide determination on contract status (close or remain open) and, if applicable,
       provide the amount of funds available to return to the non-government program.
AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012                                                                     9


       2.3.4. The RA shall verify receipt and acceptance of funding and authorize the
       expenditure of funds to the level specified by the TM for the project in PeopleSoft. The
       RA cannot authorize expenditures in excess of funds received.
   2.4. Execute the Program Feedback.
       2.4.1. The TM shall:
       2.4.2. Review feedback with the program. Discuss the method for obtaining and
       documenting all program issues concerning test support (formal/informal) with the
       operating contractor and the program as a part of SOC development. This method shall
       be tailored to meet the program’s preferences.
       2.4.3. Upon test completion, request that the program complete the AEDC IMT 801. As
       required, the TM will request interim critiques from the program to assure continuous
       awareness of program issues. At the post-test meeting, review all feedback with the
       program and the operating contractor to ensure documented items accurately represent
       program input. If the AEDC IMT 801 is not completed and returned after the post-test
       meeting, contact the program and encourage its prompt return.
          2.4.3.1. Convene a TMRG at the completion of each test. Engage the assistance of
          personnel from the other appropriate organizations to determine action items, due
          dates, and the office of primary responsibility (OPR). Document in the Matrix
          “Lessons Learned” database any information that is deemed potentially beneficial
          historical data.
3. Metrics
   3.1. External Program Satisfaction. This metric is a Test Division composite measure of
   program satisfaction for all tests executed during any given period. The metric includes cost,
   schedule, and performance as assessed from raw program data using the AEDC 801.
4. Flowchart. The flowchart for test planning and feedback is in Attachment 2, Figure 2A1.
5. Records. The following records shall be maintained or created in accordance with the
requirements of this instruction:
 10                                                 AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012


Table 1. Required Record
                 Required Quality Record               Custodian
          Inquire Matrix                         Test Division
          C/PAR Database                         AEDC/CC
          ROM                                    Test Division

          SOC                                    Test Division

          Project Change Agreement               Test Division

          Electronic Project Folders             Test Division




                                       MICHAEL T. PANARISI, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012                                                                      11


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, 26 February 2008
AFMCI 99-103, Test Management, 22 November 2004
AEDCOI 21-205, Tactical Integration Group
AEDCI 64-200, Test Contracts
AEDCI 65-105, Project Level Financial Management
AEDCOI 99-10, Technical Reporting
AEDC Safety, Health, and Environmental (SH&E) Standard A4, System Safety
AEDC SH&E Standard A8, Environmental Impact Analysis Process
Prescribed Forms
AEDC Form 905, Test/Operational Readiness Review Record
AEDC Form 801, AEDC Performance Report

Terms
Corrective/Preventive Action Request (C/PAR) database— The Center’s central database for
managing non-conforming discrepancies.
Commercial Program— Any corporate entity requiring an AEDC test contract to obtain AEDC
test services.
Project Change Agreement (PCA)— An electronic document in Matrix used to document
changes in scope to an approved Statement of Capability.
Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM)— A document that provides an initial cost estimate.
Statement of Capability (SOC)— A binding agreement between the program (military or
commercial) and AEDC delineating cost, schedule, scope, and technical performance.
Safety Review Board (SRB)— The SRB assesses whether the test project's safety plan has
identified and mitigated safety hazards to ensure test facilities are operated with minimum risk to
personnel and equipment.
Test Approval Authority (TAA)— The Center Commander is the TAA and is thereby
ultimately responsible for accepting the SRB and TRB results and approving the test to proceed
with any residual risk.
Test Management Review Group (TMRG)— A group that is convened at the completion of
each test to review and discuss planning and execution of the test, and document pertinent
information for reference purposes in the “Lessons Learned” section of Matrix. While not
required, conducting this review with the program personnel, either in person or via telecom, is
highly encouraged.
 12                                                           AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012


Test Plan— A document detailing all aspects of the test to be executed. This includes test
resources, configuration control, methodology, procedures, objectives, data collection and
analysis, success criteria, etc. A test plan shall be a formal document approved by all the
participants and is not to be deviated from without prior approval.
Technical Review Board (TRB)— The purpose of the TRB is to review test objectives, refine
test plans, and assess the soundness of system designs in order to reduce test risk. As a
minimum, technical reviews will assess test requirements, approach, techniques, and primary test
objectives. The TRB will also ensure that environmental assessments have been completed in
accordance with the AEDC SH&E Standard A8, Environmental Impact Analysis Process.
Test Readiness Review (TRR)— The TRR is conducted before the commencement of testing
for new-starts and system upgrades, test milestones (e.g., first flight/launch, etc.,) or after an
extended break in test activity (e.g.: transition in acquisition program phase, mishap
investigation, etc.) The TRR will ensure all preparations for initiating a test have been
completed and known anomalies have not compromised the execution of the test. This review
addresses impacts to safety/environment, test schedules, project milestones, or potential damage
to AEDC assets or program test hardware. All reasonable efforts to minimize risk must be made
and verified to the test approval authority.
Test Strategy Panel (TSP)— This panel will convene for test projects exceeding $10M to
recommend the strategy to be used in discussions with the program at the pre-test conference.
AEDCI99-100 16 AUGUST 2012                           13


                                    Attachment 2
                        TEST PLANNING AND FEEDBACK

Figure A2.1. Test Planning and Feedback
