BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                     CENTER INSTRUCTION 65-102
DEVELOPMENT CENTER
                                                                               20 JULY 2012

                                                                      Financial Management

                                                          AEDC TIME AND ATTENDANCE
                                                                  LABOR ACCOUNTING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AEDC/FMP                                                         Certified by: AEDC/FM
                                                                            (Col Regina Goff)
Supersedes:   AEDCI 65-102,                                                          Pages: 10
              6 January 2010


This instruction provides guidance and procedures for managing Department of Defense (DoD)
employee time and attendance (T&A) IAW DoD FMR Regulation 7000.14-R, Department of
Defense Financial Management Regulation. It is applicable to Arnold Engineering Development
Center (AEDC) and applies to all government personnel within AEDC organizations. This
instruction establishes procedures for DoD employee T&A entry into the Job Order Cost
Accounting System (JOCAS). This document provides roles, responsibilities, and required
activities associated with JOCAS T&A labor entry requirements. This publication requires the
collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm . This instruction is applicable to all
DoD employees, Military and Civilian, assigned to AEDC organizations.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised to change the OPR. Deleted reference to Air Force Manual 37-
123. Deleted all references to JOCAS II Core Labor Processing Manual. Para 1.1 Changed
JOCAS T&A POC to JOCAS Customer Service Representative (CSR). Para 1.2 Added credit
hour information. Para 1.3 Updated organization name. Para 1.5 Added the requirement for
approver training and completion of DD Form 577 (Appointment/ Termination Record –
 2                                                                 AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012


Authorized Signature). Para 1.5.3 . Added sentence regarding the use of correct hour codes and
ensuring sufficient hours have been entered for the employee. Para 1.6. – Added information
regarding required training for appointed labor adjusters. Para 2.1. – Added information that is
required on an AF IMT 428. Para 2.2. – Added. Para 2.3. – Added information regarding
alternative work schedule. Para 4. – Added information regarding how long the AF IMT 428
must be maintained in the files. Para 5. – Added information that the CSR will conduct quarterly
audits on random organizations to ensure AF Form IMT 428s are maintained IAW regulation.
Para 6. - Added last sentence regarding the use of CAC. Para 8. – Updated to electronic records
1. Roles and Responsibilities
     1.1. When a DoD employee (civilian and military) arrives at Arnold AFB, they are given an
     in-processing checklist. One of the items on the checklist is to in-process through the JOCAS
     T&A office located in Room A-314 of the A&E Bldg. Each employee will be assigned an
     AEDC 876 9JOCAS In/Out Processing which will be filled out by the JOCAS T&A
     Customer Service Representative (CSR). The CSR will then create a JOCAS T&A account
     for that individual.
     1.2. Each employee will serve as his or her own timekeeper as illustrated in Attachment 2,
     JOCAS Time and Attendance – Employee. All employees are responsible for entering
     their own T&A data into JOCAS. They will ensure the labor data is completely and
     accurately recorded and maintained. T&A data will be entered on a quarter hour (.25, .50,
     .75, 1.0, etc.) basis. T&A must be recorded daily, whenever possible. However, all records
     must reflect time worked, leave taken, overtime and compensatory time worked, and credit
     hours earned or taken. All time will be entered into JOCAS by close of business on
     Thursday of each payroll week and the day prior to the last day of the fiscal year. The length
     of time for a designated pay period is two weeks. Each week begins on an identified Sunday
     and ends on the following Saturday. Employees are responsible for reporting all hours they
     are scheduled to work. Note: supervisors may require additional labor entry requirements.
     The auto-populate feature may be utilized with supervisor‘s permission. The auto-populate
     feature cannot be used when an employee is on extended leave without pay or charges to
     multiple Job Order Numbers (JONs)/Work Breakdown Structure (WBS).
     1.3. The following information will be documented, recorded, and maintained by AEDC
     Financial Plans & Programs Office (AEDC/FMP) for each employee:
        1.3.1. Employee‘s name and unique identifying number (e.g., Social Security Number
        (SSN), JOCAS User ID).
        1.3.2. Pay period number or dates.
        1.3.3. Actual hours worked.
        1.3.4. Hours of premium pay, overtime or compensatory time earned or night differential
        to which employees are entitled.
        1.3.5. Dates and number of hours of leave and compensatory hours used.
     1.4. Employees have the ability to manually change their T&A entries until the approver
     approves and certifies the employee‘s inputs. Once approved, the employee must request
     adjustments via appropriate procedures to make corrections to T&A entries. If a civilian
     employee fails to input time into JOCAS, the Defense Civilian Payroll System (DCPS) will
AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012                                                                      3


   automatically charge them annual leave. If the employee has an insufficient leave balance,
   they will be charged leave without pay (LWOP).
1.5. Each two-letter director will designate primary and alternate T&A approvers in
writing and forward to the CSR located in the AEDC/FMP office. Once the appointment
letter is received, the CSR will send the designated employee approver training and a DD Form
577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signature that must be completed before
approval authority will be granted. Employees will enter T&A data into JOCAS for an identified
time period. At the completion of the time period, designated approvers will ensure the accuracy
(i.e., correct amount of hours, correct hour code, etc.) and approve employee‘s T&A entries
within the JOCAS system (IAW Attachment 3, JOCAS Time and Attendance –
Supervisor/Approver). Approval must be completed no later than noon on Friday of each
payroll week and by noon on the last day of the fiscal year. Approvers must check for regular
and adjusted entries to be approved. If an approver does not approve all the T&A entries that
have been entered into JOCAS, DCPS will automatically charge civilian employees annual
leave. If a civilian employee has an insufficient leave balance, they will be charged LWOP.
       1.5.1. At the end of the pay period, employees will digitally sign their timesheets and
       their approver/supervisor will also digitally sign the timesheet IAW DoD FMR 7000.14-
       R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation, Vol. 8, Chapter 2, Para.
       020703.
       1.5.2. Alternate approvers will fulfill the approver role when the primary approver is
       absent.
       1.5.3. Approvers/alternates will be aware of their responsibilities for ensuring accuracy
       of the T&A data and shall have knowledge of the actual time worked and absences taken
       of the employee for whom approval is given. The approver and alternate should also
       ensure the employee has used the correct hour code and that the employee has entered the
       correct number of hours on the timesheet.
   1.6. T&A Labor Adjuster. Adjustments are made after T&A data has been entered by the
   employee and approved by the designated approver. In order for the adjustment to be
   accurately reflected in the employee‘s pay record, it must be entered into JOCAS. Each two-
   letter director will designate primary and alternate adjusters in writing and forward to
   AEDC/FMP. The CSR will then send the appointed adjuster the required adjuster training.
   Adjustments to correct T&A entries will be submitted to designated adjusters. Designated
   employees within the two-letter, three-letter, or four-letter organization will make
   adjustments to JOCAS T&A entries. Designated adjusters are prohibited from making
   adjustments to their personal T&A entries. When adjustments are required to the primary
   adjuster‘s personal T&A data, the appropriate alternate adjuster will make the necessary
   adjustment. Adjustments for JOCAS T&A can be made at any time. However, in order to
   receive compensation in the current pay period for adjustments to T&A after the DCPS file is
   sent, a corrected timecard must be submitted to AEDC/FMP by 1200 hours on the Monday
   following the pay period. If T&A adjustments are made after the DCPS file has been sent, it
   will not be reflected in the employee‘s pay record until the employee‘s designated approver
   approves the adjustments and submits a corrected timecard to AEDC/FMP. Individual
   employees are responsible to verify their T&A entries are correct. When employees request
   adjustments ensure appropriate means, which have been defined by the supervisor, are used
4                                                                  AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012


    to document and verify the request. The correct procedures for inputting adjustments into
    JOCAS are identified in the JOCAS Training sent by the CSR. All adjusted timesheets must
    contain the digital signature of the employee and approver. If the approver‘s signature
    doesn‘t show when a timesheet is generated to email to the CSR, then the timesheet must be
    printed and the approver sign by hand. When both signatures are showing, scan and email
    the timesheet to the CSR. The employee, approver, and adjuster should maintain appropriate
    documentation as identified in paragraph 4.
2. Recording T&A
    2.1. A daily record of labor performed and/or completed on an appropriate JON and WBS
    shall be maintained and input by every employee. The appropriate WBS must have ―07-
    A‖and ―(DoD Labor)‖ in the description. If the timecard is approved with less hours than the
    employee is scheduled to work, the missing hours will be charged as annual leave. If the
    employee (civilian employees only) is required to work more than their scheduled work
    hours for a pay period, they must complete an AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday
    Premium Pay and Compensatory Time. The AF IMT 428 must contain the name, grade,
    date(s) that the extra time will be worked, justification, and signatures of requester and
    approver. The AF IMT 428 must be approved prior to working the additional hours.
    Supervisors and/or approvers will have knowledge of approved overtime or compensatory
    time performed prior to reviewing and approving employee timecards. T&A data shall
    clearly indicate the type of leave that is to be charged against the employee‘s leave account.
    Absences identified on an OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence, or other
    means of leave request, i.e., Calendar meeting, will be initialed or signed by the civilian
    employee. A supervisor may require a medical certificate or other evidence of illness from
    an employee when granting sick leave. Employees must officially confirm each leave
    charge, except for administrative leave, absent without leave, suspension, or holiday
    absences. The supervisor may grant advanced annual or sick leave. This is accomplished by
    completing an OPM Form 71 which contains the signatures of employee and supervisor, the
    person‘s name, reason for leave (i.e., self or family), the total hours being granted, type of
    leave requested, the beginning and ending dates. The OPM Form 71 for advanced leave
    must be provided to the CSR in order for the employee to receive the leave. All leave types
    are charged to the employee either by whole days or on a quarter hour (.25, .50, .75, 1.0, etc.)
    basis. Certification will be retained as identified in paragraph 4.
    2.2. Air Force appropriated fund civilians are authorized to earn and use credit hours which
    are hours an employee elects to work, with supervisory approval, in excess of the employee‘s
    basic work requirement under a flexible work schedule. Credit hours are intended to let an
    employee plan for special events at specific times in the future (not used in the same pay
    period). Employees may earn up to two (2) credit hours on a given day. Credit hours may
    be earned, and used, in 30 minute increments. Credit hours cannot be earned on non-duty
    days. You must contact the CSR each pay period you plan to earn or use credit hours. The
    hour code for Credit Hours Earned is CD. (what about ‗used‘ code) Requests for credit hours
    earned must be a written document (e-mail or other traceable paper/electronic trail) and
    approved by the supervisor in advance.
    2.3. Air Force appropriated fund civilians work under the Alternative Work Schedule
    program, which includes flexible work schedules and compressed work schedules. The basic
    work requirement of a flexible work schedule is the number of hours, excluding overtime
AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012                                                                       5


   hours, an employee must work. A full-time employee‘s basic work requirement is 80 hours
   per pay period. Arnold AFB does not participate in the compressed work schedule program.
   An approved work schedule shall be maintained by the supervisor showing the planned
   arrival and departure for each day to support the T&A report. A copy of work schedules for
   student hires and Co-ops must be provided to the CSR. Flexible work schedules are further
   defined in DoD FMR 7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulation, Vol. 8, Civilian
   Pay Policy and Procedures, Chapter 2, Para. 020206 B.
3. T&A Approval/Certification. The approval/certification for T&A is an authorization for the
expenditure of government funds.           Designated approvers will perform this process.
Approval/certification will not ordinarily be made earlier than the last workday of a pay period.
Approval/certification of T&A labor will be based on knowledge from personal observation,
work output, employee verification, independent resources, internal controls, or any combination
of these. Approval/certification of T&A may not be delayed for the purpose of obtaining the
employee‘s initials or signature for leave when the employee is not available. The employee
must request an adjustment to their T&A entry and submit an OPM Form 71, or other means of
leave request, upon return to duty. The adjusted timesheet must contain the digital signature of
the employee and approver. If the approver‘s signature does not show when the timesheet is
generated, then the timesheet must be printed and signed by hand. Email the adjusted timesheet
to the CSR once both signatures are showing.
4. T&A Record Retention. The AF IMT 428 must be maintained in the approver‘s office
official records IAW AFRIMS T65-22, R03.00 for audit purposes. All T&A data and supporting
adjustment documentation will be maintained in accordance with DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 8,
Chapter 2, Para. 020703. After the DCPS file has been sent, the CSR will create and maintain an
electronic file of the timesheets.
5. Internal Controls. The responsibility for and testing of internal controls resides with the
installation commander and two-letter directors. Approving officials must have a reasonable
basis for relying on the system of internal controls to ensure accuracy and legal compliance of
the T&A data. Internal controls should be established to ensure that any change in T&A data is
approved/certified by an approver. If the changes occur after the pay period, they must be
identified and reported to AEDC/FMP before any pay computation is made. Internal controls
must involve periodic testing and review as directed by the installation commander and two-
letter directors to ensure that they are working as intended. On a quarterly base the CSR will
perform random audits to ensure the AF IMT 428 are being maintained for six years for audit
purposes.
6. JOCAS T&A Module Passwords. All military, appropriated fund Air Force and Navy
civilians assigned to an AEDC organization requires access to the JOCAS T&A module. Access
requests will be submitted through supervisors to the Functional Database Administrator or the
JOCAS System Administrator. Initial user IDs are assigned with a default password. Upon
initial login, the employee will be prompted to change the password. Security for JOCAS T&A
module passwords are to be treated in the same respect as all other system password policies
administered at AEDC. The employee is held accountable for password security. Approvers and
adjusters will assign passwords for their respective additional roles. Employees are responsible
for changing passwords at regular intervals. The system will prompt the employee upon
password expiration.
 6                                                            AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012


7. Flowcharts. See Attachments 2 and 3.
8. Records. T&A reports will be electronically stored in the AEDC/FMP section for a period of
six years IAW DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol. 8, Chapter 2, Para. 020703.
9. Metrics. AEDC/FMP will monitor, through ad hoc queries, T&A entries to ensure employee
T&A data is entered and approved by noon Friday of each payroll week and by noon on the last
day of the fiscal year. Accuracy of T&A data will be verified to eliminate possible system
problems.
10. Forms. All IMTs will be maintained by each approver in his/her official files except for
AEDC 876 that will be maintained by the JOCAS T&A CSR (AEDC/FMP).




                                          MICHAEL T. PANARISI, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012                                                               7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD FMR Regulation 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation.
August 2011.
Prescribed Forms
AEDC 876, JOCAS In/Out Processing
Adopted Forms
DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record – Authorized Signature
AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay and Compensatory Time
OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CSR—Customer Service Representative
JOCAS—Job Order Cost Accounting System
T&A—Time and Accounting
 8                                                  AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012


                                  Attachment 2
                JOCAS TIME AND ATTENDANCE – EMPLOYEE

Figure A2.1. JOCAS Time and Attendance – Employee
AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012                                       9


                                  Attachment 3
          JOCAS TIME AND ATTENDANCE – SUPERVISOR/APPROVER

Figure A3.1. JOCAS Time and Attendance – Supervisor/Approver
 10                                                     AEDCI65-102 20 JULY 2012


Figure A3.2. JOCAS Time and Attendance – Supervisor/Approver (continued)
