BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                   COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 21-201
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX
                                                                          11 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                     Logistics

                                               ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
                                                 COMPLEX MUNITIONS PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AEDC/TSD-LG                                                 Certified by: AEDC/TSD-LG
                                                                               (Erik Wineland)
                                                                                     Pages: 13




This instruction implements AFI 21-200, Munitions and Missile Maintenance, AFI 21-201,
Management and Maintenance of Non-Nuclear Munitions and applicable Air Force Material
Command (AFMC) supplements. This instruction implements munitions procedures for
munitions assets managed by FV2804. It is the responsibility of all unit commanders, custody
account custodians, and munitions personnel to ensure compliance with procedures outlined in
this instruction. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. This instruction is applicable
to all government personnel conducting munitions maintenance procedures. This instruction
lays out the procedures that will be used by Arnold AFB for conducting munitions operations
and maintenance. These procedures will be used in conjunction with all applicable item
technical orders and applicable Air Force Instructions.
 2                                                           AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012


1. Responsibility and Authority.
     1.1. AEDC Commander (AEDC/CC). Responsible for all assets and resources on AEDC to
     accomplish munitions maintenance and execute this instruction.
     1.2. Munitions Accountability Systems Officer (MASO). Responsible for maintaining
     accountability for all munitions assets that fall under the FV2804 SRAN, ensuring this
     instruction is kept up to date with current directives published by HQ USAF and HQ AFMC,
     ensuring unit commanders and custodians are briefed on their responsibilities, notifying
     commanders and custodians of fiscal year (FY) allocations and forecast instructions when
     received from HQ AFMC, assisting in submission of out-of-cycle requests when FY
     allocations do not satisfy mission requirements and notifying commanders when accounts are
     not being managed in accordance with (IAW) AFI 21-201, applicable supplements, and this
     instruction.
     1.3. Organizational Commander (using commander). Ensure personnel required to handle
     explosives complete explosive safety training annually in IAW AFI 91-202, The US Air
     Force Mishap Prevention Program. Contact wing safety, commercial (931) 454-7293/DSN
     340-7293, for information on the explosive safety-training program. Obtain explosive safety
     license for types and quantities of munitions stored outside the munitions storage area, as
     necessary. Provide accurate and timely forecasting, adequate storage, proper security/control,
     and custodial responsibilities for all munitions items (including COTS munitions) that your
     organization receive. Ensure timely completion of custody account inventories and sign the
     inventory listings.
     1.4. Custodians. Monitor on-hand munitions assets to ensure authorized quantities listed on
     the Explosive Safety License are not exceeded. Ensure accountability and inventory integrity
     are maintained. Ensure safety, security, lot number integrity, and accountability of all issued
     munitions are maintained until the assets are expended or turned in. Ensure an auditable
     record of all issues, expenditures, and turn-ins of munitions items is accurate and up to date
     when submitted to the munitions flight for processing/filing. Become familiar with
     responsibilities as outlined in this instruction, AFMAN 91-201, AFI 21-201, and applicable
     AFMC Supplements. Report all loss, damage, destruction, or suspected theft of munitions to
     the MASO through their chain of command. Report all expenditures within 5 days from the
     date of expenditure and request assets to replenish their stock as required. Physically
     inventory all custody munitions quarterly. This step includes coordinating with munitions
     operations to schedule inventory time and date. Ensure munitions issued to their account are
     used only for their intended purpose.
2. Procedures.
     2.1. Movement and Movement Control.
        2.1.1. All munitions regardless of inside or outside MSA will be securely tied down to
        the vehicle. All movements require 2 each 2A10BC fire extinguishers and wheels will be
        chocked when loading or unloading munitions.
        2.1.2. Movements outside the MSA will follow either the primary or alternate route.
        Exception: Movements of munitions within a munitions storage area, or to and from
        licensed storage locations and transportation of explosives in support of the training of
        working dogs are not restricted to designated routes.
AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   3


     2.1.3. Do not load or unload explosives from a motor vehicle while the engine is
     running.
     2.1.4. Placard vehicles when transporting explosives on or off base. Placards may be
     omitted for transporting HD 1.4 material on base.
     2.1.5. All movements will be conducted by two munitions personnel or at least one
     munitions individual and one explosive safety trained individual for base stock assets.
     Account custodians are responsible for all moves of assigned assets unless previously
     coordinated with munitions personnel.
     2.1.6. Movement inputs will be conducted by using AF IMT 4331 or using the Combat
     Ammunition System (CAS) generated 567. All CAS inputs will be attempted to be
     updated within 1 hour and no later than 1 duty day.
     2.1.7. Storage locations will follow TO 11A-61-1 for custody and courtesy stored assets.
     Storage locations for account custodians outside of courtesy storage will be the
     organization identifier and the document number.
     2.1.8. All movements will be verified during the monthly 100% inventory. Any
     discrepancies will be physically verified and corrected within 3 duty days of discovery.
  2.2. Document Control and Document Flow
     2.2.1. Since direct-inputting is unavailable at this time all CAS inputs will be updated
     within 1 hour and no later than 1 duty day by the assigned munitions personnel.
     2.2.2. Issues, receipts, expenditure requests, and turn-in requests will be filed by
     munitions personnel within 10 duty days. Munitions personnel will pick-up shipment
     documents from TMO once notified shipment has left the installation. Shipments will be
     filed no later than 5 duty days after the shipment departs.
     2.2.3. Munitions personnel will have full access to working documents and official
     electronic documents.
     2.2.4. Perform final QC checks on all documents IAW AFI 21-201 table 7.3 and digitally
     sign before filing.
     2.2.5. AME02A Document Control Report will be reviewed weekly to determine the
     status of outstanding documents.
  2.3. Controlled Area Procedures
     2.3.1. Entry and Exit Procedures: Unescorted entry into buildings 2204, 2208, and 2209
     will be limited to those identified in writing by the munitions superintendent. These
     individuals are responsible for ensuring all facilities are secured appropriately. When the
     facility is opened, the locks will be attached and locked to the hasps for key and lock
     security. These individuals are also responsible for ensuring all escorted individuals exit
     the facility and document on AF Form1109, Visitor Control Log, if applicable. Random
     searches will be performed by owner/user on vehicles entering the fenced area of
     building 2204, along with as needed searches of items hand carried by personnel entering
     buildings 2208 and 2209.
4                                                         AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012


       2.3.1.1. Individuals requiring access into these facilities, and not on the access list,
       will notify the munitions superintendent and be escorted into these facilities. These
       individuals will be signed in on the AF Form 1109, Visitor Control Log, or computer
       generated equivalent.
       2.3.1.2. If frequent access is needed the munitions superintendent will develop an
       Entry Authorization Listing (EAL) for duration of required access.           These
       individuals will be escorted in these facilities.
    2.3.2. Bomb Threat Procedures: Buildings 2204, 2208, and 2209 are munitions storage
    structures and do not have the threat of a bomb threat. The office will follow the bomb
    threat checklist as directed by the Chief of Logistics.
    2.3.3. Emergency Action Procedures: For fire and dropped munitions emergency action
    procedures, follow munitions crew briefing.
    2.3.4. Owner/User Training Requirements: Training will be conducted annually,
    memorandum form, and filed in CAM folders.
    2.3.5. Entry Requirements: As stated above, the munitions section has limited personnel.
    Other individuals with a need for entry will notify munitions superintendent for approval.
    The procedures in paragraph 2.3.1 will be followed.
    2.3.6. Munitions Emergency Action/Protection Efforts: All munitions will be stored in
    an approved explosive sited or licensed facility. These facilities will have a shrouded
    hasp and high security lock. Cat I and Cat II munitions will be stored in building 2204.
       2.3.6.1. Controlled area keys and locks will follow the procedures outlined in AFI
       21-200 and AFI 21-201. These keys will be stored in a GSA approved safe separate
       from other keys and only issued to authorized personnel. Use AF Form 2432 for key
       issue and AF Form 2427 for audit. Keys will never be left unattended; they will be
       secured in the safe when not in use. Keys will not leave the base. Keys will be
       inventoried weekly when not used and inventoried by the end of the shift when used.
       If keys are lost/stolen, the locks will be replaced immediately.
       2.3.6.2. In case of fire or other emergencies the facilities will be locked unless unsafe
       to do so. If facilities cannot be locked, all efforts to protect the munitions safely will
       be exhausted.
    2.3.7. Controlled Area Free Zones: Follow procedures outlined in AFI 31-101, chapter 5
    if needed.
    2.3.8. Robbery Procedures: Authorized individuals will protect the munitions with all
    means necessary. In the event of a robbery, use the robbery checklist to identify the
    individual and report immediately to the authorities. Notify authorities of the assets stolen
    to include but not limited to nomenclature and quantity. Secure remainder of un-stolen
    assets.
    2.3.9. Alarm Systems: Facilities will be alarmed each time the facilities are left
    unattended. Respond to all alarms when notified by security forces, ensuring nothing
    have been tampered with. Perform quarterly alarm check. The alarm box on building
    2204 will be locked with a four position combination lock when not in use. Building
    2204 gates will be locked with four position locks when left unattended.
AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    5


     2.3.10. Training: Follow paragraph 2.3.4 for training.     See Controlled Area electronic
     folder for the training guidelines.
     2.3.11. Escort Requirements: See paragraph one.
     2.3.12. Emergency Entry and Egress Procedures: The controlled area monitors will be
     contacted in the event of any emergency. For fires, etc. the on-scene commander will
     use any necessary means to stabilize the situation. Egress procedures will follow the
     munitions crew book.
     2.3.13. Commercial Vehicle Entry and Control Procedures: The munitions storage area
     is not a controlled area. Commercial vehicles will be authorized in the area for the
     purpose of shipment, receiving, maintenance, or utilities. These vehicles will only be
     escorted when needing in buildings 2204, 2208, and 2209. Entry into the munitions will
     be limited by the munitions superintendent or representative.
  2.4. Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Ammunition
     2.4.1. All munitions entering Arnold AFB, TN. will be picked up on record through CAS
     by the senior munitions inspector (SMI), controlled by the installation MASO, and issued
     to a custody account. This includes but not limited to COTS, and RD&T
     explosives/munitions.
     2.4.2. The SMI will ensure that all COTS assets contain an approved COTS package and
     all RD&T contain a tech data package and hazard classification (HC) or interim hazard
     classification (IHC).
     2.4.3. The SMI is responsible for inspecting all munitions/explosives that enter Arnold
     AFB, TN.
     2.4.4. Before assets are purchased a COTS package will be submitted including
     Electronic Staff Summary Sheet (ESSS) or AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet(SSS),
     tech data, and HC/IHC.
        2.4.4.1. All ESSS or SSS will be completed and submitted by the requesting unit.
        2.4.4.2. The ESSS or SSS will contain the following information: National Stock
        Number (if applicable), Part Number, Hazard Classification, Quantity Requested,
        Price, Manufacturer’s procedures for storage and handling, Manufacturer’s
        demilitarization and disposition instructions, Complete justification and intended use
        statement (why current DoD or AF stock-listed items do not meet requirements and
        purpose), Authorizing directive (AFI, message, letter, etc), IHC data package. If item
        has an approved IHC/Final HC, then IHC data is not required.
     2.4.5. The ESSS or SSS will be routed through the following AF agencies for
     coordination/approval: MASO, Environmental Management, Weapons Safety, EOD,
     Transportation, Legal, Group CC/Program Director, and Installation CC.
     2.4.6. Requesting units will establish written tech data for each explosive/munitions
     asset. The tech data will include but not limited to the following:
        2.4.6.1. Instructions for accountability, storage, handling (including shelf/service life
        and drop distance criteria), training, emergency procedures, and disposition of
        malfunctions (Duds), residue, and excess will be included.
6                                                           AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012


           2.4.6.2. Safety instructions IAW AFMAN 92-201 will be established. Instructions
           will be approved through installation MASO, environmental, EOD, and weapons
           safety manager prior to purchasing the munitions.
           2.4.6.3. Procedures for Restricted/Suspended munitions. These procedures will
           include as a minimum: Notification of any malfunctions, Notification to all servicing
           munitions activities of Restricted/Suspended munitions, Disposition of
           Restricted/Suspended munitions, Procedures for the proper disposition of
           excess/unused munitions, Fund cite for any costs required for the proper disposition
           of unserviceable munitions, Provide redistribution orders with shipping fund cite to
           servicing munitions activity, if required.
    2.5. Electric/Pneumatic Tools and Heat Producing Devices
       2.5.1. Screwdrivers:
           2.5.1.1. Small objects will not be held by hand, under the arm, or on the lap when
           being worked on with a screwdriver. Small work will be secured to a flat surface or
           held in a vise.
           2.5.1.2. Workers will ensure they are well braced before applying force to a
           screwdriver. Firm footing is particularly necessary when using a screwdriver on a
           ladder or stand where loss of balance could result in a fall.
       2.5.2. Workers using open-end wrenches will:
           2.5.2.1. Ensure the wrench fits the nut or bolt head.
           2.5.2.2. Ensure when attempting to loosen a tight nut or tighten a loose nut, that the
           wrench seats squarely on the sides of the nut.
           2.5.2.3. Always PULL on a wrench—not push on it. There may be situations in
           which pushing is the only way you can work the wrench. In these situations use the
           base of the palm to push keeping an open hand. On adjustable wrenches always place
           the wrench on the nut so the pulling force is applied to the stationary jaw side of the
           handle.
           2.5.2.4. Where possible, use box wrenches for torque and less chance of slipping off
           the nut or bolt.
       2.5.3. Hammers. Hammers vary in hardness and are designed for specific uses. A
       hammer of suitable size and weight for the task will be used.
           2.5.3.1. Workers will Strike a hammer blow squarely, with the hammer's striking
           face parallel with the surface being struck. The sides of hammer heads are not case
           hardened and will never be used for pounding.
       2.5.4. Hand Saws. Hand saws should be selected for the specific job. Saws with broken
       teeth or broken or cracked handles will not be used. Saw teeth should be kept sharp and
       well set to prevent binding. If a saw binds while cutting, the worker will not attempt to
       force it through the stock.
           2.5.4.1. Nails will not be sawed. Saws will not be dropped. Saws with dull teeth can
           usually be sharpened and returned to use, but if the saw cannot be restored, replace it.
AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 7


     2.5.5. Hack Saws. A hack saw should be adjusted in the frame to prevent buckling and
     breaking, but should never be tight enough to break off the pin that supports the blade.
     The blade will be installed with the teeth pointing forward.
     2.5.6. Pliers, Hand Snips, and Cutters. Pliers are designed for gripping and cutting
     operations and will not be used as a substitution for a wrench or any purpose for not
     which intended. Hand snips are designed for cutting sheet-metal. Hand snips will not be
     hammered on to make a cut. Cutters are designed for use on wire, rods or bolts and will
     not be used to pull nails, or as a pry bar.
     2.5.7. Crowbars and Wrecking Bars. Crowbars and wrecking bars of sufficient size and
     weight will be chosen to do the job safely and easily. Makeshift bars, such as pipes or
     other metal objects, will never be used in place of crowbars and wrecking bars.
     2.5.8. Powered Portable Hand Tools.
        2.5.8.1. Electric Powered Tools. Because of their source of power, electric powered
        tools often present the same hazards as other electrical facilities and equipment.
        Personnel who use electric power tools will be responsible for being familiar with
        accepted safe operating standards and, also, with the general hazards of electricity
        associated with tool use.
        2.5.8.2. When using the circular saw, workers will not stand directly behind the saw
        while cutting operations are in progress. Kickbacks sometimes occur, and if the lower
        guard sticks, the moving saw blade could come in contact with the operator’s body
        causing severe injury. The saw’s telescoping saw guard will be checked frequently
        while in use to ensure it works freely, encloses the teeth as completely as possible,
        and covers the unused portion of the blade when it is cutting. Both upper and lower
        guards will be kept clean and free of sawdust or dirt accumulations. Workers will
        remove the power cord from the power supply when checking the guards; cleaning or
        installing and removing the blade; and performing maintenance.
     2.5.9. Personal Protective Clothing and Equipment:
        2.5.9.1. Clothing. Each portable power tool operator will wear suitable work clothes.
        Operators will, if necessary, wear caps or other garments to keep their hair from
        coming in contact with rotating or moving parts of the tool. No worker will wear
        loose sleeves, neckties, rings, or other clothing or jewelry that could become tangled
        in a hand power tool.
        2.5.9.2. Protective Eyewear. Operators will wear protective eyewear and (or) face
        shields for hand power tool operations that may cause flying particles. Overhead
        work makes this requirement extremely important.
        2.5.9.3. Hearing Protection: Workers will wear earplugs and/or earmuffs when
        working with hazardous noise producing equipment.
     2.5.10. Heat producing Devices:
        2.5.10.1. The only heat producing device we have is our heat sealing machine used
        for sealing barrier bagged assets. This device will only be used when necessary and
        will be unplugged and allowed to cool once use is no longer required. This device
 8                                                    AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012


          will only be used in an approved operating location and will not be used in an
          explosive storage facility.
3. Metrics. Not Applicable
4. Flowchart. Not Applicable.
5. Records. Not Applicable.




                                        MICHAEL T. PANARISI, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI21-200, Munitions and Missile Maintenance, 13 November 2009
AFI 21-201, Management and Maintenance of Non-Nuclear Munitions, 11 December 2009
T.O. 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, And
Procedures, 31 Jul 2012
T.O. 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools, Section II, 6 October 2010
Adopted forms
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AEDC/CC—AEDC Commander
CAM—Controlled Area Monitor
CAS—Combat Ammunition System
CAT I—Category I
CAT II— - Category II
COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf
EAL—Entry Authorization Listing
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
ESSS—Electronic Staff Summary Sheet
HC—Hazard Classification
IHC—Interim Hazard Classification
MASO—Munitions Accountability Officer
MSA—Munitions Storage Area
RD&T—Research, Development and Test
SMI—Senior Munitions Inspector
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
TMO—Traffic Management Office
 10                                                         AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012


                                          Attachment 2
                                 PRE-TASK INFORMATION

A2.1. General
   A2.1.1. All applicable technical orders and source documents will be used to gather data for
   pre-task safety briefings.
   A2.1.2. Operating locations with explosives will update Base Operations and Fire
   Department with facility status as changes occur.
   A2.1.3. Spotters are mandatory when backing an explosive laden vehicle.
   A2.1.4. Safety toed shoes will be worn during all operations, gloves will be worn picking up
   any wooden container or any container that could impose an injury.
NOTE
Casuals are personnel that are not normally part of an operation, but have duties that require
their presence (QA, safety, or inspection personnel). Operations may continue while casuals are
in the operating location.

NOTE
Visitors are non-essential personnel. All explosive operations will halt when visitors are in
the area. Operations may continue when all visitors have left the area.
   A2.1.5. Casuals and visitors do not require the full pre-task safety briefing. They only need
   to be briefed on the type of operation being performed and given evacuation and firefighting
   guidance.
A2.2. Severe Weather Precautions:
   A2.2.1. Base Operations will notify munitions personnel when severe weather is likely.
   A2.2.2. Lightning Warning
       A2.2.2.1. Definition: A Lightning Warning will be in effect whenever lightning is
       within a 10 nautical mile radius of Arnold AFB.
       A2.2.2.2. All explosive operations will stop during a lightning warning, and may resume
       when storm activity has ceased.
A2.3. Munitions Storage Area Fire Fighting Plan
   A2.3.1. In the event of an actual fire or fire drill, the following steps will be taken.3.1.2.
   One person will be directed to notify the base fire department by phone at 454-5592.
       A2.3.1.1. Personnel will attempt to fight fires when explosives are not directly involved
       in fire or if the fire is in the early stages.
EXCEPTION: Fires involving HC/D 1.1 munitions will not be fought unless a rescue attempt
is being made.
AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                                       11


Figure A2.1. Pre-Task Checklist
PRE-TASK CHECKLIST

1. Ensure all necessary tools, equipment and tech data are available at operation site prior to
starting operations.
2. Brief all WARNINGS, CAUTIONS and NOTES in applicable technical orders IAW AFMA
N 91-201.

3. Remove all rings, watches and jewelry.

4. Ensure two serviceable fire extinguishers are available and suitable for the hazards involved.


5. Any vehicle used to transport munitions will be equipped with two fire extinguishers, one
inside and outside.
6. Ensure personnel are familiar with hazards identified in applicable Material Safety Data
Sheets (MSDS).

7. Ensure personal protective equipment is available and used as required.
8. Ensure equipment and vehicles are serviceable and signed off.
9. All munitions will be properly secured to transport vehicles prior to movement.
10. Any parked vehicle loaded with munitions will have the parking brake set and non-drive
wheel chocked.
11. Munitions will not be transported in vehicle cabs.
12. The applicable DOT/hazard placard will be displayed on all four sides of the vehicle during
transport.

13. Inspect eye wash stations for serviceability, if applicable
 12                                                         AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012



Figure A2.2. Pre-Task Safety Briefing


General Operation Information

Location of operation:

Type of operation being performed:

Explosives Limits (NEW): Maximum                             Actual
Withdrawal Distance:

Personnel Limits: Personnel will be limited to those needed for safe and efficient operations.
The following are the particular personnel for this explosives operation.

                   Personnel Limits              Maximum          Actual
                   Supervisors
                   Workers
                   Casuals

         Crew Member Names                         Casual Names




NOTE
Hand held and vehicle mounted radios and cell phones will not be transmitted within 10 feet of
Electro-Explosive Devices (EED’s) operations IAW AFMAN 91-201.

NOTE
When munitions are not involved in fire, such as dropped or partially armed munitions; clear the
area initially to a distance of 300 feet. After evaluation of the situation, the on-scene
commander may adjust the withdrawal distance.

Overall Hazard/Operation Hazard

Hazard Class/Division and Compatibility Group:
AEDCI21-201 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                                          13



                                    Chemical Hazards Involved
          Set 1 (Red)                          D (Breathing Appratus)
          Set 2 (Yellow)                       E (Apply no water)
          Set 3 (White)
          CIIC
          Item Technical Order
          Drop Criteria          Packaged                     Unpackaged

NOTE
If an abnormal condition or situation arises during an explosive operation the crew members are
responsible for bringing it to the attention of the crew chief. The crew chief will stop all
operations and seek further guidance from appropriate technical expert

NOTE
In the event of an emergency or fire, the person discovering the emergency will sound the
alarm. The senior ranking person will become the on-scene commander and will direct
operations until relieved by appropriate authorities.

                               is designated as the crew chief and will notify Base
Operations/Fire Department in the event of an emergency situation.

Munitions became engulfed in flames at                        hrs.

                                       and                                         will fight fires IAW
the Hazard Class/Division of munitions at the operating location: Fight class 1.4 fires, 1.3 fires
(only if explosives are not directly involved), and 1.2 fires (only if fire is in the early stages).

DO NOT fight class 1.1 fires unless a rescue attempt is being made.

                                    will direct the evacuation of all non-essential personnel.

                                 will be dispatched to meet responding emergency
vehicles, provide necessary information and direct them to the location of the emergency.
