BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                       COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 61-204
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX
                                                                                  7 MARCH 2013

                                                           Scientific/Research and Development

                                                                         SOFTWARE RELEASE



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AEDCI/TESS/PI                                                            Certified by: TTSY,
                                                                                (Mr. Dave Bond)
                                                                                         Pages: 15


This instruction implements the following DoD Directives and AF Instructions & Policy
Directives: DoDD 5230.24, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure;
DoDD 5230.25, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents; AFI 61-204, Disseminating
Scientific and Technical Information; AFI 33-114, Software Management; AFPD 61-3,
Domestic Technology Transfer; and AFPD 61-2, Management of STINFO. This publication
addresses requests for release of AEDC-owned software to other government agencies,
commercial companies, and universities. It should be distributed to any person or group
involved with the process. AF Policy Directives require wide domestic dissemination of
government-funded software when appropriate. These policies do not, however, require AEDC
to provide code support beyond dissemination of the requested software Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the OPR listed above using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate chain of command. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above
for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management        System       (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition       Schedule      (RDS).
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the OPR listed above using the AF Form 847.

1. Initial Software Distribution Statement Determination Prior to releasing any software for
the first time, a Distribution Statement must be determined for the software in order to limit who
may receive this software. The procedure for determining the applicable Distribution Statement
 2                                                               AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013


is described below. Unless the Distribution Statement needs to be re-evaluated, the initial
determination is valid indefinitely.
     1.1. An abstract describing the software is prepared, usually by the technical contact. The
     abstract should, at a minimum, contain the following information.
        1.1.1. The name/version of the software to be reviewed
        1.1.2. What the software does
        1.1.3. How the software works
        1.1.4. Possible applications of the software
     1.2. The abstract is then forwarded to AEDC/DOT and is processed in accordance with
     review procedures for a technical abstract/paper/thesis.
        1.2.1. If AEDC has limited or restricted rights to the software (i.e. - AEDC is not the sole
        or acting owner), then the software is considered proprietary and Distribution Statement
        B or E should be recommended.
        1.2.2. If the software only needs to be export-controlled, then Distribution Statement X
        should be recommended; otherwise Distribution Statement B-F should be recommended
        (reference AFI 61-204).
        1.2.3. If the software is still under development (e.g. - research or development codes)
        and/or has little or no documentation, then Distribution Statement B or E should be
        recommended by reason of “Premature Dissemination.”
     1.3. Once approved, AEDC/DOT will update the name of the Software, distribution
     statement, OPR, OPR’s mail stop and extension, and technical contact and extension in the
     Excel spreadsheet ‘Software Functionals.xls’ on the DOT server ‘…//Special
     Topics/Software Release’.
     1.4. Software which requires a license for export to Canada may not be released to any
     Canadian organization under this AEDC Instruction (reference Section 1225.12 of the
     International Traffic in Arms Regulation and Sections 379.4(d) and 379.5(e) of the Export
     Administration Regulations).
2. Software Release Procedure The procedures described here apply to software with
Distribution Statements B-X. Software with Distribution Statement A is publicly-releasable with
unlimited dissemination; and does not require an MOA. Before any software may be released
for the first time, an initial software distribution statement determination (Section 2) must be
completed.
     2.1. A copy of the correct MOA (U.S. Government or U.S. Commercial & Educational and
     Canadian Organizations) is forwarded to the Requester. The Requester is instructed to
     complete the following sections:
        2.1.1. Date
        2.1.2. Name of the software package being requested
        2.1.3. Required format and media
        2.1.4. How the software will be used.
AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013                                                                      3


     2.1.5. Section marked “Requester” and “Requester: Technical Contact”
  2.2. The completed MOA is then forwarded to the OPR for that software (reference 2.3) who
  accomplishes the following:
  2.2.1. Checks the MOA for completeness according to 3.1.
     2.2.2. Verifies the request is in accordance with the limitations of the Distribution
     Statement. To do so, enter Table 1 (Attachment 1) with the ‘User’ and ‘Use’ of the
     requested software in order to obtain what types of software (by Distribution Statement)
     the User is authorized access.
  2.3. For software with a Distribution Statement X, the following procedures must be
  followed for requests from non-US government requesters:
     2.3.1. All non-US government requesters must be registered and certified with the DLSC
     as a ‘certified contractor’ prior to requesting software from AEDC. This registration and
     certification is initiated by the requester by completing and sending DD Form 2345 to the
     DLSC.
     2.3.2. The OPR shall verify that the requester is a current ‘certified contractor’ and that
     the requested software is related to the purpose which the contractor was certified
     (reference 1.2 and 1.4).
         2.3.2.1. Note exception in 1.6.3.1 for requests from Canadian organizations.
     2.3.3. The OPR completes the “AEDC OPR: Export-Control Info” section of the MOA
     to confirm verification of 3.3.2. This includes the requester’s seven-digit Export Control
     Certification Number and expiration date, and the data / document custodian’s name,
     phone number, and e-mail address.
     2.3.4. If the requester is not authorized access to the requested software, an appropriate
     letter of denial (Attachments 2-4) shall be sent to the requester. The OPR will ensure that
     AEDC/DOT logs the request as disapproved.
  2.4. If the request adheres to the policies covered here and it is the OPR’s recommendation
  to release the software, the OPR completes the “AEDC OPR Certification / Verification”
  section of the MOA. The OPR then forwards the MOA to the Software Release Authority.
     2.4.1. If extenuating circumstances need to be considered, the OPR should attach a letter
     to the MOA.         This letter should explain the circumstances and the OPR’s
     recommendation to the Software Release Authority.
  2.5. The Software Release Authority reviews the MOA and determines whether to release
  and disseminate the software.
     2.5.1. AEDC/DOT logs the request in the Access database ‘Software Releases.mdb’ on
     the DOT server ‘…//Special Topics/Software Release’.
  2.6. The MOA is then returned to the OPR who distributes the software or forwards an
  appropriate letter of denial to the requester (Attachments 2-4). Whenever possible,
  distribution of the software should be accomplished electronically via the Internet, FTP, etc.
     2.6.1. Further dissemination (beyond the requesting organization) is limited to object or
     executable code only (AFI 61-204 Sect. 2.5).
 4                                                              AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013


        2.6.2. For software with a Distribution Statement X, the software can only be distributed
        to the document / data custodian listed in block 3 of the DD Form 2345. This individual
        shall then disseminate the software within the Requesting Organization. However, the
        OPR should specifically notify the document / data custodian to forward the software to
        the Requester and/or Technical Contact within the custodian’s organization.
3. Foreign Government Requests The procedures for dealing with foreign government
requests (other than Canada) are described below (reference AFI 16-201).
     3.1. For foreign government requests, the software may occasionally be releasable under an
     existing Data Exchange Agreement (DEA) between the US and the requesting foreign
     government. In this case, the request must be handled by the DEA Technical Project Officer
     and forwarded to the AEDC Foreign Disclosure Officer (FDO) for release. The DEA will
     regulate the dissemination of the software via official U.S. government to foreign
     government channels. Other foreign government requests must be forwarded to the FDO, Bill
     Moss, MS2305.
     3.2. In the case of non-government foreign requests, if the foreign government is not bidding
     on or supporting an AF or other U.S. government contract, the contractor should submit the
     request through his embassy to SAF/IA (reference AFI 16-204). For additional information,
     see AFI 16-201 and AFPD 16-2.
        3.2.1. This does not apply to Distribution Statement A publicly-releasable software
        which is available for unlimited distribution.




                                             ROBERT W. CHEDISTER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013                                                                       5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD - Withholding Of Unclassified Technical Data From Public Disclosure, Aug 1995
AFI61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical information, Aug, 2004
AFI33-114, Software Management, May 2004
AFPD61-2, Management of Scientific Technical Information, Apr 1993
AFPD61-3, Domestic Technology Transfer, Feb 2001
Adopted Forms
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Terms
Certified Contractor— Private individual or enterprise located in the United States or Canada
who is certified and registered with the Defense Logistics Services Center (DLSC) for access to
export-controlled data.
Certified Contractor Access List (CCAL)— Listing of certified contractors who are registered
and certified to receive export-controlled technical information. The CCAL is maintained by the
Defense Logistics Service Center (DLSC).
DoD Dissemination Authority List (DAL)— Listing of contractors who are registered with the
Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC). This list may also include those contractors who
are registered and certified with DLSC. The DAL is maintained by DTIC.
Defense Logistics Services Center (DLSC)— The DLSC maintains the CCAL. This list is
accessible from the World Wide Web at ‘http://www.dlsc.dla.mil/ccal/’ or by contacting the US
/ Canada Joint Certification Office, DLSC (DSN 932-7430, 800-352-3572).
Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC)— DTIC contributes to the management and
conduct of Defense research, development, and acquisition efforts by providing access to and
transfer of scientific and technical information for DoD personnel, DoD contractors and potential
contractors, and other U.S. Government agency personnel and their contractors. DTIC is the
central source for secondary distribution of non-software technical data.             The DoD
Dissemination Authority List (DAL) can be accessed via the World Wide Web at
‘http://www.dtic.dla.mil/dal’.
Distribution Statement— A Distribution Statement is used in marking a technical document to
denote the extent of its availability of distribution, release, and disclosure without need for
additional approvals and authorizations from the controlling DoD office. There are seven
different distribution statements that can be used.
Distribution Statement A— This distribution statement is used when the software is approved
for public release and distribution is unlimited. The document or software must be cleared for
public release by AEDC/PA.
 6                                                            AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013


Distribution Statements B—F - These statements place varying restrictions on the release
criteria, but in all cases, deny dissemination to certified contractors. See AFI 16-204 or AEDC
Project Managers Guide to Distribution Statements, Export Control Warning, and Notices on
Technical Documents 1994 for a determination of which statement should be used.
Distribution Statement X— This statement was modified in DoDD 5230.24 and AFI 61-204,
and provides wide dissemination to all US government agencies and certified contractors (see
1.6.3.1 for exception). The AEDC Project Managers Guide to Distribution Statements, Export
Control Warning, and Notices on Technical Documents 1994 cites an outdated section of the US
Code and should not be used.
Export—Controlled Technical Data - Data that cannot be lawfully exported without the
approval, authorization, or license under US export control laws. The primary AEDC controlling
regulations and documents are the US munitions list and Militarily Critical Technologies List
(MCTL).
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)— The MOA is used to approve a release of software.
There are two types of MOAs (Attachments 5-6).
MOA, U.S. Government: This MOA is used if the requesting organization is part of the U.S.
government. (i.e. DoD and NASA)
MOA, U.S. Commercial & Educational and Canadian Organizations: This MOA is used if
the requesting organization is a U.S. or Canadian commercial company or university.
Militarily Critical Technologies List (MCTL)— The MCTL provides descriptions of
technologies which the DoD assesses to be critical to the development, production and use of
military capabilities of significant value to potential adversaries. This list is used to check
whether the software or part of the software is an identified critical technology.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The OPR is the office or individual at AEDC
responsible for distributing and collecting the MOA, providing an initial judgment on whether
the request is in order, and disseminating approved releases to the Requester.
Requester— The government agency, company, university, or individual requesting the release
of the software.
Software Release Authority (SRA)— The Software Release Authority has the final authority to
approve the release and dissemination of software to a non-AEDC organization or individual.
The Chief (or Acting Chief), Applied Technology Division (AEDC/DOT) is the Software
Release Authority at AEDC.
Technical Contact— The technical contact is the office or individual at AEDC responsible for
technical questions regarding the software, usually the same as the OPR.
    AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013                                                          7


                                        Attachment 2
                            RELEASE DETERMINATION TABLE

    Figure A2.1. Release Determination Table
                                   US Citizen     Canadian    Resident Alien   Foreign
USER                                               Citizen                     National
USE
DoD Government Agency            A, B, C, D, E,        A, X       A, X            A
                                       X
US Government Agency              A, B, C, X           A, X       A, X            A
DoD Commercial Company            A, C, D, X           A, X       A, X            A
US Commercial Company (non-         A, C, X            A, X       A, X            A
DoD)
US Educational Organization           A, X             A, X       A, X            A
Canadian Organizations                A, X             A, X        A              A
Other Foreign Governments;
Foreign Owned, Controlled,             A                A           A             A
Influenced Commercial Company;
or Foreign University
 8                                                                 AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013


                                           Attachment 3
      SAMPLE DENIAL LETTERS TO PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT CERTIFIED US
                           CONTRACTORS

Figure A3.1. Sample Denial Letters to People Who are not Certified Us Contractors
SAMPLE 1. For U.S. and Canadian Requesters:

Dear Mr Jones:

       The information that you requested on (date) is subject to control under Executive Order
and export-control laws. We must deny your request under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3) and 10 U.S.C. 130
as implemented by Department of Defense Directive 5230.25 and Air Force Instruction 61-204.

         If you decide to appeal this decision, write to us within 60 calendar days from the date of
this letter. Include in the appeal your reasons for reconsideration, and attach a copy of this letter.
Address your letter as follows:
(address of STINFO Officer)

Private individuals or enterprises must be Department of Defense certified US contractors before
they can receive controlled technical data. Additionally, the information requested must relate
directly to a legitimate business purpose for which the certification is granted. I have attached an
information sheet describing the process you must follow to become a certified US contractor.

Please call (OPR’s name, organization, phone number) if you have questions.

Sincerely,
AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013                                                                       9


                                         Attachment 4
      SAMPLE DENIAL LETTERS TO PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT CERTIFIED US
                           CONTRACTORS

Figure A4.1. Sample Denial Letters to People Who Are Not Certified Us Contractors
EXAMPLE 2. For foreign (excluding Canada) Requesters:

Dear Mr. Jones:

       Your request of (Date) for export-controlled, unclassified technical data (Name &
Version of Software) is denied pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act (Title 22, U.S.C., Sec
2751, et seq) and Executive Order 12470 as implemented by Department of Defense Directive
5230.25 and Air Force Instruction 61-204.

        It is our understanding that the (name of foreign government) government is not bidding
on or supporting a U.S. Air Force or other U.S. government contract. If this is incorrect, you
may wish to appeal this decision by writing us within 60 calendar days from the date of this
letter. Include in the appeal your reasons for reconsideration, and attach a copy of this letter.
Address your letter as follows:

(address of STINFO office)

       You may also submit your original request to the Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/IA, via
the (name of foreign government) embassy. If you have any further questions, please contact
(OPR name, organization, address, phone, and e-mail).

       Sincerely,
 10                                                             AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013


                                         Attachment 5
      INFORMATION SHEET ON THE CERTIFIED US CONTRACTOR PROGRAM

Figure A5.1. Information Sheet on the Certified US Contractor Program
A5.1. DoDD 5230.25 instituted a program to allow a private individual or business, called a
certified US contractor,1 to receive export-controlled technical data under certain conditions.
One of the conditions is that the contractor must be certified in accordance with established DoD
procedures. The US contractor must guarantee that:
A5.1.1. The individual who will act as recipient of the export-controlled technical data on behalf
of the US contractor is a US citizen or a person admitted lawfully into the United States for
permanent residence and is located in the United States.
A5.1.2. The data are needed to bid or perform on a contract with the Department of Defense or
other US Government agency, or other legitimate business purposes2 in which the US contractor
is engaged, or plans to engage. The US contractor must describe sufficiently the purpose for
which the data are needed to determine if subsequent requests for data are properly related to the
business purpose.
A5.1.3. The US contractor acknowledges its responsibilities under US export-control laws and
regulations (including the obligation, under certain conditions, to obtain an export license prior
to the release of technical data within the United States) and agrees that it will not disseminate
any export-controlled technical data in a manner that would violate applicable export-control
laws and regulations.
A5.1.4. The US contractor agrees not to provide access to export-controlled technical data to
people other than its employees or people acting on its behalf, without the permission of the DoD
component that provided the technical data.
A3.1.5. To the best of its knowledge and belief, the US contractor knows of no person whom it
employs who is acting on its behalf, who will have access to such data, who is debarred,
suspended, or otherwise ineligible from performing on US Government contracts; or has violated
US export-control laws or certification previously made to the DoD.
A5.1.6. The US contractor itself is not debarred, suspended, or otherwise determined ineligible
by any agency of the US Government to perform on US Government contracts, has not been
convicted of export-control law violations, and has not been disqualified under the provisions of
this directive.
A5.2. The Defense Logistics Services Center (DLSC) in Battle Creek MI 49016-3412, certifies
certified US Contractors. Those desiring certification should submit a DD Form 2345, Export-
Controlled DoD Technical Data Agreement, to DLSC. You may obtain forms from the Navy
Publications and Forms Center, 5801 Tabor Avenue, Philadelphia PA 19120-5099. Refer
questions to DLSC at 1-800-352-3572.
________
1Canadian contractors may be certified in accordance with this directive for technical data that
does not require a license for export to Canada under section 1225.12 of the International Traffic
in Arms Regulation and sections 379.4(d) and 379.5(e) of the Export Administration regulations
by submitting an equivalent certification to the DoD.
2This does not require a contract with or a grant from the US Government.
AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013                                                                           11


                                        ATTACHMENT 6
            SAMPLE DENIAL LETTER TO CERTIFIED US CONTRACTORS

Figure A6.1. Sample Denial Letter to Certified US Contractors
EXAMPLE 1. When the requested data are not related to the contractor's certification:

Dear Mr. Jones:

       Your request of (date) for controlled, unclassified technical data is denied pursuant to
Title5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3) and Title 10 U.S.C. 130 as implemented by Department of Defense
Directive 5230.25 and Air Force Instruction 61-204. We reviewed your request as a certified US
contractor carefully and find that the data that you requested are not related to the purpose for
which you are certified.

        You may ask to be re-certified by the Defense Logistics Services Center, Federal Center,
Battle Creek, MI 49016-3412. If you decide to appeal this decision, write to us within 60
calendar days from the date of this letter. Include in the appeal your reasons for reconsideration,
and attach a copy of this letter. Address your letter as follows:
(address of local STINFO Officer)

       Please call (OPR’s name, organization, phone) if you have questions.

       Sincerely,


Figure A6.2. Sample Denial Letter to Certified US Contractors
EXAMPLE 2. When releasing the data for other than direct support of the Air Force and the
release might jeopardize US technical or operational military advantages:

Dear Mr. Certified:

       Your request of (date) for controlled, unclassified technical data is denied pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 552(b)(3) and 10 U.S.C. 130 as implemented by Department of Defense Directive
5230.25 and Air Force Instruction 61-204. We have reviewed your request carefully and have
determined that releasing the data for other than direct support of the Air Force might jeopardize
US technical or operational military advantages.

         If you decide to appeal this decision, write us within 60 calendar days from the date of
this letter. Include in the appeal your reasons for reconsideration, and attach a copy of this letter.
Address your letter as follows:
(address of local STINFO Officer)

       Please call (OPR’s name, organization, phone ) if you have any questions.

       Sincerely,
 12                                                            AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013


                                         Attachment 7
       MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT, AEDC SOFTWARE RELEASE U.S.
       COMMERCIAL & EDUCATIONAL AND CANADIAN ORGANIZATIONS

Figure A7.1. Memorandum of Agreement, AEDC Software Release U.S. Commercial &
Educational And Canadian Organizations
Memorandum of Agreement
AEDC Software Release
U.S. Government

Date:
1.       On behalf of the U.S. Government agency listed below, I request release of the following
US Air Force software package (computer programs, system description, and documentation):
Distribution format and media:
         The requested software package will be used as follows:
2.       I understand that the requested software package contains technical data whose export is
restricted by the Arms Export Control Act (Title 22, U.S.C., Sec 2751, et seq) or Executive
Order 12470, and that violations of these export laws are subject to severe criminal penalties.
Further dissemination of this software is controlled under DoDD 5230.25 and AFI 61-204, and is
limited to object or executable code.

Requester
Signature:
Printed Name:
Requesting Organization:
Address:
City, State and ZIP Code:
Requester: Technical Contact
Name:
Phone Number:

E-Mail Address:
AEDC OPR Certification / Verification
Name, Initials, and Date:
AEDC Software Release Authority
Signature:
Printed Name:
Test Operations Directorate
Arnold AFB, TN 37389-9010
AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013                                                                          13


                                          Attachment 8
       MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT, AEDC SOFTWARE RELEASE U.S.
       COMMERCIAL & EDUCATIONAL AND CANADIAN ORGANIZATIONS

Figure A8.1. Memorandum of Agreement, AEDC Software Release U.S. Commercial &
Educational and Canadian Organizations
Memorandum of Agreement
AEDC Software Release
U.S. Commercial & Educational and Canadian Organizations
Date:
1.      I/we the undersigned, on behalf of the Requesting Organization listed below
(hereafter referred to as the "Requester"), request release of the following US Air Force
software package (computer programs, system description, and documentation, collectively,
the "Package"):
Distribution format and media (default - electronic dissemination via Internet, FTP, etc.)
        The requested software package will be used as follows:

2.      I/we understand that the Package may be subject to limited rights or other restrictions
or constraints. In consideration therefore, the Requester agrees:
a)      The Requester shall not knowingly release or disclose the Package to third parties
(other than the Requesting Organization).
b)      To strictly abide by and adhere to any and all restrictive markings placed on the
Package.
c)      That any restrictive markings on the Package shall be included on all copies,
modifications, and derivative works, or any parts or options thereof, in any form, manner or
substance, which are produced by the Requester including but not limited to incorporation of
the Package into any other data, technical data, computer software, computer software
documentation, computer programs, source code, or firmware, or other information of like
kind, type or quality. In all such events, Requester shall clearly denote where such Package
derived data initiates and concludes by use of annotations or other standard markings.
3.      The Requester and the Software Release Authority agree that:
a)      No guaranties, representations, or warranties either express or implied shall be
construed to exist in any language, provision, or term contained in these materials or in any
other documentation provided herewith (all such items are collectively referred to as the
"Agreement"), and furthermore, the releasing organization disclaims and the Requester
waives and excludes any and all warranties of merchantability and any and all warranties of
fitness for any particular purpose.
b)      The Requester shall obtain from the releasing organization all of the Package (defined
in paragraph 1 above), or any other products or services contemplated by the Agreement, in
an "as is" condition.
4.      The Requester's use of the Package shall not prevent the Government from releasing
the Package at any point in the future.
 14                                                              AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013


5.      The Requester shall not offer the released Package or any modified version thereof
for resale to the Government, in whole or as part or subpart of a Government deliverable,
without explicitly stating that he is doing so by providing certification documentation (e.g.,
Section K of the Government solicitation) to the contracting officer before contract award.
6.      The Requester may use the released Package in a contract with the Government, but
understands that the Government shall not pay the Requester for rights of use of such
Package in performance of Government contracts or for the later delivery to the Government
of such Package. The Requester may be entitled to compensation for converting, modifying,
or enhancing the Package into another form for reproduction and delivery to the
Government, if authorized under a contract with the Government.
7.      The Requester is not entitled to any released Package that is subject to national
defense security classification or the proprietary rights of others. The Requester shall report
promptly the discovery of any such restricted material included with the Package to the US
Air Force Software Release Authority below, and will follow all instructions concerning the
use, safeguarding, or return of such material. The Requester shall not copy, or make further
study or use of any such material later found to be subject to such restrictions.
8.      I/we understand that the Package received is intended for domestic use (US and
Canada) only. It will not be made available to other foreign owned or controlled
corporations, or other foreign governments; nor will it be used in any contract with another
foreign government.
9.      The Requester and the Software Release Authority intend that all agreements under
this Memorandum of Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the United States of
America.
10.     The undersigned Requester has the authority to bind the requesting organization to
the terms of this Agreement.

Requester
Signature:
Printed Name:
Requesting Organization:
Address:
City, State and ZIP Code:
Requester: Technical Contact
Name (if different from Requester):
Phone Number:
E-Mail Address:

AEDC OPR: Export-Control Info
Export Control Number & Expiration Date::
Data or Document Custodian’s Name:
Phone Number:
AEDCI61-204 7 MARCH 2013               15


E-Mail Address:
AEDC OPR: Certification/Verification
Name, Initials, and Date:
AEDC Software Release Authority
Signature:
Printed Name:
Test Operations Directorate
Arnold AFB, TN 37389-9010
