BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                      COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 90-700
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX
                                                                                   10 JULY 2012

                                                                            Special Management

                                                          CAPABILITIES-BASED PLANNING



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AEDC/XPT                                                           Certified by: AEDC/XPT
                                                                                      (Eric Bjorn)
Supersedes:    AEDCI 90-700, 19 Jan 2008                                                  Pages: 7


This instruction implements Capabilities-based planning, to include execution tracking, uses the
Capability Analysis and Risk Assessment (CARA) process. The CARA process identifies the
capabilities the Complex must deliver, the requirements and the costs needed to deliver the
capabilities, the risks associated with delivering the capabilities, and the information needed to
make decisions that optimize the capabilities and minimize risk. CARA integrates the planning
for all direct budget authority (DBA) and reimbursable budget authority (RBA) and all AEDC
organizations into a single, capabilities-based process. This instruction is applicable to all
Arnold Engineering Development Complex (AEDC) personnel who plan, manage, and/or
execute tasks, projects, or programs that use DBA or RBA. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force          Records         Disposition        Schedule           (RDS)        located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction provides operating procedures for AEDC’s capabilities-based planning process.
This document has been substantially revised and should be completely reviewed. This revision
makes significant process changes; replaces the Capabilities Review Board with the AEDC
Council; makes administrative updates; incorporates the Graduated Facility Readiness Matrix;
and updates the Planning Schedule.
1. Responsibility and Authority
 2                                                                 AEDCI90-700 10 JULY 2012


     1.1. The Commander, supported by the AEDC Council, provides corporate guidance for
     capabilities-based planning; reviews and updates the Graduated Facility Readiness Matrix
     (GFRM); reviews and constrains the capability roadmaps; approves funding allocation
     bogeys in accordance with strategic direction; reviews and modifies the CARA Integrated
     Requirements List (IRL); and determines final resource allocation decisions.
     1.2. Capability Owners (COs) are responsible to the AEDC Commander for ensuring their
     capabilities meet current and future customer requirements; assessing the capability state
     defined in the Graduated Facility Readiness Matrix (GFRM); developing capability
     roadmaps that support the GFRM; meeting funding bogies and defending their DBA/RBA
     requirements during the Integrated Requirements List (IRL) review; identifying the risks
     associated with delivering the capabilities; and recommending funding adjustments to
     minimize those risks.
        1.2.1. Capability stakeholders and functional organizations support the Capability
        Owners with requirements identification, cost estimates, capability analyses, risk
        assessments, and other CARA product development. This includes but is not limited to
        the development of maintenance, IT, technology, and investment requirements.
        1.2.2. Financial Managers support the Capability Owners with the financial elements of
        IRL requirements identification within their responsible work breakdown structures
        (WBS).
     1.3. Plans & Programs Division (AEDC/XP) facilitates the overall capabilities-based
     planning process; identifies CARA data requirements; communicates/documents allocations
     for budget and offset bogies; directs CARA team activities; collects, analyzes, and interprets
     CARA data; develops IRL iterations; and delivers CARA products for AEDC Council and
     higher headquarters review and final use. AEDC/XP also facilitates the development and
     Council review of the capability roadmaps.
     1.4. Financial Management & Comptroller Division (AEDC/FM) identifies the available
     budget authority, estimates fallout and commercial earnings, and ensures compliance with all
     financial rules and regulations in the IRL development.
     1.5. Contracting Division (AEDC/PK) issues requests for proposal (RFPs), oversees the
     proposal preparation and fact-finding processes, and ensures that the operating contractor is
     tasked in the operating contract to support the CARA process and products as defined in this
     instruction.
2. Planning Guidance
     2.1. Graduated Facility Readiness Matrix. The Council uses the GFRM to identify the
     desired current and future status of all facilities at AEDC. The Council reviews the GFRM
     twice annually and the results are used to develop capability priorities, capability roadmaps,
     and IRL inputs.
     2.2. Capability Roadmaps. The Capability Owners develop capability roadmaps that
     define the path to achieve each capability’s status as defined in the GFRM. The roadmaps
     compare AEDC’s current capabilities with the required capabilities and identify the
     sustainment level, the capability gaps, and the requirements needed to close the gaps.
     Required capabilities are determined by examination of applicable strategic plans, current
AEDCI90-700 10 JULY 2012                                                                        3


   and forecasted national needs, higher headquarters and Council direction, customer
   requirements, competitor status, and other factors that influence AEDC capabilities.
      2.2.1. The Strategic Planning Branch (AEDC/XPT) develops a template and timeline for
      Capability Roadmap development and facilitates an approval process with the Council.
      Once the roadmaps are constrained and approved by the Council, they are used as
      guidance to develop the workload IRL and to plan the Program Objective Memorandum
      (POM) inputs to higher headquarters.
      2.2.2. The Capabilities Integration Branch (AEDC/XPR) assists the Capability Owners
      in the development, vetting, and incorporation of the capability roadmaps.
3. Request for Proposal Development
   3.1. Overview. The AEDC operating contract calls for an annual revalidation of the work to
   be accomplished during the upcoming fiscal year. The CARA process is used to identify the
   capabilities that AEDC plans to deliver for the fiscal year and to allocate available resources
   in an attempt to deliver those capabilities with acceptable risk.
   3.2. Integrated Requirements List (IRL). Capability Owners input all DBA and RBA
   resource requirements for the budget year through the FYDP into the Integrated
   Requirements List. The IRL is the basis for the annual workload RFP, the POM submission
   to headquarters, unfunded requirements, and other budget drills. The contractor develops
   projects to deliver the requirements in the IRL and each project must support only one
   capability, e.g., cannot have a single maintenance project that covers multiple capabilities,
   unless approved by the Council. IRL data also include the work breakdown structure (WBS),
   project number, project title, scope, impact, program element codes, fund codes, and cost and
   man-hour estimates. The Council uses the IRL to adjust and optimize the allocation of
   resources.
      3.2.1. AEDC/XPT maintains the IRL spreadsheet database and controls its configuration.
      AEDC/XPT keeps the IRL on a SharePoint server with universal read-only access so any
      member of AEDC can review it at any time. The Capability Owners or their designated
      representatives are the only persons who may submit inputs or changes to the IRL
      through AEDC/XPT. Any stakeholders with inputs or changes must submit them through
      the appropriate Capability Owner. If resource requirements are not identified in the IRL,
      they will not be considered for funding during the CARA process.
   3.3. Building Unconstrained IRL. Capability Owners assemble stakeholder teams who
   assist in identifying the unconstrained set of capability requirements in the IRL. (The IRL
   becomes constrained once Capability Owners apply available budget against the
   requirements.) The test capability stakeholder teams include, but are not limited to,
   representatives from Operations, Maintenance, Investments, Civil Engineering, Information
   Technology (IT), and Technology. The non-test capability stakeholder teams should be
   similarly and appropriately manned. In addition to DBA, Capability Owners will also
   identify forecasted RBA workload by test cell or non-test capability in the IRL.
   3.4. Resource Allocation and Offset Bogies. AEDC/XP receives anticipated funding from
   AEDC/FM and prepares allocation and offset bogies by PEC for distribution to the
   Capability Owners. The Council reviews and the Commander approves the bogies prior to
   distribution. Methods of distributing the allocation bogies among the capabilities will vary
4                                                                  AEDCI90-700 10 JULY 2012


    from year to year but regardless of the distribution, the bogies are considered to be a starting
    point subject to Council-directed adjustments. The levels of offset bogies vary depending on
    the PEC and current year circumstances, but normally are 5 – 10% of the total funding.
    3.5. Constraining the IRL. The Capability Owners analyze their customers’ needs for the
    planning period and apply funding to the requirements (IRL line-items). The Capability
    Owners’ goal should be to meet customer needs and minimize the risk given the available
    resources. The four possible funding designations for each requirement in the IRL are
    funded (FF), funded offset (FO), unfunded disconnect (UD), or unfunded (UF). The total of
    FF and FO requirements must not exceed the allocation bogies and comprise the funded
    program. The total of the FO requirements must meet the offset bogey and must be viable
    offsets. The UD requirements are being recommended for funding by the Council but should
    be lower priority than the least-dear funded requirement (FO or FF) in the same PEC. UF
    requirements are important to deliver a low risk capability but may not be viable in tightly
    constrained budgets. Once funding designations are made, Capability Owners submit a copy
    of their IRL to AEDC/XPT for Complex-wide compilation.
    3.6. Council IRL Review. AEDC/XPT facilitates a capability line-by-line review of the
    IRL with the Council and Capability Owners. The purpose of the review is for the Council to
    adjust which requirements are funded, partially funded, or unfunded to meet Complex goals
    and optimize the funding distribution across capabilities. During the review, Capability
    Owners explain their requirements, identify key disconnects and offsets, and provide
    responses to Council issues. Once the IRL review is complete, AEDC/XPT compiles an
    offset-disconnect file, i.e., a list of all FO and UD requirements, and the Council bands these
    requirements using the following A – F priorities:
         Offsets (FO)
         A Hard Take
         B Medium Take
         C Least Dear
         FUNDING LINE
         Disconnects (UD)
         D Should Fund
         E Important
         F Lower Priority
         The C’s and D’s then comprise the primary tradespace and will be considered for
         adjustment. Some Capability Owners will take the prioritization a step further and
         prioritize their C’s and D’s from 1 to n. AEDC/XPT will maintain an updated version
         of the offset disconnect file to serve as an unfunded requirements list. The Council will
         identify the top 10 disconnects in each of the three major PECs.
    3.7. IRL Adjustment. AEDC/XPT maintains a balance sheet to compare the funded
    program in the IRL with available funding to ensure the program remains affordable.
    Available funding includes the headquarters allocation plus fall-out. Fall-out is any current
    year funds that do not carry over scope and can be used in the following year’s program.
    (AEDC/FM provides an estimate by PEC of forecasted fall-out.) The Council reviews all
AEDCI90-700 10 JULY 2012                                                                        5


   C’s and D’s and makes fund/unfund adjustment decisions based on Complex needs which in
   turn adjusts the funding balance up or down. The balance sheet is updated to ensure the
   program remains affordable with the proper level of management reserve. The Council and
   Capability Owners take a brief period of review of the IRL in its entirety to uncover any final
   issues.
   3.8. Issue Request for Proposal. Once adjustments to the IRL are complete, the funded
   lines (FF and FO) in the IRL serve as the basis for the request for proposal (RFP) for the
   annual workload revision. AEDC/PK completes the RFP package which includes a letter of
   instruction, the IRL, and issues, concerns, and emphasis areas identified by the Council.
   After AEDC/PK issues the RFP, the operating contractor proposes to the funded scope in the
   IRL or as directed in the letter of instruction.
4. Proposal Preparation and Fact-Finding
   4.1. Proposal Preparation. During the development of the proposal, the operating
   contractor communicates with the Council and the Capability Owners to fully understand the
   intended scope of the IRL and the rationale for estimates. The operating contractor bases its
   proposal on the intended scope and avoids requirements growth. If cost estimates in the IRL
   are erroneous, the operating contractor proposes to the intended scope, not the IRL cost
   estimates. If the proposal exceeds the available budget authority, the program is rebalanced
   during fact-finding.
   4.2. Revision (Rev) 0 Proposal Development. The operating contractor ensures that
   requirements in the IRL are supported by a project and staffing structure that delivers the
   intended scope. The project structure should be designed such that each project supports
   only one capability. The operating contractor develops a “CARA vs. Rev 0” spreadsheet that
   maps the projects in the proposal back to the requirements in the IRL. This provides each
   Capability Owner visibility of how their capability requirements are going to be met within
   the project structure. If the operating contractor identifies key disconnects during RFP
   preparation, these disconnects and their proposed cost are identified in the “parking lot,”
   which is the operating contractor’s list of unfunded requirements.
   4.3. Fact-Finding. Fact-Finding is a chance to address proposal errors, parking-lot
   requirements, new Council direction, and carry-over requirements (uncompleted scope that
   comes with its own funding). Capability Owners ensure the proposal matches the intended
   scope of the IRL and where it does not match, identify appropriate adjustments to the
   proposal and IRL. Capability Owners and financial advisors identify any carry-over scope
   that needs to be added to the proposal and IRL. Capability Owners review the parking lot
   and identify disconnects (UD) that should be considered for funding. Financial advisors
   analyze their WBS elements and functional representatives review their areas of interest and
   alert the Capability Owners of issues. The fact-finding teams also identify administrative
   errors or other minor adjustments to the proposal and IRL. Capability Owners review all
   found issues and disconnects (with potential offsets to fund disconnects) with their division
   chiefs. Each division chief identifies the key disconnects and offsets for consideration and
   they are discussed at Council.
   4.4. Request for Revised Final Proposal Revision. XPT documents all Council decisions
   and Capability Owners modify the adjust file to implement the decisions. AEDC/FM and
   financial advisors monitor data accuracy in the adjust file and ensure the program remains
 6                                                                 AEDCI90-700 10 JULY 2012


     fiscally balanced as the adjustments are approved. The final adjust file maps how the Rev 0
     proposal is modified into Rev 1. AEDC/PK captures any other issues, and with the final
     adjust file, provides the operating contractor with a “Request for Revised Final Proposal
     Revision.”
     4.5. Develop Rev 1 Proposal. The operating contractor develops the Rev 1 proposal
     following the same guidance used for the Rev 0 proposal to include a CARA vs. Rev 1
     spreadsheet that maps the projects in the proposal to the IRL. The operating contractor
     delivers the Rev 1 proposal, and the Capability Owners perform an abbreviated fact-finding
     of Rev 1. Capability Owners provide fact-finding results to their division chiefs with
     appropriate issues highlighted. The Council reviews selected issues and AEDC/CC either
     grants or denies authority to go on-contract with Rev 1. AEDC/XPT will update the IRL so
     it reflects Rev1 and then all future revisions during execution.
5. Execution Tracking
     5.1. Overview. The Council reviews cost, schedule, and performance data from the current
     contract revision during recurring program management reviews (PMRs). If significant
     adjustments to the program are needed, the Council approves those adjustments through the
     contract revision process. The contract revision becomes the new program baseline and
     AEDC/XP updates the IRL to reflect the new baseline. Execution tracking continues through
     the end of the fiscal year.
     5.2. Program Management Reviews. Execution tracking is accomplished using recurring
     PMRs. The PMR is a two-pronged review provided to the Council by the Capability Owners
     and project managers. Capability Owners provide a report card assessment of the execution
     support they are receiving from support functions (executing agents). In addition, the project
     managers provide the Council with a cost, schedule, and performance assessment of key
     project execution. The Council provides guidance and determines if any redirection or
     contract revisions are warranted.
     5.3. Contract Revisions. The Council reviews for approval any proposed project revisions
     above a $500K threshold. The division chiefs approve project revisions below the threshold.
     These proposed revisions are identified during PMRs or during Council meetings.
     AEDC/FM maintains the adjustment file and financial advisors enter adjustments directed by
     the Council (or below-threshold or administrative adjustments). Once complete, AEDC/FM
     provides the adjustment file to AEDC/PK for the revision RFP. The contractor uses the
     adjustment file to update the contract and provides a new CARA vs. Rev “X” file to
     AEDC/XP. AEDC/XP updates the IRL to reflect the revision changes.
     5.4. Baseline IRL. With each contract revision, XP will update the IRL to reflect the
     current contract revision. When planning for the next year’s program begins, the latest
     revision of the IRL will serve as the baseline IRL for building the new program. At the end
     of the fiscal year, the executing program will be reviewed against actual execution data and
     adjustments to next year’s program will be made.
6. POM Planning
     6.1. POM planning is directed by HQ AFMC and led at AEDC by XP. The POM
     requirements over the FYDP are based on the capability roadmaps and GFRM. Draft FYDP
     requirements are loaded in the IRL at the same time as the budget year requirements and
AEDCI90-700 10 JULY 2012                                                                         7


   finalized during the POM build. Level-of-effort requirements continue from the budget year
   through the FYDP (with modification if necessary), and discrete requirements, such as
   investments, are loaded in the appropriate years within the FYDP. All cost estimates are in
   base-year dollars without further inflation.
   6.2. AEDC/XP facilitates development of a baseline program based upon HQ AFMC
   guidance and bogies. The Capability Owners identify their program funding, disconnects
   and offsets, as well as initiatives based on approved strategic thrusts. The program is iterated
   with the Council to optimize the capabilities, minimize the risks, and align it with HQ AFMC
   guidance. Once the program is approved by the Council, XPT and financial advisors load the
   requirements into the Command Management System and/or provide the IRL to HQ AFMC.

Table 1. Planning Schedule
Jan           Begin Budget Year IRL
Mar           Complete Budget Year IRL Iteration 1
Apr           Graduated Facility Readiness Matrix Updated
Apr-May       Council IRL Review
May           Budget Year IRL Iteration 2 Completed
1 Jun         Issue RFP for Rev 0
Jun-Jul       Prepare Capability Roadmaps
Jul-Aug       Fact-Finding Rev 0
Aug           Council Capability Roadmaps Review
Aug           Begin POM IRL
Sep           Issue RFP for Rev 1
1 Oct         On-Contract Rev 1
Oct-Nov       CMS Updated
Nov           Graduated Facility Readiness Matrix Updated
Nov-Dec       Council POM IRL Review
Dec           Submit POM
As required   Contract Revisions
7. Metrics. The metric for this procedure is the generation and timeliness of the RFP beginning
in June of each year and the application of Rev 1 to the contract by 1 Oct of each year.




                                             MICHAEL T. BREWER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
