BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                      CENTER INSTRUCTION 90-300
DEVELOPMENT CENTER
                                                                                 12 JULY 2012

                                                                          Special Management

                                                 ARNOLD AIR FORCE BASE CORPORATE
                                                  LEADERSHIP REVIEW AND DECISION
                                                                         PROCESS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AEDC/CA                                                            Certified by: AEDC/CA
                                                                           (M. Britt Covington)
                                                                                       Pages: 10
Supersedes:   AEDCI 90-300, 26 July 2011


The primary objective of the corporate process is to provide the Arnold Engineering
Development Center (AEDC) Commander (AEDC/CC) and staff with the capability to review
Center-wide issues from a corporate perspective and maximize the effectiveness of AEDC’s
decision-making. The AEDC corporate process also facilitates the transition of resource
decision-making from a functional requirements view to a corporate AEDC-framed, capabilities-
focused process. Issues, recommendations, reports, policies, or initiatives with Center-wide or
significant resource implications from committees, working groups, teams, integrated process
teams (IPTs), sub-boards, etc., will be brought directly to the AEDC Council or through the
appropriate board by the owner/sponsor of the issue or process to the AEDC Council if
applicable. Board chairpersons are responsible for bringing issues to the AEDC Commander for
corporate vetting and action, as appropriate. The scope of this instruction includes all efforts
managed by the Government at AEDC. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
36-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication; route
AF IMT 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                                  AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction provides operating procedures for the AEDC Corporate Process. The process
utilizes a corporate structure comprised of AEDC Boards and the AEDC Council. Duties and
responsibilities of the chairs, members, and secretariat are set forth herein. This process is
consistent with the HQ AFMC decision-making process. This revision eliminates the AEDC
Group, makes routine administrative updates and updates Board responsibilities and
membership. The Capital Assets Policy Board and the Business Policy Board are also eliminated
with the responsibilities performed by the AEDC Council.
1. Procedures
     1.1. The AEDC corporate process is not a substitute for existing functional staffing
     processes; rather it funnels these activities through the appropriate integrated process to
     ensure that functional and/or potential Center-wide issues are fully staffed and all
     perspectives addressed in developing recommended and alternative courses of action to
     support leadership decisions. There will continue to be functional process and reporting
     requirements that are handled within each functional office. On occasion, however, these
     functional requirements drive changes in resource allocations, expectations for the workforce
     and/or contract, or have implications beyond simple functional boundaries. In addition, there
     will always be requests for ―Center positions‖ on numerous issues of interest to higher
     headquarters and required coordinated responses to taskings from the same. It is incumbent
     upon each division chief and staff organization to continually assess their day-to-day actions
     in their functional area for potential broader implications and bring those items to the
     attention of the appropriate integrating board or council for consideration.
     1.2. The corporate process ensures the supporting and dissenting opinions for all major
     decisions are captured to enable senior Center leadership to make informed decisions. It is
     not intended to supplant the functional staff, but to enhance it. The staff continues to conduct
     its functional reviews before entering the corporate process. The AEDC corporate process
     will capitalize on the members' experience and knowledge of the Center to enable open
     discussions and improved decisions not possible in customary staffing actions. Members
     represent their particular functional areas, but are also required to take Center-wide (vice
     functional) perspectives in order to make corporate decisions.
     1.3. Figure 1 depicts the relationships between the various bodies in a hierarchical
     framework. AEDC Boards are the bedrock of the process and are used by Division and
     Functional Chiefs for management, resource and policy decisions within their respective
     areas. The AEDC council is the next level of the process, taking a senior-level, corporate-
     wide view of issues; and, as a decision-making body, will decide issues. The AEDC Council
     is the senior decision-making body in the AEDC corporate process. AEDC/CC retains final
     decision authority for corporate process issues, even if the Commander did not chair the
     meeting at which the issues were brought forward.
2. Responsibility And Authority
     2.1. AEDC Boards.
        2.1.1. Responsibilities. The primary focus of the AEDC Board structure is to ensure
        decisions are made at the appropriate levels in a timely manner, after full and appropriate
AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012                                                                      3


     discussion and coordination. Decisions will be guided by AEDC’s strategic and action
     plans to ensure consistency with the Center’s goals and objectives.
     2.1.2. Designations. There are three boards supporting the AEDC mission. Each board
     manages activities within their area of responsibility and provides appropriate leadership,
     policies, and oversight.
        2.1.2.1. Information Technology Board. Responsible for all information technology
        (IT) related requirements and issues, including developing and implementing IT
        policies and procedures, validating IT requirements, process, and tools for knowledge
        capture, and electronic records management. Provides leadership and oversight
        (where appropriate) of the IT Strategic Working Group and others, as designated by
        the Council. The Board is chaired by AEDC/TSD with TST active participation.
        2.1.2.2. Technical Excellence Board has been eliminated. Technical issues will be
        addressed to the AEDC Council with manpower issues addressed by the Personnel
        Policy Board (PPB).
        2.1.2.3. Installation Readiness/Security Board. Responsible for developing processes
        and policies to balance all aspects of installation readiness, safety, security, and
        environmental compliance. Provides guidance and oversight (where appropriate) of
        the Installation Security Council, Installation Readiness Council, Force Protection
        Working Group, Exercise Management Working Group, IGESP Committee, ESOHC,
        Deployment Working Group, Threat Working Group, OPSEC Working Group, and
        others as designated by the AEDC Council. The Board is chaired by AEDC/TSD.
        2.1.2.4. Personnel Policy Board. Responsible for developing processes and policies
        to build, and maintain intellectual capital and technical excellence in the workplace
        (shape a government workforce capable of accomplishing the AEDC mission.)
        Responsibilities include manpower and personnel plans, employee development and
        career broadening, civilian performance awards, recruitment and reassignment
        activities, performance appraisal processes, requests to realign military, and civilian
        manpower authorizations across unit lines internal to AEDC, and others as designated
        by the AEDC Council. The Board is chaired by AEDC/CA. The Personnel Policy
        Board serves as an independent decision making body regarding government
        personnel issues.
     2.1.3. Membership. Board membership is composed of government individuals from
     across the Center and is specified in Attachment 3. Operating contractor personnel
     may serve as advisors to the boards.
        2.1.3.1. Board Chairperson is an O-6/GS-15 Senior Leader or Division chief. The
        chairperson leads activities of the Board, governs the degree of decision authority of
        the board members, and determines the level of decisions made without convening a
        board meeting.
        2.1.3.2. Board Secretariat is determined by the Board Chairperson unless specified
        herein. The Secretariat is responsible for maintaining board membership, scheduling
        meetings, preparing agendas and read-ahead information, preparing minutes, and
        tracking action items, as directed by the Board Chairperson.
4                                                                  AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012


          2.1.3.3. Most board members are subject matter experts from across the Center.
          They come together in a board to mitigate stove-pipe thinking and facilitate increased
          communication and collaboration. AEDC Divisions have membership on all boards,
          while Functional offices have members on boards where appropriate.
    2.2. AEDC Council.
       2.2.1. Responsibilities. The AEDC Council serves as the senior decision-making body
       making corporate strategic decisions. For example, the Council will make key decisions
       affecting strategic plans, organizations, missions, the use of real property facilities, civil
       engineering, fiscal and physical resources in support of the mission, Program Objective
       Memorandum (POM) inputs, pricing rate development and review, annual workload
       negotiations, Installation and Resources Protection Program, and Center-wide policies.
       Plans, programs, and budgets approved by the Council are final and will constitute the
       baseline documents to measure progress. The Council also functions as the Financial
       Management Board for financial plans, unfunded requests, and financial execution status.
       The Council is also responsible for developing, implementing, and improving business
       practices, procedures, and policies; institutionalizing processes by documenting and
       training; managing AEDCIs and COIs; business inspections, reviews, and audits as
       required. Provides leadership and oversight (where appropriate) of the Enterprise
       Integration Team, Program Management Reviews, CARA, AFSO21, Award Fee/Term
       Review Board, and others as designated.
       2.2.2. Membership.
          2.2.2.1. The AEDC Council is chaired by AEDC/CC or in the Commanders’ absence
          by the AEDC/CA. Other members of the AEDC Council are the AEDC/CA,
          AEDC/CZ, AEDC/TST, AEDC/TMM, AEDC/TSD, AEDC/TTS, AEDC/XP,
          AEDC/FM, AEDC/PK, AEDC/EN, AEDC/SE, and Division deputies. Advisors as
          required include AEDC/DP, AEDC/HO, AEDC/IG, AEDC/JA, and AEDC/PA, as
          needed.
          2.2.2.2. AEDC Council members, if present for duty, will attend scheduled meetings,
          as consistency is the key for successful and timely deliberations. During absences,
          the designated first or second alternate member (usually the deputy or technical
          director) will attend in his/her place. The members are responsible for ensuring
          appropriate advisors from their directorates are present.
       2.2.3. Administrative. The Plans and Programs Office (AEDC/XP) will act as Council
       Secretariat and will assist in scheduling meetings, submitting read-ahead packages, and
       tracking action items, as directed by the chairperson. AEDC/XP will compile and
       maintain minutes from AEDC Council meetings, in accordance with AFRIMS.
       Additionally, as the Secretariat, AEDC/XP will determine the schedule of topics, based
       on their relative priority. If an emergency meeting is needed, AEDC/XP will schedule an
       out-of-cycle meeting to meet the needs of the Issue OPR.
          2.2.3.1. For complex topics or as directed by the Chairperson, the Issue OPR will
          develop the minutes capturing deliberations on their issue and send them to the
          Council member in their reporting chain for review. Subsequently, the Issue OPR
          will send the draft minutes to the Secretariat who will review them for completeness
AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012                                                                  5


          and accuracy. Once satisfied, the Secretariat will then forward the minutes to the
          AEDC Council Chair for review and approval.
      2.2.4. Approval. The AEDC Council chair makes decisions.
      2.2.5. Frequency. The AEDC Council will normally meet on a regular schedule each
      Thursday from 1000 – 1130. The Council Secretariat will notify all AEDC Council
      members if the meeting is cancelled, moved, or rescheduled.
      2.2.6. Location. The location of each meeting will be the AEDC/TSD conference room
      unless members are notified otherwise.
      2.2.7. Electronic Announcements. Initial notification of meetings, briefings and other
      AEDC Council communication activity will be posted in the AEDC Council folder in
      Sharepoint. Copies of briefings and minutes will be posted unless material is deemed
      sensitive or otherwise not appropriate for posting. In these cases, material will be
      distributed through other means.
3. Metrics.
   3.1. Effectiveness. Assess whether the secretariat of AEDC Council meetings maintain the
   necessary records (minutes and notes of action items) in a complete, timely, and accurate
   manner.
   3.2. Quality. Periodically survey AEDC Council members to determine usefulness of the
   process.




                                          MICHAEL T. BREWER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 6                                                          AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AEDC/TSD—Mission Support Division
AEDC/TMM—Maintenance Division
AEDC/TTS—Test Systems Division
AEDC/TST—Test Division
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Center
AEDC/CC—Arnold Engineering Development Center Commander
AEDC/EN—Arnold Engineering Development Center Engineering & Technical Management
Office
AEDC/DP—Arnold Engineering Development Center Personnel Division
AEDC/FM—Arnold Engineering Development Center Comptroller Division
AEDC/HO—Arnold Engineering Development Center History Office
AEDC/IG—Arnold Engineering Development Center Inspector General
AEDC/JA—Arnold Engineering Development Center Staff Judge Advocate
AEDC/PA—Arnold Engineering Development Center Public Affairs
AEDC/PK—Arnold Engineering Development Center Contracting Division
AEDC/SE—Arnold Engineering Development Center Safety Office
AEDC/XP—Arnold Engineering Development Center Plans and Programs Division
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AEDCI—Arnold Engineering Development Center Instruction
AFSO21— – Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
CARA—Capability Analysis and Risk Assessment
COI—Center Operating Instruction
CTEIP—Central Test and Evaluation Investment Program
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council
IGESP—In-Garrison Expeditionary Site Plan Committee
JFC—Junior Force Council
MILCON—Military Construction
OPSEC—Operation Security
TD—Technical Director
AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012                        7


TIPP—Test Investment Planning and Programming
 8                                                                                                        AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012


                                                                   Attachment 2
                                                                 FLOWCHART

Figure A2.1. Flowchart

                           AEDC Corporate Process

                                                AEDC/CC
                                                AEDC Council
     Personnel Policy Board
                                              Chair: AEDC/CC                               Final decision authority for
        Chair: AEDC/CA
                                       Members: CA, CS, CZ, TST, TTS,                      corporate process; reviews
  Members: TST,TTS,TMM,TSD,              TMM, TSD, EN, FM, PK, XP                          strategic issues; addresses
 EN, FM, PK, XP, DP, & Deputies                                                                   policy issues
                                       Advisors: DP, HO, IG, JA, PA, SE
        Secretariat: DP
                                               Secretariat: XP




                                                                                         Develops action plans, vets and
                                                                                           integrates issues, acts as
                                                                    Readiness/Security




                                                                                         decision-making body; reports
                                  Technology




                                                                                                to AEDC Council
                                  Information




                                                                       Installation




                                                                                            Boards develop processes,
                                                                                           policy, and recommendations
                                                                                                for corporate action




                                                                                                                           1
AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012                                   9


                                  Attachment 3
                                AEDC BOARDS

                            Information Technology
                  Chair:       TSD
                  Members:     TST & Deputy
                               TMMA
                               TTS-All 3 Branch Chiefs
                               FMA
                               PK Deputy
                               XP Deputy
                               TSDI
                  Advisors:     TSTW or TD
                               TSTB or TD
                               TSTS or TD
                               JA
                               ATA
                         Installation Readiness/Security
                  Chair:       TSD
                               TSDC
                               TSD/SF
                               TTSI Branch Chief
                               TSD/Deputy
                               TTS/Deputy
                               OSI
                               XP2
                               TSD/LG
                               TSD/IP
                             TMM/DD
                             SE
                  Advisors: JA
                             ATA
                              Personnel Policy
                  Chair:     CA
                  Members: TST
                             TMM
                             TSD
                             TTS
                             EN
                             FM
                             PK
                             XP
                  Non-Voting Members:
                           TSD Deputy
10                                        AEDCI90-300 12 JULY 2012


               TST Deputy
               TTS Deputy
               TMM Deputy
               TST Technical Director
               TTS Technical Director
               CR (IMA Reserve Advisor)
     Advisors: DP, DPR
               FM Deputy
