BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                     CENTER INSTRUCTION 90-201
DEVELOPMENT CENTER
                                                                             13 MARCH 2013

                                                                           Inspector General

                                               EXERCISE PROCEDURES AND POLICIES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available at the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AEDC/TSDC                                                       Certified by: AEDC/TSD
                                                                   (Col. Robert P. Bender, Jr.)
Supersedes:   AEDCI90-201, January 2008                                              Pages: 17


This instruction establishes responsibilities and guidance for the conduct of Arnold Air Force
Base (AAFB) Emergency Management Exercises. It implements Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General-The Inspection System, and AFPD 32-40, Disaster
Preparedness, and expands on the requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-201, Inspector
General Activities, Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 90-202, Command Level
Inspector General Activities, Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 10-100, Airman’s Manual, and AFI
10-2501, Emergency Management Planning and Operations. It establishes policies and
procedures for Major Accident Response Exercises; Terrorist Use of Chemical, Biological,
Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Exercises; Natural Disaster
Response Exercises; and Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) management. This instruction applies
to all agencies assigned or attached to Arnold Engineering Development Center (AEDC) in
support of contingency operations or disaster preparedness response plans. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
IMT847 through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                                                      AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes to this publication have been administrative in nature. Revisions include deleting
references to obsolete AEDC instructions and updating organizational office titles.

        1.     Roles and Responsibilities .....................................................................................       2
        2.     Exercise Evaluation Team Overview. ....................................................................                7
        3.     Exercise Execution: ...............................................................................................    9
        4.     Reports and Ratings. ..............................................................................................   10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       12

Attachment 2—SAMPLE MEMORANDUM                                                                                                       14

Attachment 3—WORKSHEET                                                                                                               15

Attachment 4—FUNCTIONAL AREA REPORT                                                                                                  16

Attachment 5—FINDINGS SAMPLE LETTER                                                                                                  17


1. Roles and Responsibilities
     1.1. General Guidance, Overview. Exercise and evaluation programs enhance readiness,
     improve crisis response, streamline procedures, and identify potential vulnerabilities in
     physical and cyber infrastructures. The program provides important feedback to units and
     Commanders on the adequacy of contingency planning, preparations, and training.
        1.1.1. Exercises should provide realistic, integrated, large-scale training for the
        installation response personnel to determine the installation’s capability to respond,
        operate, and recover from contingency operations and homeland security threats.
        1.1.2. An effective exercise requires adequate preparation, planning, and careful tailoring
        of realistic exercise scenarios by an honest, able, and experienced team. Exercises should
        be designed around Desired Learning Objectives (DLOs) which are based on factors
        relevant to mission performance. Observations and findings must be valid and
        constructive. Reports should identify pertinent problem areas and follow-up actions
        should be effectively monitored.
     1.2. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The AEDC Mission Support Division Chief
     (AEDC/TSD), through the AEDC Civil Engineer Branch Chief (AEDC/TSDC), is the
     administrative OPR for overall EET program management and ensures all program
     requirements are met. The Base Exercise Evaluation Team consists of an appointed EET
     Chief, who operates from the contractor Exercise Program Office, and members as
     determined by the Emergency Management Working Group. The EET conducts exercises
     and evaluations under the authority of the AEDC Commander (AEDC/CC) and provides
     AEDC/CC with an independent assessment of the Center’s readiness through the AEDC
     Inspector General (AEDC/IG).
AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013                                                                     3


  1.3. Participation/Exemptions. All AEDC military personnel and Department of Defense
  (DoD) civilians must be trained and equipped to perform their wartime and/or contingency
  missions. The Operating Contractor(s) must be ready to support those efforts. Personnel
  may be exempt from exercise play due to medical profile or convalescent leave.
  Subcontractors accomplishing temporary work on Arnold AFB are also exempt. Unit
  Commanders are responsible for managing unit temporary duty (TDY) and leave schedules
  to ensure maximum participation in announced exercises.
     1.3.1. Units will complete necessary actions to recall personnel from leave or TDY when
     directed by AEDC/CC. However, do not actually recall personnel from leave or TDY for
     the purpose of exercise participation.
     1.3.2. If tasked to provide accountability of civilian and military personnel on leave or
     TDY, units will follow the instructions from the Crisis Action Team via email, Staff
     Directive, telephone call, etc.
  1.4. Types of Exercises and Frequency. Different types of exercises (base level, unit
  specific, field training, tabletop, etc.) are used to evaluate various aspects of the Center’s
  readiness. They may be announced or no-notice. In each of these exercises, scenarios are
  designed to present realistic challenges to assess the Center in the following major areas:
  initial response, employment, mission support, Ability To Survive and Operate (ATSO), and
  ability to respond to a major accident or to a man-made or natural disaster.
     1.4.1. Major Accident Response Exercise (MARE). A MARE is conducted to evaluate
     the Center’s ability to respond to man-made disasters. MAREs are conducted at least
     once per quarter and are usually no-notice exercises, but may be scheduled and
     announced in advance to maximize participation and availability of personnel. The
     Center executes MAREs in accordance with (IAW) AFI 10-2501, Table 7.1.
     1.4.2. Enemy Attack. AEDC is in a designated low-threat area. Enemy attack scenarios
     are accomplished through Force Protection, Anti-Terrorism, and CBRNE exercises. To
     accomplish all objectives, multiple plans may be implemented at the same time. These
     include, but are not limited to, AAFB CEMP 10-2, Comprehensive Emergency
     Management Plan, the Installation Security Plan (ISP), or other contingency plans as
     required.
     1.4.3. Terrorist Use of CBRNE. Terrorist Use of CBRNE exercises are conducted twice
     annually. A chemical, radiological, nuclear or high-yield explosive incident is conducted
     annually and a biological attack incident is conducted annually (alternating between the
     two).
     1.4.4. Natural Disaster Response Exercise (NDRE). An NDRE is conducted annually
     and will simulate situations specific to Arnold AFB. The most likely threats are violent
     thunderstorms with tornadoes and winter storms.
  1.5. Exercise Requirements. The EET develops an annual exercise schedule IAW the
  requirements in AFI 10-2501. This schedule, along with other exercise related information,
  will be posted on the EET Server (aedc1b740), which is limited to personnel involved with
  EET duties. The EET will conduct a minimum of one exercise per quarter, unless otherwise
  specified. A combination of exercise categories and exercise types (tabletop, installation-
  level, or area specific) may be used to fulfill all functional area requirements.
4                                                              AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013


    1.6. Command Relationships. The AEDC/IG, through the EET Chief, maintains operational
    control of all player forces and has tasking authority as the exercise Higher Headquarters
    (HHQ). In the absence of the AEDC/IG, AEDC/TSD will assume these duties. During
    Center exercises, EET members work directly for the EET Chief.
    1.7. Safety. The EET Chief will conduct an Operational Risk Management (ORM)
    assessment for all exercises. ORM will be incorporated into all exercise planning and briefed
    during EET meetings.
       1.7.1. Center exercises drive a significant increase in the level of unit ops tempo.
       Fatigue, abnormal duty hours, and heat or cold stress combine to increase the potential
       for mishaps. Any person may stop specific exercise activity if an unsafe condition or
       actual emergency occurs. If a safety hazard develops, EET members must immediately
       take whatever action is necessary to prevent injury to personnel or damage to equipment.
       Should an actual emergency, accident, or injury occur, EET team members or
       participants must immediately contact the appropriate response agency (i.e., medical, fire
       department, etc.) and notify the EET Chief. The EET Chief will suspend the exercise
       play, as required, until the situation is resolved. Unit adherence to safety guidelines and
       procedures is evaluated on all exercises IAW AFI 90-201, paragraph 2.2.4.
       1.7.2. Exercise Emergency Response. Emergency vehicles responding to exercise events
       must obey all traffic rules and speed limits, and may not use warning lights until on-
       scene.
       1.7.3. Real-World Emergencies. Emergency vehicles and personnel responding to real-
       world emergencies are exempt from exercise play for the duration of the emergency.
       Depending upon the situation, the exercise may be suspended by any EET member by
       informing the EET Chief and announcing it to all participants.
    1.8. Security. Readiness exercises provide a unique opportunity for potential adversaries to
    gain insight into the Center’s capabilities. Security briefings to include Operations Security
    (OPSEC) should be given to personnel to increase awareness and vigilance. Additionally,
    personnel should adhere to OPSEC and proper security practices during exercises. Any
    person may intervene in a specific exercise activity to protect classified materials or prevent
    inadvertent disclosure. Notify the EET Chief and the Security EET Representative of such
    occurrences as soon as possible. The EET Chief will suspend exercise play, as required, until
    the situation is resolved. Unit adherence to security guidelines and procedures is evaluated
    on all exercises IAW AFI 90-201, paragraph 2.2.4.
    1.9. Simulations and Limiting Factors. Exercise simulations must be kept to an absolute
    minimum to provide realistic training and achieve comprehensive evaluations.
       1.9.1. For Center exercises, every effort should be made to identify simulations during
       the planning phase. The EET Chief approves or disapproves requests for simulations or
       waivers. Unit EET members may submit all properly coordinated requests for waivers or
       simulations to the EET Chief at any time prior to STARTEX. See Attachment 2 of this
       instruction for a sample simulation request letter.
       1.9.2. Limiting Factor (LIMFAC) is a factor or condition that temporarily or
       permanently impedes mission accomplishment. See Attachment 2 of this instruction for
       a sample LIMFAC notification letter.
AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013                                                                       5


  1.10. Rating. The EET evaluates major areas and sub-areas based on mission performance,
  readiness, and compliance. The following five-tier system is used to rate the overall
  exercise:
     1.10.1. OUTSTANDING. Performance or operation far exceeds mission requirements.
     Procedures and activities are carried out in a far superior manner. Resources and
     programs are very efficiently managed and are of exceptional merit. Few, if any,
     deficiencies exist.
     1.10.2. EXCELLENT.         Performance or operation exceeds mission requirements.
     Procedures and activities are carried out in a superior manner. Resources and programs
     are efficiently managed. Relatively free of deficiencies.
  1.10.3.     SATISFACTORY. Performance of operation meets mission requirements.
  Procedures and activities are carried out in a competent manner. Resources and programs are
  efficiently managed. Minor deficiencies may exist, but do not impede or limit mission
  accomplishment.
  1.10.4. MARGINAL. Performance or operation does not meet some mission requirements.
  Procedures and activities are not carried out in an efficient manner. Resources and programs
  are not efficiently managed. Deficiencies exist that impede or limit mission requirements.
     1.10.5. UNSATISFACTORY. Performance or operation does not meet mission
     requirements. Procedures and activities are not carried out in an adequate manner.
     Resources and programs are not adequately managed. Significant deficiencies exist that
     preclude or seriously limit mission accomplishment.
  1.11. Exercise Planning. EET members determine exercise requirements and objectives
  annually during the month of September. These requirements and objectives are then
  incorporated into the annual exercise schedule. Exercise planning should embody the “train
  as we fight” concept, emphasize participation, and reduce artificialities in order to assess
  actual abilities and limitations consistent with safety, exercise objectives, security, mission
  accomplishment, and other real-world constraints. Exercise planning starts approximately 4-
  6 weeks prior to a scheduled exercise and encompasses the following planning aspects.
     1.11.1. Defining the Concept. The exercise concept guides and focuses the planning
     effort. It determines the type, duration, and level of exercise play. It identifies the major
     participants, systems, plans, procedures, and activities. It should include a review of
     results from previous exercises and real-world lessons learned.
     1.11.2. Setting the Objectives. The EET develops scenarios intended to meet the DLOs
     of the Center Commander, staff agencies, and associate units. As a part of this effort, it is
     the responsibility of the EET team members to coordinate with Commanders and
     Directors to ensure unit specific mission requirements are met. DLOs should also include
     previously identified deficiencies to assess if they have been resolved.
     1.11.3. Designing the Exercise. In designing an exercise, EET members should address
     the required level of play for participants, the extent of role-playing, and the level of
     simulation. EET members should forecast affected agencies, recommend necessary
     Emergency Management Representatives as “Trusted Agents,” and incorporate them in
6                                                          AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013


    the planning process. The sequence of exercise events should optimize realism and
    support DLOs. EET members must consider the level of simulation.
    1.11.4. Master Scenario Events List (MSEL). The MSEL is a compilation of scripted
    events that depict activities injected during the exercise by the EET.
       1.11.4.1. The intelligence scenario is general in nature and designed to provide
       players with an understanding of the situation as it affects their operations during
       exercise play. The pre-exercise and intelligence scenarios provide the rationale for
       the MSEL events initiated during active play and are the means to activate plans,
       policies, procedures, and systems for analysis.
       1.11.4.2. EET members contribute to the development of the MSEL items, relating
       each MSEL event to a DLO.
       1.11.4.3. The actual message, document, phone call, face-to-face encounter, or other
       transmission means is called an “inject.” During exercises, EET members provide
       injects according to the flow in the MSEL.
       1.11.4.4. To develop MSEL events the EET will:
          1.11.4.4.1. Review exercise objectives and relevant documents such as AFI 90-
          201, AFMCI 10-201, The AFMC Center Exercise Progress, applicable checklist,
          and functional guidance.
          1.11.4.4.2. Review previous exercises and trends.
          1.11.4.4.3. Create MSEL events from DLOs. Events created should cause
          desired responses and activities for evaluation which meet those objectives.
          1.11.4.4.4. Determine how to introduce the events into play. The introductions
          should correspond to how the events would occur under    real-world conditions.
          Coordinate events with EET members of other affected organizations.
          1.11.4.4.5. Determine who would most logically cause or report the events.
          Ideally, the EET member from the unit experiencing the simulated incident should
          provide the inject.
       1.11.4.5. During exercise planning, the EET will:
          1.11.4.5.1. Develop and sequence the MSEL events to produce the desired
          activities.
          1.11.4.5.2. Coordinate activities with affected agencies (if necessary) to ensure
          MSEL events are adequate to cause the desired activities.
          1.11.4.5.3. Coordinate proposed MSEL events to make desired activities
          plausible.
          1.11.4.5.4. Identify the individual or EET member who injects the MSEL event.
          1.11.4.5.5. Assign points of contact (POCs) to prepare events and to provide
          equipment and props.
       1.11.4.6. MSEL events should be finalized by EET at least 1 week prior to the
       exercise to ensure sufficient time for proper coordination. The MSEL is specific for
AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013                                                                     7


          EET members, do not release information to unauthorized personnel. Exercise proper
          handling to ensure confidentiality and limited disclosure to trusted agents and/or EET
          members. MSEL events should include as a minimum:
              1.11.4.6.1. Day of execution
              1.11.4.6.2. Time of execution
              1.11.4.6.3. Duration
              1.11.4.6.4. Description of event and objective
              1.11.4.6.5. Comments
              1.11.4.6.6. Location
              1.11.4.6.7. OPR
              1.11.4.6.8. Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR), if any
              1.11.4.6.9. Inject Card (if card needs to be dropped)
              1.11.4.6.10. EET POC (member responsible for providing inject to participants
              and evaluating participants’ response)
       1.11.5. Unit and staff agency Commanders and Directors may be briefed by the EET
       Chief before exercise STARTEX to provide an awareness of the exercise. This allows
       key personnel to be available to participate or observe events and de-conflict schedules
       for minimum mission impact. These personnel will be considered trusted agents and
       information should not be shared with exercise participants.
2. Exercise Evaluation Team Overview. EET has the primary role of providing the AEDC/CC
with an independent assessment of the Center’s readiness. In this capacity, EET members must
embrace the role of “honest brokers” as they craft the exercise schedule of events and evaluate
unit performance. Compliance with standards set in various directives constitutes the core
guideline for EET evaluations. EET has the secondary role of supporting Center efforts to
improve wartime readiness and response capabilities by providing training opportunities to
players. To achieve this, EET members must carefully balance the need to allow players to work
through the problems in the exercise scenario, with the responsibility to identify flaws in the
processes and errors in the execution. Exercise planning should include specific, quantifiable,
and achievable objectives that address these two areas.
   2.1. Authority and Management. The AEDC/TSD, through the EET Chief, has the overall
   responsibility of overseeing the management of the EET program. The EET Chief
   determines the composition of, coordinates training for, provides tasking to, and directs the
   conduct of the EET. The EET is charged with supporting all aspects of exercise scenario
   development, execution, evaluation, and reporting.
   2.2. Composition and Requirements. The EET consists of qualified and experienced
   personnel drawn from various functional areas and organizations within AEDC. This team
   serves as a pool of personnel used to plan, develop, conduct, evaluate, and report on local
   exercises. Units are encouraged to appoint alternate members should the primary be
   unavailable to perform EET functions.
8                                                              AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013


    2.3. Commanders and Directors should select their EET members based on their experience
    and ability to conduct an independent professional assessment of the unit capability. These
    members must have a depth of career field experience to understand objectives and expected
    outcomes of exercise events. Selected individuals should have at least 1 year of retainability
    and should plan to serve as an EET member for a minimum of 1 year. EET members must
    be cleared to SECRET level as a minimum.
       2.3.1. Commanders and Directors must ensure that EET members are available for EET
       duty during exercises. EET members should not be dual-tasked as players or held
       responsible for non-EET duties during exercises except where functions are minimally
       manned.
       2.3.2. EET members are the “best of the best” from an organization and are their
       Commander’s representative throughout the exercise process.
       2.3.3. Commanders and Directors must identify their unit EET members to the Exercise
       Program Office through AEDC Personnel Directorate (AEDC/DP) for military and DoD
       civilians or ATA Support Services (ATA/SS) for contractor personnel. Any required
       changes to EET personnel must be coordinated with AEDC/DP or ATA/SS respectively.
    2.4. General Responsibilities. EET members have the distinct role of evaluating their own
    organizations. As such, they must perform their EET responsibilities as “trusted agents.”
    Only EET members appointed IAW paragraph 2.3. of this instruction and actively supporting
    the exercise are privy to exercise planning and execution materials (i.e., MSEL, injects). As
    trusted agents, EET members are bound not to divulge exercise information to unauthorized
    personnel, to include Commanders.
       2.4.1. EET members are the main interface with their respective unit Commanders and
       supervisors. They are responsible for reviewing past exercise and inspection reports and
       for coordinating with their Commanders to develop objectives by which to test and
       evaluate unit effectiveness.
       2.4.2. EET members assist the EET Chief in developing realistic scenarios to support
       exercise objectives. They are responsible for developing MSEL events and appropriate
       injects to drive exercise play in their respective functional areas. MSEL events must be
       coordinated with other units that may be affected by the particular event to ensure all
       players involved execute appropriate realistic responses.
       2.4.3. EET members will ensure they satisfy all required training as identified by the
       EET Chief and Emergency Management (EM). They are required to attend scheduled
       EET meetings and training.
       2.4.4. All EET members evaluate functional areas IAW AFI 10-2501, AFI 90-201, AFI
       10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, applicable AFMC supplements, OPLANs,
       and checklists.
    2.5. Training. The EET Chief, in conjunction with EM, conducts training and maintains
    training documentation for EET members.
       2.5.1. Initial Training. Members will be trained upon assignment as an EET member and
       refresher training frequency will not exceed 20 months after initial training is completed.
       EET members must participate in at least one Center level exercise annually, and this
AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013                                                                      9


      active participation can satisfy refresher training requirements. When practical, newly
      appointed EET members should be paired with experienced members during exercises.
      2.5.2. Ground Burst Simulator (GBS) and Smoke Simulator Training. These devices are
      not currently used at Arnold AFB. (However, if such devices are required and obtained
      for exercise purposes, a sufficient number of EET members must be qualified in GBS and
      Smoke Simulators to form a two-person team to support exercise coverage.)
   2.6. EET Identification. All EET members serving in the capacity of evaluator in an
   exercise must wear distinctive EET identification (hat, armband, and/or badges) prominently
   displayed for easy identification.
   2.7. EET Access. All EET members must be identified on appropriate Entry Authorization
   Lists (EAL). Players must allow EET members unrestricted access to their areas without
   compromising basic security. EET members will not enter facilities or restricted areas to
   evaluate security awareness by clandestine or stealthy means.
3. Exercise Execution: STARTEX. The EET Chief directs the start of an exercise under the
authority of the AEDC/CC.
   3.1. Exercise Scenario Support. The EET Chief is responsible for coordinating with other
   Commanders and Directors to obtain resources (personnel and equipment) for props,
   casualties (to include moulage), and other simulations to enhance realism during the exercise.
   3.2. Props and Role Players. EET members will determine the required number of role-
   players used as “casualties” or other individuals needed to support scenarios and provide that
   data to the EET Chief in advance to allow time for soliciting involvement and support for the
   exercise.
      3.2.1. Casualties. Prior to the exercise, EET members determine the required number of
      casualties needed to support scenarios. The AEDC Medical Aid Station (AEDC/TSD-
      SG) will ensure moulage kits and moulage support is provided for casualty scenarios.
      They will coordinate and provide briefings for moulage volunteers prior to STARTEX.
      3.2.2. Uniform and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). On-duty military personnel
      must wear appropriate duty uniform. DoD civilians and contractor personnel should
      dress appropriately for their role in the exercise. PPE must be worn as dictated by the
      scenario and location.
      3.2.3. Unexploded Ordinance (UXO). UXO may be simulated by using props clearly
      marked ‘UXO” or “BOMB”. Unless the shape clearly identifies the type of UXO, the
      class must be identified on the prop.
      3.2.4. Simulated Small Arms. Models and other gun-shaped props may be used IAW
      AFI 36-2225, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs.
      3.2.5. Communication Outage. Throughout the exercise, various communications
      systems outage may be simulated. Damage status and instructions will be annotated on
      damage or destruction label or exercise input cards. Communications outage procedures
      must be carried out until proper actions have been taken to restore communications.
      During communications outage, affected telephones must be answered with the
      following: “THIS LINE IS OUT OF SERVICE FOR EXERCISE PURPOSES”.
      Emergency calls must be handled accordingly.
 10                                                              AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013


       3.2.6. During exercises lasting longer than 1 day (more than 8 continuous hours) an end
       of day situational update will be provided by the EET Chief during the exercise to
       emphasize noteworthy status of the exercise.
       3.2.7. EET members will provide exercise evaluation inputs to the EET Chief by noon
       the day following each scenario during the exercise.
   3.3. No-Play Areas. “No-play” areas, where assigned personnel do not have to respond to
   exercise play, are designated by AEDC/CC. Generally, Army Air Force Exchange Service,
   Defense Commissary Agency, and Ascend Federal Credit Union facilities, along with the
   Military Family Housing (MFH) areas, are designated no-play areas.
   3.4. ENDEX. The EET Chief will terminate the exercise once DLOs are met. Notification
   will be sent to the Commander’s Senior Staff to issue a Commander’s Senior Staff Directive
   informing exercise participants of ENDEX. EET members will provide immediate feedback
   to exercise participants at ENDEX. This begins the validation process for findings and
   observations. The EET Chief will lead an exercise hot wash for EET members within 2
   working days of the exercise ENDEX.
4. Reports and Ratings. EET will document all base exercises. Reports will identify areas of
strength and highlight recommended or required improvement areas. EET members recommend
a rating for their respective areas and assist the EET Chief in designating a final overall rating for
an exercise. These ratings are an assessment of the Center’s ability to accomplish its mission.
   4.1. Functional Area Reports. Upon ENDEX, unit EET members must validate their
   observations and submit their functional area report to the EET Chief. Functional area
   reports should address strengths, findings, and recommendations for improvement for all
   inspected areas (see format in Attachment 4). These reports must include applicable
   references and appropriate OPR for each finding.
       4.1.1. Input Validation. The EET Chief and the Exercise Program Office will compile
       functional area reports and validate all observations and findings prior to submitting a
       final report to AEDC/IG (or IG Liaison) for signature.
       4.1.2. Final After Action Report. The Exercise Program Office will forward final reports
       to responsible organizations for corrective actions. This comprehensive after action
       report should be completed within 30 calendar days after ENDEX. Minimum
       distribution of the final EET Report is AEDC/IG, Unit Commanders and Directors, and
       staff agencies involved in the exercise.
   4.2. Reply Instructions. All negative observations and findings require a reply. OPRs
   should provide written replies to the Exercise Program Office within 30 calendar days of
   report date. All replies should be coordinated through the respective Commanders and
   Directors or Staff Agency Chiefs.
       4.2.1. Findings. A finding describes a core problem. Replies must address the root
       causes of the core problem and the corresponding corrective actions.
           4.2.1.1. Each reply should contain enough detail to allow the Exercise Program
           Office to determine the status of the finding. Include a recommended status (OPEN
           or CLOSED) for each finding. If corrective action is not complete by the suspense
           date, describe the actions taken and specify an estimated completion date (ECD). If
AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013                                                                   11


         the finding is beyond the unit’s ability to resolve, describe the actions taken to get
         assistance.
         4.2.1.2. Replies should be formatted according to Attachment 5 and can be submitted
         electronically.
         4.2.1.3. The Exercise Program Office, in consultation with functional subject matter
         experts, will review all replies and determine the status of the findings (OPEN or
         CLOSED). Open findings will be tracked through the Remedial Action Program
         until closed.
         4.2.1.4. Remedial Action Program. The Exercise Program Office will track
         corrective actions and provide trend information to the Installation Readiness
         Council, Exercise and Related Activities Steering Group, and the EET. This
         information will be utilized in Disaster Response Force training programs and
         planning phases of additional exercises.
  4.3. Benchmark Consideration. A benchmark consideration is a “best practice” worthy of
  Center-wide attention. A unit may submit appropriate materials (i.e., pictures, diagrams,
  procedures, checklists, etc.) to the EET Chief for evaluation and dissemination.
  4.4. Noteworthy Performers or Team. EET members may nominate unit personnel for
  outstanding team or individual performance. EET must have observed the individual(s)
  during the course of the evaluation and prepare a written nomination (see Attachment 4).
  Unit EET members will validate all nominees with the individual’s Commander or Director.
  Unit Commanders and Directors may recommend that EET observe specific individuals or
  teams during the course of evaluations as potential noteworthy performers.




                                          ARTHUR F. HUBER II, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 12                                                       AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-2501, Emergency Management (EM) Planning and Operations, 24 Jan 2007
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 Jan 2008
AFI 36-2225, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs, 28 Apr 2009
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 Jun 2009
AFI 10-204/AFMC SUP 1, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 21 Apr 2010
AFMAN 10-100, Airman’s Manual, 1 Mar 2009
AFMCI 10-201, The AFMC Center Exercise Progress, 20 Dec 1995
Arnold Air Force Base Plan 10-2, Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, 2 July 2009
Forms
Adopted form
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFB—Arnold Air Force Base
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Center
AF—Air Force
ATSO—Ability to Survive and Operate
CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, High-Yield Explosive
DeCA—Defense Commissary Agency
DLO—Desired Learning Objective
DoD—Department of Defense
EAL—Entry Authorization List
ECD—Estimated Completion Date
EET—Exercise Evaluation Team
EM—Emergency Management
ENDEX—End of Exercise
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GBS—Ground Burst Simulator
HE—High Explosive
AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013                                                              13


HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
ISP—Installation Security Plan
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor (LIMFACs may be classified and should be handled accordingly)
MARE—Major Accident Response Exercise
MFH—Military Family Housing
MSEL—Master Scenario Events List
NDRE—Natural Disaster Response Exercise
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
ORE—Operational Readiness Exercise
ORM—Operational Risk Management
POC—Point of Contact
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
ROE—Rules of Engagement
STARTEX—Start of Exercise
TDY—Temporary Duty
UXO—Unexploded Ordnance
14                                                         AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 2
                               SAMPLE MEMORANDUM

Figure A2.1. Sample Memorandum

MEMORANDUM FOR AEDC/EET                                                       Date

FROM: (Appropriate Commander/Director)

SUBJECT: Exercise Simulation Request or Limiting Factor

1. TYPE SIMULATION/LIMITATION: Explain here exactly what you want to simulate or
limiting factor.

2. REQUESTER: Your unit/grade/name/duty phone. This is the person or office to be notified
when the request is approved or disapproved.

3. REASON: Brief explanation of why the simulation is required or limitation is needed.

4. COST AND/OR IMPACT IF NOT APPROVED: For example, extra expense of wasted
resources.

5. DEMONSTRATE: State how simulation will be accomplished and whether checklists exist
to carry out this function.



(Commander’s Signature Block)
1st Ind, AEDC/EET
Approved/Disapproved (with additional stipulations)


                       (Name)
     Exercise Evaluation Team Chief
     Arnold Engineering Development Center
AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013                                                                                                 15


                                                         Attachment 3
                                                       WORKSHEET

Figure A3.1. Worksheet
                                          EXERCISE PROP SELECTION WORKSHEET
1. Exercise Name:                                 2. Exercise Type:                                   3. Exercise Date:
                                                  PROP SELECTION CRITERIA
4. Object to be Simulated by a Prop:


5. Desired Characteristics of Prop:

               Size -

               Shape -

               Portability -

               Other -
6. Options for Specific Prop: (cardboard box, plastic drum, wrecked vehicle, etc.)


7. Item Selected for Prop:


                                                       PROP INSPECTION
8. Hazards Associated with Selected Prop:

        o      Pinch Points

        o      Sharp Edges

        o      Unsecured Parts

        o      Instability
        o      Hand Hazards

        o      Foot Hazards

        o      Heavy Lifting/Ergonomic Hazards

        o      Rotating Equipment

        o      Environmental Hazards/Spill Potential

        o      Forklift or Other Lifting Equipment Required

        o      Towing Operations Required

        o      Winching Operations Required

        o      Electrical

        o      Fire

        o      Explosive

        o      Chemical

        o      Excessive Noise

        o      Other
                                       SAFE PLAN OF ACTION FOR IDENTIFIED HAZARDS
       See Job Safety Analysis (JSA) Checklist (GC-1707, pg 2). Include in JSA for overall Setup & Cleanup Operations.

 9. Date JSA for Setup & Cleanup Operations Completed:

10. Name of Person in Charge for Setup/Cleanup Operations:
Signature:
 16                                                           AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013


                                         Attachment 4
                              FUNCTIONAL AREA REPORT

Figure A4.1. Functional Area Report
EET FUNCTIONAL AREA REPORT

Exercise “(Name of exercise)” Functional Area Report

EET Member: (Name of evaluator)

Major Graded Area: (Fire Department, Security Forces, Search and Rescue Team, etc.)

Recommended Grade: (Applies to functional area only)

Strengths, Findings, and Noteworthy Performers:
Finding. A condition or action that is in direct violation of written directives. All findings
should have a recommendation. Each one requires a corrective action and must have an OPR
(OCRs as necessary) assigned.
Observation. A statement concerning action taken or a condition or action that may require
attention, correction, or improvement to enhance operations. They are further defined as
positive (+), negative (-), or neutral (neutral). All negative (-) observations require a
recommendation, and follow up corrective action from the assigned OPR and OCRs.
Noteworthy Performance. Action(s) or attitude(s) of personnel or organizations that were of a
nature that merited special acknowledgement. Provide a short justification.




1. Ensure "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY" is placed at the bottom of each page.
2. Reports may be transmitted electronically to the Exercise Program Office.
AEDCI90-201 13 MARCH 2013                                                                      17


                                         Attachment 5
                                FINDINGS SAMPLE LETTER

Figure A5.1. Findings Sample Letter
REPLY TO LOCAL FINDINGS

DATE:

TO: Exercise Program Office, MS-1109

FROM: (Unit/Office Symbol)

POC:

DUTY PHONE:

EXERCISE TITLE:

DATES OF EXERCISE:

DISCREPANCY: Reference by paragraph or finding number and restate the discrepancy.

CORRECTIVE ACTION: Describe actions taken or in progress to correct the
observation or finding. Ensure the solution will permanently resolve the situation. List the
specific action(s) that guarantee positive results.

STATUS: Specify if the items is "Open" or "Closed.”

ESTIMATED COMPLETION DATE: Indicate estimated completion date or date
corrective action was completed (ex. “Closed/2 Oct 09”). If corrective actions take more
than 30 days, a written update is required every thirty days until completed.


(Two-Letter or Manager Signature Element)




1. Ensure "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY" is placed at the bottom of each page.
2. OPRs must coordinate their replies with all OCRs.
