BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                        COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 10-201
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX
                                                                                      12 JUNE 2014

                                                                                          Operations

                                                                      NOTIFICATION, RECALL
                                                                     AND ALERT PROCEDURES


    COMPLIANCE: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions for this instruction


OPR: AEDC/CS                                                                Certified by: AEDC/CC
                                                                               (Col Raymond Toth)
                                                                                           Pages: 8
Supersedes:    AEDCI 10-201, 20 Nov 2009


This instruction implements AFPD10-2, Readiness. It extends the guidance in AFI 36-3803,
Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National Emergencies and
applies to all AEDC personnel.

This instruction establishes procedures for alerting and recalling personnel in the event of
national emergencies or other contingencies as directed by command authorities. Recalls may be
necessary to support war plans, periods of increased readiness, emergencies, or disaster
situations; ensure the ability Complex Leadership to quickly disseminate information and
instruction to all assigned, attached, or tenant-unit personnel. This Instruction requires collecting
and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, System of Records Notices
(SORN) F033 AF B, Privacy Act Request File, and F036 AF PC Q, Personnel Data Systems
(PDS), apply. This information must be protected as For Official Use Only (FOUO), and should
be shared with small groups at the lowest levels for official purposes to reduce the number of
people with access to such personal information under the Privacy Act. Documents generated as
a result of this publication are considered to be FOUO and should be marked as such. (See
Attachment 1, Glossary of reference and supporting information.) Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the      Air      Force      Records        Disposition     Schedule       (RDS)      located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
 2                                                                   AEDCI10-201 12 JUNE 2014


847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Major re-write of Instruction and requires complete review
1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. The AEDC Operations Center (Ops Center) has overall responsibility of the notification,
     recall, and alert system and will:
        1.1.1. Track and report accountability and attainment.
        1.1.2. Maintain main page of the Arnold Engineering Development Complex (AEDC)
        recall roster.
        1.1.3. Initiate installation and specialized team recalls.
     1.2. Division, Branch, Section, and Staff Agency Chiefs will:
        1.2.1. Devise unit recall plans and rosters in support of this instruction. Units will ensure
        their rosters are current. Rosters will be posted to the appropriate recall roster folder
        located on the AEDC network. All assigned personnel must maintain a current copy.
        1.2.2. When recalling key civilian personnel, considerations should be given to civilian
        labor contracts, union rules, memorandums of agreement, and overtime pay.
        1.2.3. Determine appropriate procedures for recalling shift workers and personnel on
        leave or temporary duty (TDY).
        1.2.4. Be responsible for releasing personnel (once recalled and accounted for).
        1.2.5. Be responsible for devising plans or policies for use of runners in communication
        outage situations.
        1.2.6. Immediately notify their Unit Control Center (UCC) (or Ops Center if the UCC is
        not activated) whenever a problem has been discovered that could hinder an effective
        recall.
     1.3. AEDC Public Affairs (PA) is responsible for notifying local media of recall notification
     messages as applicable.
     1.4. AEDC/Director of Personnel (DP) will:
        1.4.1. Maintain communication outage recall rosters.
        1.4.2. Prepare messages to recall personnel who are TDY or on leave out of the local
        area (within the Continental United States (CONUS)), if required by Installation recall
        guidance or division chief direction.
     1.5. Unit Control Centers (UCC) will:
        1.5.1. Maintain current recall rosters.
            1.5.1.1. Post recalls rosters to appropriate folder on the AEDC network.
AEDCI10-201 12 JUNE 2014                                                                        3


           1.5.1.2. Update recall rosters monthly and as changes occur.
   1.6. Emergency Management will maintain the EOC recall roster and post it to the
   appropriate Recall Roster Folder on the AEDC network.
   1.7. Search and Recovery (SAR) Team Chief will maintain the SAR recall roster and post it
   to the appropriate AEDC network.
   1.8. Threat Working Group (TWG) Team Chief will maintain and the TWG recall roster and
   post it to the appropriate AEDC network.
2. Activation.
   2.1. When directed by the AEDC Commander (AEDC/CC) or designated representative, the
   Ops Center will implement activation of established recall procedures. DP will notify other
   two-letter staff agencies during non-duty hour recalls. DP will initiate contact with key
   personnel assigned to Public Affairs (PA), Judge Advocate Office (JA), Safety Office (SE),
   Plans and Programs Division (XP), Financial Management (FM), and Contracting Division
   (PZ) to activate their recall plans.
2.2. Key personnel will subsequently activate their recall plans. Once contacted, each individual
is responsible for:

       2.2.1. Contacting the next person in their respective chain until all affected personnel
       have been notified.
       2.2.2. Relaying the message verbatim as received.
       2.2.3. If an individual cannot be contacted, note it, and continue with the next individual
       in the notification process.
       2.2.4. Contact the UCC with the completion time and all names of personnel not
       contacted. Division, Branch, Section and Staff Agency Chiefs will continue to attempt
       to notify personnel not contacted until further notification is completed. NOTE: Leaving
       messages on answering machines, voice mail, personal emails, etc., are not considered
       positive contact. In these cases, the next individual in the chain will be notified. Do
       leave messages for these individuals to contact their supervisor or UCC for instructions.
       2.2.5. Recall Test: All personnel notified will continue the test by calling the next
       person in line on their recall roster until all personnel are notified. Personnel will not
       report to their duty sections. Personnel on leave or TDY will not be notified.
   2.3. Accountability will be reported to the Ops Center at Recall Start Time (RST) plus one
   hour and every hour after until 100 percent contact is achieved unless otherwise noted by
   complex leadership.
       2.3.1. The UCC and or staff agency chief will notify the Ops Center with number
       assigned, number contacted and percent contacted of the assigned members in their
       organization.
       2.3.2. The Ops Center will consolidate information received from units and notify senior
       staff of progress of a recall as required until 100 percent contact is reached.
4                                                                    AEDCI10-201 12 JUNE 2014


    2.4. When initiating a unit or installation recall, use one of the following messages as
    applicable:
       2.4.1. Message 1. This is Rank/Name with an (Actual/Exercise) recall message 1. All
       (active duty personnel) or (active duty and DoD personnel) make your required
       notifications and report to your Unit Control Center (UCC) as soon as possible. Message
       time is _______ hours local.
       2.4.2. Message 2. This is Rank/Name with an (Actual/Exercise) recall message 2. The
       commander has directed a personnel accountability of our Active Duty DoD, NAF
       employees and their dependents be conducted at this time for the area of concern defined
       as ___________________. Complete your required notifications and report names of
       personnel in the area of concern to your UCC. Message time is ___________ hours
       local.
       2.4.3. Message 3. This is Rank/Name with an (Actual/Exercise) recall message 3. The
       commander has directed the personnel accountability of (all active duty, DoD, NAF, and
       Operating Contractor personnel) or (all active duty, DoD, NAF and Operating Contractor
       personnel within the industrial complex). Make your required notifications and report
       attainment back to your UCC. Message time is ________ hours local.
       2.4.4. Message 4. This is Rank/Name with an (Actual/Exercise) recall message 4. Pass
       the following information using the recall alert system to all AEDC personnel. Prepare to
       copy: ___________________________________________________. Message time is
       _________ hours local.
       2.4.5. Message 5. This is Rank/Name with an (Actual/Exercise) recall message 5. This
       is a test of the recall roster alert system for all (active duty personnel) or (all active duty /
       DoD personnel) or all active duty / DoD / Operating Contractor personnel). Complete
       your notifications to all personnel; report completion of recall and personnel not
       contacted to the Ops Center at (931-454-7752). DO NOT REPORT FOR DUTY.
    2.5. Recall system will be tested and documented at least semiannually.
    2.6. Assembly area: Unless otherwise directed, when recalled, personnel will report to their
    duty section immediately without compromising safety and remain there until released by
    their group or unit commander or staff agency chief. Do not delay the recall process by
    eating, showering, shaving, etc. Wear utility uniforms (airman battle uniforms (ABUs),
    flight suits, etc.) unless this would cause a significant delay. Personnel in transition training
    will report to the unit of assignment, not unit of training; personnel not permanently assigned
    to an Arnold Air Force Base (AFB) unit, but administratively attached to an Arnold AFB
    unit, will report to the unit they are temporarily assigned to.
    2.7. Additional recall and reporting requirements for the EOC and Specialized Teams can
    be found in the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) 10-2.
    EXCEPTIONS: Personnel currently serving READY duty will report to the duty area
    assigned at the time of the recall (e.g., augmentees to Security Forces actively on shifts report
    to the Security Forces).          “ON-LOAN” personnel require special processing for
    accountability. Recall procedures are in the physical work center, but the command
    functions remain with the loaning organization. Example: lieutenant is physically located in
AEDCI10-201 12 JUNE 2014                                                                       5


   the XP office, but assigned to Logistics. This individual signs in with XP and XP sends an e-
   mail verification of the accountability of the lieutenant to the TSD UCC.
3. Notification Methods.
   3.1. The telephone system is the primary means for notification; however, any
   communication system can be used to notify personnel by the fastest means available.
   Individuals not on leave or TDY must receive direct notification. Second party telephone
   notifications and/or answering machines messages are not acceptable.
   3.2. Units should consider designing their recall systems using the geographic location of
   their personnel as a primary factor (i.e. separating personnel living on base and those living
   off base). This method will allow selected communities to be notified and also expedites the
   process when communication systems are inoperable. To facilitate a rapid and orderly recall,
   rosters should be organized in a logical sequence with key personnel notified first and
   including those individuals who collect and report recall status information.
   3.3. Communications Outage (comm-out).
      3.3.1. There is a limited number of active duty personnel assigned to Arnold; therefore,
      AEDC/DP is tasked to construct and maintain a current comm-out recall roster to achieve
      100 percent contact of unit personnel during communications outage situations, using a
      runner system. Runners will have maps with detailed directions to identify the exact
      location of living quarters of each unit member assigned to AEDC. These recall rosters
      will be maintained on the AEDC network. (Current rosters are titled according to
      location.) Personnel will be added and deleted to the rosters by DP personnel upon in/out
      processing. Assigned units will brief incoming personnel on their responsibilities for
      recalls.
      3.3.2. Each organization is tasked to review the comm-out roster and inform AEDC/DP
      of any changes, additions, or deletions to the roster.
      3.3.3. The comm-out recall roster will be activated by the AEDC/CC or designated
      representative contacting designated runners in the housing area.
   3.4. Operations Security (OPSEC). Protecting information is crucial during any recall. Do
   not use terms such as A-hour, C-day, L-hour, Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI), crisis
   look, or reference times over non-secure means. Agencies or personnel requiring reference
   times will develop procedures to obtain them from their respective representative via secure
   means (Secure Telephone Equipment (STE), runner, etc.).
4. Personnel Strength Reports.
   4.1. The Division, Branch, Section and 2 Ltr Director are responsible for recording and
   reporting personnel strength to their UCC, if applicable. Each UCC is responsible for
   reporting personnel strength to the Ops Center via AEDC Strength Report on AEDC
   network.
   4.2. Weekend recalls: Non-essential civilian personnel, to include contractor personnel, will
   be accounted for no later than 2 hours after start of the next duty day. Example: recall on
   Saturday at 1400, would account for all military/mission essential personnel within the 3
   hour established criteria, but non-essential personnel to include contractors would be
   accounted for by 0930 hours on the first duty day of the week.
 6                                                       AEDCI10-201 12 JUNE 2014


5. After-Action Reports. Units will report the date and time recall was initiated and
terminated, and any problems encountered with corrective actions taken to AEDC/DP.




                                       RAYMOND G. TOTH, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
AEDCI10-201 12 JUNE 2014                                     7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Acronyms and Abbreviations
ABU—Airman Battle Uniform
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Complex
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CC—Commander
CEMP—Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
Comm-out—Communication Outage
CONUS—Continental United States
DoD—Department of Defense
DP—Directorate of Personnel
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
FM—Financial Management and Comptroller Division
FOUO—For Official Use Only
JA—Staff Judge Advocate
NAF—Non-Appropriated Funds
OI—Operating Instruction
Ops Center—Operations Center
OPSEC—Operations Security
PA—Public Affairs
PII—Personal Identifiable Information
PZ—Contracting Execution Division
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RST—Recall Start Time
SAR—Search and Recovery
SE—Safety
STE—Secure Telephone Equipment
TDY—Temporary Duty
TSD—Test Support Division
 8                          AEDCI10-201 12 JUNE 2014


TWG—Threat Working Group
UCC—Unit Control Center
XP—Plans and Requirements
