BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
ARNOLD ENGINEERING                                      COMPLEX INSTRUCTION 63-100
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX
                                                                             25 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                      Acquisition

                                                 ARNOLD ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
                                                COMPLEX BASE INVESTMENT PLANNING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: : Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 650 TESS/CL                                                         Certified by: 704 TESG
                                                                               (Ronald L. Polce)
Supersedes: AEDCI63-100, 14 August 2003                                                 Pages: 15


The purpose of this instruction is to provide consistent direction and requirements for investment
planning performed at AEDC. It is also the intent of this coordinated document to integrate the
work of all functional and product oriented organizations to seamlessly deliver required
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) capabilities as efficiently and effectively
as possible. This instruction is applicable to all government personnel who propose and plan
RDT&E projects at AEDC. These investment projects may repair, replace, improve or
modernize AEDC systems and assets that deliver mission test capabilities. The investment
planning phase includes both preplanning and planning as shown in the AEDC system
engineering process flowchart. Planning is followed by the Design and Delivery Phase, which is
described in AEDCI 63-200. AEDC Plans and Programs (AEDC/XP) and AEDC Financial
Management (AEDC/FM) organizations own the prioritization and budgeting processes;
however, investment planners must be cognizant of policies and procedures for programming
and budgeting and plan wisely for these required activities. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force         Records         Disposition          Schedule         (RDS)        located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command.
 2                                                          AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
has been updated to refer to the current Arnold Engineering and Development Center (AEDC)
organizational structure. All sections have been updated to more accurately reflect the current
investment planning process. Abbreviations, acronyms and terms. See AEDC Acronyms, System
Engineering and Configuration Management Terms and Definitions accessible through the
AEDC intranet homepage.
1. Roles and Responsibility
     1.1. The Director, 704 Test Systems Group (704th TESG) is responsible to the AEDC
     Commander (AEDC/CC) for RDT&E investment planning and execution. The director will
     coordinate investment planning efforts with the AEDC Capability Review Board (CRB) so
     they can provide corporate guidance for capabilities planning and make resource allocation
     decisions.
     1.2. The Director, 650 Test Systems Squadron (650 TESS) is responsible for:
        1.2.1. RDT&E investment program and project planning to include policy development
        and implementation.
        1.2.2. Executing the investment planning process for all new start projects.
        1.2.3. Developing AEDC support contract performance work statements (PWS) and
        coordinate with the AEDC support contractor to assure the RDT&E investment planning
        process defined herein is executed in accordance with the PWS, this instruction and
        contractor procedures.
        1.2.4. Review and approval of the investment planning project team’s planning project
        plan. The approval of the plan is the authorization to begin planning.
        1.2.5. Approval of all investment planning documentation constituting a project planning
        baseline. Approval indicates appropriate review and validation has taken place and that
        AEDC is ready to begin design and execution of the project.
        1.2.6. Coordination with the Commander, 704 Civil Engineering Squadron (704 CES)
        for projects that will involve civil engineering programming or MILCON support and
        with the Director, 704th Communication Squadron (704 CS) on projects requiring
        coordination with computer or communications systems processes.
        1.2.7. Soliciting planning projects from capability owners.
     1.3. The Director, 651 Test Systems Squadron (651 TESS) is responsible for:
        1.3.1. Review, evaluation and acceptance of draft RDT&E investment comprehensive
        program management plans (CPMP)
        1.3.2. Assuring changes are effectively managed during project execution so that project
        plans and requirements documents, baselined at the completion of planning, are
        maintained complete, current and accurate. Project change management requirements are
        identified in AEDCI 63-200.
AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 3


  1.4. Government investment program managers assigned to the 704 TESG are responsible
  for:
     1.4.1. Assuring compliance with this AEDC Instruction when planning and AEDCI 63-
     200 when executing RDT&E investment projects.
     1.4.2. Working closely with government and contractor investment project management
     team members to develop project needs, plans, and a Systems Engineering Approach
     (SEA) including requirements documentation. The SEA should include completion of
     capabilities analysis and risk assessment or reference to analysis performed by system or
     asset owners. When investment projects require military construction (MILCON)
     programming, a DD Form 1391 will be completed and submitted to 704 Mission Support
     Group (704 MSG).
     1.4.3. Reviewing and grading all investment project plans, including all documents that
     are part of the plan. See Attachment 2 for project management checklist.
     1.4.4. Measuring the performance of their projects with regards to compliance with this
     instruction.
  1.5. Capability Owners are responsible for:
     1.5.1. Identifying needs, capability gaps, and other work that may lead to investment
     projects.
     1.5.2. Facilitating development of capability roadmaps and investment project needs that
     will be developed into capability requirements that are recorded in investment needs and
     project plans.
     1.5.3. Participation in requirements review boards, system requirements reviews and
     meetings to develop or approve project SEAs or requirements in accordance with AEDC
     Standard SE-1.
     1.5.4. Review and approval of investment project plans, including technical requirements
     and related documentation, as required by the investment project team. Approval
     indicates appropriate review and requirements validation has taken place and that AEDC
     is ready to begin design and execution of the project.
     1.5.5. Working with their AEDC support contractor or government counterparts to
     develop, record, review, validate, and select needs to deliver AEDC capabilities.
     1.5.6. Working with their AEDC support contractor counterparts to develop, record,
     review, validate, and select Project Plans including a SEA for execution (including
     design).
     1.5.7. Playing a key role in the investment project identification and decision making
     process as defined in AEDCI 90-700, Capability Analysis and Risk Assessment. While
     government program managers in 704 TESG will lead planning and execution, the
     capability owners must assure complete, current and accurate need and plan information
     is reflected in the Integrated Requirements List that will be presented to the CRB for
     AEDC funding decisions.
     1.5.8. Reviewing and approving changes to baseline documents using approved center
     change agreement process identified in AEDCI 63-200 and the AEDC support contract.
4                                                           AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012


       1.5.9. Validating and approving (as required by investment planning team or
       management) requirement documents.
       1.5.10. Participating in configuration change boards (CCBs) as either the review or
       approval authority for performance-oriented configuration changes to RDT&E system
       assets.
    1.6. The Director, Plans and Programs (AEDC/XP), is responsible to the AEDC/CC for
    management of plans and programs affecting the Center’s current and future missions and for
    capabilities assessment and planning. XP identifies future test capability requirements,
    tracks existing test capabilities, and defines gaps between future requirements and existing
    test capabilities. AEDC/XP is responsible for development of strategies to acquire new and
    improved test capabilities.
       1.6.1. The Chief, Capabilities Integration (AEDC/XPR), is the Center lead for future
       capability planning and participation in AF and AFMC long-term planning. AEDC/XPR
       is responsible for:
           1.6.1.1. Providing future test capability planning, concept development and
           technology needs, validation of requirements, spiral development plans of identified
           technical shortfalls, concept design analysis, assessment of solution alternatives, and
           higher headquarters planning coordination.
           1.6.1.2. Developing strategies to transition new test capabilities, modeling and
           simulation tools, as well as instrumentation, into all test assets, and for programming
           solutions through the Center’s POM and Major Range and Test Facilities Base
           (MRTFB) programs.
           1.6.1.3. Internal and external advocacy of future investment plans to accomplish the
           AEDC strategic plan, including crafting and advocating the AEDC positions in
           OSD’s Central T&E Investment Program (CTEIP) process and AF’s Test Investment
           Planning and Programming (TIPP) process.
           1.6.1.4. Development of processes that facilitate future test capabilities and business
           development.
           1.6.1.5. Supporting 704 TESG source selection efforts for new or improved
           capabilities and facilities.
       1.6.2. The Chief, Strategic Planning and Transformation (XPT), is responsible for:
           1.6.2.1. Leading the strategic planning process, including prioritization of Center
           capabilities, capability gaps, and associated initiatives, as well as developing and
           publishing the AEDC strategic plan.
           1.6.2.2. Leading the Center Program Objective Memorandum (POM) process in
           accordance with HQ AFMC guidance and consistent with the strategic plan.
           1.6.2.3. Coordinating Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE)
           process inputs to HQ AFMC.
           1.6.2.4. Leading budget-year planning activities through the Capability Analysis and
           Risk Assessment (CARA) process, which encompasses requirements validation and
           prioritization, resource allocation, development of the Integrated Requirements List
AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    5


         and Unfunded Requirements List, and development of the annual workload (initial
         and revisions) for the AEDC's operating contract.
   1.7. The Commander, 704 CES shall assure coordination with 704 TESG for projects that
   require civil engineering programming and MILCON support.
   1.8. The government Mission Area Manager and/or the Capability Owner (TG) and Asset
   Owner (MXG, MSG) proposing a need shall:
      1.8.1. Validate needs, prioritize needs and submit needs to the 704 TESG for planning.
      1.8.2. Participate in 704 TESG-managed project planning and approve requirements
      documentation and project plans prior to project execution. Government managers shall
      designate experienced and knowledgeable personnel who have the authority to make
      decisions as RDT&E investment project team members.
2. Procedures.
   2.1. Step 1, Needs Development
      2.1.1. Mission need.     RDT&E investment planning process begins with a need to
      improve, modernize, repair or replace systems or assets or portions thereof that deliver
      test mission capability for AEDC’s aerospace customers. Government program
      managers and capability owners work closely with mission support contractor personnel
      to develop a need and record these needs in the contractor’s investment planning system.
      2.1.2. Need Refinement. A submitted need is further developed to include: description
      or statement of need, justification, impact, required completion date, detailed planning
      cost, rough order of magnitude (ROM) execution cost that includes operations and
      maintenance costs, identification of proponent and mission area, and government review
      and approval/validation of planning documents. An Alternative Systems Review (ASR)
      is completed during need refinement to assure a complete and multi-functional review of
      alternative concepts that may be considered in meeting an identified need.
      2.1.3. System Architect Validation. The contractor system architect reviews, evaluates
      and validates submitted needs to ensure the need is mapped to the affected AEDC
      capability and a baseline concept of how to satisfy the need is recommended: 1) repair,
      modify or upgrade existing system; 2) acquire new system; 3) use alternate system; or 4)
      not satisfy the need. High-level engineering and risk assessments are conducted and a
      ROM cost estimate is prepared, potential funding source(s) are identified and a need date
      established.
      2.1.4. Coordinate Need. Once the need is validated it is sent for coordination with
      Environmental, Safety, Security, Fire, Siting, Information Assurance, and Civil
      Engineering to ensure need development is compliant with their requirements.
      2.1.5. Validate And Approve Need. Government and contractor personnel work together
      to ensure that a concise, clear, and valid need is recorded. Responsible government
      capability owners will approve and validate needs in their capability area. Approval of
      the need means that the need is valid. (i.e. there is a compelling reason and requirement
      for the need that is linked to AEDC mission objectives.) When a need is validated, it
      becomes an AEDC Capability Requirement. Approval and validation will be performed
      and recorded in the contractor’s investment planning system.
6                                                          AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012


       2.1.6. Release Capability Requirement. Once need is validated and approved in the
       contractor’s investment planning system the responsible capability owner may approve
       the need and submit the capability requirement to AEDC/XP for addition to the
       Integrated Requirements List (IRL) or for emergency out-of-cycle requests, the Unfunded
       Requirements List (URL). This is the hand-off to the AEDC/XP managed CARA
       process documented in AEDCI 90-700. Capability Requirements that have been released
       for project planning will be tagged with an expiration date, not to exceed 2 years from
       date of original approval. The objective is to assure these documented requirements are
       maintained complete, current, and accurate while on an IRL or URL and awaiting
       funding.
    2.2. Step 2, Investment Planning
       2.2.1. Select Projects For Planning. Upon favorable decision to proceed and fund
       project planning, the responsible capability owner will notify 651 TESS/CL that project
       has been selected for planning. A project number will be assigned to the capability
       requirement or investment project and a 704th TESG program manager will be assigned
       to plan the project.
       2.2.2. Develop Planning Project Plan and Assign Planning Team. The government
       program manager will work with the mission support contractor to develop the project
       planning team including government and contractor personnel who include the user,
       customer, operators, maintainers and personnel from cross-organizational and multi-
       functional organizations. Project plans include all multi-year work to complete the
       project. The Project Planning Team performing planning shall develop a financial plan,
       schedule, acquisition strategy, and risk assessment.
       2.2.3. Project Plan Approval. The 650 TESS/CL, or designee will review and approve
       planning project plan to ensure it is complete and funds have been identified for planning.
       2.2.4. Review of User Functional Requirements (CONOPS). The review of functional
       requirements is conducted to ensure that requirements agree with the users’ needs and
       expectations. The review ensures that the preferred system alternative is cost effective,
       affordable, operationally effective and suitable, and can be developed to provide a timely
       solution to a need at an acceptable level of risk. This process requires dialogue between
       the program management team, the user, and industry. The primary objective is to agree
       on the requirements, costs, schedule, technical approach, and program or project strategy
       with a high confidence of success.
       2.2.5. Develop SEA. After the functional review the project planning team will convene
       a meeting of the most knowledgeable and experienced personnel available who can help
       develop an SEA. The documented SEA will be recorded in the contractor’s investment
       planning system as an attachment to the project plan. The purpose of the SEA is to 1)
       identify the current configuration of the project’s scope, 2) determine the optimum
       concept or alternatives from an alternatives analysis, 3) reduce technical risk to a
       manageable level, 4) create a technical baseline from which to perform cost and schedule
       analysis and support other project planning activities, and 5) document applications of
       AEDC-STD-SE-1 process (tailoring). Design reviews and audits will be identified as
       well as members of design review team.
AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   7


     2.2.6. Conduct Planning Review. The planning review is intended to ensure the SEA is
     complete and meets the approach described in AEDC-STD-SE-1. All relevant
     documentation shall be reviewed. The approval authority that the project is ready to
     proceed is defined in AEDC-STD-SE-1.
     2.2.7. Requirements Analysis. The purpose of a thorough requirements analysis and
     review is to ensure that the capability owners, the contractor and the government program
     manager all hold a common view of the requirements. The risk at this point can be high,
     because misunderstandings and errors regarding system-level requirements will flow
     down to subsequent designs and can eventually result in overruns and even program
     failure. A requirements gap analysis will be developed to identify unmet needs.
     2.2.8. Develop Baseline Concept. During this stage, system architecture definition will
     be baselined and key technologies will be demonstrated in order to ensure that technical
     and cost risks are understood and are at acceptable levels.
     2.2.9. System Functional Requirements Review. After the baseline concept definition is
     complete a preferred system concept is identified. The associated draft system work
     breakdown structure, preliminary functional baseline, and draft system specification are
     reviewed to determine feasibility and risk. Technology dependencies are reviewed to
     ascertain the level of technology risk associated with the proposed concepts. This review
     is conducted to verify that the preferred system concept provides a cost-effective,
     operationally-effective, and suitable solution to identified needs; meets established
     affordability criteria; and can be developed to provide a timely solution to the need at an
     acceptable level of risk.
     2.2.10. Develop Technical Documents. The Project Planning Team will also plan for
     technical documentation and configuration management. The technical documentation
     required in SE-1 for SRR documents shall be prepared prior to completion of planning
     and the start of the execution phase of project work. The requirements document(s) and
     the project plan shall be consistent and complement each other. Technical documentation
     that defines the physical and functional characteristics of configuration items included in
     the scope of the project shall be placed under configuration management and maintained
     throughout the life-cycle of the Configuration Items until disposal. Asset linked
     configuration documentation shall be released into the AEDC Configuration Status
     Accounting system per AEDC-STD-CM-1
     2.2.11. Validate/Approve Plan And Technical Documentation. Once the Project Plan
     and the Technical Documentation are completed, both documents shall be reviewed and
     approved by the government program manager, asset owner or manager, capability
     owner, and others as identified during planning. As with the need, this coordination and
     approval is a contractor investment planning system process. The Project Plan shall be
     focused on work to be performed and will be maintained complete and accurate as noted
     in AEDCI 63-200 until project completion.
     2.2.12. System Requirements Review (SRR). The SRR is intended to confirm that the
     users' requirements have been translated into system specific technical requirements; that
     critical technologies are identified and required technology demonstrations are planned;
     and that risks are well understood and mitigation plans are in place. The system
     specification is verified to reflect the operational requirements.           All relevant
 8                                                           AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012


        documentation shall be reviewed. The approval authority that the project is ready to
        proceed to execution is defined in SE-1. The contractor will normally use the occasion of
        the system requirements review early in this stage to set the functional baseline that will
        govern the flow-down of requirements to lower level items as preliminary designs.
        2.2.13. To Shelf Awaiting Funds. If funding for execution cannot be obtained the
        project will be sent to shelf awaiting funding. Approved baseline documentation will
        reside in the operating contractor’s investment planning system. Since technical
        documentation is linked to assets in the Configuration Status Accounting system, asset
        managers will be able to readily identify and understand the current existing
        configuration as well as potentially multiple proposed changes. The process identified in
        AEDCI 99-15 again provides the decision to proceed with project execution.
3. Metrics.
     3.1. Need to Capability Requirement.
        3.1.1. Cycle time from submittal to validation.
        3.1.2. Quality of information supplied given checklist, see Attachment 2.
     3.2. Project Plan.
        3.2.1. Earned Value Management technique will be used to measure the value of work
        performed in planning against planning milestones.
        3.2.2. For a checklist audit of the quality, accuracy, and completeness of the project plan,
        see Attachment 2.
     3.3. Improvement.
        3.3.1. During project execution, changes to baseline project plans shall be tracked to
        identify areas of improvement, as well as the quality of the project plans and project
        planning effort.
        3.3.2. During project execution, changes to baseline technical documentation shall be
        tracked to identify areas of improvement, as well as the quality of the requirements
        documentation process and project planning effort.
4. Flowchart. See Attachment 2. The planning process as defined in this instruction includes
Need Development, Investment Pre-Planning, and Investment Planning.
5. Records.
AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                          9


Table 1. Records

Required Quality Record       Custodian                     Location of the Record
Need/Capability Requirement   Description, justification,   Contractor investment
                              impact statement, required    planning system
                              completion date, rough
                              order of magnitude cost,
                              proponent, planning cost
                              estimate
Project Plan                  System Engineering            Contractor investment
                              Approach, Acquisition         planning system
                              Strategy, Financial Plan,
                              Need, Risk Assessment,
                              Diagrams of the Asset and
                              Process, Operations and
                              Maintenance information,
                              Check-out and Test
                              planning and Schedule




                                   ARTHUR F. HUBER II, Colonel, USAF
                                   Commander
 10                                                     AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AEDC-STD-SE-1, Systems Engineering.
AEDC-STD-CM-1, Configuration Management.
AEDC-STD-T-3, Drawing Practices.
AEDC-STD-T-4, Specification Practices.
AEDCI 63-200, Investment Program Management, 15 Jan 2008
AEDCI 63-300, Systems Engineering and Configuration Management, 14 Jan 2008.
AEDCI 90-700, Capability Analysis and Risk Assessment.10 Jul 2012
AFMC INSTRUCTION 65-201, Cost Estimate Documentation, 30 Jan 2012
Mission Support Contractor Performance Work Statement (PWS)
Safety, Health and Environmental Standard A4, System Safety, 8 May 2012
Adopted Forms
DD Form 1391 Military Construction Project Data
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
650 TESS—650th Test Systems Squadron
651 TESS—651st Test Systems Squadron
704 CES—704th Civil Engineering Squadron
AEDC/XP—AEDC Plans & Programs Directorate
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
704 MSG—704th Mission Support Group
704 MXG—704th Maintenance Group
704 MXS—704th Maintenance Squadron
704 TESG—704th Test Systems Group
704 TG—704th Test Group
AEDC—Arnold Engineering Development Complex
AEDC/CC—AEDC Commander
AEDC/FM—AEDC Comptroller Directorate
AEDC—STD - SE-1
AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                11


Terms
Asset— Refers to a component, system, or configuration item as defined by AEDC-STD-SE-1
and managed by AEDC-STD-CM-1, Configuration Management. Assets are real property of
AEDC and managed by 704 MXG.
CA— Change Agreement: Formal Process in the contractor’s investment planning system that
results in a deviation from the CPMP.
Capability— Operational role or function performed by a system or CI to realize a product or
need fulfilling defined requirements for that product or need.
CDRL— Contractor Data Requirements List
Change— Refers to a deviation from the CPMP that requires adding, subtracting or reallocating
project funding or a schedule shift driven by circumstances outside of project control or by
decisions by the project team that effect the future of the project i.e. design changes etc.
CI— Configuration Item, or aggregation of systems capable of satisfying a function and
identified for separate configuration management under AEDC-STD-CM-1
Component— Subassembly, assembly, or other major element of a CI as defined by
Contract Revision— Current project budget authority as established by AEDC/FM and PK
through the operations contract; will change throughout the execution year as rev n, n+1, n+2,
etc. Test Systems Acquisition contract revisions are worked / coordinated with 704TESG/OM.
CPMP— Comprehensive Project Management Plan
CSSR— Cost, Schedule, Status Report. These reports capture important information about a
project’s execution.
CTEIP— Central Test and Evaluation Investment Program
I&M— Improvement and Modernization
Investment Product— New or improved asset delivering Right Capability.
Investment Requirement— Deficient characteristic of a capability needed to achieve specific
objectives under specific conditions.
KPI— Key Performance Indicator: A type of metric, or measurement tool used to rate
performance on an award-fee type contract.
M&R— Maintenance and Repair
MILCON— Military Construction
PMB— Performance Measurement Baseline: Budgeted Cost of work Scheduled (BCWS) for
purpose of earned value management. The PMB is output into configuration control and may
consist of revisions throughout the execution year. Revisions to the PMB are forward looking
only and do not revise past month’s BCWS. Totally independent of current contract revision.
POM— Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE— Planning, Programming, Budgeting Execution System
Right Capability— Capability to support AEDC’s strategic objective most effectively.
 12                                                       AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012


RDT&E— Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
Scope Change— Addition or deletion of deliverables, approved change in requirements that
requires a change in schedule and resources. Designating ―scope change‖ on the CA form will
result in greater approval authority in the contractor’s investment planning system routing for
that CA.
System— Aggregation of components capable of performing or supporting an operational role.
TIPP – Test Investment Planning Process
AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012                  13


                              Attachment 2
                              FLOW CHART

Figure A2.1. Flow Chart
 14                                                        AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012


                                          Attachment 3
                                PROJECT PLANNING CHECKLIST

Figure A3.1. Project Planning Checklist

1. Identify Need: Has the need been described to provide answers to the following questions?

    a) Who is requesting the work be performed, who owns the assets, what mission area(s) are
responsible?

      b) What is the scope of work? What systems or assets are involved? What is the outcome?

      c) When is the work to be completed? What is the basis of this requirement?

      d) Where will the work be performed?

   e) Why should this work be performed?            What is the justification?      Impact if not
completed?

2. Integrate Need: Has this need been compared to other needs that are on-going or planned for
the same system area to develop an approach to maximize efficiency and effectiveness in
execution and minimize duplication or waste in effort and resources. Check schedule if an
outage is projected.

3. Validate Need – Capability Requirement: Gain Government resource sponsor approval to
proceed with planning and coordinate with customer to make sure the need is accurately
documented. Have capability owners, asset managers, and other advocates approved the
developed need and is it now a capability requirement?

4. Develop Capability Requirement Executable Project Plan: Plan for:

      a) Organization

      b) Financial management, cost estimates, and economic analysis including O&S funding
      savings/increase from this project

      c) Schedule with milestones, submit an outage request in Synergen.

      d) Design reviews and audits, configuration management, work breakdown structure

      e) Acquisition (strategy)

      f) Skills and resources

      g) Deliverables, safety hazard analysis
AEDCI63-100 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 15



    h) Security, environmental concerns

    i) Check-out test and evaluation i.e. turning over the project results to operators,
    maintainers, and those performing support functions, test and verification, training,
    photographic records

    j) software-computer-communications, facility work

5. Define Requirements: Determine the System Engineering Approach (configuration change
or new system) based on the nature of the need i.e. repair, replacement, modernization,
improvement or new system and capability effort. Determine operational, maintenance and
supportability requirements. Develop Operational (System) Requirements Document.

Note: If SRD/System Spec has been baseline released, then reference existing Functional
Configuration Identification

6. Validate Requirements and Coordinate Plan: Coordinate the draft Project Plan and
Requirements Document to the project team: capability owner, customer, operator or
maintainers, support (Safety, Environmental, Logistics, Security, Facilities), asset owners,
system architects, designers, analysts, project management, procurement, and legal.

7. Program & Prioritize: Include as CARA capability requirement and complete DD Form
1391 or additional documentation required by customers such as CTEIP, TIPP, etc or performers
such as the Corps of Engineers

8. Baseline Planned Project:

Project Plan with Capability Requirement in Matrix and IRL/UR list

Requirements documented in Matrix Configuration Status Accounting System

Documentation reflecting project team’s approval to proceed

CARA Programming, Economic Analysis and other supporting data in project folder
