BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                          AETC INSTRUCTION 32-7001
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                                                         30 MARCH 2005
COMMAND
                                                                                                    Certified Current, 20 April 2011
                                                                                                                  Civil Engineering

                                                                                   AETC AFFIRMATIVE PROCUREMENT
                                                                                                        PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AETC/CEVQ (Mr. R. Chabot)                                             Certified by: HQ AETC/CEV (Col S. Macon)
Supersedes AECTI 32-7001, 21 December 2001                                                                   Pages: 25
                                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality. It describes and prescribes the applica-
bility, responsibilities, and requirements of the AETC Affirmative Procurement Program. This instruction
applies to all products purchased by continental United States (CONUS) installations as well as those pur-
chased in the US for shipment overseas. It carries out the tenants of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), Section 6002; Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 247; Executive
Order (EO) 13101, Greening the Government Through Waste Prevention, Recycling, and Federal Acqui-
sition; the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Part 23, Environment, Conservation, Occupational
Safety, and Drug-Free Workplace; DoDI 4715.4, Pollution Prevention; AFI 32-7080, Pollution Preven-
tion Program; and HQ United States Air Force, Installation and Logistics Directorate, Environmental
Division (HQ USAF/ILEV), and the Secretary of the Air Force, Contracting Directorate (SAF/AQC)
Joint Policy Memorandum, 31 May 2000, Air Force Affirmative Procurement Program.
This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Dis-
position Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision updates the products list based on the updated Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines (CPG) (see Attachment 2, paragraphs 7.2.1 through 7.2.8, and
AETC IMT 47). A bar (|) indicates revision from the previous edition.
      1.     Program Requirements. .............................................................................................             3
      2.     The APT: ....................................................................................................................   4
      3.     The APP. ....................................................................................................................   5
      4.     Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................     5
2                                                                                         AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005


    5.   Applicability: .............................................................................................................    5
    6.   EPA CPG Items: ........................................................................................................         6
    7.   IMTs Prescribed. ........................................................................................................       7

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          8

Attachment 2— SAMPLE AFFIRMATIVE PROCUREMENT PLAN (APP)                                                                                 10
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                               3


1. Program Requirements. The requirements for the AETC Affirmative Procurement Program are
derived from federal, EO, Department of Defense (DoD), and Air Force policy. Program requirements
include:
   1.1. RCRA, Section 6002. The RCRA, Section 6002, requires all federal agencies to establish an
   affirmative procurement program to give preference in the acquisition process to products and prac-
   tices that conserve and protect natural resources and the environment. The RCRA program consists of
   elements (paragraph 1.1.1.) and exceptions (paragraph 1.1.2.).
      1.1.1. Program Elements. At a minimum, the affirmative procurement program contains four
      elements:
          1.1.1.1. Preference Program. The preference program is designed to show that an installa-
          tion has a preference for products containing recycled materials that meet the standards for
          recycled-content established by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The preference
          program targets installation employees, contractors, and potential vendors through formal pol-
          icy statements, action plans, and contract language. NOTE: In this instruction, the terms
          “recycled content” and “recovered material” are used interchangeably.
          1.1.1.2. Promotion Program. The promotion program element encourages employees, con-
          tractors, and potential vendors to adhere to the requirements of the affirmative procurement
          program.
          1.1.1.3. Vendor Certification. The vendor certification element requires vendors to certify
          that their products meet EPA requirements and to provide data on recycled-content material
          use.
          1.1.1.4. Annual Monitoring and Review. The annual monitoring and review element
          requires the installations to review and evaluate the effectiveness of their affirmative procure-
          ment program every year. The Inspector General provides oversight to ensure installations fol-
          low the annual monitoring and review program according to the affirmative procurement plan
          (APP). For further guidance pertaining to APP, see paragraph 3.
      1.1.2. RCRA Exemptions:
          1.1.2.1. The RCRA requires agencies to procure designated items composed of the highest
          percentage of recovered materials practicable, with the exemptions described in paragraphs
          1.1.2.1.1. through 1.1.2.1.4. The decision not to procure comprehensive procurement guide-
          lines (CPG) items that meet EPA standards is determined by the procuring agency, based on a
          written determination that such items:
             1.1.2.1.1. Are not available within a reasonable period of time.
             1.1.2.1.2. Fail to meet the performance standards set forth in applicable specifications or
             fail to meet reasonable performance standards of the procuring agency.
             1.1.2.1.3. Are not available from a sufficient number of sources to maintain a satisfactory
             level of competition (that is, available from two or more sources).
             1.1.2.1.4. Are available only at an unreasonable price. For Air Force purposes, “unreason-
             able price” is “if the cost of the recycled-content product exceeds the cost of a nonrecycled
             item, it is considered unreasonable” (from Guide to Green Purchasing: The US Air Force
4                                                                   AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005


               Affirmative Procurement Program, Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence
               [AFCEE], Brooks Air Force Base, Texas).
           1.1.2.2. An exemption may be claimed if one or more of the criteria are met in paragraphs
           1.1.2.1.1. through 1.1.2.1.4. A written determination by the contracting officer, using AETC
           IMT 51, Recovered Materials Exemption, is required for all exempt purchases exceeding
           $2,500. Although a written determination is not required for purchases less than $2,500, it is
           still a requirement to purchase recycled content products for EPA CPG items.
    1.2. EO 13101. The EO 13101 directs federal agencies to purchase recycled and environmentally
    preferable products and services. It also directs federal agencies to implement affirmative procure-
    ment programs for EPA CPGs. Detailed information is provided regarding EPA CPG in paragraph 6.
    1.3. FAR, Part 23. The FAR, Part 23, includes acquisition policies and procedures supporting the
    government’s program for protecting and improving the quality of the environment through pollution
    control, energy conservation, identification of hazardous material, and use of recovered materials.
    1.4. DoDI 4715.4. This DoD instruction calls for the establishment of an affirmative procurement
    program according to the RCRA, EO 12873 (superseded by EO 13101), and the FAR.
    1.5. AFI 32-7080. This instruction requires each installation to implement an APP. AFI 32-7080 pro-
    vides for flexibility in designing the program as long as it meets RCRA, FAR, and DoD requirements.
    1.6. HQ USAF/ILEV and SAF/AQC Joint Policy Memorandum. This joint policy memorandum
    requires the support of the Air Force Affirmative Procurement Program with a team approach that
    includes:
       1.6.1. Developing an affirmative procurement team (APT), as prescribed in paragraph 2. and AFI
       32-7080. The APT develops an APP to describe the strategy of the team for executing the pro-
       gram.
       1.6.2. The APP addressing each of the four program elements required by the RCRA (as indicated
       in paragraph 1.1.2.). Detailed information regarding APP is in paragraph 3.

2. The APT:
    2.1. Is designated by the installation environmental protection committee (EPC) or environmental,
    safety, and occupational health committee (ESOHC), which determines chair or lead of the APT.
    2.2. Consists of representatives from logistics and civil engineering. NOTE: The environmental flight
    represents civil engineering on the APT. When applicable, the logistics group or operations group
    environmental coordinator will be a member of the APT for coordination with weapon system con-
    tractors. The APT may also include representatives from public affairs, supply, bioenvironmental
    engineering, logistics maintenance, civil engineering, legal, and services on an as-needed basis.
    2.3. Coordinates the affirmative procurement program among affected functional areas and develops
    an APP for EPC or ESOHC approval. NOTE: Detailed information on APP is in paragraph 3.
    2.4. Meets at least annually and reviews a sampling of government purchase and contract card pur-
    chases to evaluate the integrity of the program. The number of samples should be determined by
    trends and findings.
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                           5


3. The APP. Each installation APT will publish an APP. (A sample of an APP and the instructions for
preparing the APP are provided in Attachment 2.) The APP includes guidance for completing AETC
IMT 47, Recovered Materials Determination, and AETC IMT 51 as applicable. (NOTE: AETC IMTs
are available electronically on the AETC Publications and Forms/IMTs Web site [http://www.aetc.ran-
dolph.af.mil/im/].)

4. Responsibilities:
   4.1. Logistics:
       4.1.1. The Contracting Officer:
          4.1.1.1. Ensures new contracts, including contracted operations, contain applicable APP pro-
          visions. The contracting officer completes AETC IMT 51 when noncompliant items are pur-
          chased and maintains a copy of the AETC IMT 51 in the contract file if a noncompliant item
          is procured through contracting.
          4.1.1.2. Includes affirmative procurement as part of the training provided to government pur-
          chase cardholders and reviews cardholder activities annually to ensure compliance.
       4.1.2. Supply:
          4.1.2.1. Publicizes and provides appropriate Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) and Govern-
          ment Services Administration (GSA) catalogs containing recycled-content products.
          4.1.2.2. Ensures affirmative procurement program requirements are included in the contract
          or agreement for base supply centers.
       4.1.3. Quality Assurance Evaluators (QAE). QAEs review contractor compliance with affir-
       mative procurement requirements, as outlined in the contract specifications.
   4.2. Civil Engineering:
       4.2.1. Engineering design personnel review specifications for building materials, specify recy-
       cled-content construction products, and ensure specifications do not prohibit the use of recy-
       cled-content products that meet the required performance standards.
       4.2.2. Service contract managers review and edit contract specifications (for example, grounds
       maintenance and custodial contract requirements) applicable to EPA CPG items. Information
       regarding CPG items is provided in paragraph 6.
       4.2.3. QAEs for service and construction contracts, review contractor compliance with affirma-
       tive procurement requirements, as outlined in the contract specifications.
   4.3. Performance Management Organization (PMO). PMO service provider performance evalua-
   tors and service provider staff for base operating support (BOS) operations:
       4.3.1. Review service provider compliance with affirmative procurement requirements, as out-
       lined in the contract specifications.
       4.3.2. In addition, provide documentation of annual compliance review to the PMO and contract-
       ing officer.

5. Applicability:
6                                                                     AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005


    5.1. All Base Organizations. APP requirements apply to all base organizations that:
       5.1.1. Prepare specifications for products.
       5.1.2. Procure or request procurement of products (consumers).
       5.1.3. Provide support to base organizations (for example, base supply and contracting).
    5.2. Contractors and Vendors. These requirements also apply to all new contracts awarded to
    installation contractors and vendors. Customers processing requirements through the Automated
    Business Services System (ABSS) establish internal business procedures to support compliance with
    affirmative procurement requirements outlined in this publication. As a minimum, review and
    approval of contract specifications and completion of the required AETC IMT 47 should occur prior
    to approval and commitment of funds in the ABSS by the unit resource advisor.
    5.3. Preparing AETC IMT 47. The requiring activity prepares the AETC IMT 47, which must
    accompany all purchase requests for supply-type items. All customers will be responsible for elec-
    tronically transmitting the AETC IMT 47 via the ABSS or e-mail directly to the supporting contract-
    ing office.
    5.4. Purchase of EPA CPG Items. All base organizations must be aware of and comply with affir-
    mative procurement program requirements to include the purchase of EPA CPG items. Agencies that
    purchase CPG items must obtain the item with the highest percentage of recovered materials practica-
    ble--consistent with price, performance, competition, and availability and in accordance with applica-
    ble federal acquisition requirements. These purchasing requirements apply to any federal agency that
    purchases more than $10,000 of any one of the CPG items. NOTE: This threshold is applied at the
    Headquarters Air Force level, not at the installation level. Therefore, because the Air Force as a whole
    purchases more than $10,000 of all CPG items, each installation must comply with the requirements,
    no matter how much of an item is purchased.
    5.5. Contracted Functions. When a function (for example, BOS) has been contracted out via an
    Office of Management and Budget (OMB) A-76 study, the contractor or most efficient organization
    (MEO) should (but is not required to) form an APT. In any case, the organization must still abide by
    the intent of this instruction and the requirement to adhere to the APP as established in the EOs and
    directives referenced in the applicable contracts and performance requirements documents (PRD).

6. EPA CPG Items:
    6.1. Minimum Recovered Content Levels. The EPA CPG program has designated eight product
    categories with minimum recovered content levels. The eight categories include:
       6.1.1. Construction products.
       6.1.2. Landscaping products.
       6.1.3. Nonpayer office products.
       6.1.4. Paper and paper products.
       6.1.5. Park and recreation products.
       6.1.6. Transportation products.
       6.1.7. Vehicular products.
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                   7


      6.1.8. Miscellaneous products.
   6.2. Recovered Materials Advisory Notices (RMAN). In addition, the EPA issues guidance on
   buying recycled-content products via RMAN. These RMANs recommend recycled-content ranges for
   CPG items based on current information on commercially available recycled-content products.
   RMAN levels are updated as marketplace conditions change. See the EPA Web site (http://
   www.epa.gov/cpg/products.htm) for current CPG and RMAN information.

7. IMTs Prescribed. AETC IMT 47, Recovered Materials Determination, and AETC IMT 51, Recov-
ered Materials Exemption.



                                          DAVID F. BIRD, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                          The Civil Engineer
8                                                              AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order (EO) 13101, Greening the Government Through Waste Prevention, Recycling, and Fed-
eral Acquisition
Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act (Public Law 103-355)
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), Section 6002, Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations
(CFR), Part 247, Comprehensive Procurement Guideline for Products Containing Recovered Materials
Federal Acquisition Regulation
DoDI 4715.4; Pollution Prevention
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality
AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program
HQ USAF/ILEV and SAF/AQC Joint Policy Memorandum, 31 May 2000, Air Force Affirmative Pro-
curement Program
Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE), Guide to Green Purchasing: The US Air Force
Affirmative Procurement Program, (http://www.afcee.brooks.af.mil/ep/ap/gg/doc)
Engineering Technical Letter 00-1, EPA Guideline Items in Construction and Other Civil Engineering
Specifications (http://www.afcesa.af.mil/Publications/ETLs/default.html)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABSS—Automated Business Services System
AFCEE—Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence
APP—affirmative procurement plan
APT—affirmative procurement team
BOS—base operating support
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CONUS—continental United States
CPG—comprehensive procurement guideline
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
EO—executive order
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
EPC—environmental protection committee
ESOHC—environmental, safety, and occupational health committee
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                    9


GSA—Government Services Administration
MEO—most efficient organization
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
PMO—performance management organization
PRD—performance requirements document
QAE—quality assurance evaluator
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RMAN—recovered materials advisory notice
10                                                                 AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005


                                            Attachment 2

                    SAMPLE AFFIRMATIVE PROCUREMENT PLAN (APP)

A2.1. General Information. Figure A2.1. illustrates a sample plan for implementing the affirmative
procurement program required by the RCRA, EO 13101, and Air Force requirements. It may be modified
by individual bases to fit specific needs and/or programs. The appendix within this sample contains sam-
ple documents (forms and a memorandum) and affirmative procurement references for bases to use as
part of their programs. The figure also provides the format and textual layout of the APP. Subordinate
organizations or bases should closely follow the details of this example when creating their APPs.

A2.2. State and Local Programs. Each base should consider expanding the scope of its affirmative pro-
curement program to include optional state and local programs specific to the local area. Specific state
program information may be found on the DoD and state pollution prevention partnership web pages
hosted by the Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE) regional environmental offices,
which can be accessed through the AFCEE Web site (http://www.epa.gov/cpg/products.htm).
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                  11


Figure A2.1. Sample APP.



                           AFFIRMATIVE PROCUREMENT PLAN




                                        FOR




                                 Xxxxx Air Force Base




                                                          (Page 1 of 15 Pages)
12                                                 AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005



                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
  1. Requirements……………………………………………………………………………………                               3
  2. Affirmative Procurement Team (APT) Responsibilities……………………...………....………   3
  3. Logistics Responsibilities……………………………………………………….………………                     4
  4. Civil Engineering Responsibilities…………………………………………………………..….               4
  5. Base Organization Responsibilities……………………………………………………..............       4
  6. Applicability…………………………………………………………………………….............                    5
  7. EPA CPG Items…………………………………………………………………………………                               6
  8. Commercial Source Designation Materials………………………………………………….....            8
  9. Affirmative Procurement Program Elements………………………………………..………….             8
  10. RCRA Exemptions……………………………………………………………………...............                  11
  11. Specifications……………………………………………………………………...………...….                       11
Appendix--Affirmative Procurement Documents and References……………………………………....    12




(Page 2 of 15 Pages)
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                            13



1. Requirements:
1.1. Section 6002 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) requires all federal agencies
to give preference in the acquisition process to products and practices that conserve and protect natural
resources and the environment. In addition, the RCRA requires each procuring agency that purchases
items designated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish an affirmative procurement
program. (For elements of this program, see paragraph 9.) These regulations are codified in Title 40 Code
of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 247, Comprehensive Procurement Guideline for Products Containing
Recovered Materials. The RCRA also requires EPA to designate products that can be made with
recovered materials and to recommend practices for buying these products. NOTE: Contracting
procedures implementing the RCRA are found in Part 23 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).
1.2. Executive Order (EO) 13101, Greening the Government through Waste Prevention, Recycling, and
Federal Acquisition, directs all federal agencies to purchase recycled and environmentally preferable
products and services and to implement affirmative procurement programs for EPA comprehensive
procurement guidelines (CPG) items. The stated purpose of the affirmative procurement program is to
stimulate the market for recovered materials.
1.3. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Part 23, includes acquisition policies and procedures
supporting the Government’s program for protecting and improving the quality of the environment
through pollution control, energy conservation, identification of hazardous material, and use of
recovered materials.
1.4. DoDI 4715.4, Pollution Prevention, calls for affirmative procurement program establishment in
accordance with the RCRA and EO 12873 (currently EO 13101).
1.5. AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program, requires each installation to implement an affirmative
procurement program. This AFI provides for flexibility in designing this program as long as it meets the
RCRA and DoD requirements.
2. Affirmative Procurement Team (APT) Responsibilities:
2.1. The Xxxxx Air Force Base Environmental Protection Committee (EPC) or Environmental, Safety,
and Occupational Health Committee (ESOHC) will designate an affirmative procurement team (APT).
2.2. At a minimum, the APT consists of representatives from logistics and the civil engineering
environmental flight.
2.3. The APT develops an affirmative procurement program according to RCRA 6002 (40 CFR 247), EO
13101, and Air Force requirements, to coordinate among affected functional areas. This program will
meet the four elements of the RCRA (that is, a preference program, a promotion program, a vendor
certification program, and an annual monitoring and review program).
2.4. Functional and local organizational commanders will designate the APT membership in writing and
include the APT organizational membership list in the affirmative procurement plan (APP) as an
appendix. The APT organizational membership list is updated annually.
3. Logistics Responsibilities:
3.1. The Xxxxx Air Force Base contracting office and the Xxxxx Air Force Base requiring activities will
ensure appropriate new contracts (including contracted operations) contain affirmative procurement
program provisions. The contracting offices will support base pollution prevention goals by acquiring
                                                                                   (Page 3 of 15 Pages)
14                                                                   AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005



compliant products for their customers (requiring activities) when EPA CPG items are specified in
purchase requests. The Web site, https://www.afcesa.af.mil/userdocuments/publications/etl/
etl%2000-1.pdf, contains the Engineering Technical Letter 00-1, EPA Guideline Items in Construction
and Other Civil Engineering Specifications, which requires Air Force civil engineer specifications to
include EPA CPG items unless an exemption applies, see Section 6.1, Exemptions.
3.2. The contracting officer completes AETC IMT 51, Recovered Materials Certification, when
noncompliant items are purchased, see Section 6.1, Exemptions. The contracting officer maintains a copy
of the approved determination in the contract file if a noncompliant item is procured through contracting.
A sample of AETC IMT 51 is shown in the appendix to this plan.
3.3. Contracting offices provide affirmative procurement training to government purchase cardholders
and review cardholder activities annually to ensure compliance. A sample memorandum addressed to
government purchase cardholders, is included in the appendix to this plan.
3.4. Supply personnel assist in advocating the use of recycled-content items by publicizing reference
guides indicating the availability of APP items procured and stocked by appropriated sources. Supply
personnel will also participate in educating customers on the APP requirements through a customer
training program. The supply office publicizes and provides catalogs that identify recycled-content
products.
3.5. Installation supply functions ensure the affirmative procurement requirements are included in the
contract or agreement for supply functional centers.
3.6. Quality assurance evaluators (QAE) review contractor compliance with affirmative procurement
requirements, as outlined in the contract specifications.
4. Civil Engineering Responsibilities:
4.1. Engineering design personnel review specifications for building materials, specify recycled-content
construction products as defined in this plan, and ensure specifications do not prohibit the use of
recycled-content products that meet the required performance standards.
4.2. Service contract managers review and edit contract specifications (for example, grounds
maintenance and custodial contract requirements) applicable to EPA CPG items.
4.3. For service and construction contracts, QAEs review contractor compliance with affirmative
procurement requirements, as outlined in the contract specifications.
5. Base Organization Responsibilities:
5.1. Performance management organization (PMO) service provider performance evaluators and service
provider staff for base operating support (BOS) operations review service provider compliance with
affirmative procurement requirements (as outlined in the contract specifications) and provide
documentation of annual compliance review to the PMO and contracting officer.
5.2. Base organizations ensure contract specifications, work statements, or performance requirement
documents; facility requirements; and military construction projects include the affirmative
procurements requirements, such as (but not limited to) FAR 23.704, 36.602-1, and 36.601-3. Specific
details can be found in the November 1999 Air Force Guide to Green Purchasing.

(Page 4 of 15 Pages)
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                               15



5.3. All recycled content items acquired under the affirmative procurement program should be recycled
to the maximum extent practicable according to AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program; AFI
32-7042, Solid and Hazardous Waste Compliance; and local base guidance and programs.
5.4. The affirmative procurement program is the initial phase of the pollution prevention and solid waste
reduction programs identified in AFI 32-7042 and AFI 32-7080. The purchase of recycled content
products is the incentive that the private market sector needs to produce and provide products with
recycled content and continue to acquire the used recycled materials that our bases are recovering and
sending out for sale as a raw material.
5.5. Identify and use closed-loop contracts and sources of supply whenever possible, these types of
programs are the most effective way to reduce and eliminate solid or hazardous waste streams.
Closed-loop contracts or sources of supply are an effective way to reduce solid or hazardous waste, since
they are accepting your waste materials and providing new products that incorporate used materials from
your waste stream. Effectively a waste stream has been eliminated and a product is being used that
incorporates recycled content materials. Construction projects can use demolition project debris as part
of their construction materials, especially in the concrete materials, and should be incorporated as part of
any facility project involving facility replacement on the same site, see Air Force Center for
Environmental Excellence (AFCEE) guidance materials and links for further information.
6. Applicability:
6.1. The requirements of this APP are applicable to all Xxxxx Air Force Base organizations that (1)
prepare specifications for products, (2) procure or request procurement of products (consumers), and (3)
provide support to base organizations (for example, base supply and contracting). These procedures also
apply to new contracts awarded by Xxxxx Air Force Base to applicable contractors and vendors. All base
organizations have the responsibility to be aware of and compliant with the affirmative procurement
requirements and to purchase EPA CPG items.
6.2. Customers processing requirements through the Automated Business Services System (ABSS) will
establish internal business procedures to support compliance with affirmative procurement requirements
outlined in this publication. As a minimum, review and approval of contract specifications and
completion of the required AETC IMT 47 should occur prior to approval and commitment of funds in the
ABSS by the unit resource advisor.
6.3. AETC IMT 47, prepared by the requiring activity, must accompany all purchase requests for
supply-type items. All customers will be responsible for electronically transmitting the AETC IMT 47
via the ABSS or e-mail directly to the supporting contracting office.
6.4. Xxxxx Air Force Base organizations that purchase EPA CPG items must purchase the item with the
highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with price, performance, competition,
and availability. The purchasing requirements apply to any federal agency and its support contractors that
purchase more than $10,000 of any one of the CPG items. This threshold is applied at the Headquarters
Air Force level, not at the installation level. Because the Air Force (as a whole) purchases more than
$10,000 of all EPA CPG items, each installation must comply with the requirements no matter how
much of an item it purchases. For example, if Xxxxx Air Force Base purchases $200 worth of EPA
CPG items annually, it would still be required to meet affirmative procurement requirements because the
Air Force (as a whole) purchases more than $10,000 worth of that same EPA CPG items.
                                                                                       (Page 5 of 15 Pages)
16                                                                  AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005



7. EPA CPG Items:
7.1. The EPA designates recycled content guideline items in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline
(CPG) at http://www.epa.gov/cpg/products.htm. Four CPGs (CPG, CPG II, CPG III, and CPG IV)
have established the mandatory procurement by federal agencies of the product categories. The EPA also
issues guidance on buying recycled-content products via recovered materials advisory notices (RMAN).
The RMANs recommend recycled-content ranges for CPG items based on current information on
commercially available recycled-content products. RMAN levels are updated as marketplace conditions
change. Once a product is designated, procuring agencies are required to purchase the product with the
highest recovered material content level practicable.
7.2. In January 2000, the EPA designated eight product categories of items with minimum recovered
content levels, the eight product categories are: (NOTE: These product categories, including information
on products, product definitions, and specifications, may be reviewed on the Internet by accessing http:/
/www.epa.gov/cpg/products.htm.)
7.2.1. Construction Products:
7.2.1.1. Building insulation products.
7.2.1.2. Carpet.
7.2.1.3. Carpet cushion.
7.2.1.4. Cement and concrete containing coal fly ash or ground-granulated blast furnace slag or
cenospheres or silica fume.
7.2.1.5. Consolidated and reprocessed latex paint.
7.2.1.6. Floor tiles.
7.2.1.7. Flowable fill.
7.2.1.8. Laminated paperboard.
7.2.1.9. Modular threshold ramps.
7.2.1.10. Nonpressure pipe.
7.2.1.11. Patio blocks.
7.2.1.12. Railroad grade crossing surfaces.
7.2.1.13. Roofing materials.
7.2.1.14. Shower and restroom dividers or partitions.
7.2.1.15. Structural fiberboard.
7.2.2. Landscaping Products:
7.2.2.1. Garden and soaker hoses.
7.2.2.2. Hydraulic mulch.
7.2.2.3. Plastic lumber landscaping timbers and posts.
7.2.2.4. Lawn and garden edging.
7.2.2.5. Compost made from yard trimmings or food waste.
(Page 6 of 15 Pages)
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                                 17



7.2.3. Nonpaper Office Products:
7.2.3.1. Binders, clipboards, file folders, clip portfolios, and presentation folders.
7.2.3.2. Office furniture.
7.2.3.3. Office recycling containers.
7.2.3.4. Office waste receptacles.
7.2.3.5. Plastic desktop accessories.
7.2.3.6. Plastic envelopes.
7.2.3.7. Plastic trash bags.
7.2.3.8. Printer ribbons.
7.2.3.9. Toner cartridges.
7.2.4. Paper and Paper Products:
7.2.4.1. Commercial or industrial sanitary tissue products.
7.2.4.2. Miscellaneous papers.
7.2.4.3. Newsprint.
7.2.4.4. Paperboard and packaging products.
7.2.4.5. Printing and writing papers.
7.2.5. Park and Recreation Products:
7.2.5.1. Park benches and picnic tables.
7.2.5.2. Plastic fencing.
7.2.5.3. Playground equipment.
7.2.5.4. Playground surfaces.
7.2.5.5. Running tracks.
7.2.6. Transportation Products:
7.2.6.1. Channelizers.
7.2.6.2. Delineators.
7.2.6.3. Flexible delineators.
7.2.6.4. Parking stops.
7.2.6.5. Traffic barricades.
7.2.6.6. Traffic cones.
7.2.7. Vehicular Products:
7.2.7.1. Engine coolants.
7.2.7.2. Rebuilt vehicular parts.
7.2.7.3. Re-refined lubricating oils.


                                                                                         (Page 7 of 15 Pages)
18                                                                   AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005



7.2.7.4. Retread tires.
7.2.8. Miscellaneous Products:
7.2.8.1. Awards and plaques.
7.2.8.2. Bike racks.
7.2.8.3. Blasting grit.
7.2.8.4. Industrial drums.
7.2.8.5. Mats.
7.2.8.6. Pallets.
7.2.8.7. Signage.
7.2.8.8. Sorbents.
7.2.8.9. Manual-grade strapping.
8. Commercial Source Designation Materials. Commercial source designation materials should be
included as early as they can be identified. See the AFCEE Affirmative Procurement web site for other
commercial material designations. The APT will amend this plan in an appendix with additional
reference sources as they are identified.
9. Affirmative Procurement Program Elements. Section 6002 of the RCRA requires each federal
agency to establish an affirmative procurement program that explains the agency's strategy for
maximizing its purchase of EPA CPG items. The RCRA specifically calls for the establishment of an
affirmative procurement program with the following four elements:
9.1. Recovered Materials Preference Program. The Xxxxx Air Force Base procuring agency,
government purchase card and contractor cardholders, and all requiring activities (anyone requiring
procurement) are responsible for implementing the recovered materials preference program. To conduct
the Xxxxx Air Force Base preference program:
9.1.1. The contracting office, government purchase cardholders, and Xxxxx Air Force Base requiring
activities give preference in the procurement process to the selection of EPA CPG items. Also, these
organizations give preference to products containing the highest percentage of recovered materials
practicable, consistent with performance, competition, price, and availability. The EPA-recommended,
minimum-recovered material content levels for the eight product categories of EPA CPG items are the
required minimum-recovered material content levels for Air Force procurement of these items. (See
paragraph 7.2 of this plan for a list of the eight product categories.)
9.1.2. The contracting office, government purchase cardholders, and Xxxxx Air Force Base requiring
activities review their procurement practices and eliminate those that would inhibit or prevent the use of
an item containing recovered materials. The contracting office-conducted Government purchase card and
contractor cardholder training includes information about buying recycled content products (specifically,
the eight product categories of items in paragraph 7.2).
9.1.3. The contracting office and the Xxxxx Air Force Base requiring activities will specifically include
provisions in all construction contracts to allow for the preferred use of all listed CPG items.


(Page 8 of 15 Pages)
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                                19



9.1.4. An affirmative procurement program policy memorandum, signed by the EPC or ESOHC
chairperson, will be issued. (See the appendix for a sample policy memorandum.)
9.2. Base Promotion Program. Xxxxx Air Force Base will promote the procurement of
recycled-content products by educating base personnel and support contractors and by advertising to
vendors its desire to purchase such products. The APT will establish and implement the promotion
program. The Xxxxx Air Force Base APT will target base employees, contractors, and vendors and will
consider all possible promotional methods. Examples include:
9.2.1. Periodic notifications and articles in base publications, e-mail, base web site, and/or bulletin board
system.
9.2.2. Informational handouts, briefings, and training slides for base personnel presented at commanders’
calls, newcomers' briefings, Earth Day activities, and other appropriate forums. Bases will forward their
installation-specific briefing materials to the Weapon System Environmental Training Program Manager,
HQ AETC/LG-EMT, for inclusion directly or as a web page link in the Air Force Web-based Shop Level
Pollution Prevention (P2) Training course.
9.2.3. Policy or education memorandums sent to government purchase card and contractor cardholders,
explaining the base affirmative procurement program. (See a sample in the appendix to this plan.)
9.2.4. A special notation (developed by the APT), prominently displayed in any procurement solicitation
or invitation to bid.
9.2.5. A statement in each specification, defining "post-consumer recovered materials" or "recovered
materials," as applicable, as defined in this plan.
9.2.6. A brief statement (developed by the APT) in each synopses of bids, describing the preference
program. Place such synopses in the Fed Bus Opps and/or periodicals commonly read by vendors of
products containing post-consumer recovered materials.
9.2.7. Distribution of catalogs (such as GSA's Environmental Products Guide) to all Xxxxx Air Force
Base organizations and contractors. These catalogs list available products containing post-consumer
recovered materials.
9.2.8. Discussion of the preference program at bidder conferences or similar meetings of potential
bidders.
9.2.9. Announcements in recycling journals, trade magazines, and procurement publications.
9.3. Vendor Certification Program:
9.3.1. Obtain vendor certification according to FAR 23.406.
9.3.2. The affirmative procurement program must contain reasonable verification procedures for
estimates and certifications to include:
9.3.2.1. Measurement of recovered-material content made according to standard industry practice.
Contracting officers retain vendor certifications in the contract file. Do not report this information to
higher headquarters, but use it to verify affirmative procurement requirements are being met.
9.3.2.2. Nothing in this plan should be construed as relieving the contractor of responsibility for
providing a satisfactory product.


                                                                                      (Page 9 of 15 Pages)
20                                                                  AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005



9.3.2.3. Federal supply sources such as General Services Administration (GSA), Government Printing
Office (GPO), and Defense General Supply Center (DGC) established their own estimation, certification,
and verification procedures for EPA CPG items. Therefore, base organizations that procure designated
items through these supply sources are not required to conduct independent estimation, certification, and
verification procedures.
9.4. Annual Monitoring and Review Program. This element is required by Xxxxx Air Force Base to
assess the effectiveness of its APP and determine compliance with the changing requirements of EPA.
The EPC or ESOHC, responsible for conducting this annual review, delegated this responsibility to the
APT. However, ultimate responsibility for the success or failure of the program lies with the EPC or
ESOHC chair (usually the wing commander). The wing inspector general performs oversight to verify
base compliance with annual monitoring and review program requirements. The APT performs annual,
self-initiated internal audits in conjunction with EPA RCRA inspection guidance, which includes
checklists found at the Web site http://www.epa.gov/compliance/ and http://www.ofee.gov/eo/
rcra2.htm. The annual monitoring and review program will be presented in a report format. It will
include information indicating:
9.4.1. Whether the APP program is up to date with current EPA regulations.
9.4.2. Whether the APP is current with EPA CPG item requirements.
9.4.3. Participation of base organizations with the APP.
9.4.4. Government purchase cardholders who are adhering to APP.
9.4.5. Contractors, vendors, and suppliers who are providing certifications.
9.4.6. Contractors who are providing recycled-content items as required by project specifications.
10. RCRA Exemptions. The contracting officer justifies exemptions in writing according to FAR
23.405(c), using AETC IMT 51.
11. Specifications:
11.1. All Xxxxx Air Force Base organizations with the responsibility for drafting or reviewing
specifications for products procured by the federal government are required to review the specifications
to ascertain whether recycled materials have been excluded. All specifications with exclusions will be
rewritten and any statement in a specification requiring the product to be manufactured from virgin
materials will be eliminated (unless performance standards would not be satisfied).
11.2. Specifications that are unnecessarily stringent for a particular end use and bear no relation to
function (for example, brightness and whiteness for copier paper) will be revised (according to the
agency’s established review procedures) to allow for a higher use of post-consumer recovered materials.
The agency should also consider revising commercial item descriptions and industry standards to ensure
the use of recovered materials is allowed.
11.3. Specifications require (1) the recycled material contained in the products to be post-consumer
waste, when practical; or (2) the recycled material specified to contain the highest percentage of
post-consumer waste practical. If the inclusion of recycled material to the maximum extent practical
cannot be determined by the specification writer, the specification will encourage manufacturers to
include recycled material to the maximum extent that will still allow the product to meet the performance
standards required.
(Page 10 of 15 Pages)
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                              21



11.4. Complete the review process at the next specification review or major procurement action.
Standard specifications may be developed and inserted into contracts for designated items.
EPA-recommended minimum recycled material content levels for EPA CPG items may be reviewed at
http://www.epa.gov/cpg/products.htm.
11.5. Base organizations do not need to revise specifications to allow or require the use of post-consumer
recovered materials if it determined that, for technical reasons, a product containing such materials will
not meet reasonable performance standards. The drafting and reviewing agency will document any such
determination. Base the determination on technical performance information related to a specific item,
not, for example, to a grade of paper or type of product. Agencies will reference such documentation in
subsequent solicitations for the specific item in order to avoid repetition of previously documented
points.
11.6. When a product containing post-consumer recovered material is produced in types and grades not
previously available, (1) revise specifications to allow the use of such type and grade, or (2) develop new
specifications for such type and grade. The APT will monitor new developments and use them to
increase the use of post-consumer recovered materials, as appropriate.




                                                                                    (Page 11 of 15 Pages)
22                                                             AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005



                                APPENDIX
            AFFIRMATIVE PROCUREMENT DOCUMENTS AND REFERENCES


1. Affirmative Procurement Documents:
1.1. AETC IMT 47, Recovered Materials Determination.
1.2. AETC IMT 51, Recovered Materials Exemption.
1.3. Memorandum for Government Purchase Card and Contractor Cardholders.
2. Affirmative Procurement References. More detailed information about the affirmative procurement
program and material reference sources as well as sample program documents may be found on the web
sites:
2.1. AFCEE affirmative procurement guide is available at the AFCEE Web site, http://
www.afcee.brooks.af.mil/eq/ap/gg/guide.doc.
2.2. EPA CPG items: http://www.epa.gov/cpg/; then select About CPG/RMAN, Products, or
Background.
2.3. EPA environmentally preferable purchasing http://www.epa.gov/opptintr/epp/.




(Page 12 of 15 Pages)
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                      23




                             (Page 13 of 15 Pages)
24                      AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005




(Page 14 of 15 Pages)
AETCI32-7001 30 MARCH 2005                                                                             25


MEMORANDUM FOR ___________________
FROM: ____ CES/CEV, Xxxxx Air Force Base
SUBJECT: Affirmative Procurement and Government Purchase Card Use


1. Affirmative procurement is the purchasing of supplies and services using recycled products (that is,
“green” products). The requirement stems from Executive Order (EO) 13101, Greening the Government
Through Waste Prevention, Recycling, and Federal Acquisition. Xxxxx Air Force Base has established
an Affirmative Procurement Plan (APP) and needs your help in complying with the EO and the plan,
especially when you use the government purchase card.
2. Many products you buy now from the base store have already been identified as recycled by markings
at each bin. The General Services Administration (GSA) has gone to great lengths to market products
that have recycled material in them. Look in your most recent GSA catalog or any other office product
catalog and you will see affirmative procurement in action.
3. We seek your partnership when buying products listed on the attachment because we are required to
follow EPA-recycled-content requirements for these particular products. If, for some reason, you cannot
follow these requirements, it should be because the product:
3.1. Is not available within a reasonable period of time, or
3.2. Is not available from a sufficient number of sources to maintain a satisfactory level of competition,
or
3.3. Does not meet appropriate performance standards, or
3.4. Is only available at an unreasonable price (it is more expensive than a similar nonrecycled content
item), or
3.5. May expose employees to an undue hazard.
4. This is a joint ___ CES/CEV (Mr./Ms.________, DSN _____); ___ SUPS/LGSM (Mr./Ms. ________,
DSN ______); and ___ CONS/LGCV (Mr./Ms. ________, DSN number______) memorandum. Refer
any comments or questions to these individuals.

                                               (Signature)




                                                                                   (Page 15 of 15 Pages)
