Administrative Changes to AETCI 99-102, Test and Evaluation Policies and Procedures

OPR: AETC SAS/TE

References to DoDD 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003 should be changed
to DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003 certified current as of 20
November 2007.

References to AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development, 31 Jul 2006 should
be changed to AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 12 July 2010.

References to AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, 20 March 2003 should
be changed to AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, 05 January 2009.

References to AFI 63-101, Operation of the Capabilities Based Acquisition System, 29 July 2005
should be changed to AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 July
2009.

References to AFI 63-1101, Modification Management, 17 July 2001 should be changed to AFI
63-1101, Modification Management, 25 August 2008.

References to AFI 99-103, Joint Test and Evaluation Program, 11 July 2001 should be changed
to AFI 99-103, Joint Test and Evaluation Program, 26 August 2009.

References to AETCI 36-2218, Education and Training Application Program, 2 August 2002
should be changed to AETCI 36-2218, Advanced Learning Technology Demonstrations (ALTD),
22 December 2009.

References to Defense Acquisition Guidebook, 20 December 2004 should be changed to Defense
Acquisition Guidebook, latest version.

References to SD-2, Buying Commercial and Nondevelopmental Items: A Handbook, 1 April
1996 should be changed to SD-2, Buying Commercial and Nondevelopmental Items: A
Handbook, 1 January 2010.

14 JUNE 2011
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AETC INSTRUCTION 99-102
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                             27 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                                                         Test and Evaluation

                                                          TEST AND EVALUATION POLICIES AND
                                                                               PROCEDURES




ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                          Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A5/8/9                                                          Certified by: AETC SAS/CC
(Project Office: AETC SAS/TE)                                                 (Lt Col David R. Denhard)

Supersedes: AETCI99-102, 24 March 2006                                                            Pages: 14


This instruction implements AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, and AFI 99-103, Capabilities
Based Test and Evaluation, according to AFI 99-106, Joint Test and Evaluation Program; AFI 99-109,
Test Resource Planning; and AFI 63-1101, Modification Management, as well as the DoD 5000 series
of instructions. This instruction establishes mandatory policies and procedures for conducting and
reporting on test and evaluation (T&E) in AETC, and is applicable to all AETC agencies and
subordinate organizations. It also applies to Air National Guard units and Air Force Reserve Command
units. This instruction emphasizes operational test and evaluation (OT&E) early in the acquisition
process, seamlessly, with developmental test and evaluation (DT&E) according to with AFI 99-103; AFI
10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development; AFI 63-101, Operation of the Capabilities
Based       Acquisition       System;        and      the     Defense       Acquisition     Guidebook
(http://akss.dau.mil/dag/DoD5000.asp?view=document) as an integral component of the agile
acquisition process. HQ AETC/A5/8/9 is the waiver authorities for policies in this instruction. Send
proposed supplements or changes to this instruction to the HQ AETC SAS/TE, 151 J Street East, Suite
2, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4343 via AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
according to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information.
 2                                                               AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It updates guidance
for determining the operational test organization for all programs regardless of acquisition category
(paragraphs 3.1 and 5.1). Due to recent organizational changes numerous paragraphs throughout this
AETCI were also changed to update organization titles and symbols.

Section A-Overview

1. Collaboration and Early Tester Involvement.            These two concepts are the cornerstone to
achieving capabilities-based T&E. AFI 99-103 defines the integrated test team (ITT) as the mechanism
to achieve collaboration. Additionally, even before an ITT is formed, testers must be involved early on
in all acquisition and sustainment programs to integrate testability and operational realism into
requirements development while ensuring test assets will be available to test the potential capability
when required. This includes commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), nondevelopmental item (NDI), potential
form-fit-function-interface changes, modifications evaluated through force development evaluations
(FDE), operational utility evaluations (OUE), operational assessments (OA), and acceptance tests.
Testers, through the ITT, must determine the level and types of testing required, and document these
decisions in T&E Master Plan (TEMP) and other test management documents. DoD Directive 5000.1,
The Defense Acquisition System, and AFI 99-103 require shared decisionmaking and close cooperation
between the requirements (for example, user), test and evaluation, development, and acquisition
communities.
2. Types of AETC T&E.              AETC conducts OT&E but also supports development testers by
participating in DT&E. This seamless verification of OT&E and DT&E ensures that all stakeholders (for
example, program managers, testers, users, etc.) address operational issues early, reducing the potential
for duplicative testing. The following paragraphs outline various types of OT&E and DT&E support
performed by AETC, primarily through the AETC Studies and Analysis Squadron (SAS). The AETC
SAS is AETC’s primary operational T&E agency.
     2.1. OT&E:
       2.1.1. Force Development Evaluation (FDE). AETC will use FDEs to operationally test
       fielded, operational AETC systems during the sustainment portion of the system life cycle with a
       focus on maintaining or upgrading operational systems after the initial acquisition process is
       complete. See AFI 99-103, paragraph 2.6.5, for specific guidance on employing FDE.
       Alternatively, AETC can employ FDE to support milestone decisions for the acquisition of
       AETC-managed systems that the HQ Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
       (AFOTEC) chooses not to test.
       2.1.2. Operational Utility Evaluation (OUE). AETC will use OUEs to demonstrate or validate
       new operational concepts or capabilities, upgrade components, or expand the mission or
       capabilities of existing or modified systems.
       2.1.3. Operational Assessment (OA). AETC will employ OAs in preparation for dedicated
       operational testing as progress reports that provide early operational data and feedback to
       developers, operators, and decision makers. According to AFI 99-103, paragraph 2.6.9, an OA
       will not be used in place of a FDE. See AFI 99-103, paragraphs 2.6.9.1 through 2.6.9.6, for
       additional OA guidance.
AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                        3


     2.1.4. Testing of COTS, NDI, and Government Furnished Equipment. AETC program
     managers and the AETC SAS will follow AFI 99-103. COTS and NDI are not, in general,
     initially designed for rigorous and unique military applications, missions, tasks, and
     environments. Therefore, going beyond the original intended operational capability poses added
     risk. Accordingly, new data on anomalies must be collected to learn about unknown areas.
     AETC testers must provide that missing information to decision makers, and assess impacts to
     the mission when COTS and NDI are modified. Refer to the Under Secretary of Defense for
     Acquisition, Technology, & Logistics (USD AT&L) handbook, Standardization Directory (SD)-
     2, Buying Commercial and Nondevelopmental Items: A Handbook, located at
     http://assistdocs.com/search/document_details.cfm?ident_number=112025&StartRow=101
     &Paginator.
     2.1.5. AFOTEC Noninvolvement. For AETC acquisition programs that HQ AFOTEC has
     determined their noninvolvement, the AETC SAS, in conjunction with HQ AETC/A2/3/10 and
     HQ AETC/A5/8/9, will perform an assessment of the program to ascertain if OT&E is
     warranted, and will update the appropriate program documentation to reflect AETC’s
     involvement.
     2.1.6. Advanced Learning Technology Demonstration (ALTD)/Technology Transition
     Assessments. According to AETCI 36-2218, Education, and Training Technology Application
     Program (ETTAP), HQ AETC/A5/8/9 will coordinate with the AETC SAS to perform specially
     tailored OUEs in support of ALTDs to rapidly acquire or field new training capabilities and
     technologies.
  2.2. DT&E Support Activities:
     2.2.1. Early Operational Assessment (EOA). The AETC SAS will conduct EOAs for AETC-
     managed acquisition programs to provide early assessments of system capabilities and
     programmatic risks prior to reaching Milestone B of the Defense Acquisition Model (see AFI 99-
     103, Figure 1.1).
     2.2.2. Contractor Test. The AETC SAS will assist contractor system developers evaluating
     early system designs or modifications in support of contractor-driven DT&E. For example,
     AETC test pilots may participate in the early evaluation of proposed system design changes
     when appropriate. Often these evaluations are accomplished at the contractor’s facility.
     2.2.3. Acceptance Test. AETC testers will support command decision makers by providing
     T&E for acceptance of systems (including software intensive systems). For example, aircraft
     training devices (ATD) or flight simulators must pass an acceptance test plan (ATP), consisting
     of extensive regression testing in a full flight envelope, before the government will sign the DD
     Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, or electronically certify receipt/acceptance
     of the simulator or ATD from the contractor. Depending on the acquisition strategy, an ATP may
     be incorporated into DT and/or operational testing (OT).
     2.2.4. Training Assessments. A major command (MAJCOM) or Service may request AETC
     assistance in evaluating training as part of a MAJCOM-managed test. AETC will then participate
     in the test to support or advise the implementing command’s program manager. In these
     instances, refer to AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems. Refer all requests
     in support of other MAJCOM acquisitions or test programs to HQ AETC/A5/8/9.
 4                                                                AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009


Section B-Guidance and Policy

3. Testing Authority:
     3.1. AETC/CC established the AETC SAS as the command’s principal organization for the
     execution and reporting of T&E for all AETC acquisition and sustainment programs and systems
     modifications. The AETC SAS will plan, execute, analyze, and report on AETC OT&E throughout
     the acquisition program process in support of all milestone decisions, low and full-rate production
     decisions, and operational fielding and sustainment. This includes participating in DT and
     conducting OT, technology transition tests (for example, ALTD or ALTD-like tests), and acceptance
     tests. The AETC SAS is the HQ AETC active liaison with test and evaluations agencies at HQ
     USAF, HQ AFOTEC, Air Force Materiel Command, other MAJCOMs, service branches, and major
     defense contractors. In addition, during operational testing, the target user community may be
     required to provide test resources (for example, personnel, equipment, access to facilities, etc.)
     within the boundaries of mission accomplishment and budget.
     3.2. To ensure that operational testing is conducted in as realistic an operational environment as
     possible; HQ AETC will assign (through the appropriate numbered Air Force [NAF]) operational
     testing assets to the AETC SAS. Additional personnel not assigned to the AETC SAS may be
     required to support test activities and will be addressed through the ITT process.
        3.2.1. The AETC SAS is authorized one T-6 and one T-38 pilot. Additionally, aircrew members
        assigned to the AETC SAS may be authorized familiarization flights as necessary to maintain a
        current knowledge base of other AETC aircraft. As test program needs dictate, the AETC SAS
        may request additional authorizations of flying personnel qualified in other AETC aircraft and
        support personnel (for example, crew chief, propulsion, and avionics) to adequately support T&E
        programs.
        3.2.2. The AETC SAS will maintain a core competency in the various Air Force specialties
        necessary to provide developmental testing (DT) and OT support. These authorizations will
        include, but are not limited to, flight test engineers, avionics maintenance technicians, aircraft
        engine maintenance technicians, communications-computer programming, information
        technology specialist, operations technicians, curriculum development specialists, and training
        specialists.
        3.2.3. The AETC SAS will maintain a cadre of fully trained and capable test directors to plan,
        conduct, and report on AETC OT&E efforts.
4. AETC T&E Scope.            AETC participates in T&E primarily as an operating command. As an
operating command, AETC will be the primary user of a system, subsystem, or item of equipment. T&E
activities performed by AETC may originate from a variety of sources, including formal acquisition
programs, command-directed tests, and agency requests. Regardless of the type of T&E or request
source, early tester involvement and the use of an ITT should comply with AFI 99-103, paragraph 1.5.
5. Formal Acquisition Programs.       The AETC SAS may be tasked to conduct OT&E as part of
formal AETC acquisition programs, to include modifications, upgrades, and engineering change
proposals for systems in sustainment.
     5.1. Based on the acquisition category of a given AETC program, the operational test organization
     will be determined according to AFI 99-103, paragraph 4.6. The AETC SAS, in conjunction with
     HQ AETC/A2/3/10 and HQ AETC/A5/8/9, will perform an assessment of the program to determine
AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                           5


   if OT&E is warranted and will document AETC involvement in the appropriate program
   documentation.
   5.2. When the AETC SAS is the lead test organization (LTO), the AETC SAS test director will co-
   chair the ITT with the program manager. The ITT will determine the level and types of testing
   required, including necessary test resources. Test funding will be budgeted within the acquisition
   program. These decisions will be documented in the TEMP or other appropriate program
   documentation.
6. Command-Directed Tests.              AETC/CV may determine a system or subsystem requires an
assessment of its operational capability.
7. Organization Requests. Organizations within or external to AETC may request T&E support or
authorization to conduct T&E.
   7.1. Organizations requesting AETC T&E support or authorization to conduct T&E will send a
   written request to HQ AETC/A5/8/9 for evaluation. The request should, as a minimum, include a
   brief description of the improvement or targeted deficiency needing testing and a point of contact
   (see Attachment 2). System program offices, other government agencies, or government test
   organizations may request operational AETC units to support T&E activities only after obtaining
   concurrence from HQ AETC/A5/8/9. AETC field units requesting authorization to conduct T&E,
   that has the potential for at least NAF-wide implementation, will forward their test plans to the
   AETC SAS for review and approval.
   7.2. In the case that AETC SAS conducts the T&E, the requesting organization will provide a
   member to co-chair the ITT with the AETC SAS to define test objectives and requirements, and
   address test resources and funding issues. In the case that AETC SAS is assisting in various test
   actions in support of another organization’s T&E, the AETC SAS will participate in the requesting
   organization’s ITT or test planning activities as appropriate. If the organization request is
   disapproved, HQ AETC/A5/8/9 will provide justification to the requesting organization.
   7.3. If the organization’s request for authorization to test is approved, the requesting organization
   will submit a test plan and a copy of the test results to the AETC SAS. If a request for authorization
   to conduct T&E is disapproved, HQ AETC/A5/8/9 will provide justification to the requesting
   organization.
   7.4. When organizations other than the AETC SAS conduct T&E, the user community may request
   the AETC SAS to monitor or assist that organization and submit a separate test report when
   appropriate.
8. Risk Analysis and Determination to Test. If a determination for a formal OT&E is necessary, the
ITT and the AETC SAS will request all applicable program or project documentation, perform a review
of the documents, and perform a risk analysis that will include consideration for COTS components,
process maturity, and scope. If the ITT and AETC SAS determine that OT&E is necessary, AETC SAS
will prepare and submit the test order to HQ AETC/A5/8/9 for approval. Otherwise, AETC SAS will
prepare and publish a memorandum that outlines the decision and rationale for not performing formal
OT&E.

Section C-Test Conduct Process and Procedures

9. Introduction. An ITT will be assembled by the program or project lead, in coordination with the
AETC SAS, at the start of the T&E strategy during the acquisition process. The AETC SAS will
 6                                                                 AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009


develop, coordinate, and publish the test plan. The test plan will outline the background and purpose of
the test, and list the test team members, test requester, planned testing dates, locations, and limitations.
In addition, the test plan will specify the test methodology, test resources, and assigned responsibilities.
10. Tailored T&E.          The AETC SAS, in concert with the ITT, will tailor AETC T&E to achieve
specific program needs by considering cost, safety, and efficiency. The AETC SAS and the user will
balance program needs and T&E requirements to develop a thorough and correct evaluation of system
effectiveness and suitability. The AETC SAS and the ITT will ensure that T&E emphasis will be placed
on attaining critical and combined testing events without compromising the integrity of the overall T&E
program.
11. Test Resources. The AETC SAS will develop and coordinate memorandums of understanding or
memorandums of agreement (MOA) with appropriate organizations to support test requirements and
necessary test resources.
12. Certification of Test Readiness. The AETC SAS, with the assistance of the program manager,
will tailor the templates and the certification process to support operational testing. The AETC SAS will
not accept systems for operational test unless there is strong evidence the system is stable, mature,
operates as designed, safe to operate, and stands a high likelihood of passing operational test.
Regulations and guidelines for certification of system readiness for operational testing can be found in
AFMAN 63-119, Certification of System Readiness for Dedicated Operational Test and Evaluation.
13. Test Readiness Review. The AETC SAS will conduct a test readiness review (TRR) 1 to 2 weeks
before executing a test event to ensure test procedures comply with test plans, and to obtain approval
from the designated approval authority for test start. At the TRR, the test director with the ITT certifies
readiness for test and requests permission to enter the test execution phase.
14. Test Reporting. When requested or necessary, AETC SAS should publish an interim summary
report within 10 days after the last test event. Test results are subject to change based on a complete data
analysis, and final test reports will be completed 30 days upon completion of the last test event.
15. Disclosure of Test Information.           The HQ AETC SAS/CC will determine any release of test
information outside of test channels prior to the test completion. HQ AETC/A5/8/9 will determine the
release of test reports to organizations outside AETC.

Section D-AETC Test and Evaluation Responsibilities

16. HQ AETC, Directorate of Plans, Programs, Requirements, and Assessments (A5/8/9).                    HQ
AETC/A5/8/9 will:
     16.1. Develop and review T&E policies, and activities of assigned T&E organizations to ensure
     compliance with Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD), HQ USAF, and MAJCOM T&E policies
     and guidance.
     16.2.   Ensure early AETC tester participation in ITTs for developing capabilities-based
     requirements, test and evaluation strategy, and integrated test plans in support of acquisition and
     sustainment programs.
     16.3. Provide support for the OSD-sponsored Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) programs according
     to AFI 99-106 and DoDI 5010.41, Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) Program.
     16.4. Coordinate with AFOTEC and other test agencies with regards to DT&E and OT&E taskings
     that require use of AETC command resources.
AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                            7


   16.5. Consult with HQ AFOTEC for involvement determination before planning to conduct
   operational testing that supports full rate production and fielding decisions of AETC programs.
   16.6. Advocate for T&E resources to support AETC test requirements.
17. HQ AETC, Directorate of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear Integration (A2/3/10).              HQ
AETC/A2/3/10 will:
   17.1. Coordinate with HQ AETC/A5/8/9 on upgrades, modifications, or deficiency corrections to
   sustainment programs being managed by HQ AETC/A2/3/10 that may require T&E.
   17.2. Support AFOTEC-conducted OT&E with AETC resources as agreed by the participating ITT,
   test integrated product teams, and as documented in test resource plans and TEMPs.
18. HQ AETC, Directorate of Logistics/Installations and Mission Support (A4/7).                       HQ
AETC/A4/7 will:
   18.1. Manage test fleet-coded primary development and test aircraft inventory used to support
   command T&E projects.
   18.2. Ensure AETC equipment and aircraft are not modified for test purposes without approval from
   HQ AETC/SE, HQ AETC A5/8/9, HQ AETC A2/3/10, and the program manager responsible for
   configuration control.
   18.3. In conjunction with the AETC SAS, coordinate with NAFs and bases to ensure availability
   and use of AETC test assets, such as aircraft, equipment, and manpower for AETC sponsored tests.
   18.4. Select base and aircraft suited for OT&E to ensure AETC criteria are considered and OT&E
   plan requirements are met.
19. HQ AETC, Safety Office (SE).       HQ AETC/SE will:
   19.1. Coordinate on the AETC SAS-developed test plans and participate in test readiness reviews to
   identify potential hazards, assign safety personnel to the ITT for tests deemed potentially hazardous,
   develop procedures to mitigate risks, and to ensure conformity with AFI 90-901, Operational Risk
   Management (ORM).
   19.2. Coordinate safety concerns with the AETC SAS when using assets from other agencies and
   advise the responsible agency safety office to review test plans for any safety risks.
   19.3. Identify organizations responsible for all safety and mishap response support during T&E
   operations.
       19.3.1. Mishaps will be investigated according to AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and
       Reports, and applicable supplements.
       19.3.2. The HQ AETC SAS/CC will coordinate with the safety investigation board (SIB)
       convening authority on SIB nonvoting representation to any SIB convened in connection with
       the AETC SAS-conducted or -authorized T&E operations.
20. HQ AETC, Public Affairs Office (PA).             HQ AETC/PA will conduct public affairs activities
regarding specific OT&E projects, and the OT&E program as a whole according to Air Force policy
directives and instructions in the 35-series (Public Affairs), guidance provided in this instruction or by
higher headquarters, and the test order.
21. HQ AETC, Directorate of Communications (A6). HQ AETC/A6 will coordinate on the AETC
SAS-developed test plans, and assign A6 personnel to support tests when deemed necessary.
 8                                                                AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009


22. AETC Program and Functional Managers.             Program and functional managers will:
     22.1. Form and co-chair ITTs according to AFI 99-103.
     22.2. Coordinate with the AETC SAS at the beginning of AETC acquisition programs, upgrades,
     and incremental developments to determine if testing is required.
     22.3. Provide the AETC SAS all appropriate and applicable acquisition program documents.
     22.4. Coordinate through the AETC SAS all test plans where the AETC SAS is not the primary
     tester.
     22.5. Certify programs and projects are ready for dedicated operational tests, and provide supporting
     documentation according to AFMAN 63-119.
     22.6. Budget and fund T&E activities as line items of the program or project.
23. The AETC SAS. The AETC SAS will:
     23.1. Develop AETC MAJCOM T&E procedures and MOAs to supplement HQ USAF T&E
     guidance according to AFI 99-103.
     23.2. Accomplish AETC T&E activities to include involvement in DT and OT by other agencies in
     addition to planning, conducting, and reporting of tests and evaluations.
     23.3. Assign the AETC SAS test director (TD), as appropriate, responsible for the overall
     management of specific T&E programs. Note: The AETC SAS TD will serve as the ITT co-chair if
     AFOTEC is not involved in the program.
     23.4. Participate in ITTs upon inception, and assist in developing capabilities based requirements
     and integrated test plans in support of acquisition and sustainment programs.
     23.5. Serve as the AETC point of contact for all T&E related activities.
     23.6. Conduct T&E when named in the program management directive (PMD) or according to AFI
     99-103, paragraph 4.6.
     23.7. Conduct T&E for nonacquisition, wing-level tests upon request.
     23.8. Provide monitoring and assistance in instances when the AETC SAS is not the LTO (when
     requested by a customer), and submit a separate test report when appropriate.
     23.9. Commit resources as early as possible in the test continuum, affording the maximum
     opportunity to affect positively the outcome for AETC.
     23.10. Develop test plans and coordinate with the test requester to ensure the test objectives,
     effectiveness, and suitability criteria meet with the customer’s requirements.
     23.11. Provide periodic feedback (as determined in the test plan) on the status of testing and a copy
     of the final report to customers requesting an operational test.
     23.12. Provide guidance to the program managers or functional managers to support certification for
     dedicated test.
     23.13. Validate T&E results impacting AETC on tests conducted by AFOTEC and other agencies,
     coordinate with HQ AETC/A5/8/9 any issues and concerns that may affect AETC mission, and
     provide recommendations for command options.
     23.14. Support AETC subordinate organizations with initial introduction, operation, and evaluation
     of new or modified systems, subsystems, and equipment.
AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                       9


   23.15. Monitor the directives and activities of the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, HQ
   USAF, Directorate of Test and Evaluation, HQ AFOTEC, MAJCOM OT&E elements, and other
   services to enhance AETC operations and technical training, and prevent unnecessary duplication or
   expenditure of Air Force resources.
   23.16. Upon receipt of a request for test, conduct an investigation to determine if objectives
   contained in the requested test may be obtained from previous or current testing accomplished by
   AETC or any other government agency.
   23.17. Manage and forecast the use of test resources.
24. Test Requesting Agencies.    Agencies will:
   24.1. Provide test requests to HQ AETC/A5/8/9 for T&E support and for authorization to conduct
   T&E.
   24.2. Provide an ITT member to develop test objectives and requirements with the AETC SAS if
   requesting test support from HQ AETC/A5/8/9.
   24.3. Coordinate test plans with the AETC SAS if conducting a T&E.
25. Adopted Forms.
DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report
AF Form847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                             ERWIN F. LESSEL III, Maj Gen, USAF
                             Director of Plans, Programs, Requirements, and Assessments
 10                                                           AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009


                                           Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 5000 Series
DoDD 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System,12 May 2003
DoDI 5010.41, Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) Program,12 September 2005
JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,12 April 2001
AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary,11 January 2007
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process,22 July 1993
AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development,31 July 2006
Air Force 35 Series, Public Affairs
AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems,20 March 2003
AFI 63-101, Operation of the Capabilities Based Acquisition System,29 July 2005
AFI 63-1101, Modification Management,17 July 2001
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports,24 September 2008
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation,26 February 2008
AFI 99-106, Joint Test and Evaluation Program,11 July 2001
AFI 99-109, Test Resource Planning,17 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,1 March 2008
AFMAN 63-119, Certification of System Readiness for Dedicated Operational Test and Evaluation,20
June 2008
AETCI 36-2218, Education and Training Technology Application Program,2 August 2002
Defense Acquisition Guidebook,20 December 2004
SD-2, Buying Commercial and Nondevelopmental Items: A Handbook, 1 April 1996

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFRIMS—Air Force records information management system
ALTD—advanced learning technology demonstration
ATD—aircraft training device
ATP—acceptance test plan
COTS—commercial-off-the-shelf
DT—developmental testing
DT&E—developmental test and evaluation
AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                             11


EOA—early operational assessment
FDE—force development evaluation
ITT—integrated test team
JP—joint publication
JT&E—joint test and evaluation
LTO—lead test organization
MAJCOM—major command
MOA—memorandum of agreement
NAF—numbered Air Force
NDI—non-developmental item
OA—operational assessment
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OT—operational testing
OT&E—operational test and evaluation
OUE—operational utility evaluation
PA—public affairs
PMD—program management directive
SAS—studies and analysis squadron
SE—safety office
SIB—safety investigation board
T&E—test and evaluation
TD—test director
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TO—technical order
TP—test plan
TRR—test readiness review
USD(AT&L)—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, & Logistics

Terms
Note—See AFI 99-103, for a glossary of terms associated with capabilities-based testing and evaluation;
and AFI 10-601 and AFI 63-101, for definitions of terms relating to requirements and acquisition
processes. A common understanding of terms is essential to effectively implement this instruction. In
some cases, definitions from multiple sources are offered where they may be of value. Italicized words
and notes in brackets are not part of the formal definition and are offered only for clarity. For additional
terms and definitions not listed below, see Joint Publication (JP) 1-02, Department of Defense
Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, and the AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary, which contains
 12                                                             AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009


standardized terms and definitions for DoD and Air Force use. An unofficial source is the Test and
Evaluation Management Guide, Defense Acquisition University (DAU) Press.
Customer—Primarily, AETC/CC, plus, any agency requesting OT&E or FDE of a system (typically a
HQ AETC directorate, AETC NAF, or AETC wing).
Lead Test Organization (LTO)—The lead government operational test organization responsible for
overseeing and/or conducting OT&E.
Test Director (TD)—The LTO-designated person responsible for leading coordinating and completing
all test activities according to the test plan and for achieving test objectives.
Test Order—A formal tasking document that authorizes LTO involvement in the test; outlines the
background, objectives, resources, and responsibilities.
Test Plan (TP)—The TP is the formal document providing the complete, detailed, coordinated, and
integrated plan for providing answers to the critical operational issues of all the AETC SAS tests. The
TP must have sufficient detail to allow the test director to write detailed test procedures.
AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                               13


                                               Attachment 2
                              TESTING SUPPORT REQUEST FORMAT

A2.1. Test Request Format. The following test request format is designed to provide as much
information as possible about the proposed test. In some instances, the information requested may not be
known or available; however, the requester should make every effort to collect all possible data to
ensure a complete and comprehensive test request. As a minimum, the asterisked items are required for
non-PMD test requests; when writing non-PMD test requests, these items may be renumbered.

Table A2.1. Testing Support Request Format.

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AETC/A5/8/9
               100 H ST, STE 3
               Randolph AFB TX 78150-4330

FROM: (Your Office)
SUBJECT: OT&E Request
1. *INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND. List PMD guidance, if applicable. Describe the
historical background leading to this test request. Include significant facts, events, and dates. Summarize
the operational requirement that led to the development of the system or modification of the existing
system. Include any planned waivers to regulatory guidance.
2. *DESCRIPTION. Provide a general description of the system to be tested, including unusual
features that set it apart from other items of that type. If there is a long list of subsystems, part numbers,
etc., include them as an attachment.
3. *OPERATIONAL CONCEPT. Provide an operational concept for this test. This is a general
concept that describes how the system will be employed. Sample questions to be answered by an
operational concept are: How will the system be used? Who will use it? Who will fix it? Will it solve an
existing problem?
4. DOCUMENTATION AND AUTHORITY. List any documentation that led to the submission of
this test request.
5. *STATEMENT OF QUALIFICATION OR CERTIFICATION (if applicable). For example,
“System is ready for operational test, as declared by the system manager.”
6. *PURPOSE. Provide a general statement of the overall purpose of this test. State why the test is
required and how the results will be used.
7. *CRITICAL QUESTIONS. Provide a list of critical questions. These questions address aspects of
the system’s operational capability that must be satisfactorily answered during OT&E before a system’s
overall worth can be estimated. They should be definitive and concise so as to convey a thorough
understanding of the operational tasks. (For non-PMD tests, simply state test information needed; for
example, reliability, operability, maintainability, cost advantage over existing equipment, performance
increase, etc.)
8. SCOPE. Indicate known systems that will be employed and limiting factors that may have a bearing
on this test. Indicate the extent of testing required and any assumptions made.
 14                                                                AETCI99-102 27 FEBRUARY 2009


9. *TEST LOCATION. List suggested location (and justification) of the test if a requirement for a
specific location exists.
10. *TEST MILESTONES. Indicate dates test hardware will be available, desired test start date, and
date final report is required, availability of test support, and contractor commitment, if applicable. In
general, list all dates of significance. All dates should be realistic and based on available information.
(For non-PMD tests, simply state required report or briefing deadlines.)
11. *POINTS OF CONTACT. List the name, agency, office symbol, location, and defense switching
network number of all known participants.
12. PREVIOUS TEST RESULTS. List results of any known test accomplished on the specific
equipment or results of tests accomplished on similar equipment.
13. *ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT. Include any potential environmental effects of the proposed test,
considering compliance of federal, state, or local standards, as applicable. Possible impacts are radiation,
chaff, smoke, lasers, chemical, heat, and noise hazards.
14. *ADDITIONAL INFORMATION. Submit any additional information that will be helpful in
evaluating the proposal.
15. *SECURITY. State overall classification of desired test.
