BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AETC INSTRUCTION 36-2103
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                          17 JUNE 2008
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 22 December 2011

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                        ASSIGNMENT OF PERSONNEL TO
                                                    HEADQUARTERS AIR EDUCATION AND
                                                        TRAINING COMMAND (HQ AETC)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A1KD                                                    Certified by: HQ AETC/A1K
                                                                         (Col Frank K. Benjamin)
Supersedes:    AETCI36-2103,                                                            Pages: 5
               1 October 1998


This instruction implements AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military
Personnel. It establishes procedures for assignment of personnel to supporting activities on
Randolph AFB. Unless otherwise specified, these procedures apply to all Airmen, both officers
below the grade of colonel and to all enlisted grades below the grade of chief master sergeant
(CMSgt). This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command
units.

Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this instruction are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change adds the correct Privacy Act Statement to the publication. This instruction requires
collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title
10, United States Code, Section 8013. System of Records notice AF036 AF PC B, Information
Personnel Managements Records, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                               AETCI36-2103 17 JUNE 2008


1. Officer Assignments. Officer assignments to HQ AETC are governed by the assignment
management system (AMS) and heavily influenced by the HQ AETC prioritization plan (for
rated officers) and the nonrated prioritization plan (for support officers) that allocate personnel
inventory shortfalls equitably across the Air Force. Consequently, some positions (such as fighter
pilot requirements) may go unfilled for several assignment cycles.
2. Duty Tours for Officers. Per HQ AFPC, the minimum tour of duty for officers assigned to
the HQ AETC staff is 4 years. (Exception: The duty tour is normally 2 years for officers
assigned to the headquarters from within the local area (defined by HQ AFPC as the greater San
Antonio area) on permanent change of assignment (PCA) without permanent change of station
(PCS).) The Stabilized Tour Guide can be used as a source document for stabilized tours and
assignment           availability         codes           (AAC)          (available          at
(https://ask.afpc.randolph.af.mil/Restricted/MPFGuidance/Assignments/StabilizedTourGu
ide.doc). Departure timeframes will be managed through the vulnerable mover list (VML)
reclama process in AMS.
3. Duty Tours for Enlisted Airmen. AFI 36-2110 establishes a minimum 3-year stabilized
tour of duty for Airmen (not including CMSgts) assigned to HQ AETC. Each Airman will have
an AAC 44 with an assignment availability date (AAD) of 3 years from the effective date of
assignment to the HQ AETC staff. It is not appropriate to extend this AAD beyond the 3-year
tour because reassignment will not necessarily occur at the completion of the stabilized tour.
This tour of duty applies except as noted in paragraph 3.2.
     3.1. Airmen being assigned to headquarters tours on PCA without PCS may be assigned
     without prior HQ AFPC approval if they are not in the overseas assignment selection
     vulnerability zone. If they are in the zone, prior HQ AFPC approval of the assignment and
     period of deferment is required. Headquarters stabilized tours may be waived by HQ AFPC
     according to the provisions in AFI 36-2110, Assignments, paragraph 2.15.
     3.2. A 2-year minimum tour is authorized for Airmen assigned to positions requiring
     extensive travel. Airmen (including CMSgts) assigned to the standardization/evaluation
     board traveling team or the inspector general traveling team will have an AAC 45 with an
     AAD of 2 years from the effective date of assignment. The AAC 45 is in addition to the
     AAC 44 required for all HQ AETC staff assignments.
4. Approval Authority. HQ AFPC approval is required for all assignment actions. Personnel
assigned to HQ AETC are normally required to complete the prescribed minimum tour before
actual reassignment. However, directors and chiefs of special staff may recommend tour
curtailment to the HQ AETC/A1. Include complete justification in the recommendation for early
reassignment.
5. Personnel Requisition:
     5.1. General Requirements. HQ AETC staff agencies will furnish a properly completed
     AETC Form 172, Request for Personnel, to HQ AETC/A1KA for enlisted Airmen or submit
     an updated AMS requisition for officers (and info HQ AETC/A1KO) upon notification of an
     incumbent’s projected retirement, separation, or receipt of assignment.
     5.2. Request for an Officer. When notified of an updated AMS requisition submission for
     an officer, HQ AETC/A1KO will validate the requirement and provide major command
     (MAJCOM) review and coordination of this requisition for the appropriate VML cycle.
AETCI36-2103 17 JUNE 2008                                                                           3


       5.2.1. Direct Hire Policy for Officers. According to HQ AFPC/DPA, the direct hire
       process is reserved for officers entering a C-prefix squadron commander position. The
       direct hire must be initiated by the wing commander or equivalent (senior rater) of the
       gaining organization and be coordinated through the gaining and losing MAJCOMs. The
       direct hire process does not apply to positions at detachments, flights, centers, or staffs;
       nor does it apply to rated officers for nonrated billets regardless if the position has a C-
       prefix.
       5.2.2. By-Name Request (BNR) Procedures for Officers. BNRs can highlight to HQ
       AFPC an officer who possesses special skills to fill a vacant position; HQ AFPC
       frequently honors the BNR when it meets the needs of the Air Force, the unit, and the
       member. The BNR does not carry the weight of a direct hire. BNRs will only be accepted
       for field grade officers and positions. Only wing commanders or equivalent (senior
       raters) may submit a BNR, which must be submitted on the AMS requisition. The
       requested officer, social security number (SSN), and the requesting officer’s name and
       position must be identified on the first line in the qualifications portion of the requisition.
       HQ AETC/A1 or equivalent must coordinate on all BNRs. This will automatically occur
       if the BNR is submitted with the AMS requisition. Developmental team (DT) vectors of
       qualified officers will be given priority consideration ahead of BNRs on unqualified
       officers and/or officers with a different DT vector.

NOTE: In all cases, directorates should contact HQ AETC/A1K to determine the DT vectors and
any other assignment considerations (waiver requirements, entitlements, etc.) before submitting a
direct hire or BNR.
   5.3. Request for an Enlisted Airman. Upon receipt of an AETC Form 172 for an Airman,
   HQ AETC/A1KA will validate the requirement for fill action. If special experience
   requirements are identified on the form, contact the applicable functional manager for
   validation. HQ AETC/A1KA will subsequently determine if a candidate meeting the
   validated requirements is available.
       5.3.1. HQ AETC/A1KA will review local manning at the HQ AETC staff and/or 12
       FTW to determine availability of resources. Upon identification of qualified resources,
       volunteers will be solicited by posting an advertisement on base. Volunteers will be
       selected based on most time on station, provided member is approved to serve the
       appropriate minimum tour (AAC 44 or AAC 45, as determined by HQ AFPC). Members
       unable to serve the minimum prescribed tour may be bypassed for the next most eligible
       member who is able to serve the minimum prescribed tour.
       5.3.2. If qualified resources in the local area do not exist, HQ AETC/A1KA will identify
       qualified personnel already on assignment to a base within the MAJCOM (such as,
       oversea returnee, force structure, CONUS mandatory mover, etc.). If a qualified member
       is on assignment to an AETC base, the member will be diverted to fill the HQ staff
       position.
       5.3.3. Once HQ AETC/A1KA determines there are no local resources on assignment to a
       base within the MAJCOM who are qualified and/or available, HQ AETC/A1KA will
       identify qualified resources from other AETC bases. If qualified resources at other AETC
       bases exist, HQ AETC/A1KA will post an advertisement seeking volunteers. The most
 4                                                              AETCI36-2103 17 JUNE 2008


       eligible (qualified) volunteer will be selected for assignment based on time on station. If
       no one volunteers, the most eligible (qualified) member will be selected as a
       nonvolunteer. HQ AFPC, as the final assignment authority, retains final approval and/or
       disapproval responsibilities.
       5.3.4. See paragraph 6 if there are no qualified eligibles locally, on assignment to an
       AETC base, or within the command.

NOTE: Most HQ AETC staff positions are “normal manning” and are not selectively manned.
The normal EQUAL process will apply to fill positions. The only special consideration given
when filling a HQ AETC staff position will be when the position has unique qualifications and
must have special experience for the job (as validated by the functional manager) or if the
position falls under the purview of HQ AETC/DS. In these cases, HQ AETC command section
elements will be manned to 100 percent. However, depending on base, command, and worldwide
manning for the affected AFSC, a backfill may not be provided in all cases to other HQ
directorates. HQ AETC/A1KA will render backfill decisions based on entitlement and
prioritization.
6. Personnel Resources. Qualified and eligible enlisted personnel currently assigned to HQ
AETC locations are considered for assignment to the headquarters for career progression
purposes. When a position cannot be filled with AETC resources, normal allocations will be used
or HQ AFPC will be asked to help fill the requirement. Enlisted personnel selected for staff
positions must have overall ratings of “3” or above on their most recent enlisted performance
report (EPR) and not lower than “3” on their previous three EPRs.
7. Prescribed Form.
AETC Form 172, Request for Personnel




                                            BRUCE W. LOVELY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Director of Manpower and Personnel
AETCI36-2103 17 JUNE 2008                                                                  5


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel, 1 April 1998
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 20 April 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC—assignment availability code
AAD—assignment availability date
AMS—assignment management system
BNR—by-name request
CMSgt—chief master sergeant
DT—developmental team
EPR—enlisted performance report
MAJCOM—major command
PCA—permanent change of assignment
PCS—permanent change of station
SSN—social security number
VML—vulnerable mover list
