BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AETC INSTRUCTION 36-2223
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                               30 MARCH 2007
COMMAND
                                                                           Certified Current 30 April 2009
                                                                                                 Personnel

                                                      FLYING TRAINING STUDENT INFORMATION
                                                                              MANAGEMENT




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A3ZI                                                            Certified by: HQ AETC/A3Z
                                                                                     (Col Thomas Giattino)
Supersedes AETCI 36-2223, 31 January 2001                                                      Pages: 14

This instruction implements AFPD 36-22, Military Training. It describes the roles and responsibilities
pertaining to student management systems in use at undergraduate flying training (UFT) and graduate fly-
ing training bases. It establishes the commander’s responsibilities for information management systems
and the application of aircraft utilization management techniques to efficiently use available resources to
meet tasking. This instruction also prescribes the policy and procedures for submitting weekly, monthly,
and quarterly operational status reports to this headquarters. It applies to pilot instructor training (PIT),
joint specialized undergraduate pilot training (JSUPT), Euro-North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
joint jet pilot training (ENJJPT), joint combat system officer (JCSO), joint primary pilot training (JPPT),
and introduction to fighter fundamentals (IFF) squadrons and wings. Additionally, it applies to all other
Air Education and Training Command (AETC) graduate flying training wings. This instruction is applica-
ble to those Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units currently using the Graduate
Training Integration Management System (GTIMS) and (or) Training Integration Management System
(TIMS).
Each wing may supplement this instruction by sending a copy of their supplements to the HQ AETC
Training Technology Division (HQ AETC/A3Z). The 80th Flying Training Wing will comply with this
instruction; however, ENJJPT Plan of Operation, memorandum of understanding, and Steering Commit-
tee Guidance take precedence. When conflicts exist between this instruction and contractual require-
ments, contractual requirements take precedence. Waiver authority for this instruction rests with HQ
AETC/A2/A3. (Note: The reporting requirement in paragraphs 7., 8., 9., 10., and 11. are exempt from
licensing according to AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program;
Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collection, paragraph 2.11.12.)
This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Systems of Records notices for TIMS is pend-
ing approval. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publica-
tion in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule (will convert to AFMAN 33-322,
2                                                                     AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007


Volume 4). Attachment 1 contains a glossary of the references and supporting information used in this
publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are main-
tained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision replaces
all references to Time-Related Instruction Management (TRIM) with Training Integration Management
System (TIMS) and Graduate Training Integration Management System (GTIMS) and deletes the require-
ment to use AETC Forms 14, 1603, 1605, 1606, and 1607 for student training management.


1. Flying Training Information Management Systems:
    1.1. TIMS. This system provides the method of maintaining information required on each student
    enrolled in the various pilot and combat systems officer (CSO) training courses. It provides student
    status, performance accounting, academic, simulator and flight trend analysis. This information is
    used to monitor and evaluate mission accomplishment, training trends, and budget requirements. The
    operations group (OG) commander or operational unit is the focal point for all matters pertaining to
    the flying training student accounting system and has the primary responsibility to maintain the stu-
    dent accounting files.
    1.2. GTIMS. This system provides the method of maintaining information required on each student
    enrolled in the various graduate flying training courses, and undergraduate helicopter training. It pro-
    vides student status, performance accounting, academic, simulator and flight trend analysis. This
    information is used to monitor and evaluate mission accomplishment, training trends, and budget
    requirements. The OG commander or operational unit is the focal point for all matters pertaining to
    the flying training student accounting system and has the primary responsibility to maintain the stu-
    dent accounting files.

2. Student Management Operations Responsibilities. The following responsibilities are at the HQ
AETC/A2/A3 level:
    2.1. HQ AETC/A3Z:
       2.1.1. Designs and prepares specifications for system modifications via contract support.
       2.1.2. Provides Modification and Update Support System (MUSS) Management support for
       AETC. Note: MUSS support for GTIMS will be provided for at the local base or base with spe-
       cific platform.
    2.2. Training Integration Branch (HQ AETC/A3ZI):
       2.2.1. Develops standards for naming conventions for the various data elements input into TIMS
       see Attachment 2.
       2.2.2. Serves as the functional manager for use of the flying training student management sys-
       tems.
AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007                                                                           3


     2.2.3. Serves as the primary point of contact for resolving TIMS syllabus software problems.
     Units should contact the appropriate branch in 19th Air Force (19 AF) and the Aircrew Training
     And Standardization Division (HQ AETC/A3F) for syllabus execution or interpretation questions.
     2.2.4. Serves as the primary point of contact for wing flying training student management system
     administrators and system managers to resolve syllabus implementation questions in the student
     management systems. The local base level or alone with the Fighter Training Branch (HQ AETC/
     A3FF) will provide GTIMS syllabus support.
     2.2.5. Ensures overall functionality of TIMS and GTIMS to support flying training wing opera-
     tions.
     2.2.6. Designs and prepares specifications for system modifications and is the final authority on
     proposed modifications to the student management systems.
     2.2.7. Tests and certifies new or modified flying training software prior to release and implemen-
     tation for TIMS. The local base-level contractor will complete GTIMS testing and certification.
     2.2.8. Serves as the primary point of contact for system managers and system administrators to
     resolve equipment and software problems.
     2.2.9. Confirms the validation of all syllabuses in TIMS with the Initial Flight Training Branch
     (HQ AETC/A3FI) prior to releasing them to the MUSS.
     2.2.10. Provides technical advice to ADSS administrators to include database design and canned
     and ad-hoc report generation, also acts as a liaison between the users and ADSS administrators.
     2.2.11. Serves as the OPR for all matters related to archiving data in TIMS and GTIMS. Will
     remove “finalized” student records (data is correct, final MASS is run, students graduated and
     have proper disposition) from the units’ servers after 2 years in coordination with Resources and
     Requirements Division (HQ AETC/A3R). Destroys electronic copies of a student’s flying training
     records when superseded, obsolete, or no longer needed for administrative, legal, audit, or other
     operational purposes.
  2.3. HQ AETC/A3F:
     2.3.1. Serves as the primary point of contact for all flying training syllabuses in TIMS.
     2.3.2. Provides Learning Systems Integration Division (HQ AETC/A3Z) all necessary syllabus
     files and a prioritized order for inputting syllabuses into TIMS.
     2.3.3. Coordinates syllabus implementation dates with HQ AETC/A3Z prior to releasing the syl-
     labuses to the MUSS. Note: The local base or the MUSS for the specific aircraft platform will
     accomplish the GTIMS syllabus change implementation.
  2.4. HQ AETC/A3R:
     2.4.1. Maintains staff surveillance of AETC Decision Support System.
     2.4.2. Designs and prepares specifications for system modifications via contract support. Is the
     final approval authority on proposed modifications to ADSS.
  2.5. Command Aircrew Management and Training Analysis Branch (HQ AETC/A3RF):
     2.5.1. Serves as the office of primary responsibility for the Flying Training Production Analy-
     sis-Web (FTPA-W) data entry form. Maintains a list of all FTPA-W users and assign user ID and
4                                                                    AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007


       password for access to the Web site. HQ AETC/A3RF provides a copy of the users’ list to the
       development team to include the location of each user for inclusion of the security layer of the
       application.
       2.5.2. Establishes and maintains a standard set of business practices and conventions to use with
       the FTPA-W.
       2.5.3. Tests and certifies new or modified FTPA-W applications prior to release and implementa-
       tion to the users. Ensures users receive documentation about any revisions made to the database
       and (or) application.
       2.5.4. Creates change requests (CR) and sends them to the development team for changes and
       enhancements to FTPA-W. Monitors CRs tasked by development team for testing or review.
       2.5.5. Serves as liaison between the users and development team concerning FTPA-W system
       matters.

3. Flying Training Student Accounting System. This system provides automated support to US Air
Force flying training activities and maintains information required on each student enrolled in the various
flying training courses. Responsibilities are as follows:
    3.1. OG Commander. The OG commander manages the use of TIMS and designates a TIMS man-
    ager (TM) and (or) TIMS functional system administrator (FSA) if one is not provided for by contract.
    Additionally, the duties listed below do not supersede or add to the duties of the contracted TIMS sys-
    tem manager that are listed in their SOW.
    3.2. Designated TM or FSA:
       3.2.1. Ensures the adequacy and effectiveness of TIMS processes and products.
       3.2.2. Serves as local point of contact for processing changes and updates to TIMS.
       3.2.3. Serves as liaison between flying squadrons and HQ AETC/A3ZI concerning TIMS issues.
       3.2.4. Ensures processing and migration of students from one TIMS syllabus version to another
       and MUSS configuration bulletin deadlines.
       3.2.5. Collects all group TIMS trouble ticket submissions and forwards them to HQ AETC/A3ZI,
       when applicable. Prior to trouble ticket submission, coordination with TM or FSA personnel from
       AETC bases using TIMS is required. Coordination will be accomplished via the TIMS community
       of practice Web site or a separate-approved process as dictated by HQ AETC/A3ZI.
       3.2.6. Ensures contractors accomplish courseware updates to the system computer-based training
       (CBT) according to MUSS configuration bulletin requirements.
       3.2.7. Establishes a training program for all unit TIMS managers (UTM). Provides assistance as
       required to all UTM and end users.
       3.2.8. Provides initial and continuation training resources for all TIMS end-users.
       3.2.9. Ensures all TIMS files supplied by HQ AETC, including the programmed flying training
       (PFT), calendar, syllabus, maneuver item, and maneuver grade files are properly loaded according
       to established deadlines.
AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007                                                                               5


     3.2.10. Maintains overall managerial responsibility for OG-dedicated TIMS equipment to include
     servers and associated support equipment. Ensures contractors with operational control over such
     equipment execute SOW and headquarters’ guidance according to established deadlines and
     requirements, except where local area network (LAN) infrastructure is maintained by headquar-
     ters and local communications squadron (CS) directives and policy. Delegates responsibility for
     computer-assisted instruction (CAI) lab equipment to the appropriate group, automated data pro-
     cessing equipment account custodian.
     3.2.11. Ensures contract personnel effectively schedule and monitor TIMS CAI equipment usage
     in support of student syllabus training requirements.
     3.2.12. Ensures TIMS CAI proctor contract personnel properly manage student records according
     to all applicable local, AETC, and US Air Force guidance.
     3.2.13. Ensures US Air Force and contract personnel maintain TIMS at the highest level of effi-
     ciency regarding system operation and maintenance at the base level.
     3.2.14. Oversees local TIMS software and student courseware fielding and implementation plans.
     3.2.15. Establishes local TIMS user roles and functions permissions baseline for instructors, stu-
     dents, and administrative personnel.
  3.3. Flight Medicine or Surgeon Authority. The designated flight medicine or surgeon authority
  uses TIMS to accomplish and save AF Form 4293 for student DNIF, airsickness, or other require-
  ments, if able.
  3.4. Flying Squadrons (SQ). The flying SQs use HQ AETC-designated TIMS for student account-
  ing and flight simulator scheduling. Responsibilities include the following:
     3.4.1. SQ Operations Officer. The SQ operations officer manages the squadron’s use of TIMS;
     he or she:
        3.4.1.1. Ensures the daily flying schedule incorporates all of the unit’s planned daily flying, all
        aircraft sorties, and simulator and (or) academic support schedules are entered and maintained
        within TIMS.
        3.4.1.2. Designates a primary and alternate UTM, as needed.
        3.4.1.3. Where practical, uses TIMS as the primary source to plan, develop, and complete the
        unit’s annual FHP according to AETCI 21-104.
        3.4.1.4. Ensures each flight commander properly completes a finalized Merit Assignment
        Selection System (MASS) for each class. This requirement is absolutely crucial to accurately
        documenting student performance and provides vital information for future analysis.
     3.4.2. UTM:
        3.4.2.1. Ensures TIMS problems and support requests are forwarded to the group TM in a
        timely manner.
        3.4.2.2. Assigns appropriate TIMS permissions to all assigned SUPT instructor personnel as
        designated by TM.
        3.4.2.3. Collects TIMS error reports and other trouble ticket candidate items and forwards
        them to the group TM.
6                                                                  AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007


       3.4.2.4. Assists the TM in providing unit initial and continuation TIMS training. Prepares
       instructor force for upcoming TIMS version software changes and updated program capabili-
       ties.
       3.4.2.5. For advanced phase JSUPT units, ensures the migration of newly assigned JPPT/
       JSUPT students into the appropriate advanced phase syllabus.
       3.4.2.6. For primary phase JPPT/JSUPT units, ensures the student is graduated from the JPPT/
       JSUPT syllabus after departing for off-station training (for example, US Air Force helicopter,
       T-44, etc.).
    3.4.3. SQ Programmer:
       3.4.3.1. Creates and inputs all TIMS daily squadron flying, simulator, and academic support
       schedules into TIMS, where applicable and practical.
       3.4.3.2. Reviews the TIMS daily squadron flying, simulator, and academic schedules to
       ensure required changes are accomplished in a timely fashion.
    3.4.4. Flight Programmer:
       3.4.4.1. Builds the daily TIMS flying, simulator, and academic training support schedules and
       inputs that data into TIMS.
       3.4.4.2. Determines flight, simulator, and academic training requirements and forwards that
       information to the SQ programmers for inclusion in the next week’s TIMS schedule build.
       3.4.4.3. Under the direction of the flight commander, performs the TIMS assignment of stu-
       dents and instructors to TIMS aircraft sortie takeoff times, simulator sortie start times, and aca-
       demic block begin and end times.
       3.4.4.4. Coordinates with the flight commander to ensure a finalized MASS is completed
       before a class is graduated. This requirement is absolutely crucial to accurately documenting
       student performance and provides vital information for future analysis.
    3.4.5. Student Registrar:
       3.4.5.1. Ensures all HQ-required student data is input into TIMS. If the student data is input
       via a data file, the registrar ensures all required data is entered into TIMS. Attachment 2 lists
       the minimum required data elements that must be entered in TIMS.
       3.4.5.2. Updates TIMS database to reflect the new course data as soon as possible as the stu-
       dents move from one course of training to another.
       3.4.5.3. Updates changes to the student’s biographical, military, and other personal data upon
       notification of changes.
       3.4.5.4. Ensures the student’s finalization status, complete or attrite, is entered into TIMS.
       When student status is not properly finalized, the registrar works with the TM, as required, to
       remedy the deficiency.
       3.4.5.5. Destroys any (hard or electronic) copies of a student’s flying training records when
       they are superseded, obsolete, or no longer needed for administrative, legal, audit, or other
       operational purposes. Any removal of information contained in TIMS and GTIMS will be
       accomplished by HQ AETC/A3ZI only.
AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007                                                                              7


     3.4.6. TIMS Help Desk (HD). HD duties are listed in the associated contractors’ SOW and fur-
     ther established within local units.
     3.4.7. Academic and Simulator Instructor. The academic and simulator instructor duties are
     listed in the associated contractor’s SOW and further established within local units.
     3.4.8. Contract Personnel and JSUPT Instructor. Contract personnel and (or) JSUPT instruc-
     tor:
        3.4.8.1. Review all appropriate sections of the student’s TIMS training folder prior to each
        syllabus training event.
        3.4.8.2. If a sortie must be cloned, ensure that a proper syllabus follow-on training sortie/event
        is cloned before the student is scheduled for any other requisite syllabus event.
        3.4.8.3. Ensure all syllabus lessons are entered and saved into the student’s TIMS training
        folder as soon as possible upon completion.
        3.4.8.4. Coordinate with the student’s flight commander and (or) assistant before overriding a
        syllabus deviation notice.
  3.5. Graduate Formal Training Unit (FTU) OG:
     3.5.1. Commander. The OG commander manages the use of GTIMS, and designates a GTIMS
     manager (GM) and (or) GTIMS functional system administrator (FSA) if one is not provided for
     by contract. Additionally, the duties listed below do not supersede or add to the duties of the con-
     tracted GTIMS system manager that are listed in their SOW.
     3.5.2. Designated GM or FSA:
        3.5.2.1. Ensures the adequacy and effectiveness of GTIMS processes and products.
        3.5.2.2. Serves as point of contact with HQ AETC/A3ZI for processing changes and updates
        to the GTIMS.
        3.5.2.3. Serves as liaison between flying squadrons and HQ AETC/A3ZI concerning GTIMS
        issues.
        3.5.2.4. Ensures processing and migration of students from one GTIMS syllabus version to
        another according to MUSS configuration bulletin deadlines.
        3.5.2.5. Collects all group GTIMS trouble ticket submissions and forwards them to HQ
        AETC/A3ZI, when applicable. Prior to trouble ticket submission, coordination with GM or
        FSA personnel from all AETC bases using GTIMS is required. Coordination will be accom-
        plished via the GTIMS Community of Practice website or a separate approved process as dic-
        tated by HQ AETC/A3ZI.
        3.5.2.6. Establishes a training program for all unit GTIMS managers (UGM) and provides
        assistance as required to all UTA and end-users.
        3.5.2.7. Provides initial and continuation training resources for all GTIMS end users.
        3.5.2.8. Ensures all GTIMS files supplied by HQ AETC, including the PFT, calendar, sylla-
        bus, maneuver item, and maneuver grade files are properly loaded according to established
        deadlines.
8                                                                      AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007


           3.5.2.9. Maintains overall managerial responsibility for OG-dedicated GTIMS equipment to
           include servers and associated support equipment. Ensures contractors with operational con-
           trol over such equipment execute SOW and HQ guidance according to established deadlines
           and requirements, except where LAN infrastructure is maintained by HQ and local CS direc-
           tives and policy.
           3.5.2.10. Ensures US Air Force and contract personnel maintain GTIMS at the highest level of
           efficiency.
           3.5.2.11. Oversees local GTIMS software and student courseware fielding and implementa-
           tion plans.
           3.5.2.12. Establishes the local GTIMS roles and functions permissions baseline for the FTU
           instructor force, Air Force personnel, and all associated contract personnel.
    3.6. Graduate FTU SQs or Other Applicable Units. Flying squadrons use AETC-designated
    GTIMS for flying training student accounting and flying scheduling. SQ responsibilities include:
       3.6.1. Squadron Operations Officer:
           3.6.1.1. Manages the squadron’s use of GTIMS.
           3.6.1.2. Ensures the daily flying schedule incorporates all of the unit’s planned daily flying: all
           instructor CT, COB, PFT, and simulator and (or) academic support schedules should be
           entered and maintained within GTIMS.
           3.6.1.3. Designates a Primary and alternate UGM, as needed.
       3.6.2. Unit GTIMS Associate (UGA):
           3.6.2.1. Ensures GTIMS problems and support requests are forwarded to the group GM in a
           timely manner.
           3.6.2.2. Assigns appropriate GTIMS permissions to all assigned FTU instructor personnel.
           3.6.2.3. Collects GTIMS error reports and other trouble ticket candidate items and forwards
           them to the group GM.
           3.6.2.4. Assists the GM in providing unit initial and continuation GTIMS training. Prepares
           instructor force for upcoming GTIMS version software changes and updated program capabil-
           ities.
       3.6.3. SQ Programmer:
           3.6.3.1. Creates and inputs all GTIMS daily squadron flying, simulator, and academic support
           schedules into GTIMS.
           3.6.3.2. Reviews the GTIMS daily squadron flying, simulator, and academic schedules to
           ensure that required changes are accomplished in a timely fashion.
       3.6.4. GTIMS HD. GTIMS HD duties are listed in the associated contractor’s SOW and further
       established within local units.
       3.6.5. Academic and Simulator Instructor. The academic and simulator instructor duties are
       listed in the associated contractor’s SOW and further established within local units.
       3.6.6. Contract Personnel and FTU Instructor:
AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007                                                                                   9


           3.6.6.1. Review all appropriate sections of the student’s GTIMS training folder prior to each
           syllabus training event.
           3.6.6.2. Ensure all syllabus lessons are entered and saved into the student’s GTIMS training
           folder on the day the lessons are accomplished.
           3.6.6.3. If a sortie must be cloned, ensure that a proper syllabus follow-on training sortie/event
           is cloned before the student is scheduled for any other requisite syllabus event. The UTA or SQ
           scheduler is responsible for any other requisite syllabus event.
           3.6.6.4. Contract and (or) FTU instructor personnel will ensure all syllabus lessons are entered
           and saved into the student’s GTIMS training record on the day the lesson is accomplished.

4. Flying Hour Program. The 19th Air Force, Operations Division (19 AF/A3) is responsible for exe-
cuting the flying hour program developed by Resources and Requirements Division (HQ AETC/A3R) to
meet tasking as directed by the US Air Force program guidance letter (PGL). Funded flying hours and air-
craft resources are provided by the Air Force through the Air Force program allocation (PA) document.
The AETC Program Flying Training Requirements Branch (HQ AETC/A3RA) develops an AETC PA
document to distribute the funded flying hours and aircraft to each wing.

5. Execution Plan. Each wing is responsible for implementing the allocated flying hour program. Each
wing will develop an execution plan to reflect the planned monthly aircraft utilization rate and sortie exe-
cution profile required to carry out the assigned tasking. Wings should develop their execution plan in
coordination with maintenance planners in accordance with AETCI 21-104, Aircraft Planning and Sched-
uling Procedures, and AETCI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management. Wings will
report flying hour planning and execution according to in accordance with AETCI 21-104.

6. Operations Reports. The command’s senior leadership uses the operations reports to measure each
unit's effectiveness in managing the flying hour program. (See paragraph 7. through paragraph 11. for spe-
cific reports.)

7. Weekly Operations Status Report. Wing flight programming offices will e-mail the Commander (19
AF/CC) weekly standup slides every Tuesday to arrive at the appropriate Operations Division (19 AF/A3)
office by 1000(L) central time (PIT/ENJJPT/UFT to HQ AETC/A3FU, airlift and mobility to the Tanker
and Airlift Training Branch (HQ AETC/A3FM), special operations to Special Operations and Combat
Rescue Training Branch (HQ AETC/A3FS), IFF/fighter to the Fighter Training Branch [HQ AETC/
A3FF]). Then 19 AF/A3 will send programming offices the weekly standup presentation slide template,
showing all required data via e-mail. When actual sorties or hours are less than programmed for the week,
month to date, or year to date, the programming office will provide explanations in the slide notes. If
e-mail is not available, send updated slides and notes via fax.

8. Indoctrination Flyers Report. The host aviation resource management system (ARMS) office main-
taining flight records custodian responsibility for indoctrination flyers will report the flyer’s name, date of
each mission, and number of sorties flown by mission for the previous month to Current Operations (19
AF/A3O) by the 10th of each month. Negative reports are required.

9. Orientation Flight Report. See AFI 11-401/AETC Sup 1, Aviation Management.
10                                                                    AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007


     9.1. Include information on all categories of orientation fliers listed in AFI 11-401/AETC Sup 1,
     Table 1.1.
     9.2. Group the flights by type (distinguished visitor, familiarization, incentive, and spouse) and pro-
     vide the following information: name, grade, and (or) title of flight recipient; organization; aircraft
     flown, and sortie duration.

10. AETC Form 84, Wing Flying Report. Each wing will submit the wing and OC commander’s flying
time and sorties for the previous 30, 60, and 90 days using AETC Form 84. The report will break out pri-
mary and other aircraft. The 19AF/A3O must receive this data by the 10th of each month. The informa-
tion reported covers the previous 3 months. ARMS will remain the official record for collection of flying
time and training.

11. Space Available or Space Required Passenger Transportation Report. Units will submit space
available or space required passenger transportation reports according to AFI 11-401/AETC Sup 1.

12. Forms Prescribed:
AETC Form 84, Wing Flying Report

13. Forms (IMT) Adopted:
AF IMT 4293, Student Activity Record



                                     MARK R. ZAMZOW, Maj General, USAF
                                     Director of Intelligence and Air, Space, and Information Operations
AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007                                                                     11


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-22, Military Training, 22 March 2004
AFI 11-401/AETC Sup 1, Aviation Management, 13 March 2006
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Pub-
lic, and Interagency Air Force Information Collection, 1 June 2000
AETCI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 June 2006
AETCI 21-104, Aircraft Planning and Scheduling Procedures, 23 January 2006
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule (will convert to AFMAN 33-322, Volume 4)
AF Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADSS—AETC Decision Support System
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ARMS—aviation resource management system
BIP—buddy instructor pilot
CAI—computer assisted instruction
CBT—computer based training
CR—change request
CS—communication squadron
CSO—combat system officer
CT—continuation training
DNIF—duty not to include flying
ENJJPT—Euro-NATO joint jet pilot training
FHP—flying hour program
FSA—functional system administrator
FTPA-W—Flying Training Production Analysis-Web
FTU—formal training unit
GM—GTIMS manager
GTIMS—Graduate Training Integrated Management System
HD—help desk
12                                                     AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007


IFF—introduction to fighter fundamentals
IFS—instrument flight simulators
IP—instructor pilots
JPPT—joint primary pilot training
JSUPT—joint specialized undergraduate pilot training
JCSO—joint combat system officer
LAN—local area network
MASS—merit assignment selection system
MUSS—Modification and Update Support System
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OG—operations group
PA—program allocation
PFT—program flying training
PGL—program guidance letter
PIT—pilot instructor training
SOW—statement of work
SQ—squadron
TIMS—Training Integrated Management System
TM—TIMS manager
TRIM—time-related instruction management
UFT—undergraduate flying training
UGM—unit GTIMS associate
UGM—unit GTIMS manager
UTM—unit TIMS manager
AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007                                                                           13


                                            Attachment 2

                         DATA ELEMENT NAMING STANDARDS AND
                        REQUIRED IN PROCESSING DATA ELEMENTS

A2.1. Data Element Naming Standards:
   A2.1.1. TIMS Class ID Format: FY, "-", Sequence Number, mission design series, other free form
   text as needed.
   A2.1.2. All information after the aircraft type is optional and may be customized by the wing. If a
   syllabus has two aircraft, the aircraft type may be omitted.
   A2.1.3. Example:
       05-02 T-37
       05-12 T-38C
06-03 T-1A
06-04 T-6A
06-06 T-43
       A2.1.3.1. IFF:
04-AB T-38C
05-AI T-38C
05-DCP T-38C
       A2.1.3.2. IFF at Sheppard:
04-ABS T-38C
05-AIS T-38C
05-DCPS T-38C
NOTE: Students only used for TIMS training (that is not actual students) should not have a class number,
but only words in the class block beginning with “Practice.”
   A2.1.4. Example:
       Practice T-38C
       Practice PIT
   A2.1.5. GTIMS Class ID Format. Syllabus and (or) Course Identifier, “-”, FY, other free form text as
   needed.
   A2.1.6. Example:
       G2C-06
       D1CB-05
       GBT-06
14                                                             AETCI36-2223 30 MARCH 2007


         HIR-05

A2.2. In Processing Required Data Elements. At a minimum the following student data elements shall
be entered into TIMS:
SSN
Grade
Last Name
First Name
DOB
Branch
Commission Source
Education Level
Country of Citizenship
Gender
Travel Status
Race
Private Pilot License
AFS/IFS Grad Date and Training Location
Total Civilian Flying Hours
Waivers
Security Clearance

A2.3. GTIMS Input. At a minimum, the following student data shall be entered into GTIMS:
Student Name
Student SSN
Student Branch of Service
Student Rank
Flight Authorization Duty Code
