BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
56TH FIGHTER WING (AETC)                             COMMAND INTSTRUCTION 32 -7001

                                                                   LUKE AIR FORCE BASE

                                                                                  Supplement
                                                                           27 AUGUST 2013

                                                                            Civil Engineering

                                                   AETC AFFIRMATIVE PROCUREMENT
                                                                        PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 56 CES/CEIE                                                     Certified by: 56 CES/CC
                                                                  (Lt Col Chad B. Bondurant)
Supersedes:   AETCI 32-                                                              Pages: 11
              7001_LUKEAFBSUP1, 11
              May 2009


Air Education and Training Command Instruction (AETCI) 32-7001, AETC Affirmative
Procurement Program, is supplemented as follows. This instruction applies to all products
purchased by continental United States (CONUS) installations as well as those purchased in the
US for shipment overseas. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command and
to Air National Guard Units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes reflect formatting to conform to AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management
requirement. Summary changes are to update office symbols and adds Attachment 1, Glossary
of References and Supporting Information to list the adopted forms.
2. Affirmative Procurement Team (APT). This team will:
 2                                     AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013


2.5. (Added) Consist of chartered members of the 56th Fighter Wing (56 FW) Pollution
Prevention Council (P2C) approved by the 56 FW Environmental, Safety, and Occupational
Health Council (ESOHC). P2C meets monthly to discuss pollution prevention (P2) issues to
include APP.
2.6. (Added) Use the annual Luke AFB Government Procurement Card (GPC) Surveillance
Program to fulfill the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), section 6002 monitor
and review requirements.
2.7. (Added) Develop and implement a Green Procurement Worksheet to aid Approving
Officials in monitoring/tracking GPC affirmative procurement purchases.




                                         MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN
                                         Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Commander
AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013                               3


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AETCI 32-7001, AETC Affirmative Procurement Program, 30 March 2005
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, 4 November 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 Jul 1994
Adopted Forms
AETC Form 47, Recovered Materials Determination
AETC Form 51, Green Procurement Exemption
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACM—Asbestos Containing Material
AETCI—Air Education and Training Command Instruction
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
APP—Affirmative Procurement Plan
APT—Affirmative Procurement Team
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CONUS—Continental United States
CPG—Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines
DGSC—Defense General Supply Center (DGSC)
EMS—Environmental Management System
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
 4                                     AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013


FW—Fighter Wing
GSA—General Services Administration
GPC—Government Procurement Card
GPO—Government Printing Office
MSDS—Material Data Safety Sheet
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
P2—Pollution Prevention
P2C—Pollution Prevention Council
QAP—Quality Assurance Personnel
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013                                                            5


                                     Attachment 2 (Added)
                      AFFIRMATIVE PROCUREMENT PLAN (APP)

A2.1. This plan establishes procedures and responsibilities for implementing AETC Instruction
32-7001, AETC Affirmative Procurement Program, at Luke Air Force Base (AFB), Arizona, and
implement AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality. This plan describes and prescribes the
applicability, responsibilities, and requirements of the Luke Air Force Base Affirmative
Procurement Program, which applies to all organizations that (1) prepare specifications for
products, (2) procure or request procurement of products (consumers), and (3) provide
procurement support to base organizations. In addition, these procedures apply to new contracts
awarded by Luke Air Force Base to applicable contractors and vendors.
A2.2. References.
A2.2.1. Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), Title 40, Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR), Part 27, Section 6002. Luke AFB is required to have a preference for
products containing recycled materials that meet the standards for recycled-content/material
established by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The program targets installation
employees, contractors, and potential vendors through formal policy instructions, action plans,
and contract language, all contained within this plan. Luke AFB is required to develop and
implement a promotion program to encourage adherence to the affirmative procurement
program, provide a vendor certification program, and establish annual monitoring and review
procedures. RCRA requires that designated items shall be composed of the highest percentage
of recovered materials practicable, unless an exemption is determined.
A2.2.2. Executive Order (EO) 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and
Transportation Management. It is the policy of the United States that Federal agencies conduct
their environmental, transportation, and energy-related activities under the law in support of their
respective missions in an environmentally, economically and fiscally sound, integrated,
continuously improving, efficient, and sustainable manner.
A2.2.3. Federal Acquisition Regulation        (FAR), Part 23 (Environment, Conservation,
Occupational Safety, and Drug-Free Workplace). Acquisition policies and procedures require
Luke AFB to support government programs for protecting and improving the quality of the
environment through pollution control, energy conservation, identification of hazardous material,
and use of recovered materials.
A2.2.4. DoDI 4715.4, Pollution Prevention. Department of Defense Instruction requires Luke
AFB to establish an affirmative procurement program in accordance with RCRA Section 6002.
A2.2.5. AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management.              This Instruction establishes an
Environmental Management System (EMS) as the framework for continual program and process
improvement through clearly defined environmental roles and responsibilities, planning
requirements, budgeting, effective implementation and operation, and management review.
A2.2.6. HQ USAF/ILEV and SAF/AQC Joint Policy Memorandum, 31 May 2000, Air Force
Affirmative Procurement Program. DOD joint policy requires that any affirmative procurement
plan (APP) be developed to address and implement RCRA program elements and an Affirmative
Procurement Team (APT) be established at the installation level. This plan identifies members
of the APT and serves as the APP.
 6                                        AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013


A2.3. Responsibilities. The agencies listed below will be responsible for compliance with the
procedures stated herein.
A2.3.1. All Base Organizations (Purchase Requestors) will:
A2.3.1.1. Ensure all purchase requests, e.g. Government Purchase Card (GPC), include a
completed AETC Form 47, Recovered Materials Determination, for all affirmative procurement
items listed on the form. AETC Form 47 must be submitted concurrently with the purchase
requests to the Government Purchase Cardholder or Flight Approving Official for approval.
AETC Form 47 will be maintained with qualifying GPC requests only.
A2.3.1.2. Review and research alternative affirmative procurement items and suppliers from
product categories listed on AETC Form 47, Recovered Materials Determination through: (1)
the EPA Database on Environmental Information for Products and Services,
http://www.epa.gov/opptintr/epp/database.htm, and (2) the EPA Supplier Database,
http://www.ergweb2.com/cpg/user/cpg_search.cfm.
A2.3.1.3. Ensure purchase requests include a completed AETC Form 51, Recovered Material
Exemption, when non-compliant items are purchased which do not contain recycled/recovered
materials for product categories listed in AETC Form 47 (For printing paper AETC Form 47 can
be accomplished once each fiscal year). AETC Form 51 must be submitted concurrently with
the purchase request to the Government Purchase Cardholder or Flight Approving Official for
approval. AETC Form 51, Recovered Material Exemption, will be maintained with qualifying
GPC requests only.
A2.3.1.4. Ensure contract specifications, performance work statements, statement for works and
statements of objective, or performance requirement documents; facility requirements, and
military construction projects include the affirmative procurements requirements, such as (but
not limited to) FAR 23.704, 36.602-1, and 36.601-3. Specific details can be found in the
November 1999 Air Force Guide to Green Purchasing.
A2.3.1.5. Quality Assurance personnel (QAP) for service and construction contracts will review
contractor compliance with affirmative procurement requirements, as outlined in the contract
specifications.
A2.3.1.6. Ensure customers complete AETC Form 51, Recovered Material Exemption, when
non-compliant items (do not contain recycled/recovered materials) are purchased.
A2.3.1.7. Follow additional procedures for Unit Resource Advisor/Managers outlined in Section
2.7.
A2.3.1.8. Purchase no Asbestos Containing Material (ACM). A current manufacturer's Material
Data Safety Sheet (MSDS) must be included for all construction products categories other than
glass, steel, and wood products.
A2.3.2. The 56th Civil Engineer Squadron (56 CES) will:
A2.3.2.1. 56 CES/CEI will:
A2.3.2.2. Be the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for this plan.
A2.3.2.3. Be primary POC for any resource, training, procedural, or enforcement problems
submitted by the 56 FW and tenant units.
AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013                                                        7


A2.3.2.4. Prepare all affirmative procurement promotional materials for distribution, advocating
the use of recycled-content items and appropriate resources.
A2.3.2.5. Co-Chair P2C.
A2.3.2.5. Develop annual monitoring and review program in coordination with 56th Contracting
Squadron (56 CONS).
A2.3.2.6. Provide affirmative procurement training through base-wide pollution prevention
education for non-Government Procurement Cardholders employees.
A2.3.2.7. Prepare and provide affirmative procurement training for Government Procurement
Cardholders in conjunction with initial training provided through 56 CONS.
A2.3.2.8. Prepare all metrics for regulatory evaluation and ESOHC briefings.
A2.3.2.9. Prepare annual monitoring and review report indicating: (1) APP program and
regulatory updates, and (2) summary of GPC surveillance results from 56 CONS.
A2.3.3. 56 CES/CEN and CEO will:
A2.3.3.1. Engineering Design personnel will review specifications for building materials,
specify recycled-content construction products listed in AETC Form 47, Recovered Materials
Determination, and ensure specifications do not prohibit the use of recycled-content products
that meet the required performance standards, unless there is a qualified exemption, determined
by AETC Form 51, Recovered Material Exemption.
A2.3.3.2. QAPs for service contracts will review contractor compliance with affirmative
procurement requirements. Request contractor products listed in AETC Form 47, Recovered
Materials Determination, and ensure specifications do not prohibit the use of recycled-content
products that meet the required performance standards, unless there is a qualified exemption,
determined by AETC Form 51, Recovered Material Exemption.
A2.3.3.3. Will maintain applicable AETC Forms 47 and 51 with each respective contract file.
A2.3.4. 56 Contracting Squadron (56 CONS) will:
A2.3.4.. 1. Ensure all appropriate contracts include affirmative procurement provisions.
A2.3.4.2. Support base pollution prevention goals by acquiring compliant products for their
customers (requiring activities) when EPA Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines (CPG) items
are specified in purchase requests.
A2.3.4.3. Attend monthly P2C meetings.
A2.3.4.4. Certify completed AETC Form 51, Recovered Material Exemption, when
noncompliant items are purchased, in accordance with FAR 23.405(c).
A2.3.4.5. Ensure a copy of the AETC Form 51, Recovered Material Exemption, is included in
the official contract file.
A2.3.4.6. Incorporate affirmative procurement training to initial GPC training.
A2.3.4.7. Incorporate affirmative procurement training into annual GPC refresher course.
A2.3.4.8. Incorporate affirmative procurement guidance with current QAP training.
 8                                         AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013


A2.3.4.9. Provide and report to 56 CES/CEIE vendor certifications in accordance withFAR
23.406.
A2.3.4.10. Retain vendor certifications in the contract file to verify affirmative procurement
requirements are met.
A2.3.5. 56th Logictics Readiness Squadron (56 LRS) will:
A2.3.5.1. Encourage purchase and use of recycled content products, including but not limited to:
engine coolants, refined lubricating oils, pallets, industrial drums, retread tires, etc.
A2.3.5. 2. Attend monthly P2C meetings.
A2.3.6. Unit Resource Advisors/Managers will:
A2.3.6.1. Review organization activities at the time of requisition and annually to ensure
compliance with AETC Form 47, Recovered Material Determination, AETC Form 51,
Recovered Material Exemption, and the affirmative procurement requirements.
A2.3.6.2. Ensure review and approval of contract specifications and completion of AETC Form
51, Recovered Material Exemption, with electronic submission (see 2.1.6) occurs prior to
approval and commitment of funds in the ABSS.
A2.3.7. GPC Approving Officials will:
A2.3.7.1. Review all cardholder purchases to ensure compliance with this directive.
A2.3.7.2. Maintain quarterly Green Procurement Worksheet(s) of recycled/recovered materials
for annual GPC cardholder surveillance (see Attachment 3).
A2.3.8. P2C will:
A2.3.8.1. Develop and maintain the Luke AFB affirmative procurement program in accordance
with RCRA 6002, EO 13423, Air Force Instructions, and any additional amendments to these
regulations.
A2.3.8.2. Ensure 56 CONS completes the annual GPC Surveillance to include reviewing records
for Affirmative Procurement requirements.
A2.3.8.3. Review 56 CONS annual GPC Surveillance results.
A3.1. Luke Air Force Base Preference Program:
A3.2. The contracting office, government purchase cardholders, and Luke Air Force Base
organizations requiring activities will give preference in the procurement process to the selection
of recycled material-content within the EPA CPG product categories listed on AETC Form 47,
Recovered Materials Determination. Preference will be given to products containing the highest
percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with performance, competition, price,
and availability. The EPA recommended eight product categories with minimum recovered
material content levels for CPG items. The Air Force will give preference to procurement of
these items. Standards for each product category are found in the resources listed in Section 4.
A3.3. All Luke Air Force Base organizations with the responsibility for drafting or reviewing
specifications for products procured by the federal government are required to review the
specifications to ascertain whether recycled materials have been excluded. All specifications
with exclusions will be rewritten and any statement in a specification requiring the product to be
AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013                                                           9


manufactured from virgin materials will be eliminated, unless performance standards would not
be satisfied.
A3.4. Specifications that are unnecessarily stringent for a particular end use and bear no relation
to function (for example, brightness and whiteness for copier paper) will be revised (according to
the organization’s established review procedures) to allow for a higher use of post-consumer
recovered materials.
A3.5. Base organizations do not need to revise specifications to allow or require the use of post-
consumer recovered materials if it can be determined that, for technical reasons, a product
containing such materials will not meet reasonable performance standards. The drafting and
reviewing agency must document any such determination. The determination will be based on
technical performance information related to a specific item.
A3.6. When a product containing post-consumer recovered material is produced in types and
grades not previously used by an organization (1) specifications will be revised to allow the use
of such type and grade, or (2) new specifications will be developed for such type and grade. The
APT will monitor new developments and use them to increase the use of post-consumer
recovered materials, as appropriate.
A4.1. Specifications
A4.2. Specifications require (1) the recycled material contained in the products to be post-
consumer waste, when practical, or (2) the recycled material specified to contain the highest
percentage of post-consumer waste practical. If the inclusion of recycled material to the
maximum extent practical cannot be determined by the organization’s specification writer, the
specification will encourage manufacturers to include recycled material to the maximum extent
that will still allow the product to meet the performance standards required.
A4.3. Federal supply sources such as General Services Administration (GSA), Government
Printing Office (GPO), and Defense General Supply Center (DGSC) have established their own
estimation, certification, and verification procedures for EPA CPG items. Therefore, base
organizations that procure designated items through these supply sources are not required to
conduct independent estimation, certification, and verification procedures.
10         AETCI32-7001_LUKEAFBSUP 27 AUGUST 2013


     Left Blank Intentionally
                                                          Attachment 3 (Added)
                                              GREEN PROCUREMENT WORKSHEET

    Table A3.1. Green Procurement Worksheet.

GREEN
PROCUREMENT
WORKSHEET
                   Organization:
                   Billing
                   Official:


GPC ACCOUNT        PAPER PROD.1    VEHICULAR2      CONSTRUCTION3      TRANSPORT4      PARK/REC5     LANDSCAPE6     NON-PAPER7     MISC.8


Cardholder #1
Cardholder #2
Cardholder #3
Cardholder #4
Cardholder #5

Quarter Totals

Annual Totals
1
  Paper Products w/ more than 30% recycled, commercial /industrial sanitary tissue
2
  Re-refined lubricating oils, retread tires, engine coolants
3
  Building insulation products, carpet, cement/concrete containing coal fly ash, consolidated/reprocessed latex paint, floor tiles, etc
4
  Channelizers, delineators, flexible delieneators, traffic barricades, traffic cones, parking stops
5
  Park benches/picnic tables, plastic fencing, playground equipment, playground surfaces, running tracks
6
  Garden/soaker hoses, hydraulic mulch, plastic lumber landscaping timbers/posts, lawn and garden edging, compost made from yard trimmings
7
  Binders, clipboards, file folders, plastic envelopes, plastic trash bags, toner cartridges, printer ribbons
8
  Awards, plaques, mats, pallets, signage, sorbents, manual-grade strapping
