BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                             COMMAND MISSION DIRECTIVE 304
COMMAND
                                                                 217th Training Squadron (ANG)
                                                           COMMAND MISSION DIRECTIVE

                                                                                12 MARCH 2013


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A3G                                                      Certified by: HQ AETC/CG
                                                                              (Col Ian P. Biggins)
                                                                                          Pages: 2


In accordance with AFPD 10-1 this directive states the mission, organization, and responsibilities
for the 217th Training Squadron Air Education and Training Command (AETC) gained Air
National Guard (ANG) squadron. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Mission. . 217th Training Squadron is an Air National Guard (ANG) Associate Unit to Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) that provides augmentation to the 17th Training Wing
(AETC) instructor cadre in the event of wartime mobilization. In the event of hostilities, the unit
is mobilized to offset the anticipated loss of AETC Instructor Training.
2. Command. The Commander, 217th Training Squadron:
2.1. Commands personnel assigned to 217th Training Squadron.
2.2. Provide for the following command and control measures:
2.2.1. Retains administrative and operational control over assigned units when not in a mobilized
status.
2.2.2. Relinquishes administrative and operational control (ADCON and OPCON) under the
Presidential Reserve Call-Up Authority (10 U.S.C. 12304) and under Partial Mobilization (10
U.S.C. 12302). OPCON of the separately mobilized personnel below wing level will be with the
 2                                                              AETCMD304 12 MARCH 2013


RegAF Training Group. ADCON for ANG personnel activated under these authorities remains
with the 201st Mission Support Squadron (ANG), Andrews AFB, MD.
 2.2.3. Passes both ADCON and OPCON of mobilized units under full mobilization to the
designated gaining active duty organization.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Commander, 217th Training Squadron:
        3.1.1. Is responsible to the AETC for administration and operational control of assigned
        forces when planning for or performing 17th Training Wing Associate Federal missions,
        and to the Governor of Texas with respect to State missions.
        3.1.2. Coordinates and maintains liaison with Commander, 17th Training Wing to ensure
        their wing training standards and qualification levels meet mobilization requirements of
        AETC technical training syllabi in their respective courses.
        3.1.3. Establishes necessary priorities to ensure accelerated training programs and quotas
        for ANG individuals, especially in areas of skill shortages, in support of AETC technical
        training requirements.
        3.1.4 Upon mobilization provides Commander, AETC (COMAETC) with combat ready
        forces that can operate as seamless members of the Expeditionary Air and Space Force.
        3.1.5 Ensures that ANG units and individuals ordered to active duty during a call-up or
        mobilization are provided necessary supervision, training, family readiness and
        administrative support from existing resources.
        3.1.6. Ensures that ANG units and individuals ordered to active duty during a call-up or
        mobilization are provided necessary supervision, training, family readiness and
        administrative support from existing resources.
        3.1.7. Assists Regular Component forces by performing peacetime missions as an
        adjunct to, or corollary of, training, and assumes operations and missions assigned in
        whole or in part to the ANG Component, and supports operations or missions performed
        by associate units.
        3.1.8. Carries out wartime and contingency civil defense and disaster preparedness
        responsibilities.
        4. Direct Communication. Commander, 217th Training Squadron is authorized direct
        communications with HQ AETC directorates, 2 AF, and 17th Training Wing on matters
        related to unit mission accomplishment. Official staffing of mutual agreements/guidance
        messages between RegAF wings and the 217th Training Squadron should be staffed to
        HQ AETC for approval by AETC/A2/3/10.


                                             IAN P. BIGGINS, Col, USAF
                                             Air National Guard Advisor to the AETC
                                             Commander
