BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      AETC INSTRUCTION 36-2901
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                      13 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                  WEAR OF THE AETC INSTRUCTOR AND
                                                        MASTER INSTRUCTOR BADGES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A3PV                                                  Certified by: HQ AETC/A3P
                                                                    (LtCol Timothy E. Owens)
Supersedes:   AETCI 36-2901, 16                                                       Pages: 6
              November 2009


This instruction implements AFPD 36-29, Military Standards. It establishes guidelines and
eligibility criteria for the award and wear of the Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
instructor and master instructor badges. It applies to all active duty, Air Force Reserve
Command, Air National Guard, and civilian instructors in AETC.

This AETCI may be supplemented by commanders responsible for implementing this
instruction. Supplements will be used to establish organization-specific guidance. (T-2) Do not
use local operating instructions to implement guidance in this instruction. (T-2) Commanders
will send proposed supplements through their training group or wing and 2 AF (2 AF units only)
to HQ AETC/A3P for review and coordination prior to publishing. (T-2)

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route AF Forms 847 from the field unit through the training group, training wing and 2 AF (2
AF units only) to HQ AETC/A3P.

The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier ("T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3") number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Unless otherwise specified, requests for waiver must be submitted by the group or
wing commander through 2 AF (2 AF units only) to HQ AETC/A3P. (See paragraph 3 for
specific procedures.) (T-2)
 2                                                            AETCI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2014


Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance (IAW) with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information used in this
publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
clarifies waiver authority and guidance for requesting and documenting waivers; changes
reference for basic military training master instructor program; deletes requirement for
organizations to procure badges; and deletes reference to cloth patch. Format has been changed
to comply with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
1. Purpose of the AETC Instructor and Master Instructor Badges. These badges serve as
duty identifiers for instructors assigned to AETC managed formal training and education
courses. These are courses conducted by organizations whose primary mission is education or
training. Wear of the instructor badge is limited to the duration of an assignment to a training or
education organization.
2. Approval of the AETC Instructor Badge. The Air Force Permanent Uniform Board
approved the AETC instructor badge for wear by AETC personnel whose primary duty
assignment is instructor in a formal training and/or education environment. Duty assignment
may be in an AETC or interservice training or education program. The instructor badge is a duty
badge as defined in AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, and
is not to be regarded as an occupational badge.
3. Waiver Authority. Policy and procedures are enacted to provide quality and consistency in
training and evaluation. Occasionally, unique circumstances may warrant special consideration
and possible waiver of policy provisions. At the same time, because it is important to preserve
fidelity of training, evaluation, and policy implementation throughout the command, a process
must be established for review of proposed waivers.
     3.1. Unless otherwise stated in this instruction, AETC/A2/3/10 is the waiver authority for
     waivers that change the intent of the policy outlined in this instruction. (T-2) For waivers to
     unit supplements, the unit generating the supplement will identify the waiver authority to that
     supplemental guidance.
     3.2. Requests for waiver will be submitted by the group or wing commander through 2 AF
     (2 AF units only) to HQ AETC/A3P. (T-2) Waiver requests must:
        3.2.1. Identify the specific policy reference and text to be waived.
        3.2.2. Rationale for the waiver: Explain which of the 3 reasons listed under AFI 33-360,
        paragraph 1.9.1 apply and describe why.
        3.2.3. Time period or circumstance for which the waiver will be required.
AETCI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                   3


       3.2.4. Risk mitigation measures the requesting commander will implement during the
       waiver period.
       3.2.5. Impact if waiver is disapproved.
   3.3. Units will upload approved waivers into Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT)
   for inspection activity review. Because waivers are the expression of a specific commander
   accepting risk, Tier 1, 2, and 3 waivers expire 30 days after a change of command unless the
   new commander renews the waiver. For non-tiered waivers, a waiver remains in effect until
   canceled in writing by the approving official, the publication is revised, or the waiver
   expires.
4. Responsibilities:
4.1. Commander, Air Education and Training Command:
       4.1.1. Authorizes wear of the AETC instructor and master instructor badges.
       4.1.2. This authority is delegated to wing or group commanders or their equivalent levels
       of control.
4.2. Wing or group commanders:
       4.2.1. Verify individuals meet all established requirements for wear of a designated
       badge.
       4.2.2. May disallow wear of the badge within a specific organization for reasons unique
       to that organization.
       4.2.3. May establish additional instructor training requirements, as applicable.
       4.2.4. Approve master instructor nominations.
4.3. Squadron commanders.        May void authorization to wear the badge.
5. Wear of the AETC Instructor and Master Instructor Badges:
   5.1. The badge is worn by personnel assigned to instructor positions. Instructors who have
   been reassigned to another training or education-related position within the training wing or
   organization may continue to wear the AETC instructor badge for the duration of their
   assignment with that wing or organization.
   5.2. Previous instructors who return to a wing or organization for another assignment as an
   instructor or as training support personnel may wear the badge during this subsequent
   assignment.
6. Requirements for Wear. Personnel must:
   6.1. Hold the primary duty assignment of instructor or meet the condition described in either
   paragraph 5.1. or 5.2.
   6.2. Complete the instructor training course (ITC) required for the assigned position. Note:
   Instructors assigned to organizations aligned under 2 AF or Air University will refer to
   AETCI 36-2202, Faculty Development and Master Instructor Programs, for specific ITC
   requirements.
 4                                                           AETCI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2014


     6.3. Complete additional instructor training requirements established by the training wing or
     group, if applicable.
     6.4. Complete a teaching internship. Note: The badge may be worn while the instructor
     completes the teaching internship.
7. Assignment of Interservice Instructors:
     7.1. AETC instructors who are assigned to interservice education or training courses will
     wear the AETC instructor badge unless prohibited by the policy of the interservice school to
     which they are assigned.
     7.2. Instructors who are members of other services, but are assigned to teach AETC courses,
     may wear the AETC instructor badge unless prohibited by the policy of their parent service.
     Requirements for wear in paragraph 6 apply.
8. Master Instructor Programs. Requirements for master instructor status will focus on
professional growth and achievements above the normal requirements for instructors. AETCI
36-2202 prescribes the requirements for achieving master instructor when assigned to technical
training. AETCGM2014-36-03, Military Training Instructor Training and Development,
prescribes the requirements for achieving master instructor when assigned to basic military
training. AETCI 36-2604, Flying Training Instructor Program, prescribes the requirements for
achieving master instructor when assigned to flying training. Other formal AETC education and
training organizations may establish master instructor programs as a supplement to this policy.
9. Master Instructor Badge. Instructors who have completed the requirements for their
applicable master instructor program may wear the master instructor badge.
10. Retiring the Badge. The badge serves as a duty identifier. Personnel who are no longer
assigned to a wing or organization directly involved in training or education development or
delivery will discontinue wearing the badge.
11. Presentation of Badges:
     11.1. Instructor and master instructor badges signify a prestigious achievement. Presentation
     should be made on an occasion that provides the instructor maximum recognition within the
     organization. An instructor training course graduation or a commander’s call is an
     appropriate occasion for presenting the badge.
     11.2. As an AETC duty identifier, the instructor badge is not normally worn by personnel
     assigned to other Air Force commands or organizations. Do not present an instructor or
     master instructor badge to a person who is not authorized to wear the badge.
12. Rescission Authority. Wearers of the badge must maintain an image of professionalism
and integrity. Squadron commanders may void authorization to wear the badge by individuals
relieved from instructor duty because of failure to perform those duties satisfactorily or who
demonstrate conduct that reflects discredit on the high standards associated with the badge.
Individuals will be notified of this action by memorandum.
AETCI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                   5


13. Positioning of the Badge. The badge will be worn according to AFI 36-2903.




                                          MICHAEL A. KELTZ, Major General, USAF,
                                          Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                          Integration
 6                                                      AETCI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AETCI 36-2202, Faculty Development and Master Instructor Programs, 23 May 2012
AETCI 36-2604, Flying Training Instructor Program, 9 October 2013
AETCGM2014-36-03, Military Training Instructor Training and Development, 22 May 2014
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
ITC—instructor training course
