BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                   COMMAND INSTRUCTION 23-1056
COMMAND
                                                                                 23 JANUARY 2013

                                                                                   Civil Engineering

                                                           AIRFIELD PLANNING AND DESIGN



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A7NR                                                      Certified by: HQ AETC/A7N
                                                                              (Mr James Fitzpatrick)
Supersedes:    AETCI 32-1056, 27 Aug 10                                                   Pages: 31


This Instruction implements policy guidance in AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities; Use
this instruction with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning
and Design; UFC 3-535-01, Visual Air Navigation Facilities; AFI 32-1042 Standards for
Marking Airfields; and AFI 32-7063, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Program. It outlines
procedures for preparation and submittal of permanent and temporary requests for violations of
airfield and airspace criteria and facility sitings for proposed facilities within the land use control
portion of the Clear Zone and Accident Potential Zones. Additionally, it establishes procedures
for Annual Airfield/Airspace Waiver Reviews. Finally, it establishes responsibilities for Wing
and MAJCOM personnel involved in the airfield planning process. It is designed to assist AETC
installations implement an effective airfield planning program that meets AETC’s unique airfield
planning process requirements. It introduces the use of web-based technologies (AETC
Community Planning Community of Practice (CoP) and Geo-Base) to airfield planning and
design processes. It supersedes AETCI 32-1056, 27 Aug 10. This Instruction applies to all
AETC airfields and base agencies having responsibilities for coordinating, processing, and
managing these processes. It also applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units operating on AETC Airfields with the exception of 149 FW at
Lackland AFB which operates under NGB waiver authority. References providing additional
information are (see Atch 1). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
 2                                                                                   AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. These changes are
associated with CE transformation and other revisions. It outlines procedures for preparation and
submittal of permanent and temporary requests for violations of airfield and airspace criteria and
facility sitings for proposed facilities within the land use control portion of the Clear Zone and
Accident Potential Zones. Additionally, it establishes procedures for Annual Airfield/Airspace
Waiver Reviews. It is designed to assist AETC installations implement an effective airfield
planning program that meets AETC’s unique airfield planning process requirements.

       1.      General Information. ..............................................................................................        3
       2.      AETC Community Planning Community of Practice (CoP). ................................                                      3
       3.      Airfield Waiver Definitions. ..................................................................................            4
       4.      Airfield Waiver Approval Processes. ....................................................................                   4
       5.      Permanent/Temporary Airfield Waivers Documentation Preparation. ..................                                         5
       6.      Airfield Construction Waivers Document Preparation. .........................................                              6
       7.      Air Show Waivers. .................................................................................................        7
       8.      Clear Zone/Accident Potential Zone Siting Requests Document Preparation. ......                                            7
       9.      Airfield/Airspace Waiver Review. .........................................................................                 8
       10.     Aircraft Parking Plans. ...........................................................................................        9
       11.     Airfield Obstruction Reduction. .............................................................................             10
       12.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................   11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           14

Attachment 2—AIRFIELD PLANNING AND DESIGN PROCESS FLOWCHARTS                                                                             20

Attachment 3—AETC FORM 82                                                                                                                23

Attachment 4—AETC FORM 705                                                                                                               24

Attachment 5—RM ASSESSMENT EXAMPLE                                                                                                       25

Attachment 6—ALTERNATE RM FORMAT
             ( HTTPS://RMIS.KIRTLAND.AF.MIL/DEFAULT.ASP )                                                                                27

Attachment 7—RECORD OF WAIVERS TO AIRFIELD AND AIRSPACE CRITERIA                                                                         28

Attachment 8—GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION AND SERVICES MOU EXAMPLE                                                                             29
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                      3


1. General Information. Facilities or structures in violation of airfield planning and design or
airspace imaginary surface criteria jeopardize safe aircraft operations. Airfield waivers are
therefore reserved for deviations to conditions and/or situations for which no practical alternative
exists and the obstruction poses little or no risk to flying safety.
   1.1. HQ AETC/CV is the approval authority for Permanent and Temporary waivers to
   airfield and heliport planning and design criteria under UFC 3-260-01. On 7 Aug 09,
   AETC/CV delegated approval authority to sign requests for Waivers to Airfield and Airspace
   Criteria to the AETC Civil Engineer as follows:
       1.1.1. All original waiver requests will continue to be approved by AETC/CV.
       1.1.2. Any waiver with an RM assessment of ―High‖ identifying ―catastrophic results‖
       will be staffed to AETC/CV for final action.
       1.1.3. Currently approved waivers will be managed through the annual waiver Review
       process and re-approved, as necessary, by the AETC Civil Engineer after AETC/A2/3O
       and SEF concurrence.
   1.2. Land uses within the clear zones and accident potential zones (on/off-base) must be
   managed IAW the Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) program guidelines (AFI
   32-7063). These guidelines are designed to protect the installation’s flying mission and to
   encourage local municipalities to manage off-base development within these zones to protect
   the public from the noise and safety impacts created by aircraft operations. Base Civil
   Engineers must observe a 3,000 foot wide minimum clear zone for new construction of
   proposed Air Force facilities regardless of the established clear zone dimensions or existing
   facilities. The installation must fully justify and the AETC Civil Engineer must approve any
   deviation from this construction restriction. The graded area of the clear zone and the
   Mandatory Frangibility Zone (MFZ) will be managed IAW UFC 3-260-01.
   1.3. Regardless of the status of the waiver, all objects or structures that penetrate an airfield
   imaginary surface, as described in UFC 3-260-01, must be marked IAW AFI 32-1042 and
   FAA Advisory Circular AC 7-/7460-1K so they are conspicuous during day Visual Flight
   Rules (VFR) conditions. Installation commanders may exempt objects penetrating the
   airfield's imaginary surfaces from these requirements IAW AFI 32-1042 Paragraph 2.3. In
   addition, the objects or structures penetrating the airfield imaginary surfaces must also have a
   red obstruction light installed IAW UFC 3-535-01. Any deviation to these requirements
   must be programmed for correction and will require an airfield waiver. If a deviation cannot
   reasonably be corrected and poses little or no threat to flying operations, a permanent waiver
   should be pursued.
   1.4. Airfield design/criteria waiver requirements are outlined in UFC 3-260-01 and the
   attached process flow charts (see Atch 2 of this instruction).
   1.5. Permanent waivers must be submitted to HQ AETC/A7NR for review/approval prior to
   approval of 100% design.
2. AETC Community Planning Community of Practice (CoP).
   2.1. The AETC Community Planning CoP workspace provides a web-based collaborative
   environment for AETC community planners to share and disseminate information pertaining
   to airfield planning and design processes. The CoP contains sub-folders for
 4                                                         AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


     permanent/temporary airfield waiver’s requiring AETC approval as well as approved airfield
     construction and air show waivers for each AETC base. HQ AETC/A7NR is responsible for
     managing        the       CoP.               The      CoP        is       located       at
     https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-EN-AE-08.
     2.2. A Base Civil Engineer (BCE) representative from each AETC base (normally the
     Community Planner) will be assigned as a CoP member and granted upload privileges for
     their respective base’s folders. The Airfield Manager and others involved in the waiver
     program will be granted rights, as needed.
3. Airfield Waiver Definitions.
     3.1. Permanent Waivers. Waivers that are established for airfield criteria violations that
     cannot reasonably be corrected and pose little or no threat to flying operations.
     3.2. Temporary Waivers. Waivers that are established for correctable obstructions or
     violations of airfield criteria,
     3.3. Airfield Construction Waivers. Waivers that are established for construction projects
     that will temporarily violate airfield criteria.
     3.4. Air Show Waivers. Describes air show activities and their temporary impacts on
     airfield and airspace criteria. These waivers do not replace the requirement for FAA air show
     waivers. They both must be submitted as required.
4. Airfield Waiver Approval Processes.
     4.1. Permanent Waivers. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) representative will prepare
     permanent airfield waiver requests for coordination from installation Airfield Management
     (AM), Terminal Instrument Procedures Specialist (TERPS), Airfield Operations (AOF/CC),
     Operations Support Squadron (OSS/CC), Operations Group (OG/CC), Wing Safety (SE) and
     other offices as required (i.e., Communications (CS) Security Forces (SF) Logistics
     Readiness Squadron (LRS), etc), prior to being signed by the installation commander.
     Installation commander approval will an electronic signature on an AETC IMT Form 82 or a
     signed hard copy AETC Form 82 scanned in PDF format or an electronic signature in either
     an MS Word or PDF format. The request should then be posted to the HQ AETC
     Community Planning CoP, with an E-mail notification to the AETC/A7NR OPR. HQ
     AETC/A7NR will staff the request for HQ AETC/CV approval/ disapproval after
     coordination with AETC A7N, A4/7, A2/3/10, SE and other appropriate staff offices as
     necessary.
     4.2. Temporary Waivers. The BCE's representative prepares temporary airfield waiver
     requests. The standard waiver request will include, project number, priority ranking in the
     funding process and an estimated completion date. Non standard requests must be justified.
     Submit the waiver request to HQ AETC Community Planning CoP after coordination from
     installation Airfield Management (AM), Terminal Instrument Procedures Specialist
     (TERPS), Airfield Operations (AOF/CC), Operations Support Squadron (OSS/CC),
     Operations Group (OG/CC), Wing Safety (SE) and other offices as required (i.e.,
     Communications (CS) Security Forces (SF) Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS), etc), prior
     to being signed by the installation commander. Installation commander approval will consist
     of an electronic signature on an AETC IMT Form 82 or a signed hard copy AETC Form 82
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                   5


   in PDF format, or an electronic signature in either an MS Word or PDF format. The request
   should then be posted to the HQ AETC Community Planning CoP, with an E-mail
   notification to the AETC/A7NR OPR. HQ AETC/A7NR will staff the original request for
   HQ AETC/CV approval/disapproval after coordination with AETC A7N, A4/7, A2/3/10 SE,
   and other appropriate staff offices as necessary.               Extensions will require
   validation/submission to the AETC Civil Engineer through the annual waiver review process.
   4.3. Airfield Construction Waivers. The installation commander is the approval authority
   for airfield construction waivers. These waivers are approved after coordination by
   installation Airfield Management (AM), Terminal Instrument Procedures Specialist
   (TERPS), Airfield Operations (AOF/CC), Operations Support Squadron (OSS/CC),
   Operations Group (OG/CC), Wing Safety (SE) and other offices as required (i.e.,
   Communications (CS) Security Forces (SF) Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS), etc), prior
   to being signed by the installation commander. Installation commander approval will consist
   of a verifiable signature, i.e., an electronic signature on an AETC IMT Form 82 or a signed
   hard copy AETC Form 82 scanned into a PDF format, or an electronic signature in either an
   MS Word or PDF format. Completed waivers shall be placed on the AETC Community
   Planning CoP website for appropriate headquarters distribution.
   4.4. Air Show Waivers. The installation commander is the approval authority for temporary
   waivers for Air Shows. Coordinate air show waiver requests with installation Airfield
   Management (AM), Terminal Instrument Procedures Specialist (TERPS), Airfield
   Operations (AOF/CC), Operations Support Squadron (OSS/CC), Operations Group
   (OG/CC), Wing Safety (SE) and other offices as required (i.e., Communications (CS)
   Security Forces (SF) Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS), etc), prior to being signed by the
   installation commander.        Installation commander approval will consist of a verifiable
   signature, i.e., an electronic signature on an AETC IMT Form 82 or a signed hard copy
   AETC Form 82 scanned into a PDF format or an electronic signature in either an MS Word
   or PDF format. Completed waivers shall be placed on the AETC Community Planning CoP
   website for appropriate headquarters distribution.
5. Permanent/Temporary Airfield Waivers Documentation Preparation.
   5.1. Waiver requests must meet all requirements of UFC 3-260-01, be prepared
   electronically using AETC Form 82 (see Atch 3 of this instruction). Approved temporary
   waivers that require extension will be managed through the airfield waiver review process
   and do not require re-accomplishment of the AETC Form 82. The re-validation in the annual
   review will include a summary of actions taken and offer compelling reasons why an
   extension is required. As a minimum, all waiver requests must include:
      5.1.1. A complete description of the facility or condition requiring a waiver, including,
      but not limited to, facility dimensions, construction materials, height above ground level,
      facility use/contents and number of occupants.
      5.1.2. A detailed description of the non-compliance with airfield criteria. Identify all
      criteria violated and include the appropriate references. Provide distances of affected
      items from the runway, taxiway, apron or other applicable airfield clearance/imaginary
      surface or prohibited land use area.
 6                                                           AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


        5.1.3. Consolidate violations to airfield criteria of a similar nature, (such as trees, poles
        etc), located in a defined area, are normally grouped together and assigned only one
        waiver number.
        5.1.4. The actual extent of a violation to be recorded on AETC Form 82. They shall be
        for the item causing the greatest hazard (e.g., distance to the nearest and/or highest tree,
        or elevation of the top of the tallest airspace hazard).
        5.1.5. Complete justification for the waiver including an explanation why all applicable
        criteria cannot be met. Discuss all operational concerns that relate to the violation.
        Provide funding requirements and limitations, as required. Ensure that all alternatives are
        addressed and rationale shows why those alternatives were not chosen.
        5.1.6. Waiver requests will also be accompanied by a GeoBase map. The map should
        portray all proposed and existing facilities, with respect to regulated airfield surfaces and
        imaginary surfaces. All maps must include all distances in feet from affected runway
        centerlines, taxiway centerlines and apron edges. Depict the height of obstructions
        protruding into transitional slopes with dimensions in feet.
        5.1.7. The results of a Risk Management (RM) assessment documented on an AETC
        Form 705 (example at Atch 4) or as a written assessment (example at Atch 5) completed
        IAW AFPAM 90-902, RM Guidelines and Tools. The results of this assessment shall
        include all known hazards associated with the proposed action, a risk code using the risk
        assessment matrix for each hazard and a description of all risks control measures needed
        to minimize the associated risk involved with the proposed action. Clearly show all the
        safety precautions and mitigation measures that will be implemented to minimize the
        risks associated with the violation. Information and guidance on the RM process can be
        found at the USAF Risk Management Information System (RMIS) website at
        https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/ where there is an automated tool for generating an RM
        analysis (see alternate example at Atch 6).
        5.1.8. A copy of FAA Form 7460-1 Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration, if the
        violation requires FAA notification in accordance with UFC 3-260-01. The preferred
        method is via e-file. The e-filing process, new user registration and mailing address are
        provided at https://oeaaa.faa.gov/oeaaa/external/portal.jsp.
6. Airfield Construction Waivers Document Preparation.
     6.1. Airfield construction waiver requests are prepared in the CE Programs Flight, then are
     coordinated and approved by the installation commander. Project Managers should prepare
     airfield construction waiver documentation as outlined below. However, the project
     manager, base planner, airfield manager and safety personnel should shall participate as a
     team in the development of RM assessments for airfield construction waiver requests. The
     effective length of an airfield construction waiver is 12 months. Extensions will require re-
     validation to ensure that any changes to the construction project and/or phasing are evaluated
     for risks and mitigation actions. Maintain construction waiver documentation IAW the
     Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
     6.2. Submit requests for all airfield construction waivers on AETC Form 82. These waiver
     requests will include, at a minimum:
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                    7


      6.2.1. All information required for a permanent/temporary waiver request, as specified in
      Paragraphs 5.1.1. - 5.1.8. of this instruction.
      6.2.2. A description of the work to be accomplished, type of equipment (e.g., D-8
      bulldozers, front-end loaders, dump trucks) and height of equipment to be used during the
      construction project.
      6.2.3. A copy of the FAA Form 7460-1, submitted to the FAA in accordance with UFC
      3-260-01 if required.
      6.2.4. In coordination with SE and AM, conduct an RM assessment on the proposed
      construction waiver as discussed in paragraph 5.1.7. Address options that will be
      implemented to mitigate risk for each phase of construction and violation of criteria
      (NOTAMS, temporary airfield markings, lighting, etc). Re-evaluate construction waivers
      as required to ensure actions taken to mitigate risks are still effective.
   6.3. Once the installation commander approves a temporary waiver for construction, retain a
   copy in the project folder and in the airfield waiver file. Ensure a copy of the completed
   construction waiver and supporting documentation is placed on the AETC Community
   Planning CoP website for appropriate headquarters distribution.
7. Air Show Waivers.
   7.1. Waiver Request Requirements. These waiver requests will include, at a minimum, all
   information required as specified in Paragraphs 5.1.1. - 5.1.8. of this instruction.
   7.2. Installation commanders will ensure that the CE community planner uploads a copy of
   each approved waiver package to their respective base’s Air Show Waivers folder, located on
   the AETC Community Planning CoP for appropriate headquarters distribution at least 30
   days prior to the air show.
8. Clear Zone/Accident Potential Zone Siting Requests Document Preparation.
   8.1. The AETC Civil Engineer must approve alteration, minor additions, or improvements of
   facilities in the clear zone. MAJCOM Siting approval is required for a new use or facility
   within the 3000’ x 3000’ Clear Zone area at the end of each runway, that violates land use
   compatibility recommendations or guidance in Chapter 5 of AFI 32-7063,. Additionally,
   AETC Civil Engineer siting approval is required to site a new use or facility located on
   installation property within Accident Potential Zones I or II, that violate AICUZ land use
   compatibility recommendations. HQ AETC/A7NR will staff requests for AETC Civil
   Engineer approval/disapproval after coordination with, AETC/A3OF, SEF and other
   appropriate staff offices as necessary. These siting requests will:
      8.1.1. Be submitted on AETC Form 82.
      8.1.2. Provide a complete description of the facility or equipment being sited, including
      but not limited to facility dimensions, height above ground level, facility use/contents,
      and number of occupants.
      8.1.3. Identification of all criteria that will be violated. Include the specific references
      from UFC 3-260-01 and/or AFI 32-7063.
 8                                                             AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


        8.1.4. A site plan that portrays all proposed facilities, utilities, infrastructure, and support
        equipment in the clear zone with respect to the runway threshold, extended runway
        centerline, mandatory frangibility zone and applicable imaginary surfaces.
        8.1.5. An operational risk analysis approved by the installation commander. The results
        of this assessment shall include all known hazards associated with the proposed action, a
        risk code using the risk assessment matrix for each hazard and a description of all risks
        control measures needed to minimize the associated risk involved with the proposed
        action. Clearly show all the safety precautions and mitigation measures that will be
        implemented to minimize the risks associated with the violation.
9. Airfield/Airspace Waiver Review.
     9.1. All AETC bases will conduct an annual review of all HQ-approved permanent and
     temporary airfield waivers to include installation commander approval. The wing will
     submit the waiver review package to the HQ AETC Community Planning CoP every two
     years based on the schedule below. The AETC Civil Engineer can make adjustments to this
     schedule as needed. HQ AETC/A7NR, will staff waiver reviews internally through A2/3/10,
     SE and others as appropriate prior to AETC Civil Engineer approval.
     9.2. As a minimum, the annual airfield and airspace waiver review process must include
     AM, CE, TERPS, and representatives from SE and the Airfield Operations Flight
     (AOF/CC/DO, ATC), as necessary. It is highly recommended that representatives from
     Communication and Security Forces attend the annual review since many of the items on the
     airfield influence communications and security operations.
     9.3. The annual airfield airspace waiver review package is not the forum for requesting new
     waivers. New waivers are requested individually at the time of their discovery.
     9.4. A schedule for installation submission for annual airfield airspace waiver recertification
     for both the primary installation and any associated auxiliary fields is located below:
        9.4.1. Even Years Jan – Mar: Altus, Columbus.
        9.4.2. Even Years Apr – Jun: Keesler, JBSA Fort Sam Houston.
        9.4.3. Even Years Jul – Sep: JBSA Lackland, Laughlin.
        9.4.4. Odd Years Jan – Mar: Luke, Maxwell,
        9.4.5. Odd Years Apr – Jun: JBSA Randolph, Sheppard,
        9.4.6. Odd Years Jul - Sep: Vance.
     9.5. Review and validate each waiver to determine if it must be submitted for extension.
        9.5.1. The annual review must validate that a waiver requirement still exists and all
        appropriate safety precautions, mitigative measures and conditions of approval required
        by the waiver approval authority are being implemented.
        9.5.2. Document completion of the review in the Record of Waivers to Airfield and
        Airspace Criteria spreadsheet (Atch 7 of this instruction).
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                     9


      9.5.3. Waivers that are no longer required shall be cancelled either through notification
      to HQ AETC/A7NR when the waiver requirement terminates so that the waiver can be
      canceled or through the annual review process.
      9.5.4. Ensure the facilities classified as permissible deviations comply with deviation
      siting criteria contained in Section 13 of UFC 3-260-01.
      9.5.5. Include waivers for auxiliary fields in the annual main base review.
   9.6. Present the results of the annual review to the Airfield Operations Board and the
   Facilities Board. Ensure the results are included in the respective meeting minutes.
   9.7. Each waiver shall be assigned a base specific alphanumeric identification number. The
   location of each waiver shall be shown on the Geobase airfield data map layer and referenced
   on the Record of Annual Review. For other items or features, annotate the Geobase airfield
   data map layer to identify the status of the facility or feature and the date of construction.
   Temporary construction waivers and unapproved waivers will not be part of the Geobase
   airfield data map layer or recorded on the approved waivers listing.
   9.8. The USAF mandatory frangibility zone and the graded area of the clear zone as defined
   in UFC 3-260-01 will be shown on the Geobase airfield map layer.
10. Aircraft Parking Plans.
   10.1. Installations must maintain a current Aircraft Parking Plan IAW UFC 3-260-01. The
   Airfield Manager serves as the point of contact for development of the aircraft parking plan
   IAW AFI 13-204V3.
   10.2. The Airfield Manager will work with installation GIS/Geobase and/or Community
   Planning personnel to develop the aircraft parking plan. The Airfield Manager, through the
   Airfield Operations Board will formally conduct an annual review and validation of the
   aircraft parking plan and the currency of airfield mission data layers IAW UFC 3-260-01.
   Coordinate with base support agencies, such as Aircraft Maintenance, Transient Alert, Fuels
   Control, Security Forces, etc., Submit a copy of approved Aircraft Parking Plan to HQ
   AETC A3OF through the AETC/Airfield Management CoP.
   10.3. The aircraft parking plan will include maps that will indicate operational aircraft
   parking positions and aircraft maintenance areas, including transient aprons. The aircraft
   parking plan must depict the following items. (Note: Approval to exclude any item from the
   list is delegated to HQ AETC/A30F)
      10.3.1. Airfield layout diagram, including runways/taxiways
      10.3.2. Aircraft parking aprons with appropriate wing-tip clearance boundaries
      10.3.3. Normal aircraft position/orientation on apron/ parking spots and in maintenance
      facilities of all missions and transient aircraft (by block representing the aircraft size or
      by actual configuration). Orientation of aircraft may be excluded if shown on a transient
      apron where multiple parking considerations cannot be easily shown. In these cases,
      make reference to parking restrictions in local instruction and in FLIP as applicable. The
      paragraph is not applicable for classified areas.
      10.3.4. Runway/taxiway/taxi lanes lead-in/out/apron/tow way/lateral clearance markings
 10                                                        AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


      10.3.5. Transient parking apron
      10.3.6. Engine run-up areas (as applicable)
      10.3.7. Warm-up Pads
      10.3.8. Compass Calibration Pads (as applicable)
      10.3.9. Maintenance hangars/docks
      10.3.10. Blast fences
      10.3.11. Refueling outlets
      10.3.12. Operations building(s)
      10.3.13. Control Tower(s)
      10.3.14. Fire Stations
      10.3.15. Hot Cargo pads (as applicable)
      10.3.16. Outdoor wash rack and taxi-through rinse facilities
      10.3.17. Engine test cells/suppressors
      10.3.18. Maintenance lights
      10.3.19. Aircraft security fences (as applicable)
      10.3.20. Priority A/B areas (as applicable)
   10.4. Revisions to aircraft parking plans do not require HQ AETC approval as long as no
   violations of airfield planning and design criteria result from their implementation.
   10.5. AFI 32-10112 Paragraph 4.4.5 provides that ―Formal Memorandums of Understanding
   and or Memorandums of Agreement shall define the roles and responsibilities of
   organizations and agencies contributing information to Mission Data Sets and Geo-Base
   Services.‖ Each Base Civil Engineer will develop an MOU with the Operations Support
   Squadron Commander outlining responsibilities and major actions required to support
   Geospatial Information and Services. An example MOU is provided at Atch 8.
11. Airfield Obstruction Reduction.
   11.1. All correctable violations of airfield planning and design criteria, within the mandatory
   frangibility zone and/or the graded area of the clear zone regardless of classification (waiver,
   exemption, permissible deviation or non-classified), must be programmed for elimination. If
   the violation cannot be corrected with in-house resources, the wing must prioritize the project
   and aggressively pursue funding to execute the required corrective action. Pending
   corrective action of non-classified violations, the wing must conduct an operational risk
   analysis to access the hazards and implement the necessary operational restrictions to
   mitigate the risks and process a temporary airfield waiver request.
   11.2. AETC bases must be cognizant of all natural resources management restrictions and
   wildlife hazards in the airfield environment IAW AFI 32-7064. Bases need to ensure that no
   vegetation or trees pose a hazard to air operations or are allowed to penetrate within 10 feet
   of an imaginary surface as identified in UFC 3-260-01 Table 3.7, Airspace Imaginary
   Surfaces. Review all imaginary surfaces annually to ensure trees and vegetation are
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                     11


   maintained below imaginary surfaces. Also ensure all future vegetation and trees planted
   beneath an imaginary surface are of a species that will not penetrate that surface in the future.
12. Responsibilities.
   12.1. Installation Commander.
       12.1.1. Establish an Airfield Working Group (AWG) and appoint the airfield manager to
       chair the meeting. At airfield management contract locations, this requirement may be
       met by the AOF/CC when there is a conflict with the contract statement of work. As a
       minimum, the AWG should be comprised of representatives from AM, CE (asset
       management, operations, and programs flights) SE (flight/ground) and TERPS. As
       appropriate, other functional areas (Logistics, Communications, and Security Forces)
       shall be included. Air Force Reserve and ANG units that operate on the airfield may also
       be invited to attend.
   12.2. Airfield Working Group.
       12.2.1. Meet to discuss any outstanding issues affecting the airfield environment, to
       include airfield waivers, pavements, markings, signage, obstructions, new/outstanding
       work orders, funding priorities, vegetation/tree management, environmental, safety,
       navigation aids etc.,
       12.2.2. Conduct the annual airfield safety certification inspection and the annual airfield
       waiver review. This working group should complement and feed into other mandated
       forums and may even be combined, as necessary
       12.2.3. AWG members should complete the RM Fundamentals Course found in the
       ORM University located on the USAF Risk Management Information System (RMIS)
       website at https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/.
   12.3. Civil Engineers.
       12.3.1. Provide a single point of contact to manage, process and coordinate on
       permanent/temporary airfield waivers. This is typically the community planner acting as
       the CE representative. Project managers should prepare temporary construction waiver
       documentation and submit for coordination and approval.
       12.3.2. Establish procedures to ensure all base construction projects are evaluated for
       impact on airfield design criteria prior to 100% design approval. For construction
       projects on or near the airfield environment, a construction-phasing plan will be
       developed prior to construction, IAW UFC 3-260-01, Section 14.
       12.3.3. Evaluate all new waivers to design criteria IAW UFC 3-260-01. Obtain
       airfield/airspace waivers on all obstructions and facilities not meeting airfield design
       criteria or airfield standards. Ensure all waivers to criteria are approved prior to
       approving final design of project.
       12.3.4. Ensure an RM assessment is performed on all proposed waiver requests prior to
       submission to the installation commander and to the MAJCOM for their review and
       action.
12                                                         AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


     12.3.5. Ensure that the community planner uploads a copy of each approved waiver
     package to their respective base’s waiver folder, located on the AETC Community
     Planning CoP.
     12.3.6. Provide a copy of the documents for each approved waiver to AM, TERPS
     and SE to enable them to include recognized obstructions and violations in their airfield
     operations regulations and flight information publications.
     12.3.7. Send copies of all approved construction waivers to AETC/A7NR for
     informational purposes. A7NR will make appropriate headquarters distribution.
     12.3.8. Ensure an FAA Form 7460-1, is submitted to the FAA for construction that
     affects the airfield or surrounding airspace following guidance provided in UFC 3-260-
     01, Section 5. The e-filing process, new user registration and mailing address are
     provided at https://oeaaa.faa.gov/oeaaa/external/portal.jsp. NTP should not be issued
     before FAA approval is received
     12.3.9. As an alternative, the contractor can prepare the FAA Form 7460-1 and provide it
     to CE for base level coordination and filing with the FAA.
     12.3.10. Provide information copies of the completed FAA Form 7460-1 during
     IG/AOCI inspections.
     12.3.11. The base level OPR for the airfield portion of the AOCI checklist is the BCE (or
     equivalent at DOD/Contract locations). The community planner or other representative
     may be the single source for collection of data. Ensure that the checklist items are
     distributed within functional areas (pavements, airfield lighting, arresting systems, etc).
     12.3.12. Ensure that CE, AM, TERPS and SE review/follow UFC 3-260-01, Section 18,
     Guidelines for Establishing the Building Restriction Line (BRL) at USAF bases.
     Document the BRL on the Installation Development Plan map.
     12.3.13. If vegetation or trees are found to penetrate an imaginary surface on or off base,
     CE will take prompt action to request a temporary airfield waiver citing the violation and
     propose a corrective action to remove the violation to bring the airfield into compliance.
     Permanent waivers will not normally be considered for tree growth.
  12.4. Airfield Management.
     12.4.1. Identify, report and facilitate the removal/correction, mitigation and/or waiver of
     all airfield obstructions violating airfield design criteria and deviations to airfield marking
     and lighting IAW appropriate regulations.
     12.4.2. At minimum, the airfield manager and TERPS shall review all airfield and
     airspace waiver requests to determine the impact on airfield operations. Document this
     review and maintain copies until final approval/disapproval is obtained.
     12.4.3. Review and maintain a current copy of all waiver requests (temporary and
     permanent) and final FAA Forms 7460-1 IAW Records Disposition Schedule directives.
     12.4.4. Evaluate all new construction that impacts the airfield for violations to airfield
     design criteria and ensure all waivers are approved prior to any construction work
     beginning.
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                 13


     12.4.5. Ensure representatives from the AWG inspect the entire airfield and the
     surrounding areas at least annually to detect obstructions and hazards to airfield
     operations and violations to airfield/airspace design criteria. Complete this inspection in
     preparation for the annual waiver review process (the annual Airfield Certification and
     Safety Inspection is an acceptable document). This team will also look for obstructions
     and facilities that are no longer required to support the current mission and ensure they
     are programmed for removal. The team shall also validate all existing waivers,
     deviations and exemptions to ensure they are still valid, applicable and required.
  12.5. Base Safety Office.
     12.5.1. Safety is responsible for facilitation of the RM assessment process.
     12.5.2. Flight Safety shall review all waiver requests and FAA Forms 7460-1, to evaluate
     operational risk associated with the proposed action.
     12.5.3. Flight and Ground Safety shall participate in the AWG and in airfield waiver
     reviews and the AM annual airfield safety/certification inspection.
  12.6. MAJCOM.
     12.6.1. The AETC Civil Engineer is responsible for the HQ AETC Airfield Waiver
     Policy program. The program POC is AETC/A7NR.
     12.6.2. MAJCOM Airfield Management (A3OF), Community Planning (A7NR) and
     Safety (SE) functional's will meet as required to review each base’s airfield waiver
     submittals and airfield waiver review packages IAW UFC 3-260-01.




                                          CRAIG A. BERLETTE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Director of Logistics, Installations and Mission
                                          Support
 14                                                      AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFH 32-7084, AICUZ Program Managers Guide, 1 MAR 1999
AFI 13-213, Airfield Management, 1 Jun 2011
AFI 32-1042, Standards for Marking Airfields, 27 Oct 2005
AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP), 2 APR 2010
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning, 13 Nov 2009
AFI 32-7063, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Program, 17 Nov 2009
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 Sep 2004
AFI 90-901, Risk Management, 1 Apr 2000
AFPAM 90-902, l Risk Management (RM) Guidelines and Tools, 14 Dec 2000
UFC 3-260-01, Unified Facilities Criteria Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design, 17 Nov
2008
UFC 3-535-01, Visual Air Navigation Facilities, 17 Nov 2005
Prescribed Forms
This publication does not prescribe any forms
Adopted Forms.
AETC Form 82, Request for Airfield and Airspace Criteria Waiver
AETC Form 705, Job Safety Analysis/Operational Risk Management Worksheet
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
FAA Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education & Training Command
AETCI—Air Education & Training Command Instruction
AF—Air Force
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AICUZ—Air Installation Compatible Use Zone
AM—Airfield Management
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                             15


ANG—Air National Guard
AOCI—Airfield Operations Certification Inspection
APZ—Accident Potential Zone
AWG—Airfield Working Group
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BCP—Base Comprehensive Plan
BRL—Building Restriction Line
CBT—Computer Based Training
CE—Civil Engineer
CoP—Community of Practice
CS—Communications Squadron
CV—Vice Commander
DOD—Department of Defense
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
GIS—Geographic Information System
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
IGI&S—Installation Geospatial Information and Services
MDL—Mission Data Layer
MDS—Mission Data Set
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RM—Operational Risk Management Assessment
RMIS—Risk Management Information System
RSU—Runway Supervisory Unit
SE—Safety
SF—Security Forces
TERPS—Terminal Instrument Procedures
 16                                                         AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
USC—United States Code
VFR—Visual Flight Rules

Terms
Accident Potential Zone I (APZ I)—The area beyond the clear zone that possesses a significant
potential for accidents.
Accident Potential Zone II (APZ II)—The area beyond APZ I that has a measurable potential
for Accidents
AICUZ (Air Installation Compatible Use Zone)—A DoD program designed to promote
compatible development around military airfields and to protect the integrity of the installation’s
flying mission.
Aircraft Arresting System—A series of components used to engage and absorb the forward
momentum of a routine or emergency landing or an aborted takeoff.
Airfield—An area prepared for the accommodation (including any buildings, installations and
equipment) of landing and takeoff of aircraft.
Airspace—The space above ground or water areas which is or is not controlled, assigned, and/or
designated.
Approach—Departure Clearance Surface—An inclined plane or combined inclined and
horizontal planes arranged symmetrically about the runway centerline extended. The first
segment or the beginning of the inclined plane is coincident with the ends and edges of the
primary surface, and the elevation of the centerline at the runway end. This surface flares
outward and upward from these points.
Apron—A defined area, on an airfield, intended to accommodate aircraft for the purposes of
loading or unloading passengers or cargo, refueling, parking or maintenance.
Base Comprehensive Plan Map Layer E-1, On-Installation Obstructions to Airfield—This
map graphically shows obstructions to air navigational and ground movement of aircraft within
installation boundaries. The specific requirements for this map should be leveraged into GeoBase
mapping layers.
Base Comprehensive Plan Map Layer E9.1, Proposed Aircraft Parking Plan—This map
indicates proposed parking positions in the operational and aircraft maintenance areas of all
aircraft required to support the installation’s mission. The specific requirements for this map
should be leveraged into GeoBase mapping layers.
Clear Zone—A 3,000 X 3,000 foot surface on the ground or water beginning at the runway end
and symmetrical about the runway centerline extended.
Community of Practice—A Community of Practice (CoP) workspace provides a web-based
collaborative environment where members of a group use shared information and administrative
and communications tools to conduct business, manage a project, keep abreast of important
group issues and solve group problems. AETC Community Planning CoP is located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO—EN-AE-08
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                    17


Exemption—A facility or other item constructed under a previous standard.
GeoBase—"One Installation…One Map" with a mission to "attain, maintain and sustain one
geospatial infrastructure supporting all installation requirements". Geobase service is made
available via the existing base communications network using Geographic Information Systems
(GIS) and similar technologies. Existing mission systems and processes are enhanced by
visualizing their assets and information via an installation map.
Helipad—A prepared area designated and used for takeoff and landing of helicopters.
Helipad, IFR—A helipad designed for Instrument Flight Rules. IFR design standards are used
when an instrument approach capability is essential to the mission and no other instrument
landing facilities, either fixed-wing or rotary-wing, are located within an acceptable commuting
distance to the site.
Helipad, Limited Use—A VFR rotary wing facility for use by AH, OH and UH helicopters.
This type of helipad support only occasional operations at special locations such as hospitals,
headquarters facilities, missile sites and other similar locations. They may also be located on
airfields where one or more helipads are required to separate operations of helicopters such as
OH, UH and AH) from fixed-wing or other helicopter operations.
Imaginary Surfaces—Surfaces in space established around airfields in relation to runway(s),
helipad(s), or helicopter runway(s) that are designed to define the obstacle free airspace around
the airfield. The imaginary surfaces for DoD airfields are the primary surface, the approach-
departure clearance surface, the transitional surface, the inner horizontal surface and the conical
surface (fixed-wing only).
Instrument Runway—A runway equipped with electronic navigation aids for which a precision
or non-precision approach procedure is approved.
Instrument Landing System—A system of ground equipment designed to provide an approach
path for exact alignment and descent of an aircraft on final approach to a runway. The ground
equipment consists of two highly directional transmitting systems and, along the approach, three
(or fewer) marker beacons. The directional transmitters are known as the localizer and glide
slope transmitters.
Joint and/or Shared Use Airfield—Those airports that are shared by a civilian DoD agency
covered under the ―Airports and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 (Public LAW 97-248, Sep 3,
1982, 49 USC, APP 2201). Only those facilities (i.e., runways/taxiways) that are used by both
civilian and DoD agencies are considered ―Shared/Joint Use‖. All other facilities (parking
ramps, hangars, terminals, and so forth) are the sole property of the using agency. A USAF
installation where agreements exist among the AF, civil and host nation authorities for joint use
of all or a portion of airfield facilities.
Notice to Airmen (NOTAM)—An unclassified notice, containing information concerning the
establishment of, condition of, change in any aeronautical facility, service, procedures or
hazards, the timely knowledge of which is essential to personnel concerned with flight
operations. Flight Safety and Local NOTAMs can be viewed at the Defense Internet NOTAM
Service website at https://www.notams.jcs.mil/.
Mission Data Layer—An individual data source that can be geospatially represented, either
directly or through data joins or links, and stewarded by a single data owner.
 18                                                         AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


Obstacle—An existing object, natural growth, or terrain, at a fixed geographical location, or
which may be expected at a fixed location within a prescribed area, with reference to which
vertical clearance is or must be provided during flight operations.
Obstacle Clearance—The vertical distance between the lowest authorized flight altitude and a
prescribed surface within a specified area.
Obstruction—A natural or man-made object that violates airfield or heliport clearances or
projects into imaginary airspace surfaces.
Overrun Area—An area the width of the runway plus paved shoulders extending from the end
of the runway to the outer limit of the end zone. This portion is a prolongation of the runway
which is the stabilized area.
Permanent Waiver—An airfield waiver established for violations that cannot be reasonably
corrected and pose little or no threat to flying operations.
Permissible Deviation—Airfield support facilities that are not required to meet airfield
clearance criteria.
Primary Surface (Fixed—Wing Runways)—An imaginary surface symmetrically centered on
the runway, extending 200 ft beyond each runway end. The width varies depending upon the
class of runway and coincides with the lateral clearance distance. The elevation of any point on
the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
Runway—A defined rectangular area of an airfield or heliport prepared for the landing and
takeoff run of aircraft along its length.
Runway, Parallel—Two or more runways at the same airport whose centerlines are parallel. In
addition to runway number, parallel runways are designated as L (left) and R (right) or, if three
parallel runways exist, L (left) C (center) and R (right).
Runway Threshold—A line perpendicular to the runway centerline designating the beginning
of that portion of a runway usable for landing.
Shoulder—A prepared (paved or unpaved) area adjacent to the edge of an operational pavement.
Slope Ratio—A slope expressed in meters (feet) as a ratio of the horizontal to the vertical
distance. For example, 50:1 means 50 m horizontal to 1 m vertical (50 ft horizontal to 1 ft
vertical).
Standard VFR Helipad—A helipad designed to Visual Flight Rules (VFR). VFR design
standards are used when no requirement exists or will exist in the future for an IFR helipad.
Taxilane—A designated path marked through parking, maintenance or hangar aprons, or on the
perimeter of such aprons to permit the safe ground movement of aircraft operating under their
own power.
Taxilane, Interior (secondary taxi routes)—A taxilane which provides a secondary taxi route
to individual parking positions or a hangar and is not intended or used as a primary taxi route for
through traffic.
Taxilane, Peripheral—A taxilane located along the periphery of an apron that may be
considered a primary or a secondary taxi route. Provide wing tip clearance commensurate with
the intended use.
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                   19


Taxilane, Through (primary taxi routes)—A taxilane providing a route through or across an
apron which is intended as a primary taxi route for access to other taxilanes, aprons, taxiways or
the runway?
Taxiway—A specially prepared or designated path, on an airfield or heliport other than apron
areas, on which aircraft move under their own power to and from landing, service and parking
areas.
Taxiway, Parallel—A taxiway which parallels the runway.— The curved connections to the
end of the runway permit aircraft ground movement to and from the runway and are considered
part of the parallel taxiway when there are no other taxiway exits on the runway. Some parallel
taxiways are classified as emergency runways.
Transitional Surface—An imaginary surface that extends outward and upward at right angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope ratio of 7H:1V. The
transitional surface connects the primary and the approach departure clearance surfaces to the
inner horizontal, the conical and the outer horizontal surfaces.
 20                                                                                                                     AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


                                                                                   Attachment 2
                        AIRFIELD PLANNING AND DESIGN PROCESS FLOWCHARTS

Figure A2.1. Airfield Waiver Requests

                                               Airfield Waiver Requests
                                      (Permanent & Temporary, Process Flow Chart)
                                               Develop America's Airmen Today ... for Tomorrow
             1                          2
                                                                                     4                       5
       Violation of                                        3
                                                                               Signed by                   Base                       9c
    Airfield/Airspace            Airfield Waiver       Wing
                                     Request                                  Wing/CC for                Community                   CES/CC            A7N     9b
          Criteria                                   Coordination
                                     (Note 2)                                 Submission to               Planner
         (Note 1)                                     (Note 3)                                                              5a
                                                                              AETC/A7NR
                                                                    Uploads to the COP                                       Maintain
                                                                                                                           Documentation
                             6                                                                       8                     IAW Records
                                                                                                                        Disposition Schedule          A7NR
                                                                          7                                                                           Drafts   9a
                                                                                                                                                     Request
                            AETC/A7NR                                                                                            9
                                                                  A7NR Staffs                      A7N
                         Community Planning
                                                                For 3 digit Review/                A2/30
                               COP
                                                                  Coordination                     A4M
                             Airfield Waiver                                                       SEF
                                                                                                                           Additional          YES
                             Request Folder                                                                              Information or
                                                                                                                          Justification
                                                                                                                            Required

                                                                     17                     16              13

                                                                                           CV             A4/7
                      Process                                   A7NR Posts                               A4/7D2                      NO
                                                                                         (Signs)
                      Complete                                    Signed
                                                               Documentation                                                         10
                        18                                        to CoP                                     12
                                                                                15       CCX                           A7NR Consolidates
                                                                                         DS                A7N         4&3-digit Responses
                                                                                                                       and Drafts ESSS for
                                                                                                                         CV Signature
                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                14        A2/3
                                                                                           SE            A7NR
Notes:
#1 Facilities or Structures in violation of airfield planning and design or airspace imaginary surface criteria, can jeopardize safe aircraft operations.
Airfield waivers are therefore reserved for significant mission requirements, conditions and/or situations for which no viable, practicable alternative
That meets criteria exists
#2 Process airfield waiver requests IAW AETC policy letter to include the AETC Form 82, Site Plan, Operational Risk Analysis and an FAA Form 7460-1
(if required)
#3- The installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph B1-2.2.2.2 must participate in the coordination Process.                                        1
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                                                                                                                         21


Figure A2.2. Airfield Waiver Review
                                               Airfield Waiver Reviews
                                      (Airfield Waiver Review, Process Flow Chart)
                                               Develop America's Airmen Today ... for Tomorrow
           1                          2                     3
                                                                                        4                          5
 Annual ORM Review                                        Wing                                                                         9c                  9b
    HQ Approved                Airfield Waiver                                                              Base Community
                                                     Participation &              Signed by                                         CES/CC
       Waivers                     Review                                                                       Planner                                   A7N
                                                      Coordination                Wing/CC
      (Note 1)                     (Note 2)
                                                        (Note 3)
                                                                        Uploads to the COP

                           6                                            5b
                                                                                            5a Brief Facilities Board                               9a     A7NR
                                                                    Maintain                   & Airfield Operations                                       Drafts
                                                                  Documentation                        Board                                              Request
                           AETC/A7NR
                                                                                                      (Note 4)
                        Community Planning
                              COP                                  5c                                                                  9
                                                                     Process                                                                                YES
                           Airfield Waiver
                                                                     Complete
                           Request Folder                                                                   8                      Additional
                                                                      Annual
                                                                                                                                 Information or
                                                                                    7                                             Justification
                                                                                                        A7N
                                                                                                                                    Required
                                                                       A7NR Staffs                      A3/30
                                                                   for 4/3 digit Review/                A4M
                                                                       Coordination                     SEF
                                                                                                                                  NO
                                                                                                                                               10
                                          14                 13
                   Process                                                              12                         11        A7NR Consolidates
                   Complete             A7NR                                                                                 4&3-digit Responses
                                                           A 4/7D2                  A 7N
                   Biannual          Uploads COP                                                            A7NR               and Drafts E-Mail
                                                            Signs
                     15                                                                                                       for A7C Signature

 Notes:
 #1- Although AETC bases must conduct an annual operational risk management review of all HQ-approved permanent and temporary (non-permanent)
 airfield waivers, the wing is only required to submit a waiver review to HQ AETC/A7NR every 2 years based on the schedule in the AETC policy letter.
 #2 -The review must validate a requirement for a waiver still exists and all appropriate safety precautions, mitigative measures and conditions of
 approval required by the waiver approval authority are being implemented. Waivers which are no longer required shall be cance lled
 #3- The installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph B1-2.2.2.2 must participate in the airfield waiver review.
 #4- Ensure results are included in the meeting minutes.
                                                                                                                                                                                2



Figure A2.3. Airfield Construction Waivers

                                               Airfield Construction Waivers
                                                             (Base-level Process Flow Chart)
                                                    Develop America's Airmen Today ... for Tomorrow
               1                               2
                                                                                                        4
                                                                         3                                                                 5
        Planned
                                        Airfield
      Construction                                                  Wing                                                         Community
                                      Construction                                                Approved by
      Activity on the                                             Coordination                                                    Planner
                                        Waiver                                                     Wing/CC
         Airfield                                                  (Note 2)                                                                                     5a
                                       Request
                                                                                        Uploads to the COP                                                     Maintain
                                                                                                                                                             Documentation
                                 6                                                                                           8                               IAW Records
                                                                                                                                                          Disposition Schedule
                                                                                              7
                               AETC/A7NR                                                                                 FYI:                                        9
                            Community Planning                                     A7NR Staffs                          A7N
                                  COP                                             for Information                       A2/30
                                Airfield Waiver                                                                         A4M                                                      NO
                                Request Folder                                                                          SEF                                                           Process
                                                                                                                                                             Comments                 Complete

                                                                                                                                                                                         11



                                                                                                                                                                          YES
                                                                                                                                                                         10

                                                                                                                                                            A7NR Adds
                                                                                                                                                         Comments to Waiver
                                                                                                                                                          Document in COP




     Notes:
     #1- Process airfield construction waiver requests IAW AETC policy to include the AETC Form 82, Site Plan, Operational Risk Analysis and
     an FAA Form 7460-1 (if required)
     #2- The installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph B1-2.5.4.1 must participate in the coordination process.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
 22                                                                                                              AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


Figure A2.4. Air Show Waivers

                                                   Air Show Waivers
                                                   (Base-level Process Flow Chart)
                                               Develop America's Airmen Today ... for Tomorrow
             1                         2
         Planned                                                                      4
                                                           3                                           5
       Deviations
        to Airfield                 Airshow            Wing                                        Community
                                                                               Approved by
      Criteria During                Waiver          Coordination                                   Planner
                                                                                Wing/CC                            5a
        Airshows                    Request           (Note 2)

                                                                       Uploads to the COP                            Maintain
                                                                                                                   Documentation
                             6                                                                 8                   IAW Records
                                                                                                                Disposition Schedule
                                                                           7
                           AETC/A7NR                                                          FYI:                      9
                        Community Planning                           A7NR Staffs             A7N
                              COP                                   for Information          A2/30
                             Airfield Waiver                                                 A4M                                       NO
                             Request Folder                                                  SEF                                            Process
                                                                                                                  Comments                  Complete

                                                                                                                                               11



                                                                                                                             YES
                                                                                                                            10
                    Process
                    Complete                                                                                      A7NR Adds
                                                                                                               Comments to Waiver
                        11                                                                                      Document in COP




      Notes:
      #1 Process Air Show waiver requests IAW AETC policy to include the AETC Form 82, Site Plan, Operational Risk Analysis and an FAA Form 7460-1
      (if required)
      #2- The installation agencies identified in UFC 3-260-01, Paragraph B1-2.5.4.1 must participate in the coordination process.
                                                                                                                                                       4
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                   23


                                Attachment 3
                               AETC FORM 82

Figure A3.1. AETC Form 82
 24                                          AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


                              Attachment 4
                             AETC FORM 705

Figure A4.1. AETC Form 705
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                       25


                                   Attachment 5
                           RM ASSESSMENT EXAMPLE

Figure A5.1. RM Assessment (Continued next page)
26   AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                         27


                                   Attachment 6
  ALTERNATE RM FORMAT ( HTTPS://RMIS.KIRTLAND.AF.MIL/DEFAULT.ASP )

FigureA6.1. Safety Center Automated Report Format.
 28                                                   AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


                                     Attachment 7
         RECORD OF WAIVERS TO AIRFIELD AND AIRSPACE CRITERIA

Figure A7.1. Records of Waivers to Airfield and Airspace Criteria
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                    29


                                         Attachment 8
           GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION AND SERVICES MOU EXAMPLE

                     MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU)

                                          BETWEEN

                                          505 CES/CC

                                              AND

                                          505 OSS/CC

                                               ON

                  THE GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION AND SERVICES


1. PURPOSE: The purpose of this MOU is to outline responsibilities and major actions
required to support the Geospatial Information and Services support for the installation and
facilities mission, hereafter referred to as the Geobase Program or Geobase. The Mission Data
Set (MDS) development and resourcing is the responsibility of the functional community in
accordance with paragraph 4.4 of the Air Force Instruction 32-10112.

2. AUTHORITY: Air Force Instruction 32-10112 dated 19 October 2007, Installation
Geospatial Information and Services (Installation GI&S).

3. SCOPE: This MOU provides guidance and documents understanding on aspects for general
support by the Installation GI&S program. Actions and understandings herein apply only to the
participating parties and are not intended to supersede existing regulations or agreements.

4. RESPONSIBILITIES:

a. 505 CES/CC (CEPT)

 (1) A Geo Integration Office (GIO), also known as the Technical Support Element (CEPT) is
the single point of contact for Geobase at any given time. The Technical Support Element Chief,
also known as the Geobase Program Manager will insure the procedures established in this
document are followed and any other issues are coordinated and approved.

 (2) CEPT will comply, provide support or services In Accordance With (IAW) AFI 32-10112,
other applicable references, as listed below or as directed by the Unit Commander.

(a) Provide priority I level support during real world, exercise incidents or as needed to the
    Emergency Communications Center (ECC) which consist of the Command Post, Fire
    Department and Security Forces dispatch or control centers. Priority I level support will also
 30                                                         AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013


      be provided to the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and the Civil Engineer Unit Control
      Center (UCC).

(b) Provide priority II level support to the requirements listed in AFI 32-10112, especially the
    maintaining of the Common Installation Picture (CIP) data and other command interest
    items.

(c) Provide priority III level support to all other elements that support the installation and
    facilities mission. Support will be on a first come, first serve basis. The Technical Support
    Element Chief and/or the Programs Flight Chief will have the option to re-prioritize based on
    mission needs and available personnel.

 (3) The Geobase Program Manager will provide limited file space on the Geobase server or
within the ArcSDE database for common data in support of the installation and facilities mission.
The Geobase Program Manager will coordinate with the data owner(s) or data stewards and
setup appropriate access controls. Classified data will not be processed or stored. All stored data
will be considered FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO).

 (4) CEPT will provide training or assistance on using the Geobase web viewer; perform field
surveys, create and edit data; provide maps, reports or applicable data.

(5) CEPT will coordinate with the designated data owner(s) or data steward(s) on a regular basis
to provide and/or receive updates on field surveys, Geographical Information System (GIS) or
Computer Aided Design (CAD) data, maps or drawings.

 (6) CEPT will not release any data, maps or drawings without the consent of the designated
data owner(s) or data steward(s). All data is considered For Official Use Only (FOUO) by the
US Air Force, DOD, Homeland Security and contractors who require the data as part of a
government contract. Data requested by the public must be coordinated through the Public
Affairs Office before considered public use and released to the public.

b. 505 OSS/CC

(1) The OSS, through the Airfield Manager/Deputy, as the Mission Data Set (MDS) owner and
the designated data stewards will insure the procedures established in this document are followed
and any other issues are coordinated and approved. The Commander, Executive Officer or
designated representative will provide a list of data stewards with office symbol and name via
email to 505 CES/CEPT.

(2) Will comply and request support or services In Accordance With (IAW) AFI 32-10112,
other applicable references, as listed below or as otherwise coordinated and approved.
.
a. We understand that Priority I level support is reserved for real world, exercise incidents as
    listed in paragraph 4.a. (2).(a). Priority I means that it requires immediate attention.
AETCI32-1056 23 JANUARY 2013                                                                     31


b. We understand that Priority II level support is reserved for use by CEPT to support the
   requirements listed in AFI 32-10112, especially the maintaining of the Common Installation
   Picture (CIP) data and other command interest items.

(a) Request priority III level support on a first come, first serve basis. Requests will be emailed
    as early as possible in advance of required due date. Short term requests (less than two
    weeks) will be justified and followed up via telephone at x1111 or x2222. We understand
    that the Technical Support Element Chief and/or the Programs Flight Chief (CEP) will have
    the option to re-prioritize requests based on their mission needs and available personnel.

 (3) Data stewards will coordinate with the Geobase Program Manager to setup appropriate data
access controls for any data owned and stored on the Geobase server .

(4) OSS will request assistance on using the Geobase web viewer, creation and editing of MDS
data; request surveys, maps, reports or other applicable data.

(5) Designated data steward(s) will coordinate with CEPT on a regular basis to provide and/or
receive updates to any field surveys, Geographical Information System (GIS) or Computer Aided
Design (CAD) data, maps or drawings.

(6) Data owner or data steward(s) will coordinate with CEPT prior to releasing any data, maps
or drawings. All data is considered For Official Use Only (FOUO) by the US Air Force, DOD,
Homeland Security and contractors who require the data as part of a government contract. Data
requested by the public will be coordinated through the Public Affairs Office.

5. FINANCIAL REIMBURSEMENT COSTS: Pursuant to DoDI 4000.19, paragraph 4.5.2,
this is a ―no cost‖ service understanding.

6. AGREEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION:

a. This MOU is effective on the date of final signature. It remains in effect for a period of two
years unless formally modified or terminated earlier in writing upon request of any incumbent
signatory.

b. This MOU will be reviewed for currency no less than 120 days prior to expiration.

Figure A8.1. Sample Signature blocks
