BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-2604
COMMAND
                                                                               9 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                           FLYING TRAINING INSTRUCTOR
                                                                             PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AETC/A3VO                                            Certified by: AETC/A3V (Col R. Brust)
                                                                                     Pages: 16
Supersedes:    AETCI 36-2204, 26 May
               2010


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-26, Total Force Development. It
contains procedural guidance and responsibilities for planning, conducting, and documenting
training for instructors and instructional support personnel assigned to flying training.
Specifically, it applies to Academic Instruction, Community College of the Air Force (CCAF),
and the Master Instructor Program. This publication applies to instructors who teach formal
flying training courses and flying training support personnel who perform related instructional
functions in AETC organizations. With the exception of personnel participating in an AETC
Associate Instructor Pilot (IP) program, this publication does not apply to National Guard Bureau
(NGB) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members unless specified by a major
command (MAJCOM) Memorandum of Understanding. This instruction applies to personnel
supporting flying training instruction at the 318th Training Squadron, Inter-American Air Forces
Academy (IAAFA). AETC units will coordinate proposed local supplements with AETC/A3VO
before publication and forward one copy to AETC/A3VO after publication. Submit suggested
improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through standardization and evaluation channels, to AETC/A3V. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW to AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of according to the Air Force Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Note: If a conflict exists between this
instruction and an existing contract, the contract takes precedence. Contracts developed and
executed after the implementation date of this instruction will include a requirement to follow the
provisions of this instruction; to the extent they are applicable to performance of the contract.
Non-USAF Air Advisor aircraft training contracts should incorporate guidance to parallel the
 2                                                           AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013


provisions of this instruction as applicable. References to forms within this instruction also
equate to electronic products when authorized. Attachment 1 provides a glossary of references
and supporting information used in this publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include realignment of implementing directive from 36-22 to 36-26; removes
applicability to NGB; adds applicability to flying training portions of IAFFA; changes Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) from AETC/A3FV to AETC/A3VO; identifies waiver Tier levels
(par 1.4); change of AI certification to qualification (par 2.1.1); identifies certification process
for lessons, phases, or courses (para 2.4); details recurring qualification process (para 2.4);
identification of F-35 AI program constraints (para 2.13); identification of Air Advisor Program
constraints (para 2.14); removes CCAF chapter and refers to AFI 36-2304, Community College
of the Air Force, and the CCAF Campus Affiliations Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines
(PPG).
AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    3



                                             Chapter 1

                                           OVERVIEW

1.1. Introduction. Effective instructors are essential to AETC’s flying training programs.
Instructors are knowledgeable in the duties of the positions they train and skilled in training
methods AETC designs and implements flying training instructor programs to ensure mission
success with the highest degree of efficiency and effectiveness. Primary presentation methods
used in training are demonstration-performance and lecture-discussion. These presentation
methods and others are described in AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors.
   1.1.1. Demonstration-Performance Method. Requirements for instructor qualification using
   the demonstration-performance method vary by Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) and
   Mission Design Series (MDS). In flying training, demonstration-performance is most
   commonly associated with what is referred to as a “positional instructor”. Specific positional
   instructor requirements are addressed in the appropriate 11, 13 and 16 MDS specific Volume
   1 series instructions and syllabuses.
   1.1.2. Lecture Method. In flying training, the lecture method is also referred to as a
   “platform or academic instruction”. Graduates of an Academic Instructor Course (AIC),
   Instructor Methodology Course (IMC), or their equivalents are authorized to conduct lecture
   method training in an AETC formal course. Chapter two of this instruction will focus on
   flying training’s lecture method and academic instructor requirements.
1.2. Master Instructor Program. Master instructor programs are levels of achievement that
recognize sustained training delivery and professional growth above the average AETC
requirements for instructors. Chapter three of this instruction will focus on flying training’s
master instructor program.
1.3. Responsibilities:
   1.3.1. AETC/A3VO. As the OPR for this instruction, AETC/A3VO will:
       1.3.1.1. Provide standardized command guidance for AETC flying training instructor
       programs, whether graduate or undergraduate.
       1.3.1.2. Monitor unit training programs to ensure AETC approved syllabuses and formal
       training programs are implemented.
       1.3.1.3. Ensure units generate academic letter of Xs (or equivalent).
   1.3.2. AETC/A3F (undergraduate), AETC/A3Z (graduate), and AETC/A3Q (air advisor)
   will:
       1.3.2.1. Provide assistance and resources to subordinate units for implementation of this
       publication.
       1.3.2.2. Initiate action to correct training deficiencies.
       1.3.2.3. Develop academic instructor syllabuses or courses to meet unit requirements.
       Note: For air advisor contract training venues in non-USAF aircraft, ensure contractors
       have a program equivalent to USAF instructor syllabuses.
 4                                                              AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013


     1.3.3. Units will:
        1.3.3.1. Train instructors to a level of proficiency that meets training mission
        requirements.
        1.3.3.2. Initiate action to correct training deficiencies.
        1.3.3.3. Verify successful completion of instructor training and document completion.
        1.3.3.4. Notify the squadron operations officer when individuals cannot perform or meet
        the unit training mission requirements. Refer these individuals to the squadron
        commander for administrative action according to AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist
        Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges, and AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military
        Personnel (Officer and Enlisted).
1.4. Waivers. Policy and procedures are enacted to provide quality and consistency in training
and evaluation whether at an undergraduate or graduate level. Occasionally, unique
circumstances may warrant special consideration and possible waiver of policy provisions. At
the same time, because it is important to preserve fidelity of training, evaluation, and policy
implementation throughout the command, a process must be established for review of proposed
waivers.
     1.4.1. Waivers that change the intent of the policy outlined in this instruction are not
     authorized without AETC/A2/3/10 (T-2) approval. Unless otherwise stated in this document,
     Wing/CCs (T-3) are the approval authority for individual personnel exceptions to the policy
     outlined in this instruction caused by special or unusual circumstances.
     1.4.2. AETC Units. Coordinate T-2 waivers through AETC/A3VO as appropriate. Squadron
     commanders will submit all T-2 waiver requests through command channels in electronic
     format. Waiver requests must provide justification why the individual or unit cannot comply
     with requirements. AETC/A3VO and the units will file a copy of approved waivers to this
     volume according to AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
     1.4.3. Operations Group (OG) Commander. The OG/CC of local supplements will handle
     waivers to unit supplemental guidance.
1.5. Instructor Training Policies.
     1.5.1. Commanders may adjust the training time or remove personnel from instructor
     training due to medical disqualification (including duties not involving flying [DNIF], duties
     not including controlling [DNIC]), emergency leave, or administrative actions.
     1.5.2. Do not allow newly assigned personnel without a security clearance to receive training
     that includes classified information.
     1.5.3. Individuals awaiting Uniform Code of Military Justice prosecution or conviction, or
     those identified for drug abuse, conscientious objector status or loss of a security clearance
     will not be entered into or continued in any training.
1.6. Contract Instructors. Contractors will use the same AIC, AIS, or IMC, as applicable, in
conjunction with the contractor’s Training and Certification Plan to achieve the proficiency
specified by contract (Note: AETC/A3Q may approve equivalent AICs for non-USAF aircraft
training programs with information copy to AETC/A3V). The local site manager will certify the
individual for instructor duties based on the objectives specified by contract and Quality
AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    5


Assurance Evaluator (QAE), Quality Assurance Representative (QAR) or Contracting Officer’s
Representative (COR) oversight. Contractor instructors normally maintain the same evaluation
and Continuation Training (CT) requirements as their active duty Air Force counterparts unless
their governing contract dictates a more restrictive currency interval. Air Advisor contract
instructors supporting non-USAF aircraft training will be validated IAW Performance Work
Statement requirements and paragraph 2.14. by AETC/A3Q prior to instructing USAF students.
1.7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Affiliation. CCAF is a federal program
offered by the United States Air Force which grants two-year Associate of Applied Science
(AAS) degrees for enlisted personnel in association with Air University. The program combines
the technical education offered by select Air Force schools with a core of general education from
regionally accredited civilian institutions of higher education.
   1.7.1. In order for flying training school houses to participate in the CCAF program, they
   must be CCAF affiliated, which is gained through an accreditation process. Accreditation is
   a process of external quality review used by higher education to scrutinize colleges,
   universities and educational programs for quality assurance and quality improvement. CCAF
   affiliated schools gain accreditation by complying with the Commission of the Southern
   Association of Colleges and Schools criteria, to include comprehensive faculty credentials
   criterion consisting of degree requirements and formal instructor training. Consequently, in
   addition to the academic instructor requirements outlined in this instruction, CCAF-affiliated
   AETC schoolhouses will adhere to guidance in AFI 36-2304 and in the CCAF Campus
   Affiliations    Policies,     Procedures,    and      Guidelines       (PPG),    found      at
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=AE-ED-03-54.
   1.7.2. AETC/CC is the CCAF governing authority. Among his responsibilities outlined in
   AFI 36-2304 are the obligations to provide required resources as well as policies for
   academic programs and operations.
   1.7.3. For AETC Flying Training, all matters requiring HHQ involvement are directed to the
   AETC/A3V Superintendent. Units will provide justification, when requested, to AETC/A3V
   Superintendent on factors that prevented instructors teaching in CCAF degree-applicable
   courses from completing an associate degree within the required timeframe. Additionally,
   affiliated schools will submit a fiscal year annual report electronically by 15 December to
   CCAF Campus Affiliations with a copy to AETC/A3V Superintendent. Annual reports are
   addendums to the schools self-study, and a copy is maintained with the self-study. A sample
   is provided in CCAF PPG.
1.8. Partner Nation Guest Instructor (PNGI). Inter-American Air Forces Academy (IAAFA)
Flying Training pertains to IAAFA courses that prepare student pilots from partner nations for
flight duties. IAAFA PNGIs are normally assigned for two years through a Memorandum of
Agreement (MOA) between the United States and their countries. PNGIs are not required to
speak English, since all IAAFA courses are taught in Spanish.
 6                                                            AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013


                                             Chapter 2

                           ACADEMIC INSTRUCTOR PROGRAM

2.1. Lecture Method Training Requirements. Many individuals mistakenly assume that since
they have completed a positional instructor course such as T-38 Pilot Instructor Training (PIT),
they are also AIs; however, this is not the case. While it is true that they may instruct students
during ground or ancillary training, they are not automatically qualified as an academic instructor
or certified to present specific, testable, academic lectures in a classroom environment. For
example, while an F-15 IP is capable of providing ground training on local area procedures, the
IP is not necessarily qualified to develop a lesson plan and present a lecture to a class on spatial
disorientation. Similarly, an individual capable of presenting a lecture on the C-130J propulsion
system does not mean he/she is also qualified to demonstrate and instruct an actual engine out
go-around. Lecture method training is specifically defined in each formal syllabus as
Academics, and unless otherwise noted in this publication, must be presented by or monitored by
a qualified AI who is certified in the lesson presented.
     2.1.1. AI qualification (CCAF and non-CCAF) denotes completion of an approved AI course
     and an evaluation that has demonstrated an individual’s knowledge, capacity, and suitability
     to perform as an academic instructor and present instructional material in a lecture format.
     AI qualification does not necessarily imply competence as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) in
     a career field or weapon system.
     2.1.2. Certification denotes subject matter expertise in specific lessons and courseware.
2.2. Approved AI Qualification Courses. AI qualification courses must contain fundamental
instructor competencies to include, but not limited to teaching methodologies, questioning
techniques, academic counseling, professional and unprofessional relationships, and discipline
and motivation procedures (if applicable).
     2.2.1. AETC/A3V maintains a current list of approved AI qualification courses on the AF
     Portal                                                                               at:
     https://www.my.af.mil/gcssaf/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=sA4057E1F34154
     9B1013438EB54D90B09.
     2.2.2. Units may forward request for other AI qualification course approvals or waivers to
     AETC/A3V. AI qualification waivers for PNGIs is delegated to IAAFA/CC.
     2.2.3. Document training on AF Form 4061, Record of Training, or equivalent, and maintain
     it in the AI’s training records, or according to service contract requirements. In all instances
     of documentation, use of electronic forms is authorized, to include use of electronic
     signatures. In all instances, computer-generated forms must mirror AF forms as published on
     the USAF E-Publishing web site.
2.3. AI Qualification. Initial AI qualification evaluations are not necessarily given at an
individual’s duty location. An AI course and resulting evaluation may be completed in a TDY
status at a location not associated with the MDS syllabus material the AI will subsequently be
certified to instruct. However, some flying training syllabuses do contain all required subject
matter material (see paragraph 2.2) required to be recognized as an approved AI course. If so,
AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       7


units may elect to give the initial qualification evaluation in conjunction with a specific lesson
certification (see paragraph 2.4).
   2.3.1. Qualification evaluations focus on areas such as lesson preparation, lesson plan use,
   instructional techniques and delivery, use of training aids, time management, completion of
   lesson objectives, student measurement administration, and feedback to students.
   2.3.2. Document qualification evaluations on AETC Form 281, Instructor Evaluation
   Checklist; AETC Form 620, Academic Instructor Monitoring Checklist; or AETC Form
   620E, T25 Academic Instructor Monitoring Checklist; as appropriate.
2.4. AI Certification. Unit representatives confirm through the certification process that a
qualified AI is competent in specific lessons, phases, or courses.
   2.4.1. AI Lesson, Phase, or Course. Prior to designating an AI as capable of instructing
   syllabus identified lessons, units will ensure:
       2.4.1.1. The AI has reviewed all of the applicable lesson materials, including computer-
       based materials.
       2.4.1.2. A lesson-designated AI, contractor site manager, flight commander (or above),
       QAE, QAR, or COR monitors the AI while instructing a lesson. If the contractor site
       manager, flight commander (or above), QAE, QAR, or COR is not certified in the lesson,
       a lesson-designated AI must be present during the monitoring to ensure course content is
       presented properly. The upgrading AI must demonstrate thorough application and
       knowledge of the lesson information and proper presentation.
       2.4.1.3. AIs will complete an academic test associated with the applicable academic
       lesson, phase, or course. The minimum passing score is 90 percent. AIs who do not
       score at least 90 percent will not instruct any academic lessons until they complete a
       retake and score at least 90 percent. Recurring evaluations also require academic testing.
       2.4.1.4. It is recommended that AIs be certified by individual lessons; however, units
       may elect to designate academic instructor certification by phase or complete course
       rather than individual lessons. If so, the unit is not required to monitor each individual
       lesson performance, nor is the AI required to take every test associated with the various
       lessons as part of the initial certification. However, they will be administered at least one
       academic test associated with the phase or block that is representative of the material they
       will teach. The upgrading AI will not teach any lesson, phase or block of training unless
       lesson designated AI is present. This restriction is removed once the AI is certified in the
       lesson, phase or course. Once an AI is certified in a phase or course, he/she is liable for
       evaluation, on each lesson within the phase or course to include the associated academic
       tests.
       2.4.1.5. Lesson, phase, or course designation certifications are documented in the AI’s
       training records via a new entry on the AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications, AF
       Form 4141, Individual’s Record of Duties and Experience Ground Environment
       Personnel ,or equivalent and a letter of Xs or memorandums, as determined by applicable
       local or MDS-specific guidance.
 8                                                             AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013


2.5. Recurring AI Qualifications. Recurring AI qualification evaluations are required
annually, unless teaching a CCAF accredited course. If required by CCAF, the frequency of
evaluations will be accomplished to satisfy CCAF accreditation requirements.
     2.5.1. Recurring AI qualifications are conducted on lessons that are representative of the
     instructor's duties based on the Academic Letter of X’s or training records. The intent is to
     determine the AI’s continued academic instructional capability, not to verify proficiency in
     each lesson identified by the Academic Letter of Xs. There is no annual requirement to
     evaluate each lesson the AI is certified to instruct nor is there a requirement to take every
     academic test for all the lessons in which the AI is certified. However, if identified as
     certified to instruct a lesson, AIs are liable for evaluation in that lesson, to include the
     associated academic testing.
     2.5.2. Academic testing is also a recurring annual requirement and must be completed within
     30 days (plus or minus) of the academic platform evaluation (See Paragraph 2.6.1). AIs will
     complete an academic test associated with an applicable academic lesson within their
     eligibility period. The minimum score is 90 percent. AIs that do not score at least 90 percent
     will not instruct any academic lessons until they complete a retake and score at least 90
     percent.
     2.5.3. Failure of any portion of an instructor academic evaluation results in loss of AI status
     until remedial training or recertification in the academic area of failure.
     2.5.4. Failure of an academic evaluation does not affect mission qualification or Positional
     Instructor qualification status. However, failure of a PI evaluation results in loss of AI status
     until remedial training and reevaluation.
     2.5.5. Evaluators and/or AI qualified supervisors will identify remedial training for failure of
     an academic test or academic platform evaluation. A minimum of 24 hours must elapse
     before administering a re-examination to allow for an adequate period to study, however the
     applicable reevaluation must be completed within 30 days.
     2.5.6. Document recurring qualification evaluations on AETC Form 281, Instructor
     Evaluation Checklist; AETC Form 620, Academic Instructor Monitoring Checklist; or AETC
     Form 620E, T25 Academic Instructor Monitoring Checklist; as appropriate.
2.6. Eligibility Period. AI evaluations expire on the last day of the 12th month after initial
qualification. This is the qualification due date. For example, if the initial qualification or
recurring qualification was completed 15 January 2012, the recurring qualification must be
accomplished by 31 January 2013.
     2.6.1. AI requalification eligibility period is the 3 months prior to the qualification or
     requalification expiration date. Squadron commanders may extend the eligibility period (and
     the AI qualification) for up to 1 month due to unusual circumstances. Note: Although there
     is a sliding academic testing window, all efforts should be made to ensure annual academic
     testing occurs within the same calendar month as the academic platform evaluation.
     Regardless, once the annual recurring evaluation process is initiated, all requirements must
     be completed within 30 days.
        2.6.1.1. Update the recurring AI qualification due date when the complete AI evaluation
        is accomplished.
AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    9


       2.6.1.2. If a recurring qualification is not completed prior to the end of the eligibility
       period, the squadron commander may grant a 30-day extension. The individual will not
       perform AI duties until the academic qualification is complete. The individual may
       continue to perform positional instructor duties at the SQ/CC discretion. The training
       officer documents in training records.
       2.6.1.3. If more than 30 days elapse, the individual loses academic instructor
       qualification. No academic instruction may be performed until the individual has
       received an academic platform qualification (AETC Form 620 or 281 required).
2.7. AI Evaluators. The squadron commander may authorize flight commanders, assistant
flight commanders, Instructor Supervisors (Is), Affiliated School Liaisons (ASL), and SMEs as
qualifying officials. These individuals may give initial and recurring evaluations.
   2.7.1. Contract instructors supporting air advisor operations will be validated by AETC/A3Q
   prior to USAF instruction.
2.8. AI Currency. AIs will maintain currency by instructing a non-administrative lesson at
least once every 120 calendar days. It is recognized that some lesson plans identify that the
material may be taught in either a classroom or field and/or laboratory environment. If not
specifically identified in the course syllabus as academic lectures, these lessons may still be
counted toward currency requirements after evaluation and approval by squadron commanders
on a case-by-case basis.
   2.8.1. AIs who have not instructed in 120 calendar days are considered noncurrent. Loss of
   AI currency requires the AI to be monitored by another AI or AI certifier during an academic
   lesson to regain currency. No AETC Form 281 or 620 is required, and the individual may
   continue to perform PI duties. Document in the training folder.
   2.8.2. AIs who have not instructed in over 180 days are considered unqualified. Loss of AI
   status requires the AI to complete additional training as determined by the squadron
   commander and an AI requalification (AETC Form 281,620, or 620E required). No
   academic instruction may be performed until the individual has received the AI
   requalification. A memorandum for record completed by the squadron commander
   indicating reappointment as an academic instructor is required. Document in the training
   folder.
2.9. AI Continuation Training (CT). Schedule academic CT meetings periodically to ensure
quality instruction. Discuss both administrative topics and instruction techniques. Emphasize
specific academic topics such as proper questioning techniques, increasing student involvement,
improving transitions and interim summaries, presenting ideas for attention and motivation steps,
exchanging AI innovations, and improving communication skills.
2.10. AI QAE, QAR, or COR Requirements. QAEs, QARs, or CORs who oversee academic
training contracts will complete an approved AIC. Attend AIC training within 120 days of
assuming duties. AIC training is required prior to conducting AI oversight.
2.11. Nonprogression in the Academic Instructor Program. Notify the Squadron Operations
Officer (DO) of individuals who cannot perform or meet the unit training mission requirements.
These individuals will be referred to the squadron commander for administrative action
 10                                                        AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013


according to AFI 36-2101 when substandard performance indicates the individual is unable to
perform tasks associated with his or her skill level.
2.12. Courseware Reviews. Each Undergraduate Flying Training AI will conduct a semi-
annual review of all courseware associated with each phase/course/lesson in which they are
certified to instruct. Discrepancies and change recommendations should be routed through
proper channels back to AETC/A3FO. In addition, unit designated AI’s will conduct reviews of
draft revised courseware and provide feedback to the applicable OPR in order to be
considered/implemented in the final product.
2.13. F-35 AIs. Due to level of program maturity and F-35 instructor manning constraints,
qualification as an F-35 IP satisfies AIC requirements with the following caveats:
   2.13.1. 33OSS/OST, 58 FS/DOW, and SMEs authorized by 58 FS/CC qualify as certifying
   officials for academic instructors.
   2.13.2. 33 OSS/OST and 58 FS/DO are tasked with identifying those individuals capable of
   instructing specific academic lessons and maintaining documentation of such (e.g., letter of
   Xs or AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications).
   2.13.3. Annually, F-35 AIs must achieve a minimum score of 90 percent on a measurement
   instrument that encompasses all subject areas for the academic lessons they teach. 33
   OSS/OST is the OPR for the measurement instrument and 58 FS/DOT will track this
   currency. Evaluations on individual tests associated with blocks of instruction are not
   required.
2.14. Air Advisor AIs (Non-USAF Aircraft). Due to the transient nature of Air Advisor
training programs on non-USAF aircraft, the following methodology will be used to comply with
the intent of AI program requirements:
   2.14.1. AIs from outside the USAF (contractor, sister-service, other government agency,
   etc.) will be considered qualified if they received training equivalent to AIC as judged by an
   A3Q program manager (PM) or QA/COR who has attended an Academic Instructor Course.
   2.14.2. AIs from outside the USAF will be certified in the classes or blocks of instruction
   they are to teach after completing a certification process developed and administered IAW
   the contract and/or owning organization’s policy. Certification will be by the AIs owning
   organization / company in writing and completed prior to conducting unsupervised academic
   instruction for Air Advisor students.
   2.14.3. Due to the inconsistent frequency of Air Advisor class schedules, currency
   requirements are not applicable. However, proficiency must be maintained in order to
   comply with paragraph 2.14.4
   2.14.4. AIs will be evaluated annually by an AETC A3Q PM or QA/COR. Evaluation
   failures will be handled IAW paragraph. 2.5.3 through 2.5.5
AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    11


                                               Chapter 3

                            MASTER INSTRUCTOR PROGRAMS

3.1. General. This voluntary achievement denotes exemplary subject matter expertise and
teaching ability that instructors have developed through education and training experiences in
addition to initial qualification training.
   3.1.1. Eligible personnel are:
       3.1.1.1. Flying training instructors.
       3.1.1.2. Survival Evasion Resistance Escape (SERE) training instructors (AFSC 1T0X1).
       3.1.1.3. Flying training and SERE training instructors (AFSC 1T0X1) assigned outside
       of AETC are eligible to accumulate points toward master instructor. The instructor's
       points will be evaluated for award of the certificate upon reassignment to AETC.
   3.1.2. Individuals who earn master instructor status are authorized to wear the AETC Master
   Instructor Badge according to the guidelines in AETCI 36-2901, Wear of the AETC
   Instructor and Master Instructor Badges; and AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance
   of Air Force Personnel, as supplemented.
3.2. Experience Criteria:
   3.2.1. Flying Training Instructors. Instructors are required to have 2 years of teaching
   experience after completion of a formal instructor training course. A minimum of 6 months
   of experience must be in the current tour.
   3.2.2. SERE Instructors. Instructors are required to have 3 years instructor experience. Two
   years of this experience must have been in a duty assignment in which the instructor taught a
   minimum of 24 hours each fiscal quarter.
   3.2.3. SERE Trainers. Instructors are required to have a minimum of 18 months of
   experience as a trainer in on the job training.
3.3. Academic Criteria:
   3.3.1. Officers must have at least a baccalaureate degree. SERE and enlisted flying training
   instructors and civilians must have at least an associate degree.
   3.3.2. Academic credit beyond the baccalaureate degree for officers and beyond the
   associate degree for enlisted and civilian instructors is encouraged. These degree levels
   represent the minimum required for instructor duty. Master instructor status should
   exemplify achievements that exceed the minimum requirement.
3.4. Master Instructor Process. Flying training and SERE instructors earn master instructor by
accumulating a total of 30 points for specific education, training, and job functions. Master
points are required in at least four of the following six areas:
   3.4.1. Five points maximum can be earned for completing resident military or civilian
   courses that do not award an Air Force specialty or instructor rating, but are job related. One
   point is earned for courses less than 3 weeks in length. Two points are earned for courses 3
   weeks or longer.
 12                                                          AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013


   3.4.2. Ten (maximum 15) points are required in the area of college education.
   Recommended subject areas are psychology of learning, counseling, human resources
   development, test analysis, journalism, English composition, speech or other communicative
   skills, and courses related to the instructors AFSC. Each Semester Hour (SH) counts for 2
   points and each quarter hour counts for 1.3 points. Note: Credit is not earned for military
   courses that have been evaluated for college equivalent credit. Credit is not earned for
   courses taken toward the minimum required degree. CLEP or Dantes tests do not apply.
   3.4.3. Flying training and SERE instructors may earn 10 points maximum for selection as
   instructor of the quarter or year.
       3.4.3.1. Flying training instructors may earn points as follows: one point for unit
       instructor of the quarter, three points for unit instructor of the year, and six points for
       AETC instructor of the year.
       3.4.3.2. SERE instructors may earn points as follows: one point for unit instructor of the
       quarter, three points for unit instructor of the year, five points for AETC Instructor of the
       Year, and seven points for USAF Instructor of the Year. Note: Unit is minimum of
       squadron level.
   3.4.4. A maximum of five points can be earned for completing job-related correspondence
   courses. The point value per course hour is 0.12.
   3.4.5. A maximum of 10 points may be earned by taking part in continuation and/or
   recurring training not required to maintain currency or qualification. This training enhances
   or improves instructor knowledge or performance, other than upgrade training, in courses
   that broaden the basic level area of expertise. Such training could include Federal Aviation
   Administration certification and computer courses. Each 12 hours of training earns 1 point.
   3.4.6. A maximum of 10 points may be earned for teaching qualification training. One point
   is earned for every 6 hours of qualification training taught. The instructor cannot receive
   duplicate credit for teaching and receiving training in the same subject.
3.5. Responsibilities:
   3.5.1. AETC/A3V. Determines policy and requirements for the SERE and flying training
   master instructor programs.
   3.5.2. Operations Group Commander. Final approving authority for awarding the master
   instructor certificate.
   3.5.3. Unit Commanders. Approve, sign, and forward AETC Form 329, SERE and Aircrew
   Master Instructor Qualification Record, and AETC Form 630, Master Instructor Certificate,
   to the CCAF ASL.
   3.5.4. ASL, IS or designated individual:
       3.5.4.1. Review applications to ensure the requirements of this instruction are met.
       3.5.4.2. Maintain a listing of all individuals awarded master instructor certificates.
       3.5.4.3. Ensure dissemination within the squadron of policies pertaining to the SERE and
       flying training Master Instructor Programs.
AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  13


     3.5.4.4. Initiate and maintain an AETC Form 329 for individuals working toward master
     instructor.
     3.5.4.5. Keep AETC Form 329 in the AF Form 623A, On - The - Job Training Record
     Continuation Sheet (for technical sergeants and below), or with the faculty folder, and
     remove it when the certificate is awarded or when the individual is no longer pursuing
     master instructor status.
     3.5.4.6. Prepare the final AETC Form 329 when all requirements are met.
     3.5.4.7. Prepare AETC Form 630 with a signature block on the left for the unit
     commander and on the right for the group commander.
     3.5.4.8. Forward AETC Form 329 and AETC Form 630 through the chain of command
     to the unit commander.




                                         MICHAEL A. KELTZ, Major General, USAF
                                         Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                         Integration
 14                                                      AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges, 25 September
2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 7 March 2006
AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors, 12 November 2003
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 August 2006, and its
AETC supplement
AETCI 36-2901, Wear of the AETC Instructor and Master Instructor Badges, 16 November
2009
CCAF Campus Affiliations Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines (PPG) (located at:
https://ccaf.maxwell.af.mil/)
Prescribed Forms
AETC Form 329, SERE and Aircrew Master Instructor Qualification Record
AETC Form 620, Academic Instructor Monitoring Checklist
AETC Form 620E, T25 Academic Instructor Monitoring Checklist
Adopted Forms
AETC Form 281, Instructor Evaluation Checklist
AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet
AETC Form 630, Master Instructor Certificate
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4061 Record of Training
AF Form 4141, Individual’s Record of Duties and Experience Ground Environment Personnel
AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AI—Academic Instructor
AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       15


AIC—Academic Instructor Course
AIS—Academic Instructor School
ASL—Affiliated School Liaison
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
COR—Contracting Officer’s Representative
CT—Continuation Training
DNIC—Duties Not Including Controlling
DNIF—Duties Not Involving Flying
FMP—Flight Manual Program
IMC—Instructor Methodology Course
IP—Instructor Pilot
IS—Instructor Supervisor
ISD—Instruction System Development
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
OG—Operations Group
OIC—Occupational Instructor Certification
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIT—Pilot Instructor Training
PPG—Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines
QA—Quality Assurance
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
QAR—Quality Assurance Representative
SERE—Survival Evasion Resistance Escape
SME—Subject Matter Expert

Terms
Additional Training—Includes any training or action recommended by a unit commander that
must be completed following removal or downgrade in instructor status.
Air Advisor—general purpose force (GPF) personnel tasked as Air Advisors with the
knowledge and skills necessary to assess, train/educate, advise, and assist partner nations (PN) in
support of our National Military Strategy. Air Advisor education and training improves the
USAF ability to operate in an Irregular Warfare (IW) environment and enhances partnerships
and partnership capacity with traditional allies, as well as developing nations of strategic interest
to the United States.
 16                                                      AETCI36-2604 9 OCTOBER 2013


Certification—Designation of an individual by the organization commander as having
completed required training and being capable of performing in a role, mission, job, etc., for
which no qualification training program exists.
Currency—Currency is compliance with annual positional proficiency required by this
directive.
Downgrade—The downgrading of an individual’s instructor status due to failure to meet annual
currency requirements, or the unit CC determines the individual to be non-proficient.
