BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 10-401
COMMAND
                                                                       21 DECEMBER 2010
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 16 November 2011
                                                                  VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                                16 APRIL 2014

                                                                                    Operations

                                                   CONTINGENCY PLANS MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A3OX                                               Certified by: HQ AETC/A2/3O
                                                                          (Col Mark R. Morris)
                                                                                     Pages: 33
                                        (VANCEAFB)
OPR: 71 FTW/XP                                                        Certified by: 71 FTW/XP
                                                                     (Terri L. Schaefer, DAFC)
                                                                                       Pages:14


This instruction implements AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary
Force (AEF), 30 April 2009. It contains the procedures that will be used for base level plans
management under AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance. This guide
outlines the responsibilities and procedures for base-level plan development and unit-level plan
management. This instruction implements command guidance for contingency/operational
planning at Headquarters, Air Education and Training Command (HQ AETC) and AETC bases.
It is applicable to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) operational planners. It is not applicable
to Air National Guard (ANG) units. It describes HQ staff responsibilities and provides guidance
for maintenance of base-level operational plans. This applies to tenant organizations as well as
HQ AETC-owned activities.

Units coordinate local supplements to this instruction through AETC/A3OX prior to publication.
Submit suggested changes to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through command channels, to HQ AETC/A3OX, 1 F Street, Suite 2, Randolph
AFB TX, 78150-4325. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
 2                                            AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Management System (RDS) located in Air Force Management System(AFRIMS) on the Air
Force Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

Introduction Note: Experience and history have shown that actions taken during an emergency,
contingency, or disaster response, as well as recovery actions, are much more effective if
planned. Plans help units respond to a crisis and minimize the time it takes to organize and begin
recovery actions. The longer it takes a unit to react effectively, the greater the potential for loss
of life and USAF resources. Plans help focus our efforts so we do the right things quickly and
the most important things first. When more than one person is involved, plans help sort out who
does what and when. Plans, operating instructions, and checklists are commonly considered the
products of planning. When preparing plans, never forget that personnel organized, equipped,
and trained to respond to a variety of contingencies are the most important “product” of
planning.

(VANCEAFB) This publication supplements Air Education and Training Command Instruction
(AETCI)       10-401, Contingency Plans Management, 21 December 2010. It provides policies,
guidance, and tasking for Unit Plans Representatives to manage their unit programs in support of
the Vance AFB plans program. This supplement applies to all Vance AFB agencies with support
requirements. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and are disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the Vance AFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI
11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling
out the form.) The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements new guidelines that clarify requirements for an AETC
organization’s Reconstitution of Mission Plan (RoMP). This guidance reflects format, content,
frequency of review and establishes exercise requirements of an organization’s RoMP. At a
minimum, each installation (Wing) will develop a RoMP. Commanders of units subordinate to
the Wing may develop a RoMP as they see fit based on mission requirements. For the purposes
of this document, a tenant is an organization assigned to an installation in which another
MAJCOM serves as host. Other MAJCOM’s units that are hosted on AETC installations are not
subject to this instruction. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)         Records      Disposition     Schedule       (RDS)      located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                                                                  3



      1.     Program Elements: .................................................................................................        3
      2.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................    4
      3.     Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG): .................................................................                         7
      4.     Staff Assistance Visits: ..........................................................................................        8
      5.     Plan Organization: .................................................................................................       8
      6.     Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................      13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         14

Attachment 2—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE TABLE OF CONTENTS FORMAT                                                                          16

Attachment 3—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE BASIC PLAN                                                                                        18

Attachment 4—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE ANNEX FORMAT                                                                                      20

Attachment 5—RECONSTITUTION OF MISSION PLAN FORMAT                                                                                     22

Attachment 6—(Added-VANCEAFB) VANCE AFB CONTINGENCY PLANS                                                                              24

Attachment 7—(Added-VANCEAFB) SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER                                                                                25

Attachment 8—(Added-VANCEAFB) NEW PLAN PREPARATION PROCEDURES                                                                          26

Attachment 9—(Added-VANCEAFB) SAMPLE E-SSS MESSAGE FOR PLAN
             COORDINATION                                                                                                              29

Attachment 10—(Added-VANCEAFB) CHANGING/REVISING A PLAN                                                                                30

Attachment 11—(Added-VANCEAFB) SAMPLE LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL FOR
             PLAN CHANGE                                                                                                               32

Attachment 12—(Added-VANCEAFB) PLANS REVIEWS                                                                                           33


1. Program Elements:
   1.1. Plans Summary. The Plans Summary is designed to provide a condensed reference of
   all AETC contingency plans. The summary outlines HQ AETC plans and all wing-level
   plans required by HQ AETC or Headquarters, United States Air Force (HQ USAF)
   directives. AETC wing plans officers will publish a base plans summary adapted to their
   base. The base plans summary will be reviewed annually and updated as necessary. AETC
   tenant organizations will provide plans information for the host unit summary.
   1.1. (VANCEAFB) A condensed reference of all Vance AFB plans is located at
   S:\Public\XP-Plans & Programs\PLANS\VAFB Plans Summary Guide or by contacting the
   Plans & Programs Office (71 FTW/XP).
      1.1.1. AETC Contingency Plans Listing. Every January, HQ AETC/A3OX will publish
      a listing of AETC contingency plans. The listing includes all plans published by HQ
 4                                           AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


        AETC and all wing plans required by HQ AETC or HQ USAF plans and directives. This
        listing is provided to assist wing plans officers and applicable HQ AETC staff OPRs with
        plan development and management. The listing may be accessed via the HQ
        AETC/A3OX                Community             of         Practice      (CoP)         at
        https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-OP-AE-
        97.
        1.1.2. To assist HQ AETC/A3OX in updating the AETC contingency plans listing, all
        HQ AETC directorates who require wings to prepare base-level or supporting plans will
        review their requirements and provide updates to AETC/A3OX by December to ensure
        currency of the listing.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. HQ AETC Functional Staff:
        2.1.1. Publish the initial contingency plan and all changes and revisions.
        2.1.2. Review base-level contingency plans for accuracy of content within 45 days of
        plan publication.
        2.1.3. Provide guidance to subordinate units on contingency plans for which they are
        responsible.
        2.1.4. Monitor suspenses for base-level contingency plan publication and distribution.
     2.2. HQ AETC/A3OX:
        2.2.1. Determine plan format.     If not specified by other directives, use the format
        presented in this instruction.
        2.2.2. Accomplish and distribute AETC Contingency Plans Listing in January of each
        year.
     2.3. Wing Plans Officers (Operational Planners):
        2.3.1. Must have a Secret clearance. If handling of classified material is required, the
        wing plans officer will also have access to SIPRnet.
        2.3.2. Review all base-level operations/contingency plans before final publication and
        distribution. AETC tenant organization plans officers will review AETC-mandated plans
        and supplements to host-unit plans.
        2.3.2. (VANCEAFB) Prior to submission to the wing commander or higher
        headquarters for approval, 71 FTW/XP will review all plans and changes. Unless
        otherwise directed in higher headquarters guidance, the Wing Commander is the
        approving authority for all newly developed and major revisions to contingency plans. A
        major revision is one in which tasking has been changed or additional requirements have
        been included. The plan OPR may approve minor revisions and changes. A minor
        revision is one in which administrative changes (office symbols, format, etc.) and
        additional or supplemental guidance are made.
        2.3.3. If serving as OPR for a plan, coordinate on and delegate responsibilities for
        preparation of functional area inputs. The OPR is determined by the source document
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                         5


     requiring the plan or by the wing commander.          Normally, the base OPR will be
     functionally aligned with the HQ AETC OPR.
     2.3.4. Provide training for newly-assigned AETC and tenant organization plans
     representatives within 30 days of appointment. AETC tenant organization plans officers
     need only brief newly assigned AETC plans representatives. Items covered should
     include key responsibilities, plans format, plans review, staff assistance visits (SAVs),
     and local considerations.
     2.3.5. Establish a plans review program. Consideration should be given to aligning
     reviews with functional AFI requirements. In the absence of such guidance, plans will be
     reviewed at least once in a 24-month period. Plans mandated to be reviewed more
     frequently by higher headquarter directives will be reviewed accordingly. AETC tenant
     organizations will establish a similar program within their AOR.
     2.3.5. (VANCEAFB) Unless otherwise directed by higher headquarters instructions,
     reviews will be initiated 12 weeks prior to the anniversary month of the plan to allow for
     adequate revision and review. See Attachment 13 for plan review guidance.
     2.3.6. Conduct staff assistance visits (SAVs) at least once per calendar year with all
     AETC and tenant organizations having contingency plan requirements. Document SAV
     results and keep on file for two years. AETC tenant organizations will establish a similar
     program within their AOR.
     2.3.7. Ensure all plans representatives conduct a self-inspection of their program at least
     once per calendar year. AETC tenant wings will ensure programs under their purview
     conduct self inspections at least once per calendar year.
     2.3.8. AETC host wing plans officers should strongly consider establishing a wing plans
     working group (WPWG) comprised of plans representatives from functional areas and
     tenants with support requirements. AETC tenant wing plans offices should participate in
     host wing plans working groups as necessary.
     2.3.9. Review and ensure the wing commander (or designated representative) approves
     base contingency plans.
     2.3.10. Review the current AETC Contingency Plans Listing to ensure compliance with
     plans requirements.
     2.3.11. Ensure proper distribution of base plans to tasked organizations and the
     appropriate HQ AETC functional OPR. Distribution of the wing contingency plans will
     be in accordance with the HQ AETC Contingency Plans Listing. AETC tenant wings
     will ensure correct distribution within their wing.
     2.3.12. Conduct key personnel briefings to include:
        2.3.12.1. Initial briefings on all base-level war and contingency plans for newly
        assigned key personnel within 60 days after they assume that position. The wing
        commander designates key personnel in writing (normally group and squadron
        commanders, others as desired).
        2.3.12.2. Refresher briefings on plans for designated key personnel annually.
6                                           AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


       2.3.13. Publish local guidance for plans management. Include HQ AETC/A3OX in
       distribution. Consider the following for inclusion in the document:
          2.3.13.1. Plans development, coordination, approval, publication, and revision
          guidance.
          2.3.13.2. Supporting checklist development.
          2.3.13.3. Unit plans representative guidance.
          2.3.13.4. Base-level plans summary (AETC host wings only).
       2.3.14. Prepare a Wing Contingency Plans listing to include, as a minimum, plan short
       title, date published, OPR, and changes posted. Update as necessary, but at least
       annually, and distribute to all wing and tenant unit plans representatives. AETC tenant
       units will create a similar listing for their plans.
       2.3.14. (VANCEAFB) The Vance AFB Wing Contingency Plans Listing is updated as
       changes occur and is available at S:\Public\XP-Plans & Programs\Vance Plans Listing or
       by contacting 71 FTW/XP.
       2.3.15. Ensure all base level plans are available either by electronic means (i.e., CoP,
       SIPRnet, NIPRnet, SharePoint) or hard copy in accordance with the HQ AETC
       Contingency Plans Listing. AETC tenant wings will ensure similar availability for their
       plans.
       2.3.15. (VANCEAFB) Vance plans are available               at     S:\Public\XP-Plans     &
       Programs\PLANS or by contacting 71 FTW/XP.
    2.4. Unit Plans Representatives:
       2.4.1. Will be an officer or noncommissioned officer (or civilian equivalent) with at least
       a Secret clearance who is thoroughly familiar with the unit's operation and capabilities.
       Commanders should consider one year retainability as a minimum when appointing
       new plans representatives. Send a letter of appointment to the wing plans officer within
       10 workdays of appointment. (Note: Contractors authorized as the unit plans officer
       must have a security clearance to handle classified up to the Secret level.) Security
       clearances will be validated by a unit security manager and included on the letter of
       appointment.
       2.4.1. (VANCEAFB) A sample appointment letter for Unit Plans Representatives is
       located in Attachment 8 to this supplement.
          2.4.1.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) Schedule unit plans representative training with 71
          FTW/XP within 30 days of appointment. Attend refresher training as provided by 71
          FTW/XP.
          2.4.1.2. (Added-VANCEAFB) The Operations and Maintenance contractor at
          Vance AFB is fully integrated into planning. With the exception of administrative
          matters, 71 FTW/XP will follow the formal chain for communication and direction
          through Contract Administration (71 CONF/LGC), when contractor tasking and inter-
          agency correspondence are necessary.
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                         7


     2.4.2. If serving as OPR for a plan, coordinate on and delegate responsibilities for
     preparation of functional area inputs. The OPR is determined by the source document
     requiring the plan or by the wing commander. Normally, the base OPR will be
     functionally aligned with the HQ AETC OPR.
     2.4.3. Inform the wing plans officer when a higher-headquarters directive or plan creates
     a requirement to develop or change a wing plan.
     2.4.4. Brief new AETC and tenant organization key personnel within 60 days of their
     assignment on all plans and changes that affect their specific functional area. Give
     additional briefings, as required, to cover new plans or changes. Document all briefings.
     2.4.5. Ensure adequate instructions, checklists, etc., are developed to implement plans
     under which their agency is tasked.
     2.4.6. Participate in SAVs within their agency with the wing plans officer. Keep SAV
     results on file for two years.
         2.4.6.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) Corrective action replies to SAV reports are
         forwarded in writing to                71 FTW/XP through the unit commander. A
         follow-up reply is due every 30 days until corrective action has been completed for all
         items.
     2.4.7. Conduct a self-inspection of their program at least once per calendar year.
     2.4.7. (VANCEAFB) The annual self-inspection may be combined with the wing self-
     assessment program. Document the results.
     2.4.8. (Added-VANCEAFB) Maintain plans continuity documentation (hard copy or
     electronic) comprising of the following, at a minimum:
         2.4.8.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) UPR appointment letter.
         2.4.8.2. (Added-VANCEAFB) Plans staff assistance visit report and replies for the
         previous 2 years.
         2.4.8.3. (Added-VANCEAFB) The most recent Plans Self-Inspection Checklist and
         results.
         2.4.8.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) Documentation of plans reviews (unless hard copies
         of plans are maintained and documented).
3. Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG):
  3.1. The creation of a WPWG is highly encouraged at all installations. For tenant
  organizations, membership in host-unit WPWGs is also highly encouraged. WPWG
  membership should consist of the wing plans officer and squadron/unit plans representatives.
  Consideration should be given to local, off-base subject matter experts for inclusion in the
  WPWG.
  3.2. The wing plans officer (or designated representative) should chair or facilitate the
  WPWG.
  3.3. Consider the following for discussion during WPWG meetings:
     3.3.1. Development and coordination of new plans.
 8                                            AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


        3.3.2. Discussion of current plan requirements, i.e. creation of a new plan annex
        3.3.3. Review of local procedures and a “How Goes It?” seminar to ensure current plans
        satisfy requirements.
        3.3.4. Introduction of new plans representatives.
4. Staff Assistance Visits:
     4.1. Wing staff assistance visits are an integral part of a comprehensive wing plans
     surveillance program. Conduct staff assistance visits at least annually. The squadron
     commander (or equivalent) of the AETC or tenant organization will respond in writing to the
     wing plans officer indicating corrective actions taken. Report open items to wing plans
     officer every 30 days until the corrective action is completed. Wing plans officers will:
        4.1.1. Publish a proposed staff assistance visit schedule for the entire calendar year.
        4.1.2. Confirm visit with the squadron commander (or equivalent) of each AETC and
        tenant organization before the visit to establish time, date, and purpose.
     4.2. Staff assistance visits must be task-oriented and not primarily administrative in nature.
     Consider the following items for review during SAVs.
        4.2.1. Review to ensure plans adequacy.
        4.2.2. Review of all plans to ensure that supervisors are aware of, and can support,
        specific functional area tasking.
        4.2.3. Review of all tasked plans on file for currency.
        4.2.4. Actions for preparing plans.
        4.2.5. Review of functional area Crisis Action Team (CAT), or Installation Control
        Center (ICC) checklists for currency and adequacy.
        4.2.6. Review of classification procedures. (Ensure actions listed in checklists, operating
        instructions, etc., are classified properly.)
     4.3. During staff assistance visits, items discussed must be documented to include
     deficiencies noted, actions taken, open items, and those corrected on the spot. Highlight
     recurring deficiencies. Provide a formal reply to the squadron commander of the AETC or
     tenant organization visited. Unit plans representatives will keep copies of staff assistance
     visit reports on file for two years.
     4.3. (VANCEAFB) For contractor agencies, the report will be sent, in turn, to the
     government organization providing surveillance over the unit and then to the director of the
     contractor agency visited.
        4.3.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) The squadron commander or chief of the agency will
        respond in writing to     71 FTW/XP indicating corrective actions taken. Open items
        will be reported to 71 FTW/XP every 30 days until corrective action is completed.
5. Plan Organization:
     5.1. Identifying Plans. Wing plans offices will assign a number and or title to their base
     contingency plans to coincide with the number and or title of the HQ USAF or AETC plans
     they support or as specified by higher headquarters or other governing directives.
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                           9


  5.2. Plan Format. Wing supporting plans are written in the format of the plan supported or
  as prescribed in a higher headquarters directive. When developing plans that have no
  prescribed format, use the format in AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, as a guide. Annex
  designations listed in Attachment 2 are a guide only and may be realigned as required.
  5.3. Organization of a Plan. All plans should include these elements in the order listed,
  unless specified otherwise in higher headquarters directives:
     5.3.1. Plan Covers. The cover must show the date of the plan, the issuing headquarters,
     short title and number of the plan; proper security classification, administrative markings,
     and caveats; source of classification; and downgrading or declassification instructions.
     Covers must not contain classified information. Mark top and bottom of both covers with
     the overall classification of the plan. Card stock covers may be used on all plans.
     Classified plan covers must be red or pink.
     5.3.2. Letter of Transmittal. The letter of transmittal of a contingency plan should
     identify the reason for preparing the plan. The need for preparing further supporting
     plans must be specified. The OPR for the plan must be identified and disposition
     instructions must be included when the plan supersedes a previous plan.
     5.3.2. (VANCEAFB) The group commander, agency chief, or 71 FTW/XP, will sign
     letters of transmittal for all newly developed and major revisions to Vance AFB plans
     unless higher headquarters regulations/plans specify otherwise.
     5.3.3. Security Instructions and Record of Changes. The security instructions must
     include the long and short titles of the plan and must be the first page (i) following the
     letter of transmittal. State the classification of the plan and any reproduction limitations.
     The record of changes for the plan may be included on the same page as the security
     instructions, or may be a separate page published on the back of the security instructions.
     Reproduction and limitation instructions are included on the "Security Instructions" page.
     5.3.4. Classification Guidance. The classification guidance page lists subjects requiring
     protection (e.g. operational code words, concept of operations, etc.), if any, and the time
     period during which the protection is required (e.g. planning phase, execution phase,
     post-event phase).
     5.3.5. Plan Summary. The plan summary is used for all contingency plans. It provides
     a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing the plan. It also
     provides a brief review of conditions for implementation, operations to be conducted,
     assumptions, operational constraints, command relationships, logistics requirements,
     limiting factors, and commander's appraisal of the logistics and transportation feasibility
     of the plan.
     5.3.6. Table of Contents. See attachment 2. Annex designations are a guide only and
     may be realigned when necessary to fit specific needs. The table of contents should
     include elements that are published separately.
     5.3.7. Basic Plan. The basic plan consists of the seven main paragraphs shown in
     attachment 3. Additional paragraphs may be included to fit the needs of the plan. The
     basic plan shall be signed by the wing commander or designated representative.
10                                         AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


     5.3.8. Attachments to the Plan. Annexes used for the plan shall be listed on the final
     page of the basic plan. Other attachments (appendices, tabs, exhibits, or maps) shall be
     listed on the final page of any attachment which has further attachments. The basic plan
     shall refer to each annex that has been prepared; however, information provided in the
     basic plan is not normally repeated in the attachments. Annexes shall be signed by the
     functional area chief charged with overall responsibility for the annex. See Attachment 4
     for a sample annex.
     5.3.9. Execution Checklist. The execution checklist summarizes the action required by
     the commander preparing the plan to ensure coordinated initiation of operations.
     5.3.10. Distribution List. The distribution list accounts for all copies of the plan and
     informs users which agencies and headquarters maintain copies of the plan. Distribution
     should be held to the minimum essential for planning. Addressees must advise plan
     OPRs of necessary changes to the distribution list.
     5.3.11. Distribution Change Memorandum. All plans shall include a standard
     memorandum that addressees may use to notify the OPR of changes in distribution
     requirements. The distribution change memorandum usually follows the distribution list
     but may also follow the memorandum of transmittal.
  5.4. Change Procedures:
     5.4.1. When to Issue a Change. A plan shall be changed rather than revised if the total
     adjustments (any new or previously changed material) affect less than 40 percent of the
     plan.
     5.4.1. (VANCEAFB) The approving authority for minor revisions and changes is 71
     FTW/XP. A minor revision includes administrative changes, format changes, office
     symbol changes, and adding supplemental guidance to existing procedures.
     5.4.2. Identifying Changes:
        5.4.2.1. The date of the change, the date of the basic plan, and the classification of
        the plan (if other than unclassified) must be included in paragraph 1 of the letter of
        transmittal.
        5.4.2.2. A copy of the distribution list must be attached to the letter of transmittal. If
        a new annex Z is accomplished, a distribution list is not required. The "To" element
        should read: "See Attached Distribution List" or "See Annex Z."
        5.4.2.3. When page changes are made, the change number and the date of the change
        shall be placed in parenthesis below the page number.
     5.4.3. Change Methods:
        5.4.3.1. Page Changes. This is the preferred method of change. This method re-
        accomplishes all pages containing changes. If the change contains classified material,
        two copies of AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate, are
        prepared according to DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, and
        AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
        5.4.3.2. Write-In Changes. Write-in changes (in ink) are permissible but shall not
        be used to make lengthy changes. This procedure may be used only for minor
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                          11


        corrections, such as changes to numbers, dates, single words, short phrases, etc. If
        page changes are also being made, the write-in changes are either included on the AF
        Form 1565, if used, or listed on the change letter of transmittal.
     5.4.4. Change Transmittal. A transmittal letter is prepared for each change and the
     change is distributed to all addressees listed in Annex Z.
  5.5. Security and Document Marking Considerations:
     5.5.1. Classified contingency plans shall be marked according to DoD Regulation
     5200.1-R, AFI 31401, and as follows:
        5.5.1.1. Each plan must be assigned an overall security classification that is
        determined by its content.
        5.5.1.2. Front and back covers and the letter of transmittal shall be marked with the
        overall classification of the plan. The final paragraph of the letter of transmittal shall
        indicate whether the letter of transmittal, when classified attachments are withdrawn,
        is Secret, Confidential, or Unclassified. Any transmittal letters remaining classified
        after attachments are withdrawn must be portion marked and include the "Classified
        by" and "Declassify on" instructions.
        5.5.1.3. The first page of each plan element (the annex, the appendix, the tab, etc.,)
        shall bear the highest classification of any other portion of that element only if the
        element is likely to be used separately. For example, if only the second page of tab B
        contains classified information, the front page of tab B will bear the classification of
        page 2 only if the tab is likely to be removed and used as a separate entity. If not,
        then only page 2 will bear classified markings and the front page of the tab will
        remain unclassified. This also applies to any special markings required because of
        the nature of the information it includes; for example, "Restricted Data."
        5.5.1.4. Each interior page of the classified plan element shall be marked according
        to the highest classification of the information contained on the page, or
        "Unclassified" as appropriate. Center classification markings at the top and bottom of
        each page. Each paragraph and sub-elements of paragraphs must be portion marked
        (TS), (S), (C), or (U) according to the highest level of information contained in or
        revealed by it. EXCEPTION: When the entire annex, appendix, tab, etc., is
        unclassified, portion marking is not required. Place the statement: "This entire
        (annex, appendix, tab, etc.,) is unclassified" on the first page and mark
        "UNCLASSIFIED" at the top and bottom of it and each page of the unclassified
        attachment.
        5.5.1.5. The first page of a classified plan element must contain markings for
        identifying a derivative classification as defined in DoD Regulation 5200.1-R and
        AFI 31-401. Identification of the classification authority must be shown on the
        "Classified by" line. The "Declassify on:" line must reflect the date the document is
        to be declassified (normally 10 years from date of the document). Refer to DoD
        5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents, for additional
        declassification instructions.
12                                       AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


     5.5.2. AETCPAM 33-301, Employees Responsibilities under the Freedom of Information
     Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA), shall be reviewed by plan OPRs to determine if a
     plan falls under its purview. Marking, handling, and disposition of plans determined to
     be "For Official Use Only" will be in accordance with AETCPAM 33-301.
  5.6. Reconstitution of Mission Plan (RoMP):
     5.6.1. RoMPs must be simple and flexible enough to find utility during any crisis. Plans
     mired in excruciating detail with focus on just one type of event will have little or no
     value when confronted with actual circumstances of the disaster at hand.
     5.6.2. AETC/A3OX will:
        5.6.2.1. Ensure each Wing and tenant (when appropriate) has developed a RoMP
        addressing their specified mission requirements.
        5.6.2.2. Review and coordinate each organization’s RoMP.
     5.6.3. Each organization developing a RoMP will:
        5.6.3.1. Develop using the format in Atch 5.
        5.6.3.2. Complete review and update their RoMP NLT 31 August biennially. Submit
        updated RoMP to AETC/A3OX NLT 1 July biennially for coordination. RoMPs will
        be reviewed and updated to the format in Atch 5 within 90 days of this interim-
        change publication date.
        5.6.3.3. Ensure RoMP is fully integrated into the installation exercise program.
        5.6.3.4. Ensure RoMP conveys a clear understanding of risks, and include a plan of
        action and milestones to mitigate those risks.
        5.6.3.5. Post coordinated/signed RoMP to HQ AETC Crisis Action Team (CAT)
        Community of Practice NLT 31 August biennially, or as changes occur.
        5.6.3.6. Complete annual Table Top exercise of the RoMP. The completion of the
        table top exercise will be communicated to A3OX via the After Action Report
        submitted IAW AETCI 10-205, para 5.5.3.
     5.6.4. In most cases, geographically separated, subordinate units will fall under and be
     sufficiently covered by their parent organization’s RoMP. However, when the mission of
     a geographically separated, subordinate unit is too complex/unique to fit under their
     parent organization’s RoMP, the parent organization may direct the subordinate unit to
     develop a RoMP to ensure preservation of the mission. Exceptions are:
        5.6.4.1. 2AF, due to its unique operational mission responsibilities, will develop a
        RoMP IAW with this instruction.
        5.6.4.2. Air Force Recruiting Service will develop a RoMP separate from that of their
        host installation.
        5.6.4.3. Air University, due to its unique organization, will develop a RoMP
        including the 42 ABW mission.
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                          13


6. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate




                                           JAMES A. WHITMORE, Major General, USAF
                                           Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                           Integration

                                           (VANCEAFB)

                                           DARREN V. JAMES, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 14                                       AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 April 2009
AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998
AFI 10-402, Volume 1, Mobilization Planning, and Personnel Readiness, 9 August 2007
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 January 2008
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 18 October 2007
AFI 90-201/AETC Sup 1, Inspector General Activities, 28 June 2010
AETCPAM 33-301, Employee Responsibilities under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
and the Privacy Act (PA), 10 November 2005
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD 5400-7/AFSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 11 April 2006
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
DoD Pamphlet 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents, 1 April 1997
(Added-VANCEAFB) TO 00-33D-3003, Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with the
Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System, 15 February 2012
(Added-VANCEAFB) Adopted Forms
(Added-VANCEAFB) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-VANCEAFB) AETCI—Air Education and Training Command Instruction
(Added-VANCEAFB) AF—Air Force
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFB—Air Force Base
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
(Added-VANCEAFB) ATO—Antiterrorism Officer
(Added-VANCEAFB) BASH—Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard
(Added-VANCEAFB) BSP—Base Support Plan
CAT—Crisis Action Team
(Added-VANCEAFB) CONF—Contracting Flight
CoP—Community of Practice
(Added-VANCEAFB) DCP—Disease Containment Plan
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                          15


DoD—Department of Defense
(Added-VANCEAFB) IAW—In Accordance With
(Added-VANCEAFB) IDP—Installation Deployment Plan
(Added-VANCEAFB) IDP—Integrated Defense Plan
(Added-VANCEAFB) IEMP—Installation Emergency Management Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibilities
(Added-VANCEAFB) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-VANCEAFB) OPSEC—Operations Security
(Added-VANCEAFB) PHEO—Public Health Emergency Officer
(Added-VANCEAFB) QMIS—Quality Management Information System
(Added-VANCEAFB) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RoMP—Reconstitution of Mission Plan
(Added-VANCEAFB) SAR—Search and Rescue
WPWG—Wing Plans Working Group
SIPRNet—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan
(Added-VANCEAFB) XP—Plans and Programs
 16                                       AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                              Attachment 2 (CLASSIFICATION)
                        SAMPLE TABLE OF CONTENTS FORMAT

AETC SAMPLE PLAN (U)
Table of Contents (U)
CONTENTS                                                                               Page
Letter of Transmittal Cover
Security Instructions                                                                       i
Record of Changes and/or Corrections (may be included on same page as security
instructions)                                                                              ii
Plan Summary                                                                       iii thru v
Table of Contents                                                                 vi thru vii
Basic Plan                                                                   BP-1 thru BP-8
Appendix 1, OPSEC                                                                    BP-1-1
Appendix 2, COMSEC                                                                   BP-2-1
Appendix 3, Concept of Operations                                                    BP-3-1
TAB A, Administration & Logistics                                                 BP-3-A-1
TAB B, Command and Control                                                        BP-3-B-1
ANNEX A – TASK ORGANIZATION                                                             A-1
ANNEX B – CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS SUPPORT                                              B-1
ANNEX C – OPERATIONS                                                                    C-1
ANNEX D – LOGISTICS                                                                     D-1
ANNEX E – FORCE SUPPORT                                                                 E-1
ANNEX F – PUBLIC AFFAIRS                                                                 F-1
ANNEX G – AIR FORCE SECURITY ASSISTANCE TRAINING SQUADRON                               G-1
ANNEX H – ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES                                                        H-1
ANNEX I –                                                                        NOT USED
ANNEX J – MEDICAL SERVICES                                                               J-1
ANNEX K – COMMUNICATIONS-COMPUTER SYSTEMS                                               K-1
ANNEX L – ENGINEERING                                                                    L-1
ANNEX M – SECURITY FORCES                                                               M-1
ANNEX N – (Covered under FORCE SUPPORT)                                                 N-1
ANNEX O –                                                                        NOT USED
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                             17


ANNEX P – (Covered in Annex K)                                                                   P-1
ANNEX Q – STAFF JUDGE ADVOCATE                                                                   Q-1
ANNEX R – RECRUITING SERVICE                                                                     R-1
ANNEX S – CHAPLAIN SERVICE                                                                       S-1
ANNEX T – BASIC MILITARY AND TECHNICAL TRAINING                                                  T-1
ANNEX U – COMPTROLLER                                                                            U-1
ANNEX W – PLANS                                                                                  W-1
ANNEX X – EXECUTION CHECKLIST                                                                    X-1
ANNEX Y – GLOSSARY                                                                               Y-1
ANNEX Z – DISTRIBUTION                                                                           Z-1
NOTE: Annex designations are a guide only and may be realigned when necessary to fit
specific needs. Information presented in the basic plan is of general need, not for individual
functional use better served in individual annexes.
 18                                           AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                              Attachment 3 (CLASSIFICATION)
                                    SAMPLE BASIC PLAN

Basic Plan
REFERENCES:
List references by publication number and title. Cite references required for a complete
understanding of the plan. References used should be documents readily available to users of the
plan. Higher-headquarters plans which this plan supports must be listed. List references as
follows:
a. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
b. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
c. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
TASK ORGANIZATION: See annex A. (or list them as appropriate.)
1. ( ) PURPOSE: Provide a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing
the plan. If this is a supporting plan, indicate the plan it supports.
a. ( ) General: Describe the general environment that would establish the probable
preconditions for implementation of this plan.
b. ( ) Assumptions: List the assumptions on which the plan is based. That is, list either the
conditions most likely to exist or other conditions likely to have a significant impact on this plan
as a whole. (Additionally, assumptions about specific aspects of the operation should be
included in appropriate annexes.)
2. ( ) CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION:
a. ( ) Summarize the politico-military situation in which execution of the plan should be
considered, if applicable.
b. ( ) Summarize any legal and environmental considerations that could impact on plan
implementation.
3. ( ) OPERATIONS TO BE CONDUCTED:
a. ( ) Concept of Operations: This explains the operations to be conducted. It should describe
the general nature and purpose of the operations to be conducted, and the coordination and
cooperation necessary to execute actions required by the plan.
b. ( ) Tasks: In separately lettered subparagraphs, list each task assigned to each applicable
commander.
4. ( ) ASSUMPTIONS: List all assumptions.
a. ( ) Administration: State what the administrative requirements are if other than "normal."
Any requirement for operating instructions or checklists in support of the plan may be addressed
here.
b. ( ) Logistics: Provide broad guidance on how support will be furnished. For detailed guidance
on major aspects of required support, refer the reader to the appropriate annex.
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                          19


5. ( ) OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS: List major factors that may impede accomplishing
the mission, to include any limiting factors.
6. ( ) COMMAND RELATIONSHIPS: If other than "normal," identify the command and
control relationship such as between the wing and an off-base agency that supports the plan.
7. ( ) OPERATION SECURITY: OPSEC PMs will assist unit planners to incorporate
protection of critical information and indicators into supported wartime, operational, and
contingency plans. Identify critical information and OPSEC indicators from all functional areas
requiring protection throughout each phase of the operation.
NOTES:
1. Detailed information on tasking for lower echelons of command is normally not covered in
the basic plan. Detailed information should be covered in the appropriate annexes, appendices,
etc.
2. The seven major paragraph headings shown in this sample will be used in all plans.
Additional paragraph headings may be used to fit the particular needs of the plan.
  20                                         AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                              Attachment 4 (CLASSIFICATION)
                                  SAMPLE ANNEX FORMAT

  ANNEX C, AETC SAMPLE PLAN (U)

(U) OPERATIONS
(U) REFERENCE: *
a. (U) AFI xx-xxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxx


1. (U) GENERAL:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
c. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
d. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx


2. (U) ASSUMPTIONS: *
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx


3. (U) RESPONSIBILITIES:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
c. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx


4. (U) LIMITING FACTORS:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxx


*Do not duplicate those in the basic plan.


C-1
(CLASSIFICATION)
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                               21


NOTES:
1. If there is no specific material for a titled paragraph, do not include that paragraph. If you
have additional paragraphs, put them behind those shown.
2. Limit annexes to essential information not covered in other publications. This does not
preclude referencing those other publications as appropriate.
3. For HQ AETC, each annex will be signed by the appropriate two-letter directorate or chief of
special staff office. At base level, plan annex will be signed by the appropriate annex OPR (for
example, group or squadron commanders, agency chief, etc.).
 22                                           AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                                          Attachment 5
                    RECONSTITUTION OF MISSION PLAN FORMAT

Plan Covers. The cover must reflect proper security classification (minimum FOUO),
Organization Designation, short title, plan OPR, date, administrative markings and caveats.
Covers must not contain classified information. Classification markings will be in accordance
with AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
BASIC PLAN
1. ( ) PURPOSE: Provide a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing
the plan. If this is a supporting plan, indicate the plan it supports.
a. ( ) Mission – Describe the mission the applicable organization Commander is responsible for
safeguarding. It should explain the general nature and purpose of the operations to be conducted,
as well as the coordination and cooperation necessary to execute required actions.
b. ( ) Assumptions – List the conditions most likely to exist or other conditions likely to have a
significant impact on the plan as a whole.
c. ( ) Milestones – List key actions and steps required to ensure successful reconstitution of the
mission.
2. ( ) CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION:
a. ( ) Summarize any politico-military situation that should be considered if the plan is executed.
b. ( ) Summarize any legal and environmental considerations that could impact plan
implementation.
3. ( ) PLAN OF ACTION: As a minimum, list simple, proposed course(s) of action for the
following scenarios:
a. ( ) Evacuation – Partial/full evacuation of personnel and resources to include dependents and
civilian workforce population. Installations will not initiate plans and/or agreements with other
installations or MAJCOMs to address this area. The AETC CAT will coordinate all requests for
evacuation.
b. ( ) Sheltering - Partial/full sheltering of personnel and resources to include dependents and
civilian workforce population.
c. ( ) Relocation of Mission (if applicable) – Identify possible actions to relocate mission.
Installations will not initiate plans and/or agreements with other installations or MAJCOMs to
address this area. The AETC CAT will coordinate all requests for mission relocation.
d. ( ) International and Joint Service Student Actions (if applicable) – Travel arrangements,
contact with sister services and/or Embassies for required actions regarding delays in training,
mission movement and/or student movement. Installations will not initiate plans and/or
agreements with other installations or MAJCOMs to address this area. The AETC CAT will
coordinate all requests for relocation.
e. ( ) Mitigation - Address mitigation of operational capability, damage to resources and injury
of personnel caused by disasters, accidents or terrorist related events.
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                                   23


f. ( ) Critical Assets (if applicable) – Address continuity of operations and or required
reconstitution actions of critical assets identified under the critical infrastructure program.
4. ( ) OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS: List major factors that may impede accomplishing
the mission, to include any limiting factors.
5. ( ) AETC SUPPORT REQUESTS: Identify possible AETC requests to include, but not limited to, airlift
and/or humanitarian support, UTC support packages, funding requests, etc.
 24                                        AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                            Attachment 6 (Added-VANCEAFB)
                          VANCE AFB CONTINGENCY PLANS

The following is a list of Vance AFB contingency plans. A summary of each of these plans is
available in the Plans Summary Guide. The guide and the plans themselves are available on the
wing shared drive at S:\Public\XP-Plans & Programs\PLANS or by contacting 71 FTW/XP.
Plan Number        Title                                   OPR
N/A                Antiterrorism Plan                      Wing Antiterrorism Officer
                                                           (ATO) (71 SFS)
N/A                Base Support Plan (BSP)                 71 LRS/LGRR
N/A                Disease Containment Plan (DCP)          Public Health Emergency
                                                           Officer (PHEO) (71 MDG)
N/A                Reconstitution of Mission Plan (RoMP) 71 FTW/XPO
10-2               Installation Emergency Management       71 LRS/CEX
                   Plan (IEMP)
10-403             Installation Deployment Plan (IDP)      71 LRS/LGRR
31-101             Integrated Defense Plan (IDP)           71 SFS
32-1002            Snow and Ice Removal and Control        CE Service Provider
34-242             Mortuary Affairs Plan                   71 FSS/FSFR
36-3009            Family Readiness Plan                   71 FSS/FSFR
48-144             Water Contingency                       71 MDOS/SGOQB
91-1               Mishap Response Plan                    71 FTW/SE
91-2               Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH)      71 FTW/SE
                   Plan
202                Labor Strike Plan                       71 CONF/LGC
502                Anti-Hijacking and Prevention of        71 OG
                   Unauthorized Aircraft Movement
506                Search and Rescue (SAR) Plan            71 OSS/DO
600                Catastrophic Communications-Computer 71 CS
                   Systems Failure
705                Oil and Hazardous Spill Prevention and CE Service Provider
                   Response
800                Medical Contingency Response            71 MDG
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                          25


                             Attachment 7 (Added-VANCEAFB)
                            SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER

                                                                               (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR 71 FTW/XP

FROM: (Your Organization)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Plans Representatives

1. The following personnel are appointed unit plans representatives for our organization:

       Primary:
              Name:
              Office Symbol:
              Duty Phone:
              Security Clearance:

Alternate:
               Name:
               Office Symbol:
               Duty Phone:
               Security Clearance:

2. This letter supersedes all previous letters of appointment to this position. Any questions may
be referred to (name) at (extension).




                                             (Signature Block of Squadron Commander
                                             or Agency Chief)

1st Ind, Unit Security Manager

The security clearances listed for the above individuals have been verified.



                                             (Signature Block of Unit Security Manager)

(NOTE: An electronic version of this letter is available at S:\Public\XP-Plans & Programs\
PLANS\Sample Appointment Letter for Unit Plans Representatives.)
 26                                           AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                               Attachment 8 (Added-VANCEAFB)
                        NEW PLAN PREPARATION PROCEDURES

1. When designated as the OPR for a new plan, notify 71 FTW/XP and take the following
actions:

2. Gather and review all available guidance on the plan's content (i.e., higher headquarters plan
to be supported or correspondence, applicable Air Force instructions, etc.).

3. Contact all organizations that will be tasked to support the plan. A plans working group
meeting will allow discussion of the requirement and inputs needed to develop a draft plan.
Tasked organizations should then prepare their annexes in the correct format and submit them to
the OPR. The OPR for the plan will prepare the following:

   a. Plan cover.

   b. Letter of transmittal.

   c. Security instructions/record of changes.

   d. Plan summary.

   e. Table of contents.

   f. Basic plan.

   g. List of tasked organizations (normally Annex A).

  h. Annexes as necessary. Also include an annex or appendix for operations security
(OPSEC) when appropriate.

   i. Execution checklists, if applicable (normally Annex X).

   j. Distribution (normally Annex Z).

4. Do not hesitate to ask for assistance/inputs from subject matter experts and keep 71 FTW/XP
informed of the progress in development of the plan.

5. Review inputs and prepare a first draft.

   a. Does the plan fully support the higher headquarters plan or the directive requiring the
plan?

   b. Is the concept of operations and tasking clearly defined and realistic? Can the tasks be
performed in the manner stated?
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                             27


   c. Is the format of the higher headquarters plan/directive that it supports followed? If there is
no higher headquarters direction, follow the format in AETCI 10-401.

  d. Is information in the basic plan of general need, not for individual functional use (which
would be better served in individual annexes)?

   e. Are all tasked organizations included in coordination and listed in the annex for
distribution?

    f. Has the signature element of the wing commander or designated representative been placed
at the end of the basic plan?

   g. Has the signature block for the group commander, agency chief or 71 FTW/XP been
placed on the transmittal letter for the plan (unless other official is specified by higher
headquarters)?

6. Administrative procedures:

    a. Classification Markings. If the plan is classified, each paragraph and subparagraph must
be classified according to the content therein. Also, include page markings (UNCLASSIFIED,
CONFIDENTIAL, SECRET) at the top and bottom of each page. Page markings will be in
letters conspicuously larger than the text.

   b. Margins. A one inch margin should be left blank in all directions on the page (left, right,
top, and bottom). Page numbers and security markings (when applicable) will be placed in this
space.

  c. Font. Use the same typing element consistently throughout the plan. Required font is
Times New Roman, size 12, for text material to aid in ease of readability.

   d. Signature Blocks. The wing commander will sign the basic plan (unless otherwise
directed by higher headquarters). Subsequent annexes will be signed by the functional area OPR
for that particular annex. Appendices, tabs, and enclosures are not signed.

    e. Coordination. Coordination with each tasked agency must be accomplished to ensure they
are aware of and can accomplish their assigned tasks. Coordination may be accomplished via
electronic staff summary sheet (e-mail), the Quality Management Information System (QMIS),
SharePoint task, or other suitable means. (See sample coordination message at Attachment 10.)
It is recommended the request be sent with a read receipt and include a suspense date for return
replies. Print and file or electronically file the replies for verification of coordination.

   f. Final Coordination. After the draft has been coordinated, make any necessary changes and
obtain signatures for annexes. Send to 71 FTW/XP who will make a quality control check of the
final document. The basic plan will be signed last by the wing commander or designated
representative. Should a problem arise during the wing commander's review, the OPR will be
contacted for resolution.
 28                                          AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014



   g. Electronic Signatures. Original pen-and-ink or digital signatures are acceptable.

   h. Publication. After the plan has been reviewed and signed by the wing commander, it will
be returned to the OPR for publication. When hard copies are required, it is the responsibility of
the OPR agency to pay for printing costs.

    i. Plan Distribution. Distribution of plans is kept to a minimum and is generally limited to
those units/agencies that have a tasking. It is the responsibility of the OPR agency to ensure each
office that has a tasking has access to plan, either hard or electronic copy. This may be done in
either of the following ways:

      (1) Make a copy for each tasked agency and distribute.

      (2) Send an e-mail message to each tasked agency notifying them of the new document.
Attach an electronic copy of the plan. The tasked agency may print a copy of the plan if
necessary or keep it on electronic file for reference. Send the e-mail message with a read receipt
to ensure each recipient receives it.

7. Plan OPRs will maintain the original master copy of the plan and coordination documentation
in their file.

8. Plans Suspenses. Plan OPRs and unit representatives must make every effort to ensure
suspense dates for preparation of and changes to plans are met. Success in this endeavor can be
achieved only with the full cooperation of all wing plans OPRs. For new plans, the target
suspense will be set for 60 days after the requirement is known. Requests for extensions to
established suspense dates must be submitted to 71 FTW/XP in writing.
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                       29


                            Attachment 9 (Added-VANCEAFB)
               SAMPLE E-SSS MESSAGE FOR PLAN COORDINATION

From:         (Plan OPR)
To:           (Tasked Agency POC)
Subject:      eSSS for Plan Coordination (VAFB Plan 91-1)

COORDINATION

Office               Action               Last Name/Rank/Date
71 FTW/SE            Initiate             Jones/Maj/1 Jul 13
71 LRS/CEX           Coord                .
71 FTW/SE            Action               .

STAFF SUMMARY

AO: Maj Jones, 71 FTW/SE, 213-9999

1. PURPOSE. To obtain coordination on the new Mishap Response Plan (VAFB Plan 91-1).

2. BACKGROUND. This plan has been written in support of AFI 91-1 and is designed to aid
the commander and response agencies during an aircraft accident and safety investigation.

3. RECOMMENDATION. Please review this plan to ensure the taskings for your unit are
correct and can be accomplished. Reply by (suspense date) with recommended changes,
comments, or concurrence.

SIGNATURE BLOCK OF OPR

1 Tab:
      Tab 1 – VAFB Plan 91-1
 30                                          AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                            Attachment 10 (Added-VANCEAFB)
                              CHANGING/REVISING A PLAN

1. Changes to plans may be necessary to meet higher headquarters requirements or base
capabilities.

2. A change can be made when less than 40 percent of a published plan needs corrections.
These changes may be pen-and-ink, page replacements, or a combination of both. The pen-and-
ink method should only be used for minor changes that can be easily, quickly and legibly
inserted. If total adjustments necessary to a plan, including attachments and previous changes,
are more than 40 percent, OPRs will revise the plan rather than issue a change. Coordination for
a change extends only to the organizations being affected by the change.

3. If changes exceed 40 percent of the plan, then a revision must be done. During a revision, the
complete plan preparation process is followed. (Reference Attachment 9.)

4. Plan Change Process:

   a. Prepare the change in accordance with the examples at Attachments 13 and 14.

   b. All changes will include the date and classification of the basic plan. This information
should be included in paragraph 1 of the letter of transmittal.

   c. Pen-and-ink changes will be made only for minimal changes. 71 FTW/XP will be the final
authority on whether a “pen and ink” change or page change will be made. (See example at
Attachment 12.)

    d. When the page change method is used, redo all pages on which changes occur and mark
new or changed material with a vertical line in the left margin. The change number and the date
of the change must be placed in parenthesis below the page number.

    e. List the distribution on the letter of transmittal. The letter should state “MEMORANDUM
FOR DISTRIBUTION.” If a new distribution annex (Annex Z) is accomplished and attached, it
is not necessary to list the distribution on the transmittal letter.

   f. Coordination for plan changes needs to include only those agencies whose tasking is
affected by the change.

   g. Submit completed change (to include all signatures) to 71 FTW/XP for review and quality
control.

   h. When approved, the OPR will distribute the change IAW Annex Z of the plan.

   i. Target suspenses for changes to plans will be 30 days from the determination of
requirement for the change.
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                             31


5. Posting a Change:

  a. All changes will be posted in blue or black ink.

  b. The change number will be referenced in the left margin of the same line that is changed.

  c. Annotate the change on the Record of Changes page in the plan.

  d. File the transmittal letter for the change immediately behind the front cover of the plan.
 32                                           AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014


                             Attachment 11 (Added-VANCEAFB)
               SAMPLE LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL FOR PLAN CHANGE

                                                                        (Date of Change)

MEMORANDUM FOR: SEE DISTRIBUTION (ANNEX Z)

FROM: (Office Symbol of OPR)

SUBJECT: Change 1 to VAFB Plan 506, Search and Rescue (SAR) Plan
   (Number changes consecutively)

1. VAFB Plan 506, Search and Rescue (SAR) Plan, dated 4 January 2013, is changed as
follows:

     a. Remove and insert pages as indicated below:

Remove Page                   Insert Page

iv                            iv
BP-1 thru BP-2                BP-1 thru BP-2
N/A                           Q-1 thru Q-4
P-1-1 thru P-1-2              N/A

   b. Write-in changes: (Do not use write-in changes for complex changes on an individual
page or extensive changes throughout a plan.)

Page            Paragraph     Line   Action

vi              2             3      Change "W-1-4" to "W-1-3"

2. After the above changes have been accomplished, post the change to the Record of Changes
page in the plan and file this letter immediately behind the front cover of the plan.



                                     SIGNATURE BLOCK OF PLAN OPR
                                     OR HIGHER AUTHORITY

Attachments:
1. Distribution List (or Annex Z from the plan)
2. Page Changes (if applicable)
AETCI10-401_VANCEAFBSUP 16 APRIL 2014                                                             33


                            Attachment 12 (Added-VANCEAFB)
                                      PLANS REVIEWS

1. The plan OPR will initiate a review for currency/applicability at least every 2 years, or as
otherwise directed by higher headquarters instructions. If a plan is determined to be no longer
applicable, or if a new plan or change to an existing plan is determined to be necessary to
execute unit taskings, the unit plans representative will contact 71 FTW/XP to revise/update.

2. A reminder message will be sent from 71 FTW/XP to the plan OPR to begin the review,
usually 12 weeks prior to the desired publication date. Reviews will normally be accomplished
during the anniversary month of the plan.

3. When notified by 71 FTW/XP to begin the review, the OPR for the plan will:

3.1. Contact tasked organizations (Attachment 7) and request inputs. This may be accomplished
via e-mail or other suitable means.

3.2. Review inputs received from tasked organizations. Determine the extent and type of
changes to be made.

3.3. If corrections are minor and can be made with write-in changes or page replacements,
prepare a change to the plan. More extensive corrections (over 40%, or directing policy change)
will result in a revision to the plan (Attachments 11 and 12). In both cases, coordinate with
71 FTW/XP for appropriate formatting and assistance.

3.4. Follow established suspense dates to publish a change or revision. If necessary, coordinate
extensions with 71 FTW/XP.

3.5. Review and change any supporting emergency response checklists derived from the plan.
Changes must be coordinated with 71 FTW/XP, who will ensure SharePoint and hard copies for
responding agencies are updated.

3.6. Documentation of the review will be filed in the unit, and a copy will be forwarded to
71 FTW/XP. Documentation may consist of an eSSS showing tasked organization coordination
or a memorandum for record signed by the owning group commander.

4. Tasked agencies will review plans for applicability for which their unit is tasked and
document the review on the Record of Review page in the plan or another suitable location.

5. XP will disseminate any and all plan changes and/or verification of review to Wing Plans
Working Group members, who will inform their chains of command, as appropriate.
