BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  AETC INSTRUCTION 90-402
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                          23 NOVEMBER 2004
COMMAND
                                                                  Certified Current 17 NOVEMBER 2006

                                                                                         Command Policy

                                                                AETC RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/CCX                                                            Certified by: HQ AETC/CCX
                                                                                 (Lt Col John Blumentritt)
Supersedes AFI90-401_AETCSUP1,                                                                   Pages: 9
           28 April 1999

This instruction implements AFPD 90-4, Relations With Congress. It explains AETC responsibilities and
procedures for maintaining effective relationships with members of Congress as established in AFI
90-401, Air Force Relations With Congress. It also provides procedures for inviting and conducting visits
by members of Congress to routine base events. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard
or Air Force Reserve Command.
Forward suggested improvements and changes to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication, through channels to HQ AETC/CCX, 1 F Street, Suite 1, Randolph AFB TX
78150-4324.
See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. Ensure all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFPD 37-1,
Information Management, and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), available at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This is first publication of AETCI 90-402, which replaces AETC Sup 1 to AFI 90-401. This revision
establishes the AETC Command Action Group (HQ AETC/CCX) as the point of contact for all matters
related to legislative actions for the command (paragraph 2.1.). It also identifies the responsibilities and
procedures for HQ AETC staff directorates and commanders of wings, numbered air forces (NAF), Air
University (AU), and Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS).
2                                                               AETCI90-402 23 NOVEMBER 2004


1. Definitions:
    1.1. Complaints Received Through Congressional Channels. Requests for information from
    members of Congress or their representatives regarding grievances of Air Force members, depen-
    dents, DoD civilian employees, or private citizens.
    1.2. Congressional Hearing. A congressional committee session to take testimony from witnesses.
    1.3. Congressional Visit. A visit by members of Congress, their personal staffs, or committee staff
    members to an AETC unit or installation for an orientation, to attend an official event, or to gather
    information about Air Force operations. Visits include office calls with members of Congress by the
    AETC Commander (HQ AETC/CC) or a designated AETC representative.
    1.4. Congressional Inquiry. A request for information from the Air Force by a member of Congress,
    congressional committee, or congressional staff representative. Inquiries may be made in writing
    (including e-mail), telephonically, or in person.
    1.5. Congressional Response. A response to a congressional inquiry sent either directly to a con-
    gressional member or staff representative or sent to SAF/LL, SAF/FML, or another agency for help in
    preparing a final Air Force response. Responses may contain classified and/or sensitive information.
       1.5.1. Classified Response. A response containing classified information. This response must be
       approved for release by SAF/PAS.
       1.5.2. Locally Sensitive Information. A response containing information involving changes to
       Air Force units or facilities. This response must be approved for release by SAF/PAS.
       1.5.3. Sensitive Information. A response containing information that has the potential to embar-
       rass or discredit the Air Force or result in negative media coverage.

2. Responsibilities and Procedures:
    2.1. The Command Action Group (HQ AETC/CCX) will:
       2.1.1. Act as the point of contact (POC) for all matters related to legislative actions and issues
       including releasing information from AETC sources in response to a congressional inquiry
       (EXCEPTION: cases within the purview of the HQ AETC/IG IAW AFI 90-301, Inspector Gen-
       eral Complaints, being addressed through the IG complaints program).
       2.1.2. Monitor and notify AETC/CC and CV of legislative actions and issues that affect the com-
       mand.
       2.1.3. Coordinate the proposed itinerary for congressional visits to HQ AETC with HQ AETC/
       CCP and SAF/LL or SAF/FML project officers.
       2.1.4. Provide HQ AETC/CCP, HQ AETC/PA, and HQ AETC/DS with information on the pur-
       pose and timing of the visit IAW AETCI 90-401, Notification of Distinguished Visitor to AETC
       Installations.
       2.1.5. Monitor and assist the HQ AETC staff, installations, and units conducting congressional
       visits IAW AFI 90-401 and this instruction.
       2.1.6. Inform HQ AETC/FM of all visits that may require disclosure of financial information or
       policy and coordinate with all appropriate HQ AETC staff directorates.
AETCI90-402 23 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                         3


     2.1.7. Provide the HQ AETC command section and directorates, as necessary, with biographies
     on members of Congress and their staffs, hearing resumes, transcripts, and excerpts from Con-
     gress.
     2.1.8. Coordinate with SAF/LLZ to support AETC wing commanders in scheduling their annual
     trips to Washington DC to visit with congressional members from their states or districts.
     2.1.9. Compile AETC wing commander and congressional post-visit reports and provide a sum-
     mary to AETC/CC.
     2.1.10. Coordinate congressional responses through HQ AETC/DS, CV and CC; SAF/LL; and
     SAF/PAS. Inform the originating office of the final decision regarding release of the information,
     to include who will sign and release the final response.
     2.1.11. Ensure AETC/CC and CV are made aware of all congressional issues related to their trips
     or meetings.
     2.1.12. Coordinate actions necessary to prepare AETC congressional testimony IAW AFI 90-401.
     2.1.13. Coordinate with the HQ AETC staff and supporting units to prepare witnesses for con-
     gressional hearings.
     2.1.14. Compile background information on the hearing and hearing topics.
     2.1.15. Prepare written and oral statements for AETC/CC and CV and coordinate them through
     the appropriate HQ USAF and Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) agencies (policy and review).
     2.1.16. Coordinate written and oral statements to be given by HQ AETC directors, numbered air
     force (NAF) commanders, and wing commanders through HQ AETC/CC and the appropriate HQ
     USAF and SAF agencies (policy and review).
  2.2. The Director of Staff (HQ AETC/DS) will:
     2.2.1. Resolve all issues concerning communication and contact with congressional representa-
     tives by AETC organizations.
     2.2.2. Inform HQ AETC/CCX and the tasked organization of the final response to the specific
     congressional inquiry. In most cases, AETC/CV will be the release authority for congressional
     responses for HQ AETC staff directorates.
  2.3. The Civil Engineer (HQ AETC/CE) will maintain liaison for the HQ AETC staff and command-
  ers with HQ USAF/ILE on all civil engineering matters, including congressional inquiries.
  2.4. The Comptroller (HQ AETC/FM) will:
     2.4.1. Maintain a liaison for the HQ AETC staff with SAF/FM on all budgetary matters and with
     the General Accounting Office as directed by AFI 65-401/AETC Sup 1, Relations With the Gen-
     eral Accounting Office.
     2.4.2. Assist HQ AETC/CCX in preparing testimony to the House and Senate appropriations
     committees.
  2.5. The Inspector General (HQ AETC/IG) will:
     2.5.1. Comply with the provisions of AFI 90-301 in responding to congressional inquiries placed
     in IG channels.
4                                                                AETCI90-402 23 NOVEMBER 2004


       2.5.2. Consolidate all congressional inquiry information and provide a report to HQ AETC/CV
       through HQ AETC/CCX on a quarterly basis, unless otherwise requested for trip or meeting sup-
       port.
    2.6. The Staff Judge Advocate (AETC/JA) will monitor replies to members of Congress concerning
    disciplinary actions as outlined in Chapter 12 of AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, as
    well as replies concerning other legal issues.
    2.7. Public Affairs (HQ AETC/PA) will:
       2.7.1. Monitor invitations to members of Congress from AETC bases.
       2.7.2. Staff invitation packages through HQ AETC/CCX to AETC/CV for approval.
       2.7.3. Following approval, send a copy of the signed letter of invitation back to the originating
       office. See Attachment 2 for a sample letter of invitation.
       2.7.4. Take appropriate action when congressional visits or requests for information attract public
       attention or stimulate public interest in the media or general public.
       2.7.5. Complete the required orientation flight information for congressional members and/or
       their staffs who are visiting HQ AETC.
    2.8. Plans and Programs (HQ AETC/XP) will:
       2.8.1. Maintain liaison for the HQ AETC staff with SAF/AQ and LL and HQ USAF/XO and XP
       on programs HQ AETC/XP is responsible for.
       2.8.2. Assist HQ AETC/CCX as required in preparing testimony for congressional committees on
       programs HQ AETC/XP is responsible for.
    2.9. HQ AETC staff directorates will notify HQ AETC/CCX upon receipt of all congressional inquir-
    ies. AETC/CV is the release authority for all congressional inquiries for HQ AETC staff directorates.
    2.10. For congressional inquiries, commanders of wings, NAFs, Air University (AU), and Air Force
    Recruiting Service (AFRS), as applicable, will:
       2.10.1. Notify HQ AETC/CCX upon receipt of a congressional inquiry that deals with a sensitive
       or controversial situation, classified information, or significant changes in status of AETC units,
       installations, or industrial facilities that could impact state or congressional districts.
       2.10.2. Ensure their IG monitors congressional inquiries. NOTE: In the absence of an installation
       IG position, the commander may designate a POC for congressional inquiries.
       2.10.3. Monitor all congressional matters in their command, including complaints, inquiries, and
       visits from members of Congress and/or their staffs.
       2.10.4. Sign letters in response to congressional inquiries regarding grievances received directly
       from a member of Congress. (The commander may designate another senior officer within the
       command to sign final response letters.) Provide a courtesy copy of the final response to HQ
       AETC/CCX and HQ AETC/IG. NOTE: If a commander views a congressional inquiry response
       as sensitive or controversial in nature, he or she will instruct HQ AETC/CCX to forward the
       response to AETC/CC or CV and DS. If the commander decides to conduct an IG investigation as
       a result of the inquiry, HQ AETC/IG will provide the final response regardless of the level at
       which the complaint was received (AFI 90-301).
AETCI90-402 23 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                              5


     2.10.5. By the fifth day of the month following the month of the inquiry, ensure HQ AETC/IGQ
     has received copies of all congressional inquiries and responses to include official requests for
     information from SAF/LL, SAF/FML, HQ USAF, and/or Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) for
     use in preparing responses to congressional inquiries. Provide HQ AETC/IGQ copies as needed to
     meet this requirement.
     2.10.6. Handle complaints or inquiries received directly from a member of Congress IAW AFI
     90-401, but also send a courtesy copy to HQ AETC/CCX within 24 hours of receipt. Prepare a
     direct reply or interim response to the member of Congress if a complaint or inquiry was received
     directly from the member of Congress. Provide a courtesy copy of the final response to HQ
     AETC/CCX and HQ AETC/IGQ.
  2.11. For congressional visits, commanders of wings, NAFs, AU and AFRS, as applicable, will:
     2.11.1. Appoint a project officer as the POC for the visit. NOTE: The POC will contact HQ
     AETC/CCX and coordinate the proposed itinerary with the assigned SAF/LL or SAF/FML POC
     and HQ AETC/CCX.
     2.11.2. Encourage members of Congress to visit their installation for official functions, ceremo-
     nies, and open houses. Such activities provide members of Congress the opportunity to become
     familiar with Air Force missions and personnel located in their district. Installation orientation vis-
     its for newly elected members of Congress are particularly recommended.
     2.11.3. Comply with AFI 90-401 regarding handling of invitations. Routine invitations include
     those for air shows and open houses, activation and inactivation ceremonies, and other special
     events of a nonsensitive nature. (Contact HQ AETC/PA for information regarding invitations not
     falling into this category.) See Attachment 2 for a sample letter of invitation.
     2.11.4. Before dispatching invitations to SAF/LL, ensure the invitation format is IAW AFI 90-401
     and this instruction. The signed invitation and cover letter should explain the details of the event
     60 days in advance. If a 60-day notice is not possible, contact HQ AETC/CCX to confirm the best
     way to extend the invitation. Make no public announcement until SAF/LL confirms the guest will
     attend. Do not mention transportation of members, employees, or spouses in the invitation.
     2.11.5. Not commit the Air Force to providing transportation until notified by SAF/LL that trans-
     portation is approved.
     2.11.6. Report visits by members of Congress and staff representatives IAW AFI 90-401 and this
     instruction.
     2.11.7. Submit orientation flight requests IAW AFI 11-401, Flight Management, through 19 AF/
     DO.
     2.11.8. Send HQ AETC/CCX an after-action report within 5 duty days after the last day of a con-
     gressional visit. See Attachment 3 for the proper report format.
  2.12. Wing commanders (only) will:
     2.12.1. Contact HQ AETC/CCX to schedule their annual trip to Washington DC to visit with con-
     gressional members from their state or district.
     2.12.2. Via e-mail, provide HQ AETC/CCX with a post-visit report summarizing the visit. Also
     provide an info copy to the NAF commander.
6                                                                AETCI90-402 23 NOVEMBER 2004


    2.13. The IG at wings and intermediate headquarters, as applicable, will:
       2.13.1. Act as the field unit POC for coordinating responses to congressional inquiries and ensur-
       ing compliance with AFI 90-401 and this instruction. (In the absence of an installation IG position,
       the unit commander will designate a POC for congressional inquiries.)
       2.13.2. Inform HQ AETC/IGQ when a congressional inquiry from any source other than HQ
       AETC/IGQ is being addressed, in whole or in part, as an IG matter. Comply with AFI 90-301 in
       addressing the issue and provide HQ AETC/IGQ copies of all relevant documents, analyses, and
       investigative reports, along with a proposed response to the complainant and/or congressional
       office. NOTE: HQ AETC/IGQ will release the final responses IAW procedures in AFI 90-301 and
       this instruction.
       2.13.3. Send copies of the documents to SAF/LL, obtain a congressional inquiry control and
       tracking number (system ID), and request guidance for responding to the inquiry.

3. Form Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                               MICHAEL P. WINSLOW, Colonel, USAF
                                               Director of Staff
AETCI90-402 23 NOVEMBER 2004                                                7


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 37-1, Information Management
AFI 11-401, Flight Management
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice
AFI 65-401/AETC Sup 1, Relations With the General Accounting Office
AFPD 90-4, Relations With Congress
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints
AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations With Congress
AETCI 90-401, Notification of Distinguished Visitor to AETC Installations
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AU—Air University
IAW—in accordance with
IG—Inspector General
NAF—numbered air force
POC—point of contact
8                                                                AETCI90-402 23 NOVEMBER 2004


                                            Attachment 2

            SAMPLE LETTER OF INVITATION TO A MEMBER OF CONGRESS

                                       (Letterhead stationery)



                                                                                             (Date)
General Donald G. Cook
Commander
Air Education and Training Command
1 F Street, Suite 1
Randolph AFB TX 78150-4324


Honorable John A. Candler
House of Representatives
Washington DC 20515-0001


Dear Mr. Candler (see note)
      Lackland Air Force Base will hold its annual open house on November 6, 2004. (The first paragraph
may be used to elaborate on activities planned for the event; for example; who will be performing.)
      On behalf of the men and women of the 37th Training Wing, I cordially invite you and Mrs. Candler
to be our honored guests. Formal activities will begin at 2:00 p.m. An informal reception will immediately
follow at the Lackland Air Force Base Officers Club.
       We sincerely hope your schedule permits you to accept our invitation to participate in this special
event. If you are able to join us, Major John Smith, the 37th Training Wing’s Public Affairs Chief, is
standing by to assist your staff with your travel arrangements. Major Smith may be reached at (210)
652-1234.


                                                     Sincerely



                                                     DONALD G. COOK, General, USAF


(NOTE: In case of a Senator, indicate “Dear Senator Candler.”)
AETCI90-402 23 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                            9


                                              Attachment 3

                          FORMAT FOR AN AFTER-ACTION REPORT

A3.1. Format for an After-Action Report. An after-action report is due 5 duty days after the last day of
a congressional visit. See Figure A3.1. for the report format.

Figure A3.1. Format for an After-Action Report for Congressional Visits.



Dates:
(Dates of the visit.)


Summary:
(Names and titles of all visitors. Details of the visit, to include mission briefings, tours, orientation
flights, discussion of programs and/or MILCON topics, etc.)


Taskers Resulting From the Visit:
(Indicate any requests for information following the visit.)


Overall Impression:
(An impression on how the overall visit went.)
