BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AETC INSTRUCTION 90-102
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                          12 JUNE 2013

                                                                               Command Policy

                                                             CONFERENCES, WORKSHOPS,
                                                                 BRIEFINGS, AND VIDEO
                                                                   TELECONFERENCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/DSEA                                                    Certified by: HQ AETC/DS
                                                                      (SMSgt Michell Bellamy)
Supersedes:   AETCI90-102, 28 June 1996                                                Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation. It establishes HQ AETC
procedures and responsibilities for planning and scheduling conferences, briefings, workshops,
and video teleconferences (VTCs). It outlines procedures for scheduling all HQ AETC
conference facilities. This instruction applies to all HQ AETC activities. The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. This publication may be
supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to HQ
AETC/DSEA, the office of primary responsibility (OPR), using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Scheduled (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include:

Revised publication reflects the current procedures and responsibilities for planning and
scheduling briefings, conferences, and video teleconference events for HQ AETC. It establishes
new processes and updates previous guidance and requirements.
 2                                                                AETCI90-102 12 JUNE 2013


1. Requirements:
     1.1. All conferences held in, or sponsored by, this headquarters, regardless of location must
     be approved IAW DoD Conference Approval Guidance located at https://www-
     r.aetc.af.mil/conferences/default.asp and requires HQ AETC/FM and HQ AETC/JA
     coordination.
     1.2. Command Presentations (AETC CSS/SCSSD) is responsible for scheduling usage of the
     HQ AETC Conference Center facilities (building 905) and the Martin Hall Conference Room
     (MHCR, building 900). Command Presentations accepts reservations for MHCR that
     directly support requirements for the HQ AETC Commander or Vice Commander. All other
     reservations in MHCR will be accepted based on availability. First priority for the HQ
     AETC Conference Center, which includes the Lahm Conference Room, Studio 1, DVS-G
     Suite and Hopper Suite, is the HQ AETC Commander and Vice Commander, all other
     reservations are scheduled on a "first come, first serve" basis.
     1.3. The MHCR and conference rooms located in the AETC Conference Center are
     controlled areas. Directors and guest speakers are authorized to have one person in the AV
     control booth during their presentation; however, that person must be listed on the AETC
     Form 20, Request for Briefing. No other personnel, except Command Section staff, will be
     allowed in the AV control booth during meetings, briefings, conferences, or workshops. The
     HQ AETC/DS will approve exceptions on a case-by-case basis.
     1.4. When scheduling the AETC Conference Center, the number of days scheduled for a
     conference, workshop, or meeting, as well as the number of attendees, will be the minimum
     required to accomplish the planned objectives. In addition, every effort should be made to
     reduce costs through use of military airlift, government quarters, government vehicles, and
     video teleconferencing.
     1.5. Attendees of conferences, seminars, workshops, and similar functions conducted by HQ
     AETC directors and chiefs of special staff use AETC Form 241,
     Conference/Seminar/Workshop Critique, to critique these functions and AETC Form 242,
     Evaluation of Command-Sponsored Function, to evaluate support services rendered. At the
     conclusion of each function, the project officer for the conference involved compiles the
     critiques and evaluations for review.
2. Scheduling Procedures. Command Presentations is the point of contact (POC) for operating
and scheduling the AETC Conference Center, MHCR, and video teleconferencing suites. For
reservations, call 652-3355 or 652-3353.
     2.1. MHCR and AETC Conference Scheduling:
        2.1.1. Reservations for briefings will be taken over the telephone; however, an AETC
        Form 20 must be received by Command Presentations within 5 workdays to hold the
        reservation. Command Presentations will resolve any scheduling conflicts within 48
        hours. Conflicts that cannot be resolved within this timeframe will be elevated to HQ
        AETC/DS for resolution. Note: MHCR is primarily used by the HQ AETC commander
        (CC) and vice commander (CV). HQ AETC/DS must approve the use of this room for
        any conferences. Agencies using the MHCR and AETC Conference Center may be
        preempted due to command section requirements.
AETCI90-102 12 JUNE 2013                                                                        3


      2.1.2. For multi-day conference events, the main Lahm Conference Room requires 1
      year advance notification, when possible. Paragraph 3.1.3. identifies reservation process
      for scheduling events. Due to cancellations, the conference center may be available and
      used on a first come, first serve basis. Paragraph 7 lists all available conference rooms in
      HQ AETC.
   2.2. VTC Scheduling:
      2.2.1. Contact Command Presentations, at 652-3355 or 652-3353, via email to
      aetc.vtc@us.af.mil, or go to building 905, room 124 to schedule VTCs.
      2.2.2. The project officer provides Command Presentations with desired primary and
      alternate dates and times of the conference. The project officer will also provide a list of
      all the participating bases, POCs, and their DSN phone numbers. This list can be emailed
      to aetc.vtc@us.af.mil or delivered in person. Command Presentations will check the
      conference room availability, work out all details, and call the project officer with
      confirmed data. Once the conference has been confirmed, the project officer can then
      notify all POCs of dates and times of the VTC. Project officers must immediately notify
      Command Presentations of all VTC cancellations.
      2.2.3. Be familiar with the AETC command video teleconferencing center user's guide.
      To obtain a copy, email aetc.vtc@us.af.mil or contact Command Presentations at 652-
      3355 or 652-3353.
3. Responsibilities and Procedures:
   3.1. Command Presentations: (MHCR and AETC Conference Center)
      3.1.1. Provides audiovisual services to include AV technical support and video
      teleconferencing services for MHCR and AETC Conference Center.
      3.1.2. Schedules and conducts maintenance on all AV and VTC bridging equipment in
      the MHCR and AETC Conference Center.
      3.1.3. Forwards a leadership and development worksheet, (see Attachment 2) to each
      AETC directorate by 1 July. Directors must then fill in their tentative conference
      requirements for the next calendar year and return the completed worksheet to Command
      Presentations no later than 31 July. The conference facilities are scheduled on a first
      come, first serve basis; however, command-directed conferences take priority. If
      conference requires approval of funds, the conference host must seek approval as
      described in paragraph 1.1.
      3.1.4. Performs dry runs, when requested.
      3.1.5. Upon request, will assist with nameplates to designate reserved seating.
      3.1.6. Supports the AETC command briefing as requested by the Commander’s Action
      Group (HQ AETC/CCX).
      3.1.7. Conducts a security check of conference facilities using HQ AETC Command
      Section Operating Instruction 31-401 before the first session and at the end of each
      workday.
      3.1.8. Supervises the maintenance of the MHCR and AETC Conference Center.
4                                                                 AETCI90-102 12 JUNE 2013


    3.2. Command Presentations: (Video Teleconferencing Suites)
       3.2.1. Coordinates all conference calls with other VTC schedulers.
       3.2.2. Contacts customers when VTC suites are not available during the requested
       primary or alternate dates or times.
       3.2.3. Brings video conference calls on-line 20 to 30 minutes before the scheduled time
       to verify connectivity and correct any equipment malfunctions.
       3.2.4. Provides technical assistance with computer-generated briefings and special
       requirements.
       3.2.5. Briefs customers on the proper VTC protocol and procedures before their
       conference call.
       3.2.6. Conducts security checks and maintains the cleanliness in the video
       teleconferencing centers.
    3.3. Command Presentations: (Offsite Services)
       3.3.1. Provide remote AV services for HQ AETC Command Section requirements.
       Events such as retirement and promotion ceremonies are supported at off-site locations if
       the HQ AETC/CC or CV officiate the event. Special events, directed by HQ
       AETC/CCP, will be supported as required.
       3.3.2. Utilize portable equipment for HQ AETC hosted events. Command Presentations
       portable equipment is not available for public use; however, special requests will be
       considered on case-by-case basis.
    3.4. Project Officers:
       3.4.1. Notify Command Presentations of the conference classification in the MHCR or
       AETC Conference Center.
           3.4.1.1. If classified, control and safeguard classified audiovisual materials as
           prescribed in AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management. This includes
           the transmission, storage, control, and destruction of worksheets or manuscripts, and
           final disposition of audiovisual materials. Customer is responsible for providing a
           classified laptop for use with classified electronic files (such as PowerPoint slides).
           The laptop classification must be equivalent to the classification level of the file.
           3.4.1.2. Furnish personnel to control entry into conference areas.          Authorize
           personnel into classified meetings.
       3.4.2. Contact Command Presentations to schedule MHCR or AETC Conference Center
       as required.
           3.4.2.1. Submit an initial draft AETC Form 20 simultaneously with scheduling
           conferences, briefings, meetings, working groups, etc., scheduled through Command
           Presentations. Include a list of all anticipated participants on the initial draft AETC
           Form 20. Provide Command Presentations a final AETC Form 20, listing all
           attendees and any requested seating, no later than 72 hours prior to the conference,
           briefing, meeting, or working group.
AETCI90-102 12 JUNE 2013                                                                     5


          3.4.2.2. At least one hour before each session, provide Command Presentations
          electronic presentations, videos, DVDs, and seating charts to be used. In order to
          provide optimum service, audiovisual technician requires one hour for setup and
          familiarization with presentations. For day-long or multi-day conferences, project
          officers can divide presentations into morning and afternoon sessions and apply the
          one hour rule.
          3.4.2.3. Notify Command Presentations and HQ AETC/CCP if conference is
          disapproved or cancelled.
      3.4.3. For video teleconferencing, ensure NO classified information is discussed unless
      the VTC session takes place in an authorized secure VTC location. MHCR and DVS-G
      Suite are cleared for classified discussion.
      3.4.4. Prepare conference agenda and a list of attendees, coordinate changes, and furnish
      copies to Command Presentations, Protocol, and interested staff agencies.
      3.4.5. Prepare conference brochures as necessary or when Command Section is involved.
      3.4.6. Contact HQ AETC/CCP of any anticipated participation by a general officer or
      civilian equivalent.
      3.4.7. Contact HQ AETC/CCP for assistance in conference or meeting planning, if
      necessary.
      3.4.8. Provide courtesy copies of final agenda package and AETC Form 20 to all
      participants.
      3.4.9. Ensure conference room and break area are vacated as scheduled and left in proper
      order.
      3.4.10. Will conform to guidance in this instruction and AETCI 90-401 for Distinguished
      Visitor guidance.
   3.5. HQ AETC/CCP:
      3.5.1. Assist with the planning and executing of conferences or meetings hosted by HQ
      AETC/CC, CV, or DS.
      3.5.2. Upon request, provides the AETC DV guide for functions when HQ AETC/CC,
      CV, or DS is not the host.
4. Scheduling and Presenting Briefings to the HQ AETC/CC or CV:
   4.1. Directorate Executive Assistants/Officers will contact the HQ AETC/CC or CV
   Executive Assistant to schedule a briefing as soon as a requirement is known. Send the
   finalized AETC Form 20 via email to HQ AETC/CCS, CCE, CCA, CVS, CVE, DS, AETC
   Command Presentations Workflow, CCX Workflow, CCP Workflow, and AETC Tasker
   Workflow not later than 72 hours before the event. Directorate Executive Assistants/Officers
   will also pre-coordinate with Command Presentations for briefings in buildings 900 and 905
   conference rooms.
   4.2. Dry runs must be coordinated and completed at least 30 minutes before start of the
   conference.
 6                                                               AETCI90-102 12 JUNE 2013


     4.3. Briefings may be presented in the HQ AETC/CC or CV office if the audience is small;
     coordinate requests to brief in the HQ AETC/CC or CV office with their Executive
     Assistants.
     4.4. When the number of attendees exceeds capacity in the HQ AETC/CC or CV office, the
     briefing will be held in building 900 conference rooms. The responsible directorate
     schedules the conference room with Command Presentations and determines which staff
     members are essential to the briefing in order to answer questions or resolve problems.
     AETC Form 20 will indicate which directorates should attend.
5. Guidelines for HQ AETC/CC and CV Participation:
     5.1. Once the host directorate receives approval of their request for HQ AETC/CC or CV to
     participate in an event, i.e., opening remarks, address a conference, etc., the Directorate
     Executive Assistant/Officer will coordinate the scheduling details with their respective
     Executive Assistants (HQ AETC/CCS or HQ AETC/CVS).
     5.2. When an event is scheduled at a location other than building 900 or 905, Directors
     should plan to escort the HQ AETC/CC and CV to and from the event location.
6. Briefings Scheduled to AETC Members or Distinguished Visitors:
     6.1. HQ AETC/CC, CV, DS, and Directors review briefings, as appropriate. HQ AETC/DS
     determines the best method of review; that is, hard copy, script, or oral presentation. For
     presentation to the HQ AETC/CC or CV, project officers process the request according to
     paragraph 5 and ensure sufficient scheduling time for revising visual aids.
7. HQ AETC Conference Facilities:
     7.1. Building 900, MHCR; maximum seating capacity 47
     7.2. Building 905, Lahm Conference Room; maximum seating capacity: 89
     7.3. Building 905, Studio 1; maximum seating capacity: 28
     7.4. Building 905, DVS-G Suite; maximum seating capacity: 20
     7.5. Building 905, Hopper Suite; maximum seating capacity: 16
     7.6. Other boardrooms must be scheduled through the offices of primary responsibility
     (OPR) listed with the facility. For a complete listing of other available AETC conference
     facilities, contact Command Presentations.




                                             SHANE P. COURVILLE, Colonel, USAF
                                             Director of Staff
AETCI90-102 12 JUNE 2013                                                                      7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AETCI 90-401, Notification of Distinguished Visitors to AETC Installations, 7 February 2001
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
AETC Form 20, Request for Briefing
AETC Form 241, Conference/Seminar/Workshop Critique
AETC Form 242, Evaluation of Command-Sponsored Function
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AV—Audiovisual
MHCR—Martin Hall Conference Room
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
VTC—Video Teleconferencing
 8                                                  AETCI90-102 12 JUNE 2013


                                  Attachment 2
               LEADERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT WORKSHEET

Figure A2.1. Leadership and Development Worksheet
