BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                              COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-2802
COMMAND
                                                                       17 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                       AETC FLYING AND TECHNICAL
                                                 TRAINING, TRAINING SUPPORT, BASIC
                                                      MILITARY TRAINING (BMT), AND
                                                   MILITARY TRAINING LEADER (MTL)
                                                    ANNUAL RECOGNITION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A3PV                                                 Certified by: HQ AETC/A3P
                                                                          (Ms. Bonnie Molina)
                                                                                    Pages: 11
Supersedes:   AETCI36-2802, 9 January
              2009


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, and establishes
the AETC flying, technical training, and training support, BMT and MTL recognition program.
It describes the award categories, eligibility and selection criteria, awards presentation, and
procurement process. This instruction applies to Air Force personnel at AETC wings and
training organizations aligned under the Second Air Force (2 AF); HQ AETC/A2/3/10; and
formal technical training administered by Air University (AU) Eaker Center; and MTIs assigned
to AU Holm Center, USAF Officer Training School (OTS). This instruction also applies to Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command personnel gained by AETC.

This AETCI may be supplemented by commanders responsible for implementing this
instruction. Supplements will be used to establish organization-specific guidance. (T-2) Do not
use local operating instructions to implement this guidance. (T-2) Commanders will send
proposed supplements through their training group or wing and 2 AF (2 AF units only) to HQ
AETC/A3P for review and coordination prior to publishing. (T-2)

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
 2                                                      AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


Route AF Forms 847 from the field unit through the training group, training wing and 2 AF (2
AF units only) to HQ AETC/A3P.

The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier ("T-0, T-1, T-2, and T-3") number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Unless otherwise specified, requests for waiver must be submitted by the group or
wing commander through 2 AF (2 AF units only) to HQ AETC/A3P. (See paragraph 2. for
specific procedures.) T-2This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain this information is in
Title 10, United States Code, Chapter 857, Decorations and Awards. System of records notice
F036 AFPC V, Awards and Decorations, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This document
changes applicability from 19 Air Force to HQ AETC/A2/3/10; changes the suspense date for
nominations to 31 January; deletes award categories for combat rescue officers, special tactics
officer, combat controllers, pararescue, and survival, evasion, resistance, and escape personnel;
and adds BMT annual awards; clarifies content of the nomination package; clarifies the AETC
selection process and changes the administrative oversight to HQ AETC/A2/3/10 Directors
Action Group (DAG).
1. Program Overview
     1.1. Throughout AETC both civilian and military Air Force personnel are performing at a
     level that ensures AETC provides the highest quality of training for our customers. The
     AETC Flying and Technical Training, Training Support, BMT and MTL Annual Recognition
     Program selects 19 individuals who possess the expertise in their assigned duties, have made
     significant achievements to the training enterprise, and have demonstrated high measures of
     dedication to the Air Force core values, community support, and personal improvement.
     1.2. These awards spotlight individuals whose contributions to the Air Force and AETC
     missions have exceeded the minimum standards and expectations. It is the intent that this
     recognition program will increase professional prestige for both the nominees and award
     recipients, stimulate competition, increase mission effectiveness, improve morale, and
     sustain AETC’ s commitment to excellence. Note: Base support and contract personnel are
     not eligible for these awards.
2. Waivers.
2.1. Policy and procedures. Occasionally, unique circumstances may warrant special
consideration and possible waiver of policy provisions. To facilitate evaluation of waiver
requests, a process is established for review of proposed waivers.
AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   3


2.2. Waiver Authority. Unless otherwise stated in this instruction, HQ AETC/A3P is the
waiver authority for waivers that change the intent of the policy outlined in this instruction. (T-
2) For waivers to unit supplements, the unit generating the supplement will identify the waiver
authority to that supplemental guidance.
2.3. Waiver Requests. Requests for waiver must be submitted through the group or wing
commander and 2 AF (2 AF units only) to HQ AETC/A3P. (T-2) Waiver requests must:
       2.3.1. Identify the specific policy reference and text to be waived.
       2.3.2. Rationale for the waiver: Explain which of the 3 reasons listed under AFI 33-360,
       paragraph 1.9.1 apply and describe why.
       2.3.3. Time period or circumstance for which the waiver will be required.
       2.3.4. Risk mitigation measures the requesting commander will implement during the
       waiver period.
       2.3.5. Impact if waiver is disapproved.
2.4. Units will upload approved waivers into Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) for
inspection activity review. Because waivers are the expression of a specific commander
accepting risk, Tier 1, 2, and 3 waivers expire 30 days after a change of command unless the new
commander renews the waiver. For non-tiered waivers, a waiver remains in effect until canceled
in writing by the approving official, the publication is revised, or the waiver expires.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. HQ AETC/A2/3/10 DAG will manage the awards process for the Flying Training,
   Technical Training, Training Support, BMT, and MTL Annual Recognition Program and
   forward the results to HQ AETC/CV for approval. The HQ AETC/A2/3/10 DAG will:
       3.1.1. Solicit nominations from the training wings and groups (if not aligned under a
       training wing).
       3.1.2. Solicit and select board members (CMSgts or above, GS-13s or above and O-4s or
       above). Evaluation boards will consist of 5 members and select the recipient for their
       respective category. Multiple boards may be established for any category to expedite
       review and scoring of nomination packages. Note: The AETC/CV must approve all
       recipients before any announcements are made.
           3.1.2.1. Flying Training Board. As a minimum, one member from outside the
           directorate and a member from each of the following divisions: A3F, A3R, A3V, and
           A3Z.
           3.1.2.2. Technical Training Board. As a minimum, one member from outside the
           directorate and one member from each of the following divisions A3P and A3T.
           3.1.2.3. Training Support Board. As a minimum, one member from outside the
           directorate and one member from each of the following divisions A3F, A3P, A3R,
           and A3T. Note: Since HQ AETC/A3 are eligible for this award, a nominee will not
           sit on this board.
 4                                                         AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


            3.1.2.4. Basic Military Training (BMT), MTI and MTL Board. As a minimum, one
            member from outside the directorate, MTI Career Field Manager (CFM) and MTL
            CFM and one member each from A3P and A3T.
        3.1.3. Generate and send congratulatory letters.
        3.1.4. Generate and send announcement emails.
        3.1.5. Procure and mail or ship the trophies.
     3.2. HQ AETC/A3F, /A3P, /A3R, /A3T, /A3V and /A3Z will provide board members as
     requested.
     3.3. Wing and Group Commanders (if not aligned under a training wing) will establish a
     recognition program with categories that afford all training personnel an opportunity to
     compete for local recognition and subsequently compete for AETC and higher levels of
     recognition. AETC awards are listed in Table 4.1. Where applicable, the tables indicate Air
     Force-level recognition and the organizational sponsor for winners in specific categories.
     Recognition external to AETC will be initiated and conducted by the sponsoring
     organization.
        3.3.1. One nominee may be submitted for each AETC annual award category, as
        applicable.
        3.3.2. Wing public affairs office should publicize the accomplishments of award
        recipients through base and community media. Recognition at wing-, group-, and
        squadron-level meetings and functions is encouraged.
4. Award Categories.
     4.1. Flying Training. Flying training awards recognize exceptional performance of
     instructors and flight commanders in formal schools that teach and support officially
     designated flying training courses. There are four AETC flying training award categories (see
     Table 4.1). Note: The Major General Glenn A. Profitt II Award is an award given to the
     AETC Flying Training Officer Instructor of the Year. Note: The competition is not limited
     to pilots.
     4.2. Technical Training. Technical training awards recognize exceptional performance of
     instructors and flight commanders or flight chiefs in formal schools that teach officially
     designated technical training courses. Nominees in instructor categories must be assigned to
     a T-prefix or equivalent, manpower position. There are six AETC Technical Training award
     categories (see Table 4.1).
     4.3. Training Support. This category affords an opportunity for competition to personnel
     who are neither flight commanders nor instructors. Training support awards recognize
     exceptional performance of personnel who perform duties in a flying, basic military, or
     technical training specific support function. (e.g. Training pipeline managers, resource
     advisors, cost center managers, registrars, career development course writers, training
     managers,       course     developers/managers,       interactive    multimedia       instruction
     developers/managers, training development element chiefs, and training evaluators) Note:
     Officers, enlisted, and civilian personnel assigned to T-prefixed or other instructor equivalent
     positions, MTIs, MTLs, and base support personnel are not eligible. There are five AETC
     Training Support award categories (see Table 4.1).
AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               5


     4.4. Basic Military Training (BMT). The BMT awards                recognize exceptional
     performance to personnel with special duty identifier 8B000 assigned to the 737 Training
     Group, 433rd Training Squadron, and AU Holm Center, Air Force Officer Training School
     and Flight Commanders at the 737 TRG. There are two AETC BMT award categories (see
     Table 4.1).
     4.5. Military Training Leader (MTL). The MTL awards recognize exceptional
     performance of personnel with special duty identifier 8B100. There are two AETC MTL
     award categories (see Table 4.1).

Table 4.1. Annual Award Categories.
 I                       A                              B                       C
 T
 E                    Awards                   Suspense Date for     Air Force and/or Other
 M                                             Nominations           Agency Recognition

                                     Flying Training Awards

 1     Major General Glenn A. Profitt II       31 January            Air Force Association
       (AETC Flying Training Officer                                 (AFA)—Texas Chapter
       Instructor of the Year)

 2     AETC Flying Training Flight
       Commander of the Year

 3     AETC Flying Training Enlisted
       Instructor of the Year

 4     AETC Flying Training Civilian
       Instructor of the Year

                                  Technical Training Awards

 5     AETC Technical Training Flight          31 January            NA
       Commander or Chief of the Year

 6     AETC Technical Training Officer
       Instructor of the Year

 7     AETC Technical Training SNCO
       Instructor of the Year

 8     AETC Technical Training NCO
       Instructor of the Year

 9     AETC Technical Training Junior
6                                                      AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


I                       A                                  B                         C
T
E                    Awards                     Suspense Date for       Air Force and/or Other
M                                               Nominations             Agency Recognition

    Enlisted Airman Instructor of the Year

10 AETC Technical Training Civilian
   Instructor of the Year

                                   Training Support Awards
                                                31 January
11 AETC Support Officer of the Year.                                    NA

12 AETC Support SNCO of the Year

13 AETC Support NCO of the Year

14 AETC Support Junior Enlisted Airman
   of the Year

15 AETC Support Civilian of the Year

                               Basic Military Training Awards

16 AETC BMT Flight Commander of the             31 January
   Year.

17 Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force,                              Air Force Sergeants
   Gary R. Pfingston, MTI of the Year                                   Association (AFSA)

                              Military Training Leader Awards

18 AETC SNCO Military Training Leader           MAJCOM—                 AFSA
   of the Year                                  31 January              (See Note)
19 AETC NCO Military Training Leader            AFSA —
   of the Year                                  30 April

Note: The Air Force Sergeants Association (AFSA) recognizes the important contributions and
leadership of one Air Force member in each of the MTI and MTL career fields as the Air Force
MTI and MTL of the Year, respectively. AFSA honors the recipients during an awards
ceremony held in conjunction with the AFSA annual convention. AFSA notifies the recipient
of the date, location, and travel arrangements for the ceremony, but participation is usually unit
funded. Recipients of the Air Force-level MTI and MTL award are authorized to wear the Air
Force Recognition Ribbon in accordance with AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards.
AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 7


5. Nomination Criteria.
   5.1. Eligibility. Nominees should be the wing or group (if not aligned under a training
   wing) award recipient. Note: Winners of HQ AETC annual awards may not compete again in
   the same category for 3 years. For example, the winners of a 2013 annual award may not
   compete again until 2017, and their nomination packages would be submitted in January of
   2018.
   5.2. Job qualification. Nominees for HQ AETC annual awards must complete all job
   qualification requirements for the category in which they have been nominated.
   5.3. Time in category. Nominees for HQ AETC annual awards must have served more than
   6 months of the competition year (1 Jan – 31 Dec) in the grade category in which they are
   competing.
   5.4. Applicability. Nominee's accomplishments must have occurred during the competition
   year (1 Jan – 31 Dec) covered by the awards cycle.
6. Contents of the Nomination Package. Nomination packages consist of:
   6.1. Recommendation Memorandum. A memorandum signed by the wing or group
   commander (if not aligned under a training wing), recommending the individual for the
   award and the following attachments. Note: Commanders may submit one memorandum
   with their recommendations for multiple awards.
   6.2. Attachment 1, AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award. Describe the nominee's
   meritorious performance. Limit the content to 30 lines, including categories/headers. Use a
   bullet format and single space the nomination. Avoid generalities and broad or vague
   terminology. Do not use local acronyms or abbreviations. Use only Air Force standard
   acronyms and abbreviations. Do not include an acronym list on the nomination. For each
   type of nomination, enter the following information (by section heading) into the Specific
   Accomplishments block of the AF Form 1206.
      6.2.1. Section headings are:
          6.2.1.1. Job Performance. Describe and include examples of performance that set
          the nominee apart from their peers. Address extraordinary skills and job knowledge in
          the specialty, leadership abilities, oral and written communication abilities, resource
          management, judgment, decision-making, and other related performance
          achievements. This section weighted and comprises 50% of the award score for
          nominees.
          6.2.1.2. Impact on the Training Environment. Explain and include examples of
          how the nominee positively impacted the training environment through innovative
          improvements, initiatives, special projects, student processes, or AFSO21 process
          improvement events. Describe contributions made to the training environment that
          are outside of the nominee's primary area of expertise. Include innovative
          applications of technology in the training process, when applicable. This section is
          weighted and comprises 30% of the award score for nominees.
          6.2.1.3. Community/Self Improvement. Describe and include examples of the
          nominee’s actions that contribute to the whole-person concept, such as participation
          in military or civic community activities, voluntary education, or other self-
 8                                                       AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


            improvement accomplishments. This section weighted and comprises 20% of the
            award score for nominees.
     6.3. Attachment 2, Biography. This information must not exceed one page and must be
     formatted in accordance with AFI 36-2805, Attachment 2. Include the name, grade (as of 31
     December), organization and location, duty title or assignment, assignment history, instructor
     hours, total flying time (flying training nominees only), professional military education,
     civilian education, and other noteworthy awards, recommendations, and recognition.
     6.4. Attachment 3, Flight Evaluation Folder (mandatory for flying training nominations):
     the last 24 months of the nominee's flight evaluation folder.
     6.5. Attachment 4, DD Form 2266, News Release Information, Hometown (optional): If
     requested by the public affairs office, this information will be used to prepare and release
     publicity about award recipients.
7. Award Nomination and notification process.
     7.1. No later than 15 December of the award year, the HQ AETC/A2/3/10 DAG will
     electronically notify and suspense AETC training wings and groups for this year’s
     nomination packages. Note: Ensure personal identifiable information (PII) is not
     disseminated through unofficial channels.
     7.2. No later than 31 January of the selection year, Wing and Group Commanders (if not
     aligned under a training wing) will submit nomination packages for each AETC award
     category applicable to their mission to the HQ AETC/A2/3/10 DAG.
     7.3. No later than 15 January of the selection year the HQ AETC/A2/3/10 DAG will solicit
     board members. Note: May develop an annual rotation schedule for directorate personnel or
     divisions to serve as board members.
     7.4. No later than 5 February of the selection year, the HQ AETC/A2/3/10 DAG will:
        7.4.1. Identify all board members and grant them access to the HQ AETC/A2/3/10
        Awards Board collaboration SharePoint site. Note: Score sheets and instructions for
        raters will be available on the collaboration site.
        7.4.2. Remove all PII from award packages and upload AF 1206 onto the HQ
        AETC/A2/3/10 Awards Board collaboration SharePoint site.
     7.5. The HQ AETC/A2/3/10 DAG will:
        7.5.1. Monitor and process nominations packages until selection is complete. Note:
        Selections must be completed by 15 February.
        7.5.2. Prepare the staff package for the AETC/CV signature on congratulatory letters and
        AETC/DS signature on transmittal letters.
     7.6. No later than 28 February of the selection year, the HQ AETC/A/2/310 DAG will send
     the staff package to the AETC command section identifying the award recipients. Note:
     Written notification will include congratulatory letters to each recipient for AETC/CV
     signature.
     7.7. Upon AETC/CV approval of all winners, HQ AETC/A2/3/10 DAG will:
AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   9


       7.7.1. Send electronic notification to wing and group commanders (if not aligned under a
       training wing) announcing the award recipients. Note: HQ AETC/CV must approve all
       winners before announcements are made.
       7.7.2. Procure and mail or ship the trophies and congratulatory letters the recipient’s
       respective wing or group command section.
       7.7.3. Notify HQ AETC/PA to manage the command-level publicity regarding recipients
       of these awards. Note: The public affairs office may request a high quality 5" x 7" official
       photo in JPEG format from the recipients. Photo will be from the waist up only, in
       service dress uniform (civilians will be business attire), with blue background and U.S.
       flag in the background.
   7.8. Upon notification of award winners and receipt of trophies, and congratulatory letters,
   Wing and Group Commanders (if not aligned under a training wing) will present AETC
   awards to recipients. Note: Make the presentation in the presence of the recipients peers and
   if feasible, align the presentation of the award trophy with a forthcoming visit by an HQ
   AETC VIPs (e.g. HQ AETC/CC, CV, or a Director or Chief of the Command Staff).
8. Selection process.
   8.1. Point System. Board members will use a 10 point scale and the provide score sheet for
   each package and after weighting, the maximum rater composite score is 100 points. The
   package with the highest board score will determine the award recipient.
       8.1.1. A maximum of 50 weighted (50%) points will be awarded for job performance.
       8.1.2. A maximum of 30 weighted (30%) points will be awarded for impact to training
       environment.
       8.1.3. A maximum of 20 weighted (20%) points will be awarded for professional
       qualities.
   8.2. Composite Score. The scores in each area are weighted and totaled to determine the
   rater’s composite score.
       8.2.1. The high and low rater’s composite scores for each package will be thrown out
       and the three remaining rater composite scores will be totaled to determine the board
       score.
       8.2.2. In case of a tie, the board will reconvene and each member will re-rate each
       package for that award category.




                                             MICHAEL A. KELTZ, Major General, USAF
                                             Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                             Integration
 10                                                   AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Military Awards and Decorations Program, 18 December 2013
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 14 March 2013
AFI 36-2807, Headquarters United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans
and Requirements Annual Awards Program, 18 July 2007
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 9 May 2014
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN33-363_AFGM2014-01, Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, 28 May 2014
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory at https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil
Adopted Forms/IMTs:
DD Form 2266, News Release Information, Hometown, 1 June 1995
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, 26 September 2012
Prescribed Forms:
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFA—Air Force Association
AFSA—Air Force Sergeants Association
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AU—Air University
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
BMT—Basic Military Training
CC—commander
DAG—Director’s Action Group
HQ—headquarters
MAJCOM—major command
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
AETCI36-2802 17 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                      11


MTI—Military Training Instructor
MTL—Military Training Leader
NCO—non-commisioned officer
OPR—office of primary responsibility
OTS—Officer Training School
PII—personal identifiable information
SNCO—senior non-commissioned officer

Terms
Junior Enlisted Airman—This sub-category consists of Airman Basic, Airman, Airman First
Class, and Senior Airman.
NCO—This sub-category consists of Staff Sergeant and Technical Sergeant.
SNCO—This sub-category consists of Master Sergeant, Senior Master Sergeant, and Chief
Master Sergeant.
