BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 90-101
COMMAND
                                                                              5 AUGUST 2014

                                                                          Special Management

                                                     NOTIFICATION OF DISTINGUISHED
                                                     VISITORS TO AETC INSTALLATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/CCP                                                  Certified by: HQ AETC/CCP
                                                                             (Mr. James Sturch)
Supersedes:   AETCI90-401, 7 February                                                  Pages: 8
              2001


This instruction implements and AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation and AFI 90-401, Air Force
Relations with Congress. It establishes procedures and responsibilities for official visits of
distinguished visitors (DV) to AETC units, including Air University, Second Air Force, Air
Force Recruiting Service and their subordinate wings and direct report groups, as well as the
502d Air Base Wing, the 59th Medical Wing, as well as any tenant units on AETC bases. This
publication applies to all Air Education and Training Command active duty, Air National Guard
(ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. This publication may be supplemented
at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for
coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) HQ AETC/CCP using the
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Scheduled (RDS). Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval
authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Deletion of all references to HQ AETC/CCX due to reorganization. Deletion of all
references of AETC Form 88, Distinguished Visitor Notification (obsolete) and AETC Form 163,
 2                                                               AETCI90-103 5 AUGUST 2014


Distinguished Visitor Checklist (obsolete). AETC Form 88, replaced with the Distinguished
Visitor Notification link. Deletion of AETCPAM 90-101, Protocol Primer (obsolete).
Combined paragraphs 2 and 3 into paragraph 2; Added paragraph 3, Impact to Joint Base San
Antonio Bases only.
1. Distinguished Visitor (DV) Visits. DV visits to AETC units are a matter of command
interest and must receive every consideration to ensure visit requirements are managed in a
courteous and professional manner. The HQ AETC Protocol Office (HQ AETC/CCP) will
inform the AETC Commander of all proposed and scheduled DV visits. Additionally, all visits
by members of the United States Congress or their staff must be immediately reported (unless
previously reported) to the HQ AETC Command Action Group HQ AETC Command Action
Group will ensure compliance with (including after-action reports) AFI 90-401, Air Force
Relations with Congress. The provisions of AETCI 90-105, Management of Contractor Visits to
Headquarters Air Education and Training Command, also apply to requested visits by DVs
acting in the capacity as a contractor or contractor representative.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. HQ AETC/DS will:
        2.1.1. Evaluate the scope of interest of each DV requested visit and task an appropriate
        OPR for the visit.
     2.2. The OPR will:
        2.2.1. Designate a project officer to coordinate and monitor all aspects of the visit.
        2.2.2. Provide all pertinent information for the visit to include information on the DV,
        those accompanying the DV, the purpose of the visit, the dates of the visit, and the host
        unit and POC for the visit. OPR must use the Distinguished Visitor Notification link
        (https://www-r.aetc.af.mil/cc/cag/Conference/kpr/wp/menuchoices.asp), to provide
        this information to the respective DV Monitor. The DV Visitor Notification link is used
        to provide relevant details of the visit to the chain of command and any other units who
        will participate in the visit.
        2.2.3. Provide a brief after-action report, upon request, to the DV monitor, within 7 days
        after completion of the visit.
     2.3. The DV monitor will:
        2.3.1. Establish procedures to receive information on DV visits from his or her
        subordinate units.
        2.3.2. Coordinate with the HQ AETC Command Section, or its appointed office,
        concerning the DV visit as appropriate.
        2.3.3. Complete the DV Visitor Notification link, within 24 hours of notification of the
        DV visit. Explicitly annotate if the visit will include an orientation flight. Refer to AFI
        11-401, Aviation Management, for additional requirements/procedures on requesting
        orientation flight approval. NOTE: In the event of an unfavorable incident or a
        significant change to the itinerary, immediately notify HQ AETC/CCP and HQ
        AETC/DS. If appropriate, the unit commander should inform the HQ AETC Command
        Section of the incident.
AETCI90-103 5 AUGUST 2014                                                                       3


   2.4. Staff directorates or subordinate units will:
       2.4.1. Provide support as required or requested.
       2.4.2. Notify the HQ AETC Command Section and/or DV monitor of DV visits to their
       respective functional area or directorate by completing the DV Visitor Notification.
       2.4.3. Send proposed itineraries for visiting three- and four-star generals (and any
       equivalents) as soon as possible. Continue to provide all subsequent updated itineraries
       to all offices with an involvement in the visit.
   2.5. The project officer will:
       2.5.1. Coordinate staff participation and arrange support requirements as required or
       requested. Use the Notification of Distinguished Visitors to AETC Installations
       Questionnaire in Attachment 3.
       2.5.2. Prepare the visitor's itinerary and welcome package.
       2.5.3. Set up lodging (if applicable); and assist in arrival and/or departure requirements
       such as transportation, luggage movement etc.
       2.5.4. Prepare and distribute the final plan to all involved staff agencies and/or specific
       staff persons.
3. DV Visits to Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA).
   3.1. All DVs transiting the flight lines of Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA) Randolph or JBSA
   Lackland will be greeted and farewelled by an active duty officer in the grade of O-6 or
   above. DVs visiting the 59 MDW, 502 ABW, 12 FTW or 37 TRW will be
   greeted/farewelled by the respective wing. DVs visiting a specific HQ AETC directorate or
   chief of special staff will be greeted/farewelled by the sponsoring staff agency (if the
   directorate or staff agency can meet the minimum grade criteria). DVs visiting a specific HQ
   AETC directorate or chief of special staff who do not meet the criteria to greet/farewell will
   be greeted/farewelled by the on-call HQ AETC DV greeter. The on-call DV greeter is
   assigned by the directorate or chief of special staff IAW the on-call schedule letter released
   quarterly by HQ AETC Protocol. For all other DVs transiting JBSA Randolph or JBSA
   Lackland, the greet/farewell will be conducted by the 502 ABW, unless previously
   coordinated with the DV’s sponsoring unit (e.g., HQ AFPC, 24 AF, BAMC, ARNORTH,
   etc.). In all cases, a protocol member or visit project officer will be present to assist the
   greeting/farewelling officer at the flight line.
   3.2. All 4-Star (or equivalent) DVs or higher transiting San Antonio, to include
   arrivals/departures involving military bases, San Antonio International Airport and the
   civilian Fixed Base Operations, will be greeted/farewelled by a local-area AETC general
   officer. HQ AETC Protocol will conduct an availability check on all local-area AETC
   general officers and provide a decision note to AECT/CC for a final decision on
   greet/farewell duties. Contact HQ AETC/CCP, DSN: 487-4126/Commercial (210) 652-
   4126.
4. Meeting and Hosting Officials. The senior officer of the installation, unit or staff
directorate/agency serving as OPR for the visit, will normally greet, host, and farewell the DV
 4                                                               AETCI90-103 5 AUGUST 2014


unless told otherwise. Heads of the respective organizations having an interest in the visit should
represent their organization at official and social functions as required by the visit plan.
5. Special Requirements and Guidance for OPRs and Project Officers.
     5.1. If the DV's female spouse accompanies the DV, the female spouse of a senior officer
     usually acts as her escort. For a DV’s male spouse, a male senior officer usually acts as his
     escort. The OPR will prepare an individual itinerary for the DV’s spouse.
     5.2. For international visitors, determine their fluency in English. If the DV is not fluent in
     English, identify an individual who speaks the DV's language and understands the DV's
     customs to serve as interpreter and/or escort throughout the visit. If no interpreter is
     available at the base and one is not accompanying the DV during the visit, call HQ AETC/IA
     for assistance or guidance. NOTE: HQ AETC/IA can provide a “Culture Gram” which
     includes detailed information on a country's dietary and religious customs and courtesies.
     HQ AETC/IA is the initial coordination agency for all Security Assistance Training Program
     (SATP) visits to AETC bases.
     5.3. Provide accommodations commensurate with a DV's position. The arrangement for
     payment of lodging, messing, and commercial transportation normally rests with the military
     escort accompanying the DV. This individual is responsible for settling these details.




                                              SHANE P. COURVILLE, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director of Staff
AETCI90-103 5 AUGUST 2014                                                                  5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AETCI 16-101, International Programs, 8 April 2010
AETCI 90-105, Management of Contractor Visits to Headquarters Air Education and Training
Command, 11 September 2007
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 1 December
2004
AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations with Congress, 14 June 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010
Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not contain any prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AETC Form 20, Request for Briefing

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DV—Distinguished Visitor
FVS—Foreign Visit System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
JBSA—Joint Base San Antonio
IAW—In Accordance With
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SATP—Security Assistance Training Program
 6                                                                 AETCI90-103 5 AUGUST 2014


Terms
Distinguished Visitor—Any visitor of DV Code 6 (Brigadier General, Senior Executive Service,
Highly Qualified Experts) equivalent or above (active or retired); Chief Master Sergeants of the Air
Force (active or retired); Medal of Honor recipients (active or retired); nationally or internationally
known personalities; foreign dignitaries; corporate vice presidents and above; and prominent
government or elected officials to include congressional and senatorial staffers.
DV Monitor—The person, usually the wing executive officer or protocol officer/NCO, responsible
for monitoring DV visits to an AETC base and notifying higher headquarters (HQ AETC and NAF)
of the visit details. Notification is completed via the DV Visitors Notification link (https://www-
r.aetc.af.mil/cc/cag/Conference/kpr/wp/menuchoices.asp). (NOTE: HQ AETC/CCP is the DV
monitor for HQ AETC.)
Visit Final Package— The final information provided to the DV. It includes: visitor’s schedule,
approved by the wing commander. The itinerary, a concise schedule of events planned for the visit,
to include times, dates, places, briefers and briefing topics; tour locations with the names of escorts
and greeters at each location; dress for specified activities; and biographies of staff members the DV
will meet. The itinerary should provide the basics of what the DV will see and hear, and an
approximate timetable and whom he or she will meet. It does not include specific instructions to the
support agencies.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The OPR is usually the organization having primary
interest or functional responsibility for the DV’s visit. Upon notification of a proposed or scheduled
visit, the OPR is responsible for gathering information about the visit, establishing a visit itinerary,
ensuring lodging, transportation and arrival/departure arrangements are made, and providing
information to all organizations who will participate in the visit. Notification is completed via the
DV        Visitor      Notification       link    (https://www-r.aetc.af.mil/cc/cag/       Conference
/kpr/wp/menuchoices.asp).
Support Facilities—Base agencies, such as transportation, lodging, officers and enlisted clubs, and
base operations, which provide critical support for a DV's visit.
Command Visits—Visits by persons or for purposes considered of sufficient significance to warrant
HQ AETC Command Section involvement or interest. Visits approved by Secretary of the Air
Force, Chief of Staff of the Air Force or Office of International Affairs (SAF/IA) fall under
command visits.
Foreign Visits—All foreign visits designated to AETC installations are received by HQ AETC
Foreign Disclosure Office (HQ AETC/IAD) via the foreign visit system (FVS). HQ USAF/CVAI
notifies MAJCOM commanders of CSAF sponsored visits directly. HQ USAF/CVAI forwards all
foreign DV visit requests through HQ AETC International Training and Education (HQ AETC/IA) to
the HQ AETC Director of Staff (HQ AETC/DS) for approval. If the DV visit is for HQ AETC, and
the AETC/CC and/or CV will be involved in the visit, HQ AETC/IA will serve as the OPR for the
visit. AETCI 16-101, International Programs, provides guidance on responsibilities and procedures
for coordinating international programs, including foreign DVs, foreign national visits, the Military
Personnel Exchange Program, and the disclosure of military information to foreign nationals or their
representatives. Release of information and documentation to foreign visitors will be in accordance
with AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program.
AETCI90-103 5 AUGUST 2014                                                                   7


                                     Attachment 2
     INSTRUCTION ON COMPLETING THE DV VISITOR NOTIFICTION LINK

Table A2.1. Instruction on Completing the DV Visitor Notification

          Block                                         Explanation
 NAME                     Full name of the DV. If he or she is a foreigner, enclose the last
                          name in parentheses, for example, General Ignacio Manuel
                          (Quintana) Arevalo.
 GRADE/DV CODE            Grade (Rank) of DV and DV code, if civilian; for example, John H.
                          Doe (DV-5). DV CODE
 GO-BY NAME               If the salutation is different than the go-by name, so state. In
                          addition, add the conversational name or nickname.
 TITLE                    Examples include: Chief of Staff, Japanese Air Self Defense Force;
                          Retired, USAF (NOTE: Be sure to add the specific service);
                          Senator (R-NC); General Manager, McDonnell-Douglas; Air
                          Attaché, British Embassy; etc.
 DUTY STATION             Include the country, if not USA.
 CITY/STATE
 ACCOMPANIED              Spouse's conversational or go-by name (if spouse is accompanying
                          DV). Also the BY number traveling in party. Prepare a separate
                          form for each accompanying DV.
 DATE AND ETA             Date and approximate local time of arrival, and mode of travel (mil
                          air, commercial air, POV, GOV, etc.). Flight numbers, call signs,
                          etc., are not necessary
 DATE AND ETD             Same as ETA, but with departure information.
 VISITING                 Identify base and/or organization the DV is visiting.
 BASE/ORGANIZATION
 PURPOSE OF VISIT  Enter explicit, but not complicated, information. Identify only key
                   issues and key VISIT places or units. Define acronyms. Also,
                   annotate if the visit will include an orientation flight
 8                                                        AETCI90-103 5 AUGUST 2014


                                      Attachment 3
 NOTIFICATION OF DV VISITORS TO AETC INSTALLATIONS QUESTIONNAIRE

Figure A3.1. Notification of DV Visitors to AETC Installations Questionnaire
