BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AETC INSTRUCTION 10-2401
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                    10 SEPTEMBER 2009
                                                                 Certified Current 27 March 2014
                                                                                      Operations

                                            CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM (CIP)




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A2/3O                          Certified by: HQ AETC/A2/3       (Mr. James T. Parris)
                                                                                       Pages: 23



This instruction implements AFPD 10-24, Air Force Critical Infrastructure Program (CIP). It
establishes standards to identify and assess, remediate, monitor and report, mitigate, and
reconstitute critical infrastructure assets and mission-essential capabilities to achieve mission
assurance. It applies to AETC commanders, tenant unit commanders on AETC installations, and
commanders or officers in charge of AETC tenant activities on other military installations. It also
applies to Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard units.

To the extent directions in this publication are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the
information herein prevails. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
HQ AETC/A2/3O using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. (AF Form 847 is
prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP). Refer to that publication for
guidance on filling out the form.)

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of references and supporting
information used in this publication.
2                                                                                 AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


Section A—Overview                                                                                                                            2
       1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    2
       2.      Developing a Successful AETC CIP: ....................................................................                         3
       3.      Force Protection and Mission Assurance. ..............................................................                         3
       4.      Air Force-Critical Asset Management System (AF-CAMS). ................................                                         3
       5.      Risk Management: .................................................................................................             4
       6.      Identification, Prioritization, and Assessment of Critical Air Force Assets: .........                                         4

Section B—Roles and Responsibilities                                                                                                          4
       7.      HQ AETC: .............................................................................................................         5
       8.      NAF: ......................................................................................................................    9
       9.      Host Wing Commander: ........................................................................................                  9
       10.     Tenant Activities on AETC Installations: ..............................................................                       10
       11.     AETC Tenant Activities on Other Military Installations: ......................................                                11

Section C—CIPWG                                                                                                                              11
       12.     Requirements and Contacts. ...................................................................................                11
Table 1.       Air Force CIP Sector and HQ AETC Sector Lead Assignments. ..........................                                          11

Section D—TWG                                                                                                                                12
       13.     Description and Requirements. ..............................................................................                  12

Section E—CIP Executive Committee                                                                                                            12
       14.     Description and Membership. ................................................................................                  12

Section F—Adopted Forms                                                                                                                      13
       15.     Adopted Form: .......................................................................................................         13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               14

Attachment 2—CHARTER FOR AETC CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
             WORKING GROUP (CIPWG)                                                                                                           19


Section A—Overview

1. General. The AETC Critical Infrastructure Program (CIP) is a commander’s risk
management program designed to assure critical assets are available to support AETC-assigned
mission-essential tasks (MET). The AETC CIP results from national policy provided by
Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 7, Critical Infrastructure Identification,
Prioritization, and Protection, and DoDD 3020.40, Defense Critical Infrastructure Program
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                    3


(DCIP). The commander’s emphasis on the importance of CIP at all levels of war to achieve an
acceptable level of risk drives the level of effort and resources required for a successful CIP.
2. Developing a Successful AETC CIP:
   2.1. This publication provides minimum standards to develop a successful program. Sections
   on procedural guidance and roles and responsibilities outline what is required from HQ
   AETC, wings, units, and tenant activities, but each critical asset has a different set of risk
   factors. Therefore, to the maximum extent possible and without compromising the chain of
   command, the responsible commander for the mission will determine acceptable levels of
   risk.
   2.2. This instruction addresses the defense critical infrastructure (DCI) essential to achieving
   the successful execution of AETC-assigned missions. By definition, DCI includes critical
   assets that can include those assets owned by the Department of Defense (DoD), state and
   local governments, US commercial and private sector, foreign commercial and private sector,
   and host nations.
   2.3. US Air Force and AETC critical asset risk management (CARM) focuses on mission
   assurance ensuring critical assets needed to execute missions and core capabilities essential
   to executing the National military strategy are available when required.
   2.4. Members fulfilling duties as CIP managers, facilitators, or working group members
   must possess a secret security clearance at minimum because DoDM 3020.45, Volume 1,
   Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP): DoD Mission-Based Critical Asset
   Identification Process (CAIP), Enclosure 3, paragraph 2b, requires information pertaining to
   the CIP be classified.
   2.5. The AETC CIP is an all threats and hazards program, meaning, all threats and hazards
   to infrastructure capabilities that could disrupt the mission are relevant CIP issues. By no
   means constituting a complete list, threat examples include terrorist, insider, and nation state;
   hazard examples include pandemics, hurricanes, flooding, and fires.
   2.6. The AETC CIP contributes to Air Force’s ability to achieve mission assurance, as do
   antiterrorism (AT); continuity of operations (COOP); chemical, biological, radiological,
   nuclear, and high yield explosive (CBRNE) readiness and consequence management; and
   information assurance (IA).
3. Force Protection and Mission Assurance. Force protection is an overarching concept and
mission responsibility inherent to command within all military operations. AT, in contrast, is a
subelement of combating terrorism and complementary mission assurance activity like CIP,
COOP, CBRNE, and IA. These activities when working in harmony provide a synergy to
achieve mission assurance; that is to say, mission assurance is a goal or end state of force
protection and these supporting activities.
4. Air Force-Critical Asset Management System (AF-CAMS). AF-CAMS is the
authoritative data source in managing the baseline elements of information for the Air Force CIP.
This system provides commanders a tool for recalling information regarding critical assets and
missions, dependencies, vulnerability information, and other characteristics of a critical asset.
This information can be displayed in tabular and geographical information system (GIS) viewing
formats.
4                                                          AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


5. Risk Management:
    5.1. CIP is the primary method for prioritizing resources for a number of CIP processes
    including scheduling assessments, mitigation, and remediation strategies. Additionally, it
    helps provide the framework for Air Force critical asset risk assessments (CARA) and other
    DoD-sponsored vulnerability assessments.
    5.2. The basic risk equation for qualifying risk in AETC is criticality times vulnerability
    times threat or hazard. This equation produces a product of these risk factors. A zero value in
    any of these factors results in no risk to the asset or mission.
6. Identification, Prioritization, and Assessment of Critical Air Force Assets:
    6.1. Identification of Critical Assets. Air Force critical assets consist of systems and assets
    so vital the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would have a debilitating
    impact on the Air Force’s ability to execute its mission-essential tasks and core capabilities.
    An asset is determined to be critical based solely on:
       6.1.1. Impact. The asset’s impact on the execution of a mission task, capability, or core
       function the asset supports, and:
           6.1.1.1. The identified impact due to the unavailability of the asset for any reason
           would result in the failure to execute the mission task, core capability, or function; or,
           6.1.1.2. The identified impact due to the unavailability of the asset for any reason
           would result in significant degradation in the execution of the mission task, core
           capability, or function.
       6.1.2. Critical Asset Tiers. The tier definitions comply with and supplement the DoD
       tier definitions listed DODM 3020.45, Volume 1.
           6.1.2.1. The use of these tier definitions will support information sharing with other
           DoD components who may request Air Force critical asset data by tiers.
           6.1.2.2. Use of tiers is a high-level way to categorize the scope of impact caused by
           the loss of critical assets to the missions, functions, and tasks those assets support.
    6.2. Prioritization Criteria. Six criteria are utilized to prioritize Air Force critical assets:
       6.2.1. MET level of war being supported by the critical asset.
       6.2.2. Impact of loss of the critical asset on the METs/functions.
       6.2.3. Time for restoration of the asset and its capability.
       6.2.4. Time from asset capability loss to impact on supported METs/functions.
       6.2.5. Number of METs supported by the critical asset.
       6.2.6. Number of organizations the critical asset supports.
    6.3. Determining the Impact. This prioritization will be used to provide the impact
    measure of a critical asset. Impact refers to the undesirable results to the missions, core
    functions, or other capabilities caused by the loss or degradation of the critical asset, and are
    used in the critical asset risk formula.

Section B—Roles and Responsibilities
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                  5


7. HQ AETC:
  7.1. AETC Commander (CC):
     7.1.1. Designates an AETC office of primary responsibility (OPR) to address all Air
     Force and DoD CIP requirements established in formal governance.
     7.1.2. Develops an AETC capability to monitor, report, and respond during an
     undesirable event that has impacted or may impact a critical asset’s ability to support its
     linked MET as part of an Air Force-wide, comprehensive and fully integrated CIP effort.
     7.1.3. Ensures that all subordinate commanders capture and document decisions made to
     remediate, mitigate, or accept risk for critical assets. Commanders will document
     decisions to accept risk to Tier I through Tier III critical assets in AF-CAMS.
  7.2. HQ AETC/A2/3/10:
     7.2.1. Ensures HQ AETC, numbered Air Forces (NAF), wings, and AETC tenant
     activities have documented and implemented COOP plans that provide the means to
     continue mission-essential functions during all disruptive events for all Tier I, II, and III
     assets.
     7.2.2. Ensures policies, procedures, and strategies are in place for an effective AETC
     CIP.
     7.2.3. Ensures the formal integration of CIP into all AETC staff processes for mission
     assurance planning.
     7.2.4. Chairs the CIP Executive Committee. (See Section E.)
  7.3. HQ AETC/A2/3O:
     7.3.1. Serves as OPR for overseeing implementation of the Air Force CIP. This oversight
     includes drafting policy guidance, standardized processes and methodologies, plans, and
     strategic direction for senior leader to review and approve providing the identification,
     assessment and management of risk of AETC-owned supporting critical assets. (The term
     critical asset encompasses task critical assets (TCA) and supporting infrastructure critical
     assets (SICA) within CIP.)
     7.3.2. Chairs the AETC CIP working group (CIPWG) and participate in related mission
     assurance activities like the threat working group (TWG), the antiterrorism working
     group, and other executive-level forums that contribute to the command’s ability to
     achieve mission assurance. (See Section C.)
     7.3.3. Serves as the primary AETC CIP point of contact (POC) for coordination of CIP
     activities with the NAFs, wings, tenant activities on AETC installations, military services
     hosting AETC tenant activities, and major commands (MAJCOM) to include combatant
     commands (COCOM), Headquarters Air Force (HAF), DoD, and civil authorities.
     7.3.4. Ensures AETC-assigned METs and critical assets are identified, validates NAF
     and wing critical asset data, and ensures data is entered into AF-CAMS.
     7.3.5. Implements Air Force risk-management methodology for AETC to assist in
     prioritizing assessments and countermeasure options, and guides remediation and
     mitigation strategies for mission assurance.
6                                                   AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


    7.3.6. Annually coordinates AETC nominations for CARAs and vulnerability
    assessments for Tier I and II critical assets and sends nominations to the HAF CIP OPR.
    7.3.7. Serves as the OPR for monitoring AETC wing CIP inputs to the DoD Core
    Vulnerability Assessment Management Program (CVAMP) to include vulnerability
    identification and risk-management actions and decisions.
    7.3.8. Supports DoD and Air Force sector characterization initiatives to characterize end-
    to-end critical infrastructure functionality supporting AETC missions and function.
    7.3.9. Assists in developing and implementing plans for the assurance of AETC-assigned
    METs, TCAs, and SICAs.
    7.3.10. Coordinates AETC monitoring, reporting, and response activities with all HQ
    AETC infrastructure sector leads.
    7.3.11. Implements and administers AF-CAMS for HQ AETC, NAFs, wings, and tenant
    activities.
    7.3.12. Coordinates higher headquarters training teams, provides training, conducts staff
    assistance and annual program reviews of NAF, wing, and tenant activities to ensure
    program compliance. Maintains a process to track and correct observations.
    7.3.13. Establishes processes and procedures to obtain AETC/CC approval of all Tier I,
    II, and III critical assets within AETC’s area of responsibility. Reviews and validates all
    Tiers I, II, and III critical asset data supporting execution of NAF, wing, and tenant
    activity missions, core functions, and capabilities.
    7.3.14. Provides oversight of standard CIP education, training, and exercises for AETC
    in accordance with Air Force CIP. Reviews training programs for standardization and
    effectiveness.
    7.3.15. Coordinates with NAF and wing CIP representatives to develop a CIP training
    schedule for Air Force CIP mobile training team support, as needed.
    7.3.16. Prepares CIP-specific after-action assessments capturing lessons learned and best
    practices. Incorporates best practices in updates to AETC CIP policy guidance and
    addresses lessons learned in CIPWG or other relevant forum.
    7.3.17. Identifies and documents:
       7.3.17.1. Command remediation and/or mitigation measures to reduce risk of loss to
       critical assets, and documents those measures in AF-CAMS.
       7.3.17.2. Command decisions to accept vulnerabilities and risk to any Tier I, II, and
       III critical assets. Decisions accepting risk made at all levels of command will be
       made in writing and documented in AF-CAMS.
    7.3.18. Oversees the development of operational crisis and consequence management
    plans to include the development of COOP plans for mission assurance of all Tier I, II,
    and III assets.
    7.3.19. Drafts and executes annual AETC CIP strategy as a roadmap to guide command
    CIP activities to achieve mission-assurance objectives. The standards and conditions used
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                7


     to measure progress in implementing the strategy should align with the Air Force CARM
     program standards and benchmarks.
     7.3.20. Prepares and presents submissions to the Air Staff in coordination with HQ
     AETC/A3R on the AETC CIP program in support of the planning, programming, and
     budgeting and execution process.
  7.4. HQ AETC/A1:
     7.4.1. Reviews and validates NAF and wing critical asset data, and adds critical
     infrastructure to the AETC list of TCAs and SICAs.
     7.4.2. Acts as AETC liaison to facilitate coordination with Air Force force support lead
     agent.
     7.4.3. HQ AETC/A1R (Force Support Sector):
        7.4.3.1. Serves as the primary AETC CIP personnel sector POC for NAFs, wings,
        and tenant activities.
        7.4.3.2. Provides force support sector subject matter expertise in AETC CIPWG,
        threat, and executive-level forums for mission assurance.
        7.4.3.3. Assists the wings in the development of operational crisis and consequence-
        management plans to include the development of COOP plans for mission assurance
        for all Tier I, II, and III assets.
  7.5. HQ AETC/A4/7:
     7.5.1. Serves as the primary AETC CIP defense industrial base, logistics, public works,
     and transportation sector POC for NAFs, wings, and tenant activities.
     7.5.2. Reviews, validates NAF and wing critical asset data, and adds critical
     infrastructure to the AETC list of TCAs and SICAs.
     7.5.3. Acts as AETC liaison to facilitate coordination with Air Force defense industrial
     base, logistics, public works, and transportation sector lead agents.
     7.5.4. Provides defense industrial base, logistics, public works, and transportation sector
     subject matter expertise in AETC CIPWG, threat, and executive level forums for mission
     assurance.
     7.5.5. As a key contributor to force protection and in achieving mission assurance,
     injects relevant complementary CIP planning and programming activities into the AETC
     antiterrorism program.
     7.5.6. Assists the wings in the development of operational crisis and consequence-
     management plans to include the development of COOP plans for mission assurance for
     all Tier I, II, and III assets.
  7.6. HQ AETC/A5/8/9:
     7.6.1. Ensures AETC CIP funding and resource requirements are included in the
     command's program objective memorandum processes and submissions.
8                                                      AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


      7.6.2. Includes critical infrastructure requirements in command long-range plans for new
      weapons systems beddown, flying and technical training requirements, information
      systems, and efforts resolving current and future command issues.
      7.6.3. Incorporates CIP planning into base realignment and closure (BRAC) process to
      address risks in consolidating mission critical processes, creating single points of service
      or failure to achieve mission assurance.
    7.7. HQ AETC/A6:
      7.7.1. Serves as the primary AETC CIP global information grid (GIG) sector POC for
      NAFs, wings, and tenant activities.
      7.7.2. Reviews and validates NAF and wing critical asset data, and adds critical
      infrastructure to the AETC list of TCAs and SICAs.
      7.7.3. Acts as AETC liaison to facilitate coordination with the Air Force GIG sector lead
      agent.
      7.7.4. Identifies and reports any known and postulated threats and hazards (both virtual
      and physical) to communications systems to HQ AETC/A2/3O.
      7.7.5. Assesses threats to information systems and recommends changes in the
      information condition (INFOCON).
      7.7.6. Provides GIG sector subject matter expertise in AETC CIPWG, threat, and
      executive-level forums for mission assurance.
      7.7.7. Assists the wings in the development of operational crisis and consequence
      management plans to include the development of COOP plans for mission assurance for
      Tier I, II, and III assets.
    7.8. HQ AETC/FM:
      7.8.1. Serves as the primary AETC CIP finance sector POC for NAFs, wings, and tenant
      activities.
      7.8.2. Reviews and validates NAF and wing critical asset data, and adds critical
      infrastructure to the AETC list of TCAs and SICAs.
      7.8.3. Acts as AETC liaison to facilitate coordination with the Air Force finance sector
      lead agent.
      7.8.4. Provides finance sector subject matter expertise in AETC CIPWG, threat, and
      executive-level forums for mission assurance.
      7.8.5. Assists the wings in the development of operational crisis and consequence
      management plans to include the development of COOP plans for mission assurance for
      all Tier I, II, and III assets.
    7.9. HQ AETC/SG:
      7.9.1. Serves as the primary AETC CIP health sector POC for NAFs, wings, and tenant
      activities.
      7.9.2. Reviews and validates NAF and wing critical asset data, and adds critical
      infrastructure to the AETC list of TCAs and SICAs.
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                   9


     7.9.3. Acts as AETC liaison to facilitate coordination with the Air Force health sector
     lead agent.
     7.9.4. Provides health sector subject matter expertise in AETC CIPWG, threat, and
     executive-level forums for mission assurance.
     7.9.5. Assists the wings in the development of operational crisis and consequence
     management plans to include the development of COOP plans for mission assurance for
     all Tier I, II, and III assets.
  7.10. HQ AETC/IG:
     7.10.1. Assesses compliance of Air Force and AETC CIP requirements during
     management and compliance inspections.
     7.10.2. Reports to HQ AETC/A2/3/10 operational constraints or infrastructure issues
     affecting mission assurance discovered during unit compliance inspections.
8. NAF:
  8.1. Identifies an OPR for matters pertaining to the identification, prioritization, and
  protection of mission-critical assets and infrastructure. Appoints a CIP officer or POC in
  writing and provides to the AETC CIP OPR.
  8.2. Provides and monitors training, performs program reviews, and supports vulnerability
  assessments in accordance with this instruction, AFPD 10-24, and DoDI 3020.45, Defense
  Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP) Management. Ensures an annual vulnerability and
  risk self-assessment is completed on all respective wing critical infrastructures. Ensures
  results of program reviews and assessments are entered in AF-CAMS.
  8.3. Ensures CIP is addressed in all operational plans, orders, and exercises to ensure critical
  capabilities are maintained.
  8.4. Ensures respective wings have documented and implemented COOP plans that provide
  the means to continue mission-essential functions during all disruptive events for all Tier I,
  II, and III assets.
9. Host Wing Commander:
  9.1. Establishes a wing CIP to execute Air Force and AETC CIP requirements in order to
  assure successful execution of wing assigned METs.
  9.2. Appoints a CIP officer or POC in writing to implement the wing CIP. While OPR
  placement of the wing CIP is a wing commander prerogative, CIP is traditionally an
  operations function at the HAF, MAJCOMs, COCOMs, and Joint Staff to maintain an
  operational focus on the implications of the loss or degradation in critical assets capabilities.
  The wing CIP OPR will perform the following CIP activities on behalf of the wing
  commander:
     9.2.1. At least annually, coordinate with all wing-assigned, tenant activities, and
     commercial entities to identify host critical assets supporting wing and tenant-owned
     missions.
     9.2.2. Annually, authenticate and validate existing data in AF-CAMS. Document any
     new validated data in AF-CAMS.
10                                                         AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


        9.2.3. Form a CIPWG that includes members from tenant units and subordinate
        commands residing on or assigned to the host installation.
        9.2.4. Participate in and provide substantive input to other force protection-related
        forums and working groups to represent CIP equities in order to achieve mission
        assurance.
        9.2.5. Ensure all Tier I, II, and III critical assets and supporting infrastructure
        dependencies are addressed by incorporating those assets into the following planning
        activities, as a minimum:
            9.2.5.1. Physical security, antiterrorism, force protection.
            9.2.5.2. COOP plans.
            9.2.5.3. Utility restoration priorities and plans.
            9.2.5.4. Emergency management, first responder and consequence management
            priorities and plans.
        9.2.6. Execute annual vulnerability and risk self-assessments on all Tier I, II, and III
        critical assets. These assessments may be executed in conjunction with the annual
        antiterrorism program self-assessments. Ensure assessment results are entered in AF-
        CAMS.
        9.2.7. Support the execution and conduct of periodic vulnerability and risk assessments
        by a higher headquarters assessment team. Ensure assessment results are entered in AF-
        CAMS. Note: If a higher headquarters CARA or Joint Staff integrated vulnerability
        assessment is conducted in a given year, a self-assessment is not needed.
        9.2.8. Report changes in status of Tier I, II, and III critical assets within 24 hours in the
        situational report (SITREP) and operational report (OPREP) notification and in AF-
        CAMS or as soon as safety precautions allow.
        9.2.9. Track and monitor all Tier III and Tier IV critical assets. Enter Tier III critical
        assets into AF-CAMS as directed.
        9.2.10. Conduct annual CIP exercises to validate and verify plans and orders; these
        exercises may be in conjunction with other complementary exercises (e.g., AT, CBRNE,
        COOP, IA).
        9.2.11. Identify and document:
            9.2.11.1. Wing remediation and/or mitigation measures to reduce risk of loss to
            critical assets, and document those measures in AF-CAMS.
            9.2.11.2. Wing decisions to accept vulnerabilities and risk to any Tier I, II, and III
            critical assets. Decisions accepting risk will be in writing and documented in AF-
            CAMS.
     9.3. Wing commanders will ensure capturing and documenting decisions are made to
     remediate, mitigate, or accept risk for critical assets. Commanders will document decisions to
     accept risk to Tier I through Tier III critical assets in AF-CAMS.
10. Tenant Activities on AETC Installations:
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                11


   10.1. Coordinate with the host wing CIP OPR to identify tenant critical assets requiring host
   infrastructure asset support in the execution of the tenant’s missions.
   10.2. Participate in host CIPWG activities to include critical asset identification,
   vulnerability and risk assessments, and mitigation and remediation planning for host critical
   assets supporting tenant-owned missions and critical assets.
   10.3. Report changes in status of supporting Tier I, II, and III critical assets to wing CIP
   OPR when degraded status is expected to last more than 24 hours or less if appropriate.
   10.4. Fully support host installation and AETC CIP management efforts and data calls as
   well as training and exercise events.
11. AETC Tenant Activities on Other Military Installations:
   11.1. Coordinate with the host or installation commands to identify tenant critical assets
   requiring host infrastructure asset support in the execution of the tenant’s missions.
   11.2. Participate in host CIPWG activities to include critical asset identification,
   vulnerability and risk assessments, and mitigation and remediation planning for host critical
   assets supporting AETC tenant-owned missions and critical assets.
   11.3. Report changes in status of Tier I, II, and III critical assets to host CIP OPR when
   degraded status is expected to last more than 24 hours or less if appropriate. Also, report to
   respective NAF and HQ AETC/A2/3O within 24 hours in SITREP and OPREP reporting and
   in AF-CAMS.
   11.4. Fully support host installation and AETC CIP management efforts and data calls as
   well as training and exercise events.

Section C—CIPWG

12. Requirements and Contacts. The CIPWG is a permanent working group to address CIP
policies, processes, planning, and execution required for AETC mission assurance. Core working
group includes representatives from the ten CIP sectors as defined by Air Force CIP and DCIP.
At a minimum, the CIPWG should meet quarterly or more frequently as required.
   12.1. Each wing will establish a CIPWG comprised of representatives from all functional
   areas within the wing and other tenant organizations to facilitate decisionmaking regarding
   CIP issues. This CIPWG may be combined with the AT working group to ensure
   coordination and reduce administrative burden. CIPWG members should participate in the
   wing’s antiterrorism working group and complementary mission-assurance activity working
   groups to share information and support program objectives.
   12.2. Refer to Table 1 for information on Air Force CIP sector and HQ AETC sector lead
   assignments:

Table 1. Air Force CIP Sector and HQ AETC Sector Lead Assignments.
  I                     A                                              B
  T
  E
  M         CIP Sector (HAF OPR)                    Corresponding AETC Sector Leads
12                                                        AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


     1   Defense Industrial Base                  Logistics/Installation and Mission Support
         (HQ USAF/A4/7)                           (HQ AETC/A4/7)
     2   Finance (SAF/FM)                         Comptroller (HQ AETC/FM)
     3   GIG (SAF/XC)                             Communications (HQ AETC/A6)
     4   Health (HQ USAF/SG)                      Medical Services and Training (HQ AETC/SG)
     5   Intelligence, Surveillance, and          Directorate of Intelligence, Operations, and
         Reconnaissance (HQ USAF/A3/5)            Nuclear Integration (HQ AETC/A2/3/10)
     6   Logistics (HQ USAF/A4/7)                 Logistics/Installation and Mission Support
                                                  (HQ AETC/A4/7)
     7   Personnel (HQ USAF/A1)                   Manpower, Personnel, and Services
                                                  (HQ AETC/A1)
     8   Public Works (HQ USAF/A4/7)              Logistics/Installation and Mission Support
                                                  (HQ AETC/A4/7)
     9   Space (HQ USAF/A3/5)                     Directorate of Intelligence, Operations and
                                                  Nuclear Integration (HQ AETC/A2/3/10)
  10 Transportation (HQ USAF/A4/7)                Logistics/Installation and Mission Support
                                                  (HQ AETC/A4/7)

Section D—TWG

13. Description and Requirements. The TWG is a multifunctional team; the working group
develops and refines terrorism threat assessments and coordinates and disseminates threat
warnings, reports, and summaries.
     13.1. It reviews, coordinates, and disseminates threat warnings, reports, and summaries.
     They should consider terrorist threats and their asymmetrical methods of organization,
     intelligence, planning, and operations that could pose a threat to the installation or operations
     in the base boundary and/or base security zone. The TWG also tracks CBRN active defense
     warnings and intelligence community threat alerts and advisories regarding terrorist groups
     and analyze the applicability to the installation and its operations.
     13.2. Each wing should already have a TWG established to address the current threat. For
     threats involving critical infrastructure, the CIPWG chair and applicable functional
     representatives will support mission analysis and course of action to mitigate threats to
     critical infrastructure in order to achieve mission assurance.

Section E—CIP Executive Committee

14. Description and Membership. The CIP Executive Committee provides oversight for
senior director and special staff principals on CIP issues within AETC. As the highest
authoritative forum responsible to the AETC/CC, this executive committee evaluates CIP issues
and develops a roadmap for remediating systemic critical infrastructure vulnerabilities of the
highest risk. It provides AETC a multidisciplined forum for ensuring the availability of critical
infrastructure throughout AETC in assuring assigned missions. Chaired by HQ AETC/A2/3/10,
the CIP Executive Committee meets at least annually at Randolph AFB TX. The core members
include HQ AETC directors or deputy directors and NAF representatives for CIP at the field
officer, general officer, or colonel level and HQ AETC/A2/3O.
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                          13


Section F—Adopted Forms

15. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                       SCOTT BETHEL, Brig Gen, USAF
                                       Deputy Director, Intelligence, Operations, and
                                       Nuclear Integration
14                                                     AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
HSPD-7, Critical Infrastructure Identification, Prioritization, and Protection, 17 December
2003
Defense Critical Infrastructure Security Classification Guide, May 2007
DoDD 3020.40, Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP), 19 August 2005
DoDI 3020.45, Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP) Management, 21 April 2008
DoDM 3020.45, Volume 1, Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP): DoD Mission-
Based Critical Asset Identification Process (CAIP), 24 October 2008
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January 1997
DoD 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents, April 1997
DODD 5230.09, Clearance of DoD Information for Public Release, 22 August 2008
AFPD 10-24, Air Force Critical Infrastructure Program (CIP), 28 April 2006
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—CAMS—Air Force Critical Asset Management System
AT—antiterrorism
CARA—critical asset risk assessment
CARM—critical asset risk management
CBRNE—chemical biological radiological nuclear high explosive
CC—commander
CIP—critical infrastructure program
CIPWG—CIP working group
COCOM—combatant command
COOP—continuity of operations
DCI—defense critical infrastructure
DCIP—Defense Critical Infrastructure Program
GIG—global information grid
HAF—headquarters Air Force
IA—information assurance
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                15


MAJCOM—major command
MET—mission-essential task
NAF—numbered Air Force
OPR—office of primary responsibility
OPREP—operational reporting
POC—point of contact
SIA—supporting infrastructure asset
SICA—supporting infrastructure critical asset
SITREP—situational reporting
TCA—task critical asset
TWG—threat working group

Terms
All—Hazards/Threats Environment—An environment that includes natural or manmade
incidents and events to include acts of terror.
Analysis and Assessment—The coordinated identification of DoD, national defense
infrastructure, and international defense infrastructure critical assets, their system and
infrastructure configuration and characteristics, and the interrelationships among infrastructure
sectors; assessment of their vulnerabilities; quantification of the relationship between military
plans and operations and critical assets and infrastructures; and assessment of the operational
impact of loss or compromise.
Asset (Infrastructure)—A distinguishable network entity that provides a service of capability.
Assets are people, physical entities, or information located either within or outside the United
States and owned or operated by domestic, foreign, public or private sector organizations.
Asset Owner—The DoD components with responsibility for a DoD asset or organizations that
own or operate a non-DoD asset.
Baseline Elements of Information—The minimum defined information requirements necessary
to support a risk management decision.
Benchmarks—For the purpose of this instruction, a series of necessary objectives-based
questions for the Defense Critical Infrastructure Program, where the answers indicate the degree
to which specific standards have been met.
Continuity of Operations (COOP)—An internal effort within individual components of the
executive, legislative, and judicial branches of Government assuring the capability exists to
continue uninterrupted essential component functions across a wide range of potential
emergencies, including localized acts of nature, accidents, and technological and/or attack-
related emergencies. COOP involves plans and capabilities that must be maintained at a high
level of readiness, and be capable of implementation with or without warning.
16                                                      AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


Criticality—For the purpose of this instruction, a metric used to describe the consequence of
loss of an asset, based on the effect the incapacitation or destruction of the asset would have on
DoD operations and the ability of the DoD to fulfill its missions.
Defense Critical Infrastructure—A TCA of such extraordinary importance to DoD operations
in peace, crisis, and war that its incapacitation or destruction would have a very serious,
debilitating effect on the ability of the DoD to fulfill its missions.
Defense Critical Infrastructure Program—A DoD risk management program that seeks to
ensure the availability of networked assets critical to DoD missions. Activities include the
identification, assessment, and security enhancement of assets essential for executing the
national military strategy (DoDD 3020.40).
Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Defense Sector—The DoD, the US Government, and private
sector worldwide industrial complex with capabilities to perform research and development and
design, produce, and maintain military weapon systems, subsystems, components, or parts to
meet military requirements.
Dependency—A relationship or connection where one entity is influenced or controlled by
another entity.
Global Information System—The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information
capabilities, associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating, and managing information on demand to warfighters, policymakers, and support
personnel including all owned and leased communications and computing systems and services,
software (including applications), data, security services, and other associated services necessary
to achieve information superiority. It also includes national security systems as defined in
Section 5142 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (DoDD 3020.40).
Hazard (Infrastructure)—Nonhostile incidents such as accidents, natural forces, technological
failure, etc., that cause loss or damage to infrastructure assets.
Infrastructure—The framework of networked assets that comprise identifiable industries,
institutions, or distribution capabilities and enable a continued flow of goods and services.
Mission Assurance—A process to ensure that assigned tasks or duties can be performed in
accordance with the intended purpose or plan. It is a summation of the activities and measures
taken to ensure that required capabilities and all supporting infrastructures are available to the
DoD to carry out the national military strategy. It links numerous risk management program
activities and security-related functions—such as force protection; antiterrorism; critical
infrastructure protection; information assurance; continuity of operations; chemical, biological,
radiological, nuclear, and high-explosive defense; readiness; and installation preparedness—to
create the synergistic effect required for DoD to mobilize, deploy, support, and sustain military
operations throughout the continuum of operations.
Mission—Essential Tasks—A mission task selected by a commander deemed essential to
mission accomplishment and defined using the common language of the universal joint task list
in terms of task, condition, and standard. Differs from a joint MET in that it may reflect missions
tasked within a sole DoD component’s authority. In DCIP METs are linked to those higher-level
responsibilities of the DoD derived from national essential functions, primary mission-essential
functions, and mission-essential functions.
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                   17


Mission Owner—DoD organizations having responsibility for the execution of missions
assigned by statute or the Secretary of Defense, and supporting organizations with responsibility
for execution of all or part of those missions.
Mitigation—Actions taken in response to a warning or after an incident occurs intended to
lessen the potentially adverse effects on a given military operation or infrastructure.
National Military Strategy—It links numerous risk management program activities and
security-related functions—such as force protection; antiterrorism; critical infrastructure
protection; information assurance; continuity of operations; chemical, biological, radiological,
nuclear, and high-explosive defense; readiness; and installation preparedness—to create the
synergistic effect required for DoD to mobilize, deploy, support, and sustain military operations
throughout the continuum of operations.
Reconstitution—The process of restoring critical assets and their necessary infrastructure
support systems (or their functionality) to pre-incident operational status.
Remediation—Actions taken to correct known deficiencies and weaknesses. These actions are
undertaken once a vulnerability has been identified.
Resiliency—The characteristic or capability to maintain functionality and structure (or degrade
gracefully) in the face of internal and external change.
Risk Assessment—A systematic examination of risk, using disciplined processes, methods, and
tools. It provides an environment for decisionmaking to continuously evaluate and prioritize
risks and recommended strategies to remediate or mitigate those risks.
Risk Management—A process by which critical asset risk is assessed and calculated using the
risk formula, and commanders analyze the risk to their critical assets and make the decision to
accept or remediate or mitigate that risk.
Supporting Infrastructure Critical Assets—A supporting infrastructure asset (SIA) directly
used to support the functioning or operation of a TCA, such that the SIA’s loss, degradation, or
denial will result in the execution of its associated tasked MET or function. A TCA cannot
operate or function without a SICA being available or functioning.
Susceptibility—The inherent capacity of an asset to be affected by one or more threats or
hazards.
Tabular—Relating to or arranged in a table specifically set up in rows or columns
Task Critical Asset—An asset that is of such extraordinary importance that its incapacitation or
destruction would have a serious, debilitating effect on the ability of one or more DoD
components or defense infrastructure sector lead agents to execute the task or MET it supports.
TCAs are used to identify defense critical assets.
Threat—An adversary having the intent, capability, and opportunity to cause loss or damage.
Tier I Critical Asset—An asset whose loss, incapacitation, or disruption of which could result
in mission (or function) failure at the DoD, military department, combatant command, subunified
command, defense agency, or defense infrastructure sector level. More specifically, critical asset
loss or disruption results in failure of strategic national- or theater-level missions or functional
capabilities.
18                                                         AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


Tier II Critical Asset—An asset whose loss, incapacitation, or disruption could result in severe
mission (or function) degradation at the DoD, military department, combatant command,
subunified command, defense agency, or defense infrastructure sector level. More specifically,
critical asset loss or disruption results in severe degradation of strategic national- or theater-level
missions or functional capabilities
Tier III Critical Asset—An asset whose loss, incapacitation, or disruption could result in
mission (or function) failure or severe degradation below the military department, combatant
command, subunified command, defense agency, or defense infrastructure sector level. More
specifically, critical asset loss or disruption results in failure or severe degradation of operational
level missions or functional capabilities.
Tier IV Critical Asset—An asset whose loss, incapacitation, or disruption could result in
mission (or function) failure or severe degradation below the military department, combatant
command, subunified command, defense agency, or defense infrastructure sector level. More
specifically, the critical asset loss or disruption results in failure or severe degradation of unit- or
tactical- level of missions.
Vulnerability (Infrastructure)—The characteristics of an installation, system, asset,
application, or its dependencies that could cause it to suffer a degradation or loss (incapacity to
perform its designated function) as a result of having been subjected to a certain level of threat or
hazard.
Vulnerability Assessment (Infrastructure)—A systematic examination of the characteristics of
an installation, system, asset, application, or its dependencies to identify vulnerabilities.
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                19


                                        Attachment 2
   CHARTER FOR AETC CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM WORKING
                          GROUP (CIPWG)

A2.1. Establishment. The chartering authority of the AETC Commander establishes the AETC
CIPWG, under the chair of the Directorate of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear Integration
(HQ AETC/A2/3/10). This charter contains the following general responsibilities:
   A2.1.1. Identify and address CIP issues.
   A2.1.2. Advise AETC senior leadership on DoD, Air Force, and AETC CIP policies and
   issues.
   A2.1.3. Foster awareness of CIP within AETC by providing a context and forum for
   collaboration on CIP issues.
   A2.1.4. Provide a common management environment for planning, coordinating, integrating,
   and administering all AETC CIP efforts.
   A2.1.5. Develop positions and policy recommendations for submission to the formal
   coordination process.
A2.2. CIPWG Objectives:
   A2.2.1. Serve as the principal, working-level, advisory forum for developing and providing
   AETC CIP policy, programs, and oversight recommendations to HQ AETC/A2/3/10.
   A2.2.2. Assist the US Air Force POC (AF/A3O-AHD) by:
       A2.2.2.1. Monitoring activities relating to overall Air Force CIP planning, program
       development, and execution.
       A2.2.2.2. Supporting and leveraging Air Force CIP-related programs.
       A2.2.2.3. Ensuring CIP policies and standards are integrated into all appropriate policy
       guidance.
   A2.2.3. Develop AETC CIP functional objectives, as well as processes, definitions, critical
   asset criteria, and data collection methodology to:
       A2.2.3.1. Support the assessment of risks to AETC missions and capabilities.
       A2.2.3.2. Provide situational awareness of critical infrastructure asset availability and
       reliability.
       A2.2.3.3. Support consequence management and continuity of operations decisions.
   A2.2.4. Provide a forum for the AETC CIP community to vet CIP-related policies and
   procedures, raise CIP-related issues, share information of mutual interest, and informally
   coordinate issues and recommendations among the members prior to formal staffing.
   A2.2.5. Identify and prioritize critical AETC-owned and/or managed infrastructures and
   assess their vulnerability to human error, natural disasters, or intentional physical or cyber
   attack. Develop strategies for remediating or mitigating vulnerabilities to critical
   infrastructure.
20                                                      AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


     A2.2.6. In case of loss or disruption to a critical infrastructure, develop strategies for
     mitigating the effects of such loss or disruption and include them in COOP plans.
     A2.2.7. Incorporate CIP education and training concepts into AETC Command-level courses
     as well as courses for senior staff (military and civilian) and senior enlisted personnel.
     A2.2.8. Incorporate CIP concepts into AETC installation-level training exercises, including
     COOP exercises, to instill an awareness of the impact caused by the loss of critical assets
     through the exploitation of their vulnerabilities so that lessons learned are applied to
     remediate such vulnerabilities.
A2.3. Organization:
     A2.3.1. HQ AETC/A2/3O, or designee, will chair the CIPWG. He or she will:
        A2.3.1.1. Act as the OPR for identification, assessment, and security enhancement of the
        AETC CIP.
        A2.3.1.2. Provide direction to the CIPWG to facilitate execution of its assigned CIP
        responsibilities.
        A2.3.1.3. Participate in the Air Force CIPWG.
        A2.3.1.4. Represent AETC in CIP-related discussions and agreements with HAF.
        A2.3.1.5. Prepare and present submissions to the Air Staff in coordination with HQ
        AETC/A3R on the AETC CIP program in support of the planning, programming, and
        budgeting and execution process.
        A2.3.1.6. Oversee the AETC CIP-related training and awareness programs.
        A2.3.1.7. Establish and oversee a staff to maintain and administer the AETC CIP
        program.
        A2.3.1.8. Implement policies and establish procedures, plans, and operations to reduce
        the vulnerabilities of critical AETC infrastructures and assets.
        A2.3.1.9. Coordinate with the Air Force sector leads on the identification, vulnerability
        assessment, and remediation of the loss or degradation of DCI supporting AETC and its
        impact on the Air Force mission.
     A2.3.2. The executive agent for the AETC CIP is the Deputy Chief, Intelligence, Operations,
     and Readiness Division, HQ AETC/A2/3O, who is responsible for:
        A2.3.2.1. Developing and maintaining an AETC CIP strategy, defining goals and
        performance objectives, and establishing timelines.
        A2.3.2.2. Coordinating the activity and participation of the AETC CIPWG members as
        well as invited guests.
        A2.3.2.3. Maintaining oversight of CIPWG operations and administration such as
        scheduling meetings and maintaining minutes.
        A2.3.2.4. Ensuring all participants remain informed of related functional group’s
        activities in order to examine consequences and adjust action plans accordingly.
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                               21


      A2.3.2.5. Establishing and coordinating AETC positions on CIP issues for AETC
      CIPWG consideration.
      A2.3.2.6. Establishing and maintaining liaison with Air Force and MAJCOM CIP POCs.
      A2.3.2.7. Supporting HQ USAF/A3SHD as required.
A2.4. Membership:
   A2.4.1. AETC representatives from the following directorates are responsible for bringing
   directorate issues to the attention of the CIPWG: A1, A2/3/10, A4/7, A5/8/9, A6, RS, SG,
   and FM.
   A2.4.2. The directorates identified in paragraph A2.4.1 will appoint and maintain primary
   and alternate representatives to serve as members on the CIPWG. Provide their names and
   contact information to HQ AETC/A2/3O, DSN 487-7833. At least one of these
   representatives is expected to attend all CIPWG meetings.
   A2.4.3. Additional permanent members are encouraged from divisions with multiple
   missions.
   A2.4.4. The Chair, upon advice of the members, may add additional members as required.
   Appropriate subject matter experts will be invited to participate as deemed necessary by the
   CIPWG.
   A2.4.5. When necessary, the Chair may establish subgroups to address topics of special CIP
   interest.
A2.5. Relationships with Other Organizations:
   A2.5.1. The AETC CIPWG will serve as the primary AETC forum responsible for
   coordination of AETC CIP activities with all CIP and CIP-re1ated organizations.
   A2.5.2. The AETC CIPWG is responsible for the development of CIP issues and
   recommendations to ensure they are properly framed prior to final staffing actions.
   A2.5.3. Tasking authority is delegated to HQ AETC/A2/3O via this charter for all CIP
   re1ated issues. This authority extends over all AETC divisions.
A2.6. Meetings:
   A2.6.1. Minutes and Agendas:
      A2.6.1.1. The CIPWG will meet at least quarterly as determined by the Chair, his or her
      designee, or by request of the membership.
      A2.6.1.2. HQ AETC/A2/3O will announce meetings, request agenda items, and provide
      an agenda for each regularly scheduled CIPWG.
      A2.6.1.3. The CIPWG agenda will include recurring items, such as the review and
      approval of previous minutes, prioritization of assets, review of new missions and assets,
      and discussion of agenda items for the next CIPWG meeting.
      A2.6.1.4. Members may nominate additional missions, assets, and issues for
      consideration.
22                                                      AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


        A2.6.1.5. Members nominating agenda items will provide supporting documentation to
        HQ AETC/A2/3O at least 24 hours prior to the meeting as appropriate.
        A2.6.1.6. HQ AETC/A2/3O will generate and distribute minutes not later than 5 working
        days after each meeting.
     A2.6.2. Meeting Management:
        A2.6.2.1. Representatives attending each meeting are expected to represent their
        organization’s position on CIPWG matters.
        A2.6.2.2. The CIPWG will address each issue on the agenda with the intent to agree
        upon a position based on consensus.
     A2.6.3. Unresolved Issues. Issues not resolved by the CIPWG will be referred to HQ
     AETC/A2/3O or A2/3/10 for a final decision.
        A2.6.3.1. When consensus on an issue is not achieved at a CIPWG, dissenting parties
        will develop position papers for review by HQ AETC/A2/3O.
        A2.6.3.2. HQ AETC/A2/3O will prepare appropriate staff correspondence with
        recommendations for each unresolved agenda item based on position papers prepared by
        CIPWG representatives. All such correspondence will be coordinated with CIPWG
        members prior to being sent to HQ AETC/A2/3/10.
     A2.6.4. Operations Security, Communications Security, and Information Security. Use
     appropriate guidelines when developing and transmitting information that identifies critical
     infrastructures, threats, vulnerabilities, risks, and recommended responses. This information
     will be marked a minimum of "For Official Use Only" since it identifies AETC mission-
     critical information.
        A2.6.4.1. Classification Guidance. The Defense Critical Infrastructure Security
        Classification Guide (hereafter referred to as the DCIP SCG), May 2007, is the primary
        source for classification guidance. It will be cited as the basis for classification,
        reclassification, and declassification of information and materials under DoD cognizance
        and control related to CIP. Refer to other classification guidance such as original
        classification authority (OCA) or original agency’s determination required (OADR) for
        specific classification information, for specific classification information.
        A2.6.4.2. Compiled Information. See DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program,
        for guidance on compiled information, such as when information otherwise marked
        UNCLASSIFIED could become classified if the compiled information reveals an
        additional association or relationship.
        A2.6.4.3. Public Release. Unclassified CIP information is not automatically releasable
        to the public. See the DCIP SCG and DoDD 5230.09, Clearance of DoD Information for
        Public Release, for details.
        A2.6.4.4. Marking Requirements. See DCIP SCG and DoD 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to
        Marking Classified Documents.
A2.7. Duration. This charter will be reviewed annually during the first quarter of the fiscal year
or more frequently as required.
AETCI10-2401 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                   23


A2.8. Effective Date. This charter is effective upon signature by the Commander, Air
Education Training Command.
