BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 16-501
COMMAND
                                                                           21 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                            Operations Support

                                                      HQ AETC CORPORATE STRUCTURE




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading or ordering on e-publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A8PP                                                  Certified by: HQ AETC/A8P
                                                                               (Col Gary Grape)
                                                                                      Pages: 10
Supersedes:   AETCI 16-501,
              5 October 2011


This instruction implements AFPD 16-5, Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System,
and AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs. This instruction
establishes the operating procedures for the HQ AETC Corporate Structure, a senior staff review
process. It applies to HQ AETC Directors and Chiefs of Special Staff as well as Air University
(AU), Air Force Recruiting Service (RS) and 2 AF Commanders. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information used in this publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and requires thorough review.
 2                                                            AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013


1. Overview.
     1.1. The AETC Corporate Structure embodies the corporate review process for HQ AETC.
     This structure is designed to increase management effectiveness and improve cross-
     functional decision-making by providing a forum where senior AETC leaders can apply their
     collective judgment and experience to affect major programs, objectives, and issues with
     resourcing and/or policy decisions requiring the experience/expertise of the staff as a whole
     or decisions impacting the majority of the Command and/or its missions. Decisions should
     be made at the lowest possible level of the Corporate Structure. However, Program
     Objective Memorandum (POM) and Execution Plans will go through the Corporate Structure
     to the Council for final decision.
     1.2. The AETC Corporate Structure is illustrated at Attachment 2 and consists of a Council,
     Board and Group fed by Panels and Standing Committees with processes managed by
     A5/8/9. These bodies will meet on a pre-determined schedule which will be prominent on
     the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point. Attachment 3 is a draft annual calendar with
     anticipated agendas for each event. The "business practices" section of the AETC Corporate
     Structure Share-point contains detailed checklists for the coordination required for a meeting,
     getting on the agenda, minutes, etc. and will be the one-stop place for Action Officers (AO)
     and leadership alike to engage with, and participate in, the AETC Corporate Structure.
2. Composition. The AETC Corporate Structure is composed of several formal executive
bodies chartered to develop command positions on key issues. While the AETC/CC owns the
Corporate Structure, A5/8/9 manages Corporate Structure activities on his/her behalf
(Attachment 2).
3. Organization.
     3.1. The AETC Corporate Structure is comprised of the AETC Council, AETC Board,
     AETC Group, Panels, and Committees.
     3.2. The AETC Corporate Structure Secretariat resides in AETC/A8PP and provides
     oversight for all Corporate Structure activities (paragraph 9).
     3.3. Issues are sequentially elevated through the AETC Corporate Structure as illustrated at
     Attachment 2 (that is, issues start at the panel and/or committee and proceed through the
     Group, Board, and Council levels). However, decisions will be made at the lowest possible
     level of the Corporate Structure.
     3.4. The AETC Corporate Structure Share-point contains detailed business practices
     including required staff coordination for Corporate Structure issues and rules of engagement
     for the conduct of Corporate Structure events.
     3.5. Strategic information technology (IT) direction and decisions related to the entire AETC
     IT Portfolio must be vetted through the IT Committee, co-chaired by A6 and A5T. All
     command IT requirements, as defined by the Clinger Cohen Act of 1996 (CCA) Section
     5002, must be vetted through local Communications Squadrons and/or the HQ AETC/A6
     requirements process to be prioritized by the IT Panel, chaired by the A6, for resourcing
     recommendation within that panel and as input to other mission resourcing panels. A
     consolidated and prioritized AETC IT requirements list will be forwarded as advisement to
     the corporate process for resourcing consideration
AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 3


4. AETC Council.
   4.1. The AETC Council is a forum for the Command's most senior leaders to review and
   discuss resource issues and policy requirements received from the AETC Board and provide
   a recommendation to the AETC/CC. The AETC/CC (CV in his/her absence) presides over
   the Council.
   4.2. AETC Council membership consists of Directors from: AETC/A1, A2/3/10, A4/7,
   A5/8/9, A6, FM, IA, as well as AU/CC and RS/CC. Advisors to the AETC Council are: 2
   AF/CC and Directors (or equivalents) from CCL, HC, HO, IG, IP, JA, PA, PK, SG, SE, CG,
   and RF. When the principal is unavailable, the respective Deputy will normally attend in
   his/her absence. Other attendees are at the discretion of the AETC/CC (or CV).
   4.3. The AETC Corporate Structure Secretariat will manage agendas, action item
   release/tracking, scheduling and documentation. However, the OPR for particular agenda
   items being reviewed by the Council is ultimately responsible for the coordination,
   preparation, and presentation of agenda items in accordance with Corporate Structure
   business rules.
5. AETC Board.
   5.1. The AETC Board is a forum for the Command's Deputy Directors and Vice
   Commanders to review and discuss resource issues and policy requirements received from
   the AETC Group and make decisions when possible. If the Board Chair determines the
   authority for a decision does not belong at the Board level or the Board cannot achieve
   resolution, the Board will forward recommendations to the AETC Council. The
   AETC/A5/8/9 and AETC/FM co-chair the AETC Board. AETC Board decisions will be
   documented in minutes and published on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
   5.2. AETC Board membership consists of Deputy Directors from: AETC/A1, A2/3/10-FT,
   A2/3/10-TT, A4/7, A5/8/9, A6, FM, IA, as well as AU/CV and RS/CV. Advisors to the
   AETC Board are: 2 AF/CV and Directors (or equivalents) from CCL, HC, HO, IG, IP, JA,
   PA, PK, SG, SE, CG, and RF. To promote the best decision possible on the
   effective/efficient use of AETC resources, Board members are charged with providing an
   enterprise viewpoint in addition to his/her functional expertise. When the Deputy is
   unavailable, their organization will send a substitute authorized to speak on behalf of the
   respective organization. Other attendees are at the discretion of the co-chairs.
   5.3. The AETC Corporate Structure Secretariat will manage agendas, action item
   release/tracking and scheduling. However, the OPR for particular agenda items being
   reviewed by the Board is ultimately responsible for the coordination, preparation, and
   presentation of agenda items in accordance with Corporate Structure business rules.
6. AETC Group.
   6.1. The AETC Group is a forum for the Command's O-6s/GS-15s to review and discuss
   resource issues and policy requirements received from the Panels/Committees and make
   decisions when possible. It is the first level of the Corporate Structure tasked to ensure
   cross-functional integration of AETC mission and mission support areas into a balanced
   AETC program and enables issue prioritizations when necessary. If the Group Chair
   determines the authority for a decision does not belong at the Group level or the Group
 4                                                            AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013


     cannot achieve resolution, the Group will forward recommendations to the AETC Board.
     The AETC/A8P and FMA co-chair the AETC Group. AETC Group decisions will be
     documented in minutes and published on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
     6.2. AETC Group membership consists of Division Chiefs (or equivalents) from:
     AETC/A1R, A3F, A3T, A4P, A5R, A6X, A7N, IAO, as well as AU/DS and RSX. Advisors
     to the AETC Group are: representatives from A1M, 2AF/TTOC, CCL, HC, HO, IG, IP, JA,
     PA, PK, SG, SE, CG, RF and Panel Chairs. To promote the best decision possible on the
     effective/efficient use of AETC resources, Group members are charged with providing an
     enterprise viewpoint in addition to their function expertise. When the designated Group
     member is unavailable, the Directorate/Command will send a substitute authorized to speak
     on behalf of the respective organization. Other attendees are at the discretion of the co-
     chairs.
     6.3. In addition to resource/policy issues, the Panels/Committees can bring forward other
     issues at the discretion of the co-chairs. The process to establish agenda items for the AETC
     Group is covered in business practices on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
     6.4. The AETC Corporate Structure Secretariat will manage agendas, action item
     release/tracking and scheduling. However, the OPR for particular agenda items being
     reviewed by the Group is ultimately responsible for the coordination, preparation, and
     presentation of agenda items in accordance with Corporate Structure business rules.
7. Panels.
     7.1. Panels review and screen resource allocation issues covering major AETC mission and
     mission support areas. Standing Panels are: Training (flying and technical), Education,
     Recruiting, Installation Support, Support, Information Technology (formerly Comm and
     Info), and Medical (see Attachment 2). Medical Panel resources are programmed and
     budgeted through a special Office of the Secretary of Defense appropriation but medical
     manpower is part of AETC's total obligation authority (TOA).
     7.2. Panels serve as initial points of entry for issues requiring corporate review. Panels have
     specific program elements assigned to them. Panels review and develop options for
     presentation to the AETC Group. In addition, Panels ensure the resources for AETC
     programs are properly allocated, fully validated, and adequately justified. Each panel
     prioritizes its programs for presentation to the AETC Group, and determines the issues to be
     reviewed and prioritized.
     7.3. The appropriate Director or Chief of Special Staff designates the Panel Chair from
     within his/her particular functional area. (Note: HQ AETC/A4/7 appoints the Panel Chair
     for the Support and Installation Support Panels.) The Directorate also writes/coordinates the
     Panel's Charter which the AETC Corporate Structure Secretariat will post on the AETC
     Corporate Structure Share-point. The Charter format and content minimum is in the business
     practices of the Corporate Structure website.
     7.4. The Panel Chair determines Panel membership to include, as a minimum,
     representatives from appropriate functional staff elements and AETC/A1M, A8P, and FMA
     as advisors. The sponsoring Directorate prepares an appointment memorandum (see business
     practices of AETC Corporate website). Each Panel appoints an AO or Panel Secretariat from
AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    5


   within the Panel Chair's Directorate or Special Staff to serve as focal point. The AO or Panel
   Secretariat will comply with paragraph 12.
8. Committees.
   8.1. Committees serve as initial points of entry for issues requiring corporate review and for
   specialized resource requirements (i.e. information technology) that provide common
   capability across multiple functional areas/panels. Committees review/prioritize issues and
   make presentations to the AETC Group. When working resource issues, Committees input
   through the respective Panel and advise the AETC Group. Standing Committees include:
   MILCON, Facilities (sustainability, restoration, modernization and demolition (SRMD)),
   Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) allocation, Transformation, Information
   Technology integration, Requirements Oversight, and Basing/TFI (see Attachment 2).
   8.2. If a new committee is required, the sponsoring Directorate writes/staffs a Committee
   charter, IAW business practices of AETC Corporate website after coordinating with A5/8/9.
      8.2.1. If short-term in nature, a Working Group may be created. Working Groups are ad
      hoc, short-term groups convened by a Panel/Committee for a specific issue.
   8.3. The appropriate Director/Chief of Special Staff designates the Committee Chair. The
   Directorate also writes/coordinates the Committee's Charter which the AETC Corporate
   Structure Secretariat will post on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point. The Charter
   format and content minimum is in the business practices of the Corporate Structure website.
   8.4. The Committee Chair determines Committee membership but should include
   stakeholder Divisions/Special Staff from across AETC as a minimum. The sponsoring
   Directorate prepares an appointment memorandum (see business practices of AETC
   Corporate website). Each Committee appoints an AO or Committee Secretariat from within
   the Committee Chair's Directorate or Special Staff to serve as focal point. The AO or Panel
   Secretariat will comply with paragraph 1.
9. AETC Corporate Structure Secretariat (AETC/A8PP).
   9.1. The AETC Corporate Structure Secretariat is responsible for managing AETC
   Corporate Structure activities.
   9.2. Specific duties are incorporated on AETC Corporate Structure Share-point and include:
      9.2.1. Maintaining and publishing policies and procedures.
      9.2.2. Maintaining the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
      9.2.3. Providing analysis of AETC Corporate Structure activities and determining
      methods for ensuring effective and efficient management of critical issues. This includes
      ensuring completeness of cross-functional reviews, providing analysis of data used, and
      determining appropriate levels for development and presentation to attain desired
      outcomes.
      9.2.4. Maintaining the AETC Corporate Structure membership roster and schedule.
      9.2.5. Recording/note taking during AETC Corporate Structure meetings to capture
      attendance, decisions and action items. These will be reviewed at each AETC Corporate
      Structure meeting prior to adjournment to ensure accuracy.
 6                                                           AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013


            9.2.5.1. Drafting and publishing AETC Corporate Structure meeting minutes IAW
            the business practices on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
            9.2.5.2. Working with tasked organization for action items. Tasked AO will author
            appropriate Task Management Tool (TMT) tasking to forward to Secretariat for
            review and forwarding to A5/8/9 for tasking release.
            9.2.5.3. Maintaining awareness of action item progress in TMT.
            9.2.5.4. Reviewing completed action items for completeness before submitting them
            to the Chair who directed the action item.
10. Administrative Requirements for AETC Meetings (Council/Board/Group).
     10.1. The agenda and scheduling for AETC Councils, Boards and Groups will be created
     and published IAW the business practices on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
     (see also Attachment 3, AETC Corporate Structure Nominal Annual Calendar)
     10.2. The Board Co-Chairs will advise the CV of Board results and determine if the CV
     requires a Council pre-brief. If a pre-brief is directed, timing, conduct, read-aheads,
     attendance and coordination processes are located in the business practices on the AETC
     Corporate Structure Share-point.
     10.3. Corporate Structure meeting attendance. AETC Corporate Structure meetings
     normally take precedence over all other staff duties and to reduce the burden to train new
     members, should be the same person unless no longer possible (PCA, PCS, Separation,
     Retirement, etc.). Because topics could involve privileged information requiring candid
     discussion, attendance will normally be restricted to members for the respective Corporate-
     level. When authorized by the appropriate Chair, functional experts and program managers
     who directly support the issues being reviewed may attend.
     10.4. Read ahead materials. AOs will provide an electronic copy of briefing materials to the
     AETC Corporate Structure Secretariat IAW business practices on the AETC Corporate
     Structure Share-point.
     10.5. AETC Corporate Structure Action Items. When the respective Chair directs an Action
     Item, the tasked organization authors the tasking in coordination with the AETC Corporate
     Structure Secretariat IAW business practices on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point
     for publishing in TMT. When short turn around does not allow use of TMT, the tasked
     organization will support the Secretariat in ensuring tracking and completion of the Action
     Item (see business practices on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point).
     10.6. Documentation. See business practices on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
     10.7. Elevating Issues. When decisions are not appropriate at Board or Group, the
     respective Co-Chairs will determine the consensus of the members and elevate the issue to
     the next Corporate Structure level.
     10.8. Master AETC Corporate Structure membership rosters are maintained by the AETC
     Corporate Structure Secretariat IAW business practices on the AETC Corporate Structure
     Share-point. The Secretariat will send out a TMT tasking to the Directorates at least annually
     (usually September after summer turnover) to update the rosters and post new rosters to the
     AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013                                                                     7



11. Administrative Requirements for AETC Panels and Committees. The respective
Panel/Committee Chair is responsible for scheduling meetings, pre-briefs, documentation,
elevating issues to the AETC Group, tracking attendance, preparing briefing slides, and tracking
action items. To assist the Panel/Committee Chair, additional detail is contained in business
practices on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point.
12. Waivers and Changes to this Instruction. In exceptional cases, activities may need to
deviate from this instruction when it is in the best interest of effective and efficient AETC
Corporate Structure operations. Submit requests for such exceptions (waivers) to the AETC
Corporate Structure Secretariat who will forward it to AETC A5/8/9 for review and
approval/disapproval. If a formal change to this publication is required, forward to the Corporate
Secretariat via AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The Secretariat will
forward appropriate waiver requests to AETC A5/8/9 for review and staffing.




                                             DOUGLAS H. OWENS
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             Vice Commander
 8                                                      AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 16-5, Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System, 25 January 2011
AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AETCI 90-102, Conferences, Workshops, Briefings, and Video Teleconferences, 14 July 2008
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AETC Form 20, Request for Briefing

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AO—Action Officer
AU—Air University
CCA—Clinger Cohen Act of 1996
IT—Information Technology
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RS—Air Force Recruiting Service
SRMD—Sustainability, Restoration, Modernization, and Demolition
TMT—Task Management Tool
TOA—Total Obligation Authority
AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013                                                            9


                                     Attachment 2
                    AETC CORPORATE STRUCTURE DIAGRAM

A2.1. AETC Corporate Structure. Figure A2.1., displays the AETC Corporate Structure.

Figure A2.1. AETC Corporate Structure.
 10                                                                                    AETCI16-501 21 OCTOBER 2013


                                                               Attachment 3
                         AETC CORPORATE STRUCTURE ANNUAL SCHEDULE

A3.1. Figure A3 1. displays a draft AETC Corporate Structure annual schedule. The actual
schedule and agenda items are published and updated by the AETC Corporate Structure
Secretariat on the AETC Corporate Structure Share-point IAW published business practices.
A3.1.1. The intent of the scheduling construct is to promote predictability whenever possible.
            A3.1.1.1. Groups are tentatively scheduled on the same day of every month (e.g. 3rd
            Thursday)
            A3.1.1.2. Boards are tentatively scheduled every other month in the same week with
            actual dated dependent upon A5/8/9 and FM availability.
            A3.1.1.3. Council are tentatively scheduled three times per year in the same week with
            actual dated dependent upon CC's availability.

Figure A3.1. AETC Corporate Structure Annual Schedule.
                                            DRAFT AETC Corporate Structure Annual Calendar
            OCT         NOV         DEC             JAN     FEB       MAR        APR         MAY          JUN       JUL    AUG       SEP
Group
                     {MILCON}       POM                     {ID}     {Trans}   Exec Plan                                  {Trans}
                                  (3-4 days)              {SRMD}

Board
                                               POM                                          Exec Plan                               {Trans}
                                             {MILCON}                                       {SRMD}

Council
           {Trans}                                          POM                                         Exec Plan

          denotes month event takes place                 Group     3rd Thursday of Month
{ }       denotes info brief / update agenda item         Board     2nd week of Month
                                                          Council   1st week of Month
