BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 10-401
COMMAND
                                                                       21 DECEMBER 2010
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 16 November 2011
                                                            12TH FLYING TRAINING WING
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                            30 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                    Operations

                                                   CONTINGENCY PLANS MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A3OX                                               Certified by: HQ AETC/A2/3O
                                                                          (Col Mark R. Morris)
                                                                                     Pages: 21
                                           (12FTW)
OPR: 12 FTW/XPO                                                       Certified by: 12 FTW/XP
                                                                    (Lt Col Ryan M. Sparkman)
                                                                                        Pages:2


This instruction implements AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary
Force (AEF), 30 April 2009. It contains the procedures that will be used for base level plans
management under AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance. This guide
outlines the responsibilities and procedures for base-level plan development and unit-level plan
management. This instruction implements command guidance for contingency/operational
planning at Headquarters, Air Education and Training Command (HQ AETC) and AETC bases.
It is applicable to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) operational planners. It is not applicable
to Air National Guard (ANG) units. It describes HQ staff responsibilities and provides guidance
for maintenance of base-level operational plans. This applies to tenant organizations as well as
HQ AETC-owned activities.

Units coordinate local supplements to this instruction through AETC/A3OX prior to publication.
Submit suggested changes to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through command channels, to HQ AETC/A3OX, 1 F Street, Suite 2, Randolph
AFB TX, 78150-4325. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
 2                                            AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Management System (RDS) located in Air Force Management System(AFRIMS) on the Air
Force Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

Introduction Note: Experience and history have shown that actions taken during an emergency,
contingency, or disaster response, as well as recovery actions, are much more effective if
planned. Plans help units respond to a crisis and minimize the time it takes to organize and begin
recovery actions. The longer it takes a unit to react effectively, the greater the potential for loss
of life and USAF resources. Plans help focus our efforts so we do the right things quickly and
the most important things first. When more than one person is involved, plans help sort out who
does what and when. Plans, operating instructions, and checklists are commonly considered the
products of planning. When preparing plans, never forget that personnel organized, equipped,
and trained to respond to a variety of contingencies are the most important ―product‖ of
planning.

(12FTW) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AETCI10-401,
Contingency Plans Management, 21 Dec 2010. It applies to all units with contingency plans
responsibilities. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. This supplement applies to all individuals at all levels and organizations under the
12th Flying Training Wing (12 FTW). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements new guidelines that clarify requirements for an AETC
organization’s Reconstitution of Mission Plan (RoMP). This guidance reflects format, content,
frequency of review and establishes exercise requirements of an organization’s RoMP. At a
minimum, each installation (Wing) will develop a RoMP. Commanders of units subordinate to
the Wing may develop a RoMP as they see fit based on mission requirements. For the purposes
of this document, a tenant is an organization assigned to an installation in which another
MAJCOM serves as host. Other MAJCOM’s units that are hosted on AETC installations are not
subject to this instruction.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                                                                  3


       1.     Program Elements: .................................................................................................        3
       2.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................    3
       3.     Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG): .................................................................                         7
       4.     Staff Assistance Visits: ..........................................................................................        7
       5.     Plan Organization: .................................................................................................       8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          13

Attachment 2—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE TABLE OF CONTENTS FORMAT                                                                           14

Attachment 3—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE BASIC PLAN                                                                                         16

Attachment 4—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE ANNEX FORMAT                                                                                       18

Attachment 5—RECONSTITUTION OF MISSION PLAN FORMAT                                                                                      20


1. Program Elements:
   1.1. Plans Summary. The Plans Summary is designed to provide a condensed reference of
   all AETC contingency plans. The summary outlines HQ AETC plans and all wing-level
   plans required by HQ AETC or Headquarters, United States Air Force (HQ USAF)
   directives. AETC wing plans officers will publish a base plans summary adapted to their
   base. The base plans summary will be reviewed annually and updated as necessary. AETC
   tenant organizations will provide plans information for the host unit summary.
       1.1.1. AETC Contingency Plans Listing. Every January, HQ AETC/A3OX will publish
       a listing of AETC contingency plans. The listing includes all plans published by HQ
       AETC and all wing plans required by HQ AETC or HQ USAF plans and directives. This
       listing is provided to assist wing plans officers and applicable HQ AETC staff OPRs with
       plan development and management. The listing may be accessed via the HQ
       AETC/A3OX                Community             of         Practice      (CoP)         at
       https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-OP-AE-
       97.
       1.1.1. (12FTW) The 12 FTW Plans Summary listing is published on the 12 FTW Plans
       and Programs Share Point at https://randolph.eis.aetc.af.mil/12FTW/XP/default.aspx
       1.1.2. To assist HQ AETC/A3OX in updating the AETC contingency plans listing, all
       HQ AETC directorates who require wings to prepare base-level or supporting plans will
       review their requirements and provide updates to AETC/A3OX by December to ensure
       currency of the listing.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. HQ AETC Functional Staff:
       2.1.1. Publish the initial contingency plan and all changes and revisions.
       2.1.2. Review base-level contingency plans for accuracy of content within 45 days of
       plan publication.
4                                           AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


       2.1.3. Provide guidance to subordinate units on contingency plans for which they are
       responsible.
       2.1.4. Monitor suspenses for base-level contingency plan publication and distribution.
    2.2. HQ AETC/A3OX:
       2.2.1. Determine plan format.     If not specified by other directives, use the format
       presented in this instruction.
       2.2.2. Accomplish and distribute AETC Contingency Plans Listing in January of each
       year.
    2.3. Wing Plans Officers (Operational Planners):
       2.3.1. Must have a Secret clearance. If handling of classified material is required, the
       wing plans officer will also have access to SIPRnet.
       2.3.2. Review all base-level operations/contingency plans before final publication and
       distribution. AETC tenant organization plans officers will review AETC-mandated plans
       and supplements to host-unit plans.
       2.3.3. If serving as OPR for a plan, coordinate on and delegate responsibilities for
       preparation of functional area inputs. The OPR is determined by the source document
       requiring the plan or by the wing commander. Normally, the base OPR will be
       functionally aligned with the HQ AETC OPR.
       2.3.4. Provide training for newly-assigned AETC and tenant organization plans
       representatives within 30 days of appointment. AETC tenant organization plans officers
       need only brief newly assigned AETC plans representatives. Items covered should
       include key responsibilities, plans format, plans review, staff assistance visits (SAVs),
       and local considerations.
       2.3.5. Establish a plans review program. Consideration should be given to aligning
       reviews with functional AFI requirements. In the absence of such guidance, plans will be
       reviewed at least once in a 24-month period. Plans mandated to be reviewed more
       frequently by higher headquarter directives will be reviewed accordingly. AETC tenant
       organizations will establish a similar program within their AOR.
       2.3.5. (12FTW) The 12 FTW Plans Officer will ensure the coordination of required
       plans with the Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA)/502nd Air Base Wing (502 ABW) plans
       office.
       2.3.6. Conduct staff assistance visits (SAVs) at least once per calendar year with all
       AETC and tenant organizations having contingency plan requirements. Document SAV
       results and keep on file for two years. AETC tenant organizations will establish a similar
       program within their AOR.
       2.3.7. Ensure all plans representatives conduct a self-inspection of their program at least
       once per calendar year. AETC tenant wings will ensure programs under their purview
       conduct self inspections at least once per calendar year.
       2.3.8. AETC host wing plans officers should strongly consider establishing a wing plans
       working group (WPWG) comprised of plans representatives from functional areas and
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                    5


     tenants with support requirements. AETC tenant wing plans offices should participate in
     host wing plans working groups as necessary.
     2.3.9. Review and ensure the wing commander (or designated representative) approves
     base contingency plans.
     2.3.10. Review the current AETC Contingency Plans Listing to ensure compliance with
     plans requirements.
     2.3.11. Ensure proper distribution of base plans to tasked organizations and the
     appropriate HQ AETC functional OPR. Distribution of the wing contingency plans will
     be in accordance with the HQ AETC Contingency Plans Listing. AETC tenant wings
     will ensure correct distribution within their wing.
     2.3.11. (12FTW) The 12 FTW Plans Officer will notify JBSA/502 ABW plans office
     when plans are updated, and ensure distribution to the JBSA/502 ABW plans office.
     2.3.12. Conduct key personnel briefings to include:
        2.3.12.1. Initial briefings on all base-level war and contingency plans for newly
        assigned key personnel within 60 days after they assume that position. The wing
        commander designates key personnel in writing (normally group and squadron
        commanders, others as desired).
        2.3.12.1. (12FTW) Personnel occupying the following positions in the 12 FTW are
        designated key personnel (key wing supervisors) to receive briefings on war and
        contingency plans:
            2.3.12.1.1. (Added-12FTW) Commander
            2.3.12.1.2. (Added-12FTW) Vice Commander
            2.3.12.1.3. (Added-12FTW) Group Commander(s) and Deputy Commander(s)
            2.3.12.1.4. (Added-12FTW) Director of Maintenance and Deputy Director
            2.3.12.1.5. (Added-12FTW) Squadron Commanders or civilian equivalents
            2.3.12.1.6. (Added-12FTW) Safety
            2.3.12.1.7. (Added-12FTW) Public Affairs
            2.3.12.1.8. (Added-12FTW) Chief , Wing Plans
        2.3.12.2. Refresher briefings on plans for designated key personnel annually.
     2.3.13. Publish local guidance for plans management. Include HQ AETC/A3OX in
     distribution. Consider the following for inclusion in the document:
        2.3.13.1. Plans development, coordination, approval, publication, and revision
        guidance.
        2.3.13.2. Supporting checklist development.
        2.3.13.3. Unit plans representative guidance.
        2.3.13.4. Base-level plans summary (AETC host wings only).
6                                           AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


       2.3.14. Prepare a Wing Contingency Plans listing to include, as a minimum, plan short
       title, date published, OPR, and changes posted. Update as necessary, but at least
       annually, and distribute to all wing and tenant unit plans representatives. AETC tenant
       units will create a similar listing for their plans.
       2.3.14. (12FTW) The 12 FTW plans office publishes local plans guidance in the 12
       FTW Plans Procedures and Guidance. All units (12 FTW groups) will adhere to the
       guidance provided in this document.
       2.3.15. Ensure all base level plans are available either by electronic means (i.e., CoP,
       SIPRnet, NIPRnet, SharePoint) or hard copy in accordance with the HQ AETC
       Contingency Plans Listing. AETC tenant wings will ensure similar availability for their
       plans.
    2.4. Unit Plans Representatives:
       2.4.1. Will be an officer or noncommissioned officer (or civilian equivalent) with at least
       a Secret clearance who is thoroughly familiar with the unit's operation and capabilities.
       Commanders should consider one year retainability as a minimum when appointing
       new plans representatives. Send a letter of appointment to the wing plans officer within
       10 workdays of appointment. (Note: Contractors authorized as the unit plans officer
       must have a security clearance to handle classified up to the Secret level.) Security
       clearances will be validated by a unit security manager and included on the letter of
       appointment.
       2.4.1. (12FTW) 12 FTW Unit Plans Representatives will be at the group level (12 OG,
       12 MX, 12 MX-P, and 479 FTG). Those representatives will be responsible for ensuring
       the plans program for their groups is conducted IAW AETCI 10-401 and the 12 FTW
       Plans guide.
       2.4.2. If serving as OPR for a plan, coordinate on and delegate responsibilities for
       preparation of functional area inputs. The OPR is determined by the source document
       requiring the plan or by the wing commander. Normally, the base OPR will be
       functionally aligned with the HQ AETC OPR.
       2.4.3. Inform the wing plans officer when a higher-headquarters directive or plan creates
       a requirement to develop or change a wing plan.
       2.4.4. Brief new AETC and tenant organization key personnel within 60 days of their
       assignment on all plans and changes that affect their specific functional area. Give
       additional briefings, as required, to cover new plans or changes. Document all briefings.
       2.4.5. Ensure adequate instructions, checklists, etc., are developed to implement plans
       under which their agency is tasked.
       2.4.5. (12FTW) Units (12 FTW groups) will ensure that checklists supporting
       contingency plans are available electronically or by hard copy.
       2.4.6. Participate in SAVs within their agency with the wing plans officer. Keep SAV
       results on file for two years.
       2.4.7. Conduct a self-inspection of their program at least once per calendar year.
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                           7


3. Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG):
   3.1. The creation of a WPWG is highly encouraged at all installations. For tenant
   organizations, membership in host-unit WPWGs is also highly encouraged. WPWG
   membership should consist of the wing plans officer and squadron/unit plans representatives.
   Consideration should be given to local, off-base subject matter experts for inclusion in the
   WPWG.
   3.1. (12FTW) The 12 FTW plans office will coordinate attendance at the JBSA/502 ABW
   WPWG.
   3.2. The wing plans officer (or designated representative) should chair or facilitate the
   WPWG.
   3.3. Consider the following for discussion during WPWG meetings:
       3.3.1. Development and coordination of new plans.
       3.3.2. Discussion of current plan requirements, i.e. creation of a new plan annex
       3.3.3. Review of local procedures and a ―How Goes It?‖ seminar to ensure current plans
       satisfy requirements.
       3.3.4. Introduction of new plans representatives.
4. Staff Assistance Visits:
   4.1. Wing staff assistance visits are an integral part of a comprehensive wing plans
   surveillance program. Conduct staff assistance visits at least annually. The squadron
   commander (or equivalent) of the AETC or tenant organization will respond in writing to the
   wing plans officer indicating corrective actions taken. Report open items to wing plans
   officer every 30 days until the corrective action is completed. Wing plans officers will:
       4.1.1. Publish a proposed staff assistance visit schedule for the entire calendar year.
       4.1.1. (12FTW) 12 FTW Annual Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) schedule to 12 FTW
       units is published on the 12 FTW Plans and Programs Share Point site and e-mailed to 12
       FTW UPRs in January: https://randolph.eis.aetc.af.mil/12FTW/XP/default.aspx
       4.1.2. Confirm visit with the squadron commander (or equivalent) of each AETC and
       tenant organization before the visit to establish time, date, and purpose.
   4.2. Staff assistance visits must be task-oriented and not primarily administrative in nature.
   Consider the following items for review during SAVs.
       4.2.1. Review to ensure plans adequacy.
       4.2.2. Review of all plans to ensure that supervisors are aware of, and can support,
       specific functional area tasking.
       4.2.3. Review of all tasked plans on file for currency.
       4.2.4. Actions for preparing plans.
       4.2.5. Review of functional area Crisis Action Team (CAT), or Installation Control
       Center (ICC) checklists for currency and adequacy.
 8                                            AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


        4.2.6. Review of classification procedures. (Ensure actions listed in checklists, operating
        instructions, etc., are classified properly.)
     4.3. During staff assistance visits, items discussed must be documented to include
     deficiencies noted, actions taken, open items, and those corrected on the spot. Highlight
     recurring deficiencies. Provide a formal reply to the squadron commander of the AETC or
     tenant organization visited. Unit plans representatives will keep copies of staff assistance
     visit reports on file for two years.
5. Plan Organization:
     5.1. Identifying Plans. Wing plans offices will assign a number and or title to their base
     contingency plans to coincide with the number and or title of the HQ USAF or AETC plans
     they support or as specified by higher headquarters or other governing directives.
     5.2. Plan Format. Wing supporting plans are written in the format of the plan supported or
     as prescribed in a higher headquarters directive. When developing plans that have no
     prescribed format, use the format in AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, as a guide. Annex
     designations listed in Attachment 2 are a guide only and may be realigned as required.
     5.3. Organization of a Plan. All plans should include these elements in the order listed,
     unless specified otherwise in higher headquarters directives:
        5.3.1. Plan Covers. The cover must show the date of the plan, the issuing headquarters,
        short title and number of the plan; proper security classification, administrative markings,
        and caveats; source of classification; and downgrading or declassification instructions.
        Covers must not contain classified information. Mark top and bottom of both covers with
        the overall classification of the plan. Card stock covers may be used on all plans.
        Classified plan covers must be red or pink.
        5.3.2. Letter of Transmittal. The letter of transmittal of a contingency plan should
        identify the reason for preparing the plan. The need for preparing further supporting
        plans must be specified. The OPR for the plan must be identified and disposition
        instructions must be included when the plan supersedes a previous plan.
        5.3.3. Security Instructions and Record of Changes. The security instructions must
        include the long and short titles of the plan and must be the first page (i) following the
        letter of transmittal. State the classification of the plan and any reproduction limitations.
        The record of changes for the plan may be included on the same page as the security
        instructions, or may be a separate page published on the back of the security instructions.
        Reproduction and limitation instructions are included on the "Security Instructions" page.
        5.3.4. Classification Guidance. The classification guidance page lists subjects requiring
        protection (e.g. operational code words, concept of operations, etc.), if any, and the time
        period during which the protection is required (e.g. planning phase, execution phase,
        post-event phase).
        5.3.5. Plan Summary. The plan summary is used for all contingency plans. It provides
        a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing the plan. It also
        provides a brief review of conditions for implementation, operations to be conducted,
        assumptions, operational constraints, command relationships, logistics requirements,
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                          9


     limiting factors, and commander's appraisal of the logistics and transportation feasibility
     of the plan.
     5.3.6. Table of Contents. See attachment 2. Annex designations are a guide only and
     may be realigned when necessary to fit specific needs. The table of contents should
     include elements that are published separately.
     5.3.7. Basic Plan. The basic plan consists of the seven main paragraphs shown in
     attachment 3. Additional paragraphs may be included to fit the needs of the plan. The
     basic plan shall be signed by the wing commander or designated representative.
     5.3.8. Attachments to the Plan. Annexes used for the plan shall be listed on the final
     page of the basic plan. Other attachments (appendices, tabs, exhibits, or maps) shall be
     listed on the final page of any attachment which has further attachments. The basic plan
     shall refer to each annex that has been prepared; however, information provided in the
     basic plan is not normally repeated in the attachments. Annexes shall be signed by the
     functional area chief charged with overall responsibility for the annex. See Attachment 4
     for a sample annex.
     5.3.9. Execution Checklist. The execution checklist summarizes the action required by
     the commander preparing the plan to ensure coordinated initiation of operations.
     5.3.10. Distribution List. The distribution list accounts for all copies of the plan and
     informs users which agencies and headquarters maintain copies of the plan. Distribution
     should be held to the minimum essential for planning. Addressees must advise plan
     OPRs of necessary changes to the distribution list.
     5.3.11. Distribution Change Memorandum. All plans shall include a standard
     memorandum that addressees may use to notify the OPR of changes in distribution
     requirements. The distribution change memorandum usually follows the distribution list
     but may also follow the memorandum of transmittal.
  5.4. Change Procedures:
     5.4.1. When to Issue a Change. A plan shall be changed rather than revised if the total
     adjustments (any new or previously changed material) affect less than 40 percent of the
     plan.
     5.4.2. Identifying Changes:
        5.4.2.1. The date of the change, the date of the basic plan, and the classification of
        the plan (if other than unclassified) must be included in paragraph 1 of the letter of
        transmittal.
        5.4.2.2. A copy of the distribution list must be attached to the letter of transmittal. If
        a new annex Z is accomplished, a distribution list is not required. The "To" element
        should read: "See Attached Distribution List" or "See Annex Z."
        5.4.2.3. When page changes are made, the change number and the date of the change
        shall be placed in parenthesis below the page number.
     5.4.3. Change Methods:
10                                        AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


        5.4.3.1. Page Changes. This is the preferred method of change. This method re-
        accomplishes all pages containing changes. If the change contains classified material,
        two copies of AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate, are
        prepared according to DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, and
        AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
        5.4.3.2. Write-In Changes. Write-in changes (in ink) are permissible but shall not
        be used to make lengthy changes. This procedure may be used only for minor
        corrections, such as changes to numbers, dates, single words, short phrases, etc. If
        page changes are also being made, the write-in changes are either included on the AF
        Form 1565, if used, or listed on the change letter of transmittal.
     5.4.4. Change Transmittal. A transmittal letter is prepared for each change and the
     change is distributed to all addressees listed in Annex Z.
  5.5. Security and Document Marking Considerations:
     5.5.1. Classified contingency plans shall be marked according to DoD Regulation
     5200.1-R, AFI 31401, and as follows:
        5.5.1.1. Each plan must be assigned an overall security classification that is
        determined by its content.
        5.5.1.2. Front and back covers and the letter of transmittal shall be marked with the
        overall classification of the plan. The final paragraph of the letter of transmittal shall
        indicate whether the letter of transmittal, when classified attachments are withdrawn,
        is Secret, Confidential, or Unclassified. Any transmittal letters remaining classified
        after attachments are withdrawn must be portion marked and include the "Classified
        by" and "Declassify on" instructions.
        5.5.1.3. The first page of each plan element (the annex, the appendix, the tab, etc.,)
        shall bear the highest classification of any other portion of that element only if the
        element is likely to be used separately. For example, if only the second page of tab B
        contains classified information, the front page of tab B will bear the classification of
        page 2 only if the tab is likely to be removed and used as a separate entity. If not,
        then only page 2 will bear classified markings and the front page of the tab will
        remain unclassified. This also applies to any special markings required because of
        the nature of the information it includes; for example, "Restricted Data."
        5.5.1.4. Each interior page of the classified plan element shall be marked according
        to the highest classification of the information contained on the page, or
        "Unclassified" as appropriate. Center classification markings at the top and bottom of
        each page. Each paragraph and sub-elements of paragraphs must be portion marked
        (TS), (S), (C), or (U) according to the highest level of information contained in or
        revealed by it. EXCEPTION: When the entire annex, appendix, tab, etc., is
        unclassified, portion marking is not required. Place the statement: "This entire
        (annex, appendix, tab, etc.,) is unclassified" on the first page and mark
        "UNCLASSIFIED" at the top and bottom of it and each page of the unclassified
        attachment.
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                     11


        5.5.1.5. The first page of a classified plan element must contain markings for
        identifying a derivative classification as defined in DoD Regulation 5200.1-R and
        AFI 31-401. Identification of the classification authority must be shown on the
        "Classified by" line. The "Declassify on:" line must reflect the date the document is
        to be declassified (normally 10 years from date of the document). Refer to DoD
        5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents, for additional
        declassification instructions.
     5.5.2. AETCPAM 33-301, Employees Responsibilities under the Freedom of Information
     Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA), shall be reviewed by plan OPRs to determine if a
     plan falls under its purview. Marking, handling, and disposition of plans determined to
     be "For Official Use Only" will be in accordance with AETCPAM 33-301.
  5.6. Reconstitution of Mission Plan (RoMP):
     5.6.1. RoMPs must be simple and flexible enough to find utility during any crisis. Plans
     mired in excruciating detail with focus on just one type of event will have little or no
     value when confronted with actual circumstances of the disaster at hand.
     5.6.2. AETC/A3OX will:
        5.6.2.1. Ensure each Wing and tenant (when appropriate) has developed a RoMP
        addressing their specified mission requirements.
        5.6.2.2. Review and coordinate each organization’s RoMP.
     5.6.3. Each organization developing a RoMP will:
        5.6.3.1. Develop using the format in Atch 5.
        5.6.3.2. Complete review and update their RoMP NLT 31 August biennially. Submit
        updated RoMP to AETC/A3OX NLT 1 July biennially for coordination. RoMPs will
        be reviewed and updated to the format in Atch 5 within 90 days of this interim-
        change publication date.
        5.6.3.3. Ensure RoMP is fully integrated into the installation exercise program.
        5.6.3.4. Ensure RoMP conveys a clear understanding of risks, and include a plan of
        action and milestones to mitigate those risks.
        5.6.3.5. Post coordinated/signed RoMP to HQ AETC Crisis Action Team (CAT)
        Community of Practice NLT 31 August biennially, or as changes occur.
        5.6.3.6. Complete annual Table Top exercise of the RoMP. The completion of the
        table top exercise will be communicated to A3OX via the After Action Report
        submitted IAW AETCI 10-205, para 5.5.3.
     5.6.4. In most cases, geographically separated, subordinate units will fall under and be
     sufficiently covered by their parent organization’s RoMP. However, when the mission of
     a geographically separated, subordinate unit is too complex/unique to fit under their
     parent organization’s RoMP, the parent organization may direct the subordinate unit to
     develop a RoMP to ensure preservation of the mission. Exceptions are:
        5.6.4.1. 2AF, due to its unique operational mission responsibilities, will develop a
        RoMP IAW with this instruction.
12                                   AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


     5.6.4.2. Air Force Recruiting Service will develop a RoMP separate from that of their
     host installation.
     5.6.4.3. Air University, due to its unique organization, will develop a RoMP
     including the 42 ABW mission.




                                      JAMES A. WHITMORE, Major General, USAF
                                      Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                      Integration

                                      (12FTW)

                                      RICHARD M. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                      Commander
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                   13


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 April 2009
AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998
AFI 10-402, Volume 1, Mobilization Planning, and Personnel Readiness, 9 August 2007
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 January 2008
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 18 October 2007
AFI 90-201/AETC Sup 1, Inspector General Activities, 28 June 2010
AETCPAM 33-301, Employee Responsibilities under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
and the Privacy Act (PA), 10 November 2005
DoD 5400-7/AFSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 11 April 2006
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
DoD Pamphlet 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents, 1 April 1997

Adopted Forms:

AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate


Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CoP—Community of Practice
DoD—Department of Defense
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibilities
RoMP—Reconstitution of Mission Plan
WPWG—Wing Plans Working Group
SIPRNet—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan
 14                                       AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


                              Attachment 2 (CLASSIFICATION)
                        SAMPLE TABLE OF CONTENTS FORMAT

AETC SAMPLE PLAN (U)
Table of Contents (U)
CONTENTS                                                                               Page
Letter of Transmittal Cover
Security Instructions                                                                       i
Record of Changes and/or Corrections (may be included on same page as security
instructions)                                                                              ii
Plan Summary                                                                       iii thru v
Table of Contents                                                                 vi thru vii
Basic Plan                                                                   BP-1 thru BP-8
Appendix 1, OPSEC                                                                    BP-1-1
Appendix 2, COMSEC                                                                   BP-2-1
Appendix 3, Concept of Operations                                                    BP-3-1
TAB A, Administration & Logistics                                                 BP-3-A-1
TAB B, Command and Control                                                        BP-3-B-1
ANNEX A – TASK ORGANIZATION                                                             A-1
ANNEX B – CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS SUPPORT                                              B-1
ANNEX C – OPERATIONS                                                                    C-1
ANNEX D – LOGISTICS                                                                     D-1
ANNEX E – FORCE SUPPORT                                                                 E-1
ANNEX F – PUBLIC AFFAIRS                                                                 F-1
ANNEX G – AIR FORCE SECURITY ASSISTANCE TRAINING SQUADRON                               G-1
ANNEX H – ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES                                                        H-1
ANNEX I –                                                                        NOT USED
ANNEX J – MEDICAL SERVICES                                                               J-1
ANNEX K – COMMUNICATIONS-COMPUTER SYSTEMS                                               K-1
ANNEX L – ENGINEERING                                                                    L-1
ANNEX M – SECURITY FORCES                                                               M-1
ANNEX N – (Covered under FORCE SUPPORT)                                                 N-1
ANNEX O –                                                                        NOT USED
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                            15


ANNEX P – (Covered in Annex K)                                                                   P-1
ANNEX Q – STAFF JUDGE ADVOCATE                                                                   Q-1
ANNEX R – RECRUITING SERVICE                                                                     R-1
ANNEX S – CHAPLAIN SERVICE                                                                       S-1
ANNEX T – BASIC MILITARY AND TECHNICAL TRAINING                                                  T-1
ANNEX U – COMPTROLLER                                                                            U-1
ANNEX W – PLANS                                                                                  W-1
ANNEX X – EXECUTION CHECKLIST                                                                    X-1
ANNEX Y – GLOSSARY                                                                               Y-1
ANNEX Z – DISTRIBUTION                                                                           Z-1
NOTE: Annex designations are a guide only and may be realigned when necessary to fit
specific needs. Information presented in the basic plan is of general need, not for individual
functional use better served in individual annexes.
 16                                           AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


                              Attachment 3 (CLASSIFICATION)
                                    SAMPLE BASIC PLAN

Basic Plan
REFERENCES:
List references by publication number and title. Cite references required for a complete
understanding of the plan. References used should be documents readily available to users of the
plan. Higher-headquarters plans which this plan supports must be listed. List references as
follows:
a. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
b. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
c. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
TASK ORGANIZATION: See annex A. (or list them as appropriate.)
1. ( ) PURPOSE: Provide a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing
the plan. If this is a supporting plan, indicate the plan it supports.
a. ( ) General: Describe the general environment that would establish the probable
preconditions for implementation of this plan.
b. ( ) Assumptions: List the assumptions on which the plan is based. That is, list either the
conditions most likely to exist or other conditions likely to have a significant impact on this plan
as a whole. (Additionally, assumptions about specific aspects of the operation should be
included in appropriate annexes.)
2. ( ) CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION:
a. ( ) Summarize the politico-military situation in which execution of the plan should be
considered, if applicable.
b. ( ) Summarize any legal and environmental considerations that could impact on plan
implementation.
3. ( ) OPERATIONS TO BE CONDUCTED:
a. ( ) Concept of Operations: This explains the operations to be conducted. It should describe
the general nature and purpose of the operations to be conducted, and the coordination and
cooperation necessary to execute actions required by the plan.
b. ( ) Tasks: In separately lettered subparagraphs, list each task assigned to each applicable
commander.
4. ( ) ASSUMPTIONS: List all assumptions.
a. ( ) Administration: State what the administrative requirements are if other than "normal."
Any requirement for operating instructions or checklists in support of the plan may be addressed
here.
b. ( ) Logistics: Provide broad guidance on how support will be furnished. For detailed guidance
on major aspects of required support, refer the reader to the appropriate annex.
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                         17


5. ( ) OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS: List major factors that may impede accomplishing
the mission, to include any limiting factors.
6. ( ) COMMAND RELATIONSHIPS: If other than "normal," identify the command and
control relationship such as between the wing and an off-base agency that supports the plan.
7. ( ) OPERATION SECURITY: OPSEC PMs will assist unit planners to incorporate
protection of critical information and indicators into supported wartime, operational, and
contingency plans. Identify critical information and OPSEC indicators from all functional areas
requiring protection throughout each phase of the operation.
NOTES:
1. Detailed information on tasking for lower echelons of command is normally not covered in
the basic plan. Detailed information should be covered in the appropriate annexes, appendices,
etc.
2. The seven major paragraph headings shown in this sample will be used in all plans.
Additional paragraph headings may be used to fit the particular needs of the plan.
  18                                         AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


                              Attachment 4 (CLASSIFICATION)
                                  SAMPLE ANNEX FORMAT

  ANNEX C, AETC SAMPLE PLAN (U)

(U) OPERATIONS
(U) REFERENCE: *
a. (U) AFI xx-xxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxx


1. (U) GENERAL:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
c. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
d. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx


2. (U) ASSUMPTIONS: *
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx


3. (U) RESPONSIBILITIES:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
c. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx


4. (U) LIMITING FACTORS:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxx


*Do not duplicate those in the basic plan.


C-1
(CLASSIFICATION)
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                              19


NOTES:
1. If there is no specific material for a titled paragraph, do not include that paragraph. If you
have additional paragraphs, put them behind those shown.
2. Limit annexes to essential information not covered in other publications. This does not
preclude referencing those other publications as appropriate.
3. For HQ AETC, each annex will be signed by the appropriate two-letter directorate or chief of
special staff office. At base level, plan annex will be signed by the appropriate annex OPR (for
example, group or squadron commanders, agency chief, etc.).
 20                                          AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012


                                          Attachment 5
                    RECONSTITUTION OF MISSION PLAN FORMAT

Plan Covers. The cover must reflect proper security classification (minimum FOUO),
Organization Designation, short title, plan OPR, date, administrative markings and caveats.
Covers must not contain classified information. Classification markings will be in accordance
with AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
BASIC PLAN
1. ( ) PURPOSE: Provide a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing
the plan. If this is a supporting plan, indicate the plan it supports.
a. ( ) Mission – Describe the mission the applicable organization Commander is responsible for
safeguarding. It should explain the general nature and purpose of the operations to be conducted,
as well as the coordination and cooperation necessary to execute required actions.
b. ( ) Assumptions – List the conditions most likely to exist or other conditions likely to have a
significant impact on the plan as a whole.
c. ( ) Milestones – List key actions and steps required to ensure successful reconstitution of the
mission.
2. ( ) CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION:
a. ( ) Summarize any politico-military situation that should be considered if the plan is executed.
b. ( ) Summarize any legal and environmental considerations that could impact plan
implementation.
3. ( ) PLAN OF ACTION: As a minimum, list simple, proposed course(s) of action for the
following scenarios:
a. ( ) Evacuation – Partial/full evacuation of personnel and resources to include dependents and
civilian workforce population. Installations will not initiate plans and/or agreements with other
installations or MAJCOMs to address this area. The AETC CAT will coordinate all requests for
evacuation.
b. ( ) Sheltering - Partial/full sheltering of personnel and resources to include dependents and
civilian workforce population.
c. ( ) Relocation of Mission (if applicable) – Identify possible actions to relocate mission.
Installations will not initiate plans and/or agreements with other installations or MAJCOMs to
address this area. The AETC CAT will coordinate all requests for mission relocation.
d. ( ) International and Joint Service Student Actions (if applicable) – Travel arrangements,
contact with sister services and/or Embassies for required actions regarding delays in training,
mission movement and/or student movement. Installations will not initiate plans and/or
agreements with other installations or MAJCOMs to address this area. The AETC CAT will
coordinate all requests for relocation.
e. ( ) Mitigation - Address mitigation of operational capability, damage to resources and injury
of personnel caused by disasters, accidents or terrorist related events.
AETCI10-401_12FTWSUP_I 30 JANUARY 2012                                                                  21


f. ( ) Critical Assets (if applicable) – Address continuity of operations and or required
reconstitution actions of critical assets identified under the critical infrastructure program.
4. ( ) OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS: List major factors that may impede accomplishing
the mission, to include any limiting factors.
5. ( ) AETC SUPPORT REQUESTS: Identify possible AETC requests to include, but not limited to, airlift
and/or humanitarian support, UTC support packages, funding requests, etc.
