Administrative Changes to AETCI 36-2208, Technical and Basic Military Training Interactive
Multimedia Instruction (IMI) and Distance Learning (DL)
OPR: HQ AETC/A3PV


Reference to “HQ AETC/A3I” in paragraph 4.1is hereby changed to “HQ AETC/A5T”.
Reference to “HQ AETC/A2/3/10 CTO” in the first occurrence in paragraph 5.1.3 is hereby
changed to “HQ AETC/A5TV” and the second occurrence of “HQ AETC/A2/3/10 CTO” in
paragraph 5.1.3 is hereby deleted
Reference to “HQ AETC/A2/3/10 CTO” in paragraph 5.2.1.is hereby changed to “HQ
AETC/A5TV”.
References to “HQ AETC/A3IA” in paragraphs 6.5.3.3, 8.2.1, 8.3, 10.4, 10.4.5, 13.4.1 are
hereby changed to “HQ AETC/A5TV.
Reference to “HQ AETC/A2/3/10 CTO” in paragraph 8.2.3 is hereby deleted.
Reference to “AU/A4” in the first occurrence of paragraph 10.1 is hereby changed to “AF Career
Development Academy (AFCDA)”.
Reference to “AU/A4” in the second occurrence of paragraph 10.1 is hereby changed to
“AFCDA”.
References to “HQ AETC/A3IA” in paragraph10.3.3.2 are hereby changed to “HQ
AETC/A5TS”.
References to “AU/A4L” in paragraph 11.1.2, 11.1.3, 11.2 and 11.3 are hereby changed to
“AFCDA”.
2 DECEMBER 2013
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                             COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-2208
COMMAND
                                                                               6 APRIL 2011

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                    TECHNICAL AND BASIC MILITARY
                                                TRAINING INTERACTIVE MULTIMEDIA
                                                   INSTRUCTION (IMI) AND DISTANCE
                                                                     LEARNING (DL)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A3PV                                          Certified by: HQ AETC/A3P (Mrs.
                                                                           Bonnie E. Molina)
Supersedes:   AETCI 36-2208, 9 December                                            Pages: 28
              2009 and AETCI 36-2209,
              14 June 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training. It establishes
responsibilities and procedures for designing, developing, and maintaining IMI and DL for
technical training courses administered by units aligned under Second Air Force (2 AF) and Air
University within Air Education and Training Command (AETC). It also applies to the
InterAmerican Air Force Academy, BMT (737th Training Group); as well as the 81st Training
Support Squadron (81 TRSS) Qualification Training Flight (Q-Flight) and the 367 Training
Support Squadron (TRSS), which are involved in producing IMI products for Air Force
qualification training packages (AFQTP) and major command (MAJCOM) continuation training.
TRG commanders (CC) are responsible for implementing this instruction at AETC training
wings.

Commanders responsible for implementing this instruction may supplement it to establish
specific implementing procedures. All 2 AF units will send waiver requests, suggested changes,
and proposed supplements through their training group or wing to 2 AF/DS, 721 Hangar Road,
Suite 102, Keesler AFB MS 39534-2804 with a courtesy copy to AETC/A3PV, 1 F Street, Suite
2, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4325 for review. The 2 AF will then forward inputs to HQ
AETC/A3PV for final coordination of supplements and/or approval of waivers by HQ
AETC/A3P. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the numbered Air Force. (AF Form 847 is prescribed
 2                                                                                                   AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


by AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP). Refer to that publication for guidance on
filling out the form.) Submit requests for waivers to any requirement stated in this instruction in
accordance with guidance in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. (Note: A
waiver remains in effect until the approving official cancels it in writing, the publication is
revised, or the waiver expires. When the publication is revised, the requester must renew the
waiver.)

This publication does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition        Schedule      (RDS)       located      at      https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Systems of Record notice F036 AF PC Q, Personnel Data
System, applies. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information used
in this publication.

The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

       1.      Overview ................................................................................................................       3
       2.      Definitions .............................................................................................................       3
       3.      Technical Training Management System (TTMS). ...............................................                                    4
       4.      Roles and Responsibilities .....................................................................................                4
       5.      New Technology. ...................................................................................................            10
       6.      Front End Analysis. ...............................................................................................            11
       7.      Resource Process. ..................................................................................................           12
       8.      Requesting Higher Headquarters Resources ..........................................................                            13
       9.      Priorities. ................................................................................................................   14
       10.     Design and Development .......................................................................................                 15
       11.     CDC IMI Development .........................................................................................                  18
       12.     Progress Report on Projects ...................................................................................                19
       13.     Type 6 DL Administration .....................................................................................                 19
       14.     Course Completion. ...............................................................................................             21
       15.     Production. .............................................................................................................      21
       16.     Adopted Forms ......................................................................................................           22
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                      3


ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                      23

ATTACHMENT 2—SAMPLE PROJECT PLAN                                                              26

ATTACHMENT 3—SAMPLE ELIMINATION/WITHDRAWAL SURVEY                                             28


1. Overview
   1.1. This instruction establishes guidance and procedures for designing, developing, and
   maintaining IMI and Type 6 DL to promote cost-effective delivery methods for technical
   training and BMT. Training development and management personnel will use the most
   efficient and effective methods to satisfy training requirements. The instructional designer
   must ensure the selected technology complements the established objectives and provides the
   best instructional solution via a Front End Analysis (FEA). DL will be considered as the first
   option to meet training requirements for supplemental courses. (Note: Hands-on intensive
   field training detachment supplemental courses are excluded.)
   1.2. The decision to use IMI or DL will be based on appropriate elements of a
   comprehensive FEA of the total training system requirements, as documented in the course
   resource estimate (CRE). This analysis will include a media selection and cost-benefit
   analysis to determine if the use of IMI or DL is an effective and efficient means for training
   delivery when compared with other potential training media. Training organizations will
   ensure these analyses are performed in accordance with DoDI 1322.26, Development,
   Management, and Delivery of Distributed Learning, and document the results.
   1.3. IMI is used to enhance the learning experience in traditional resident instruction
   (technology insertion) or to expand the reach of instruction through DL. With the continuous
   advances of technology, course designers should make every effort to use technology to
   illustrate complex, difficult-to-grasp technical concepts to students. Whether through
   computer-based instructional programs, web-based training, interactive television (ITV)
   technology, or technology insertions to instructor-led training, the proper use of current and
   emerging technology can greatly increase the effectiveness and efficiency of instruction.
   1.4. Type 6 DL is used to provide the customer quality training when and where it is needed,
   in a cost-effective manner. The two key elements are flexibility and cost. Providing training
   at the user's base allows AETC to meet immediate training demands with reduced student
   man-hours because the student does not travel. From an Air Force and AETC perspective,
   Type 6 DL can increase mission readiness while reducing training costs (travel, facilities,
   money, equipment, and manpower) in many cases.
2. Definitions
   2.1. IMI is a group of predominantly interactive, electronically delivered training and
   training support products. Text, audio, video, and graphics are commonly used in IMI
   products and other digital electronic products used in the delivery of training.
       2.1.1. IMI can be presented as a stand-alone, self-paced program; an instructor-led
       presentation; or a program to support on-the-job training.
 4                                                                   AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


        2.1.2. IMI technologies can be used individually or in combination with each other, and
        they include interactive courseware, electronic performance support systems, and
        computer simulation.
     2.2. Type 6 DL is technical training delivered to students at their base of assignment without
     an AETC instructor physically present. Distance learning models can be used in combination
     with other forms of instruction or it can be used to create wholly virtual classrooms. DL is
     also known as exportable training, advanced distributed learning (ADL), and distributed
     learning. Type 6 DL does not include Career Development Courses (CDC).
        2.2.1. DL extends the training capabilities of AETC schools to meet specific job and
        equipment training needs in place of resident training. Like resident training, a Type 6
        DL course is based on a training standard and has specific objectives students must
        achieve.
        2.2.2. DL media can take the form of IMI, webcast, ITV, video, web based training, and
        computer-based training, paper, or some combination of these. The media used for a
        given course will be based on a media selection analysis.
        2.2.3. DL must be tracked, evaluated, and completion verified IAW AETCI 36-2215,
        Technical and Basic Military Training Administration.
     2.3. Technology Insertion (TI) is the use of appropriate instructional technology in resident
     instructional programs. While the instructor may or may not be present at the time the student
     is actually using the instructional technology, technology insertion applies only to the use of
     technology to support training instructional programs conducted at the schoolhouse. That is,
     instructional technologies can be integrated directly into a traditional classroom or laboratory
     course of instruction, can be used for remediation and self-study to reinforce learning in a
     resident course, or can be used to augment or refresh training received through a resident
     program.
Note: More detailed information on IMI, DL, and TI may be found in AFH 36-2235, Volume 5,
Information for Designers of Instructional Systems: Advanced Distributed Learning:
Instructional Technology and Distance Learning, DoDI 1322.26, MIL-HDBK-29612-3A,
Development of Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI) (Part 3), and MIL-HDBK-29612-5,
Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL) Products and Systems (Part 5).
3. Technical Training Management System (TTMS). Where the TTMS is installed and
operational, it will be used for all unclassified formal technical and basic military training-related
functions, to include course development, student management, resource management, and
course evaluation. For courses containing classified information, enter all unclassified course
information necessary to complete adequate student accounting when developing courses in the
TTMS course development software. If available, automated TTMS products will be used.
Forms generated electronically by this system may be used in lieu of prescribed forms. Training
groups will develop local procedures to assign TTMS responsibilities to instructional technology
units (ITU). (See paragraph 4.8 for ITU roles and responsibilities.) Forms generated
electronically by these systems may be used in lieu of prescribed forms.
4. Roles and Responsibilities
     4.1. HQ AETC/A3I (Technology Integration Division)
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                        5


      4.1.1. Provides guidance and works issues as the MAJCOM point of contact (POC) for
      Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act.
      4.1.2. Funds and manages the AETC Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS).
      4.1.3. Develops, funds, and maintains the Learning Content Management System that
      contributes to the ADL Registry (ADL-R) IAW DoDI 1322.26.
      4.1.4. Identifies procedures for determining DL content and product conformance to the
      current published sharable content object reference model (SCORM) requirements.
      4.1.5. Assists HQ AETC/A3RB in building the DL course conversion/development
      submission for the AETC program objective memorandum (POM).
      4.1.6. Assists HQ AETC/A3T            to   coordinate    with      customers   on   projected
      conversion/development projects.
      4.1.7. Upon request from A3T, reviews media and cost/benefit analysis portion of CRE
      and abbreviated/course training plans (A/CTP) involving the use of learning technology
      and advises A3T on alternative technologies, if appropriate.
   4.2. HQ AETC/A3T (Technical Training Division)
      4.2.1. Tasks TRG to conduct a FEA, as part of the CRE, on applicable courses or new
      requirements if not already accomplished through other methods such as the Training
      Planning Team (TPT), Training Systems Requirement Analysis (TSRA), or the
      acquisition processes.
      4.2.2. Reviews CRE and/or CTP to ensure alternate delivery methods have been
      evaluated. For new or changing instructional technology application requirements,
      checks for the results of the media and cost/benefit analysis; which should include
      rationale on why a specific media was recommended.
      4.2.3. Works with appropriate offices to resolve any problems with delivery of Type 6
      DL to operational units.
      4.2.4. Coordinates with customers on projected conversion/development projects.
      4.2.5. Maintains the technical training technology project list.
      4.2.6. Reviews summary/results of FEA and schoolhouse recommendation for resource
      implications. Tasks the TRG for additional information, if required. Coordinates with
      the applicable AFCFM for final determination if IMI/DL is preferred option.
   4.3. HQ AETC/A3P (Technical Training Strategic Planning and Policy Division)
      4.3.1. Develops and administers technical and basic military training policy, reviews and
      coordinates on implementing supplements, evaluates waivers for approval or disapproval,
      and helps resolve IMI/DL policy questions.
      4.3.2. Provides spreadsheet to 2 AF/TTOC to solicit DL requirements, creates DL
      Programmed Technical Training reflecting requirements by course and training requestor
      quota identifier (TRQI) and posts to AETC/A3P website, and submits validated
      requirements to AFPC/DPSIT TRQI managers.
   4.4. HQ AETC/A3R (Resources and Requirements Division)
6                                                                 AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


       4.4.1. Validates and prioritizes overall resources required, and submits operations and
       training funding, and manpower requirements for ADL and tech insertion during various
       budget exercises.
       4.4.2. Develops and coordinates any DL POM submissions with HQ AETC A8P.
       4.4.3. Coordinates with HQ AETC/A3T to process CREs and CTPs.
    4.5. MAJCOM POC. (Note: See AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, for more
    information on MAJCOM and Base DL POC responsibilities.)
       4.5.1. Designates the POC to provide coordination and integration of DL.
       4.5.2. Appoints base-level DL POC and provides names to the 2 AF/TTOC.
    4.6. HQ 2AF/TTOC
       4.6.1. Works technical, funding, and policy issues impacting the Type 6 DL program.
       4.6.2. Oversees execution of technical training Type 6 DL program.
       4.6.3. Manages 2 AF technical training Type 6 DL funds.
       4.6.4. Coordinates consolidated, prioritized technical training project list for funding
       consideration.
       4.6.5. Provides electronic spreadsheet to solicit Type 6 DL requirements during the
       mission readiness training program (MRTP) screening and provides validated DL
       requirements to AETC/A3PZ.
       4.6.6. Maintains 2 AF Type 6 DL CoP and Live Guide.
       4.6.7. Coordinates funding requirements with HQ AETC/A3T and A3R.
       4.6.8. Provides HQ AETC/A3T and HQ AETC/A3PV a consolidated quarterly status
       report on all development/conversion and interactive courseware maintenance.
       4.6.9. Provide training for newly assigned base DL POCs and maintain master list of AF
       DL POCs.
    4.7. Training Wing/Groups. Training wing/groups will:
       4.7.1. Develop local procedures to ensure proposed IMI/DL projects for use in formal
       training courses (to include training squadron [TRS]-developed IMI/DL) are coordinated
       with the ITU before development begins.
       4.7.2. Establish a central focal point to act as the DL/IMI POC to work DL/IMI issues
       with HQ AETC, 2 AF, ITU and group personnel.
       4.7.3. Designate the DL/IMI POC in writing to 2 AF/TTOC and provide an information
       copy to HQ AETC/A3T. Duties and responsibilities include, but are not limited to,
       coordinating and quarterly reporting on IMI/DL development, conversion, maintenance,
       and delivery schedules as requested by 2 AF/TTOC (Report Control System (RCS):
       HAF-DPP(A)9703). Submit changes to 2 AF/TTOC as they occur.
       4.7.4. Establish a distribution function where it best supports mission requirements, and
       identify the funding source for distribution costs. A separate distribution function may be
       established for distribution and handling of classified courses. Specify funding
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                    7


       requirements and sources for initial and subsequent distribution costs in the CRE and/or
       CTP.
   4.8. Instructional Technology Unit (ITU)
       4.8.1. ITUs for Formal Technical Training and BMT
          4.8.1.1. Each training group will be serviced by a centralized ITU established to
          support the development and maintenance of IMI and DL used in formal technical
          training and BMT courses. (See paragraph 4.8.3. for ITU staffing requirements.)
          4.8.1.2. To ensure quality, standardization, and maximum reuse of training products,
          these ITUs will provide:
              4.8.1.2.1. Quality control for in-house (ITU- and training squadron [TRS]-
              developed IMI/DL) and contracted analysis, design, development, and
              maintenance of all resident and nonresident IMI and Type 6 DL used in formal
              technical training and BMT courses (to include IMI for CDCs).
              4.8.1.2.2. The expertise required to maintain various forms of IMI/DL used in
              formal technical training and BMT for the entire life cycle.
(Note: AFH 36-2235, Volume 3, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems:
Application to Acquisition; Volume 4, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems:
Manager’s Guide to New Education and Training Technologies; Volume 5; and Volume 6,
Information for Designers of Instructional Systems: Guide to Needs Assessment; contain
additional information on ITU responsibilities.)
       4.8.2. Other ITUs. There are two ITUs assigned to training groups under 2 AF that do
       not develop IMI/DL for formal technical training or BMT —the 81 TRSS Q-Flight and
       the 367 TRSS.
          4.8.2.1. The 81 TRSS Q-Flight will develop, publish, and maintain standardized Air
          Force job qualification standards and AFQTP in accordance with AFI 36-2233, Air
          Force On-the-Job Training Products for Communications-Electronics Enlisted
          Specialty Training.
          4.8.2.2. The 367 TRSS will develop IMI products to support aircraft-munitions
          maintenance continuation training programs with Headquarters, Air Combat
          Command, and Headquarters, Air Mobility Command, per a memorandum of
          agreement (MOA) between AETC and each MAJCOM. Each MOA will be reviewed
          annually for changes or updates. Changes or updates will be coordinated through 2
          AF/TTOC to HQ AETC/A3T with a courtesy copy to HQ AETC/A3PV.
       4.8.3. ITU Staffing. (Note: These requirements do not apply to the 81 TRSS Q-Flight
       or the 367 TRSS.) ITUs are staffed with civilian and/or military personnel and supported
       by base support units and TRSs. Contract support may also be part of the ITU team.
       Descriptions of team personnel are as follows:
          4.8.3.1. ITU Chief or Commander. This person is a supervisory instructional
          systems specialist with experience in IMI design and development. He or she will
          develop standards for IMI lessons and/or content, oversees the ITU staff to ensure
          continuity across lesson and/or content design and delivery, and manages the ITU.
8                                                                AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


          4.8.3.2. Project Manager. A project manager is assigned for each IMI project. This
          person directs the overall development process, including coordinating with senior
          management and support organizations via a project plan or similar type of document.
          Attachment 2 contains a sample project plan.
          4.8.3.3. IMI Instructional Designer. This person is an instructional systems
          specialist with experience in IMI design and development. He or she will develop
          standards and instructional strategies for IMI lessons and/or content, review products
          for instructional integrity and conformance with IMI quality standards and strategies,
          and assist with other courseware and/or content development requirements.
          4.8.3.4. Courseware and/or Content Developer. This person has experience in IMI
          development and the use of IMI authoring tools. He or she will author lesson and/or
          content designs, flowcharts, and storyboards; design and/or create static and animated
          graphics, simulations, and interactive sequences; and program lessons and/or content
          with authoring systems.
          4.8.3.5. Subject-Matter Expert (SME). This person has expertise in the subject
          matter. While not necessarily assigned to the ITU, he or she will provide information
          on content subject matter to other members of the team and review IMI products for
          technical accuracy. The SME is responsible for course content, but the ITU has
          responsibility for courseware and/or content appearance and functionality to ensure
          quality and standardization. Note: Training groups will develop local procedures to
          ensure adequate SME support for ITUs to ensure established delivery schedules are
          met.
          4.8.3.6. Computer Programmer. This person supports the courseware and/or
          content development effort by programming lessons and/or content with authoring
          systems or programming languages; developing subroutines and writing applications
          to read or analyze student data files; and developing graphical user interfaces with
          various authoring languages.
          4.8.3.7. Base Multimedia Center (BMC) Personnel. These persons (contract,
          military, or civil service) are from base support units that supplement courseware
          multimedia production requirements and, as part of their day-to-day job, use
          computers to produce routine multimedia products. ITU military or civil service
          personnel may not be solely dedicated to multimedia production when multimedia is
          contracted for the base. Where contract personnel provide base multimedia support,
          contracts may require amendment to include BMC support of IMI.
    4.9. Type 6 DL Course Instructor/Faculty/Staff Member
       4.9.1. Training wing/groups will ensure each Type 6 course is assigned adequate
       instructor/faculty support to provide subject matter expertise during the
       development/conversion phase, provide student interaction/support, and maintain
       currency of course content once the course is delivered. The TM will document these
       requirements in the CRE and/or A/CTP.
       4.9.2. One instructor or faculty member may support more than one Type 6 course
       depending upon the design and requirements of the course.
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                       9


          4.9.2.1. Ideally, a trained and qualified instructor should administer each Type 6
          course. However, until a manpower standard is established to validate requirements
          (and resources are funded), as a minimum, an instructor meeting Community College
          of the Air Force (CCAF) requirements must be assigned to administer courses that
          award CCAF credit.
          4.9.2.2. For courses that do not award CCAF credit, the TRS responsible for course
          management will assign a faculty member who can adequately provide student
          interaction/support to administer each course.
      4.9.3. Course design and delivery will dictate when the instructor or faculty member
      assigned to administer a Type 6 course must input student data into TTMS according to
      AETCI 36-2215.
          4.9.3.1. When courses are delivered via ADLS and do not require a written test,
          instructors or faculty members need not manually enter student data for courses
          designed for self-enrollment.
          4.9.3.2. When courses designed for self-enrollment are delivered via ADLS and
          require a proctored test, instructors or faculty members will need to enter the test
          score and graduation date for courses after the other student data have flowed from
          ADLS to TTMS. See the TTMS student management handbook for instructions on
          how to identify courses using the automated ADLS-TTMS interface capability.
          4.9.3.3. These requirements will be documented in the CTP and/or CRE. Instructors
          or faculty members contact students and/or DL POCs as required prior to class start
          date. Throughout the course, instructors or faculty member interface with students,
          DL POCs, and students’ supervisors as necessary to ensure timely course completion.
   4.10. TRG DL POC. Functions as interface for all Type 6 DL issues (see paragraph 4.7.2).
   Duties and responsibilities include, but are not limited to, coordinating and reporting Type 6
   DL development/conversion, maintenance, and delivery schedules as requested by HQ
   AETC/A3T and 2 AF/TTOC (RCS: HAF-DPP(A)9703). Submit changes to HQ AETC/A3T
   and 2 AF/TTOC as they occur.
   4.11. Distribution Function. Course training managers (TMs) will work with HQ
   AETC/A3T training pipeline managers (TPM) and AFCFM to identify initial course
   distribution locations. Distribution functions reproduce and send/receive course and test
   materials as requested by the TRSs they support, and send student diplomas (AF Form 1256,
   Certificate of Training) to the DL POC for local distribution. (AF Form 1256 is prescribed by
   AFI 36-2201. Refer to that publication or guidance on filling out the form.) TRGs will
   establish requirements for test security. All distribution functions that send/receive test
   materials will use appropriate safeguards to prevent compromise of written tests and
   performance tests. Send them to other bases using certified mail or approved encrypted
   electronic transfer procedures. Handle classified material according to established security
   procedures.
   4.12. Base DL POCs. Provide administrative support for Type 6 DL, screen for
   requirements, request out-of-cycle requirements, manage and control Type 6 DL materials,
   control examination material, and schedule and conduct broadcasts. (Note: DL POCs may
   also serve as site POCs providing technical and administrative support for satellite broadcasts
 10                                                              AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


   and function as test control officers. The DL POC role is defined in AFI 36-2201.) Specific
   procedures/instructions for DL POCs must be included in the course announcement in
   Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA) and course materials provided by
   schoolhouse (TRG).
5. New Technology. Training technology planning is the responsibility of HQ AETC.
   5.1. HQ AETC’s Role
      5.1.1. AETCI 36-2218, Advanced Learning Technology Demonstrations (ALTD),
      prescribes procedures which can be used to test new and innovative technology
      implementation. HQ AETC/A5/8/9 is responsible for overall ALTD Program policy
      within AETC. ALTDs provide a systematic and integrated process for identifying,
      developing, and evaluating the application of emerging technologies in the learning
      environment. Program management for technical training related ALTDs is delegated to
      HQ AETC/A8Q.
      5.1.2. HQ AETC/A5T explores technologies to satisfy long-range objectives by
      searching and experimenting with new and evolving products and concepts. This includes
      quick-look assessments which focus on selected areas to improve training and education
      business practices and migration of curricula to more efficient and effective learning
      experiences through the use of emerging instructional methods and media.
      5.1.3. When technology is identified through ALTDs for broader application throughout
      AETC, HQ AETC/A8Q will coordinate with HQ AETC/A2/3/10 Chief Technology
      Officer (CTO), HQ AETC/A3T, and HQ AETC/A3P to integrate the technology into
      training. Note: Suggestions for command use of ALTD technologies will be coordinated
      through 2 AF/TTOC to HQ AETC/A5T with one information copy each to HQ
      AETC/A2/3/10 CTO, HQ AETC/A3T, HQ AETC/A3P, and HQ AETC/A6X.
   5.2. Training Groups’ Role
      5.2.1. Training groups may explore and implement short-term technology solutions
      related to development and delivery of IMI/DL products to satisfy immediate customer
      needs. To prevent duplication of effort and unnecessary expenditure of funds, TRGs
      interested in exploring or testing new training technologies or software having long-range
      application within technical training, BMT, or other training programs for which AETC
      develops IMI/DL products must notify HQ AETC/A2/3/10 CTO through 2 AF/TTOC, in
      writing, before beginning any technology exploration. TRG ITUs (to include the 81
      TRSS Q-Flight and the 367 TRSS) will prepare the proposal for signature by the
      TRG/CC and send one information copy each of this notification to HQ AETC/A5T, HQ
      AETC/A3T, HQ AETC/A3P, and HQ AETC/A6X.
      5.2.2. Personnel assigned to ITUs and TRG DL Coordinators should keep abreast of new
      training technologies by attending conferences and/or training and reading literature.
      They should know the advantages and disadvantages of each technology, how these
      technologies apply in their training arena, and when these technologies will be fielded.
      They must also keep abreast of changes in instructional design applications to ensure
      development of effective IMI/DL. (Refer to AETCI 36-2202, Faculty Development and
      Master Instructor Programs, for requirements.)
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                      11


       5.2.3. ITUs are encouraged to participate in BETA testing of commercial off-the-shelf
       (COTS) products in order to increase the probability of COTS products meeting Air
       Force and DoD needs.
6. Front End Analysis. A structured process used to examine training requirements and
identify alternative approaches to training job tasks. The process identifies job tasks to be
performed, analyzes the skills and knowledge needed to perform them, assesses the technologies
available for training the skills and knowledge, performs a media analysis to recommend the best
mix of delivery media, and provides cost and lead-time comparisons for the feasible alternatives.
(Note: The 81 TRSS Q-Flight and the 367 TRSS are exempt from paragraph 6.1., paragraph 6.3.,
paragraphs 6.5. through 6.5.3.1., and paragraph 6.5.3.7. However, they must comply with
paragraph 6.2. and paragraphs 6.5.3.2. through 6.5.3.6.)
   6.1. DL will be considered as the first option for supplemental courses. (Note: Hands-on
   intensive field training detachment supplemental courses are excluded.) Training that can be
   accomplished using DL at less cost than resident training, or better meets readiness needs
   should be selected provided DL still meets course objectives. The decision to use IMI/DL
   will be based on a comprehensive FEA of the total training system requirements.
   6.2. The FEA will include a media selection and cost-benefit analysis to determine if the use
   of IMI/DL is an effective and efficient means for training delivery when compared with other
   potential training media. Training organizations will ensure these analyses are performed,
   and document the results in accordance with DoDI 1322.26, MIL-PRF-29612B, Performance
   Specification Training Data Products, and MIL-HDBK-29612-1A, Guidance for Acquisition
   of Training Data Products and Services; MIL-HDBK-29612-2A, Instructional Systems
   Development/Systems Approach to Training and Education; MIL-HDBK-29612-3A; MIL-
   HDBK-29612-4A, Glossary for Training; and MIL-HDBK-29612-5.
   6.3. TMs will review courses and blocks of instruction to identify those where DL and/or
   IMI can best meet the training need. They will use internal and external resources (training
   development element [TDE] instructional systems specialists, SMEs, instructional
   technology personnel, input from utilization and training workshop [U&TWs] or other
   forums, and/or users) to evaluate their courses and/or content for alternative methods of
   delivery.
   6.4. Candidate courses, lessons, or units of instruction may be selected during initial
   development, course reviews, and revisions. Revise courses or portions of courses to
   incorporate IMI/DL where using IMI/DL would accomplish training in a more efficient and
   economical manner while maintaining or enhancing training quality.
   6.5. Roles within the FEA Process
       6.5.1. TMs will submit a request to the ITU to perform a FEA on candidate courses,
       lessons, or units of instruction, to include a media and cost benefit analysis, as required
       by DODI 1322.26.
       6.5.2. TRS TDEs, TMs, and SMEs will provide all necessary course documentation to
       the ITU and assist in completing and documenting the analysis.
       6.5.3. ITUs will:
 12                                                               AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


           6.5.3.1. Identify required resources for in-house and contractor-developed IMI/DL
           projects and establish timelines for development using guidelines in AFH 36-2235,
           Volume 5; MIL-PRF-29612B; MIL-HDBK-29612, Volumes 1-5; and contractor
           development costs associated with current IMI/DL contracts.
           6.5.3.2. Conduct a media analysis for each course as requested. A course does not
           have to be developed entirely as DL or IMI. A blended approach may be used.
           Review the content of each lesson objective and select the appropriate media. When
           more than one media will satisfy the training objective, consider cost, customer
           requests, and resources available (to include customer hardware [HW]).
           6.5.3.3. Examine all DL/IMI development, new or revised, with SCORM compliance
           in mind when it is economically feasible. SCORM provides the foundation for how
           the DoD will use learning and communications technologies to build, and operate in,
           the learning environment of the future. For further guidance, refer to AFH 36-2235,
           Volume 5. Contact HQ AETC/A3IA when developing and implementing SCORM-
           based products and services.
           6.5.3.4. Factor in development, delivery, manpower requirements, and costs for new
           or additional HW, software (SW), and maintenance.
           6.5.3.5. Perform and document searches or help customers perform searches of the
           Defense Automated Visual Information System (DAVIS), Defense Instructional
           Technology Information System (DITIS), Defense Imagery (DefenseImagery.mil),
           and ADL Registry (usable SCOs) databases as required by DoDI 1322.20 and AFI
           36-2201. Perform searches after IMI/DL requirements are defined and before IMI/DL
           is developed or acquired to determine what existing products meet (or can be cost
           effectively modified to meet) new training needs. Provide inputs to the DAVIS and/or
           DITIS databases on training group projects as required by DoDI 1322.20.
           6.5.3.6. Recommend the use of COTS courseware when appropriate. Help customers
           identify and evaluate COTS courseware that might meet their training needs. Note:
           Due to intellectual property laws, COTS courseware will not be modified or
           incorporated into Air Force-developed IMI/DL without first obtaining written
           permission from the copyright holder or owner of the courseware.
           6.5.3.7. Report analysis results to TM and the TRG DL POC. The TM is responsible
           to forward results to HQ AETC/A3T and 2 AF/TTOC.
7. Resource Process. (Note: These requirements do not apply to the 81 TRSS Q-Flight or the
367 TRSS.) If the decision is made to pursue conversion or development of IMI/DL, HQ
AETC/A3T will request the TM develop a CRE to begin the resourcing process. The TM will
develop the CRE with assistance from the local manpower office. The CRE will include media
and cost/benefit analysis results, and provide specific information on the resources required, to
include new or additional HW or SW, to support both in-house and contractor development. It
will recommend whether the project should be in-house or contracted and include project
priorities. (See AETCI 36-2203, Technical and Basic Military Training Development, for
additional guidance on developing and compiling CREs.)
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                      13


   7.1. If development is not required within the current fiscal year (FY), the AETC/A3T will
   add the project to the AETC technical training technology project list for consideration in the
   next FY. Use the following procedures if development is desired in the current FY:
      7.1.1. If the training group has the funds and manpower to support the new development
      due to approved cancellations of other projects, the IMI/DL may be developed in-house
      and the TM will:
          7.1.1.1. Develop the training plan, if required.
          7.1.1.2. Notify HQ AETC/A3T and 2 AF/TTOC of the decision to convert to
          IMI/DL.
      7.1.2. If the training group has the manpower to support the new IMI/DL requirements
      due to cancellation of other projects, but lacks funding, the TM will attempt to locate
      funding for IMI/DL development within the training group or training wing. If funding is
      secured, follow procedures in paragraph 7.1.1.
      7.1.3. If the TRG determines contractor support is needed to satisfy the new
      requirements, and manpower and funds are available in the group due to cancellation of
      other projects, the TM will work with the local contracting office and the ITU as
      specified in paragraph 10.3.2.
      7.1.4. If the TRG determines contractor support is needed to satisfy the new
      requirements, and manpower and/or funds are not available in the group:
          7.1.4.1. When manpower is available due to cancellation of other projects, the TM
          will attempt to locate funding for DL development within the training wing. If
          funding is secured, follow procedures in paragraph 7.1.3 and paragraph 10.3.2.
          7.1.4.2. When funding and/or manpower are not available from the TRG or training
          wing, the TM will follow procedures in paragraph 8.
8. Requesting Higher Headquarters Resources
   8.1. If resources are not available within the TRG or training wing, the TM will forward the
   CRE to HQ AETC/A3T with a courtesy copy to 2 AF/TTOC.
   8.2. HQ AETC/A3T will coordinate the CRE with the following offices, as applicable:
      8.2.1. HQ AETC/A3IA to review the media and cost/benefit analysis, and advise HQ
      AETC/A3T on alternative technologies, if appropriate.
      8.2.2. 2 AF/TTOC to explore feasibility of an ITU in another TRG accomplishing the
      project or diverting funds to support the development effort and determine if approved
      project or projects should be delayed and resources diverted to support new development.
      Coordinate actions with affected TRGs and career field managers, as applicable.
      8.2.3. HQ AETC/A2/3/10 CTO, HQ AETC/A5/8/9, and HQ AETC/A6 if the CRE
      includes requirements for new HW or SW.
   8.3. If funding is not available at the time CRE coordination is completed, HQ AETC/A3T
   will add the project to the technical training technology project list as an unfunded
   requirement, and inform HQ AETC/A3IA, A3RB, A1MRT; AFCFM; 2 AF/TTOC; and the
   TM. If the course resources can be fully funded, HQ AETC/A3T notifies:
 14                                                               AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


       8.3.1. The TM, who proceeds with developing the training plan. At the same time, the
       TRG begins in-house or contract IMI/Type 6 DL development.
       8.3.2. The AFCFM of the projected development or conversion of a course to IMI/Type
       6 DL, if not already accomplished.
       8.3.3. 2 AF/TTOC the project has been added to the technical training technology project
       list.
9. Priorities. (Note: Priorities for the 81 TRSS Q-Flight and the 367 TRSS are established per
AFI 36-2233 and the applicable MOA, respectively.)
   9.1. IMI/DL development is dependent on the availability of resources; therefore, it is
   necessary to prioritize projects. TRGs will develop procedures for establishing local
   IMI/Type 6 DL priorities and for handling priorities established by 2 AF and HQ
   AETC/A3T.
   9.2. Each FY, HQ AETC/A3T in coordination with 2 AF/TTOC will prioritize unfunded
   projects to determine funding requirements. They will use the following procedure to identify
   and prioritize courses:
       9.2.1. No later than (NLT) 15 January, HQ AETC/A3T forwards the latest technical
       training technology project list to 2 AF/TTOC to coordinate updates with the training
       wing/group.
       9.2.2. 2 AF/TTOC forwards the project list to training wing/group for review and local
       prioritization. Training wing/group may add new projects. Training wing/group forwards
       prioritized base lists to 2 AF/TTOC.
       9.2.3. 2 AF/TTOC evaluates TRG inputs and prioritizes base lists to create a
       consolidated 2 AF technical training list. Prioritization is based on one or more of the
       following:
          9.2.3.1. Projects underway (carried over from previous FY).
          9.2.3.2. Career field needs, readiness issues, and a determination the course has
          already been evaluated and found to be a viable candidate for conversion to IMI/Type
          6 DL.
          9.2.3.3. Economic viability (student training requirements and available funding).
          9.2.3.4. The project supports a specialty training standard or course training standard
          line item and corrects a training deficiency, reduces eliminations and washbacks,
          saves resources (time, equipment, manpower), or improves quality of training.
       9.2.4. NLT 1 March, 2 AF/TTOC forwards draft consolidated project list to HQ
       AETC/A3T. HQ AETC/A3T works with HQ AETC/A3R and 2 AF/TTOC to identify the
       highest priority projects based on available funding.
       9.2.5. NLT 15 March, HQ AETC/A3T makes adjustments to the project list based on
       coordination with HQ AETC/A3R and 2 AF/TTOC and prepares the final prioritized
       project list. (HQ AETC/A3T coordinates with HQ AETC/SG for medical courses and Air
       Staff, as required.)
       9.2.6. NLT 31 March, HQ AETC/A3T approves and distributes the final project list.
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                   15


   9.3. HQ AETC/A3T TPM, 2 AF/TTOC, and course TM will assist HQ AETC/A3RB in
   building the IMI/DL submission for the AETC POM. Inputs should include cost
   requirements for course and student management delivery systems, IT infrastructure, and
   customer support systems.
10. Design and Development
   10.1. A training organization or contractor may develop IMI or DL for use in formal
   technical training and BMT courses, to include IMI for CDCs. IMI developed for CDCs will
   be coordinated with the AU/A4. See paragraph 11 of this instruction for additional CDC IMI
   requirements. (EXCEPTION: Goodfellow AFB is excluded from coordinating classified
   CDCs and job knowledge development courses [JKDC] with AU/A4.) The requirements in
   DoDIs 1322.20, Development and Management of Interactive Courseware (ICW) for
   Military Training, 1322.26, and AFI 36-2201 apply to IMI/DL developed in-house or
   contracted out.
   10.2. IMI/DL Teams
      10.2.1. IMI/DL development is accomplished by using a team approach to courseware
      and/or content development as explained in AFH 36-2235, Volume 5. Teams are
      normally composed of instructional designers, courseware and/or content developers, and
      computer programmers from the ITU; SMEs, TMs, and TDE instructional systems
      specialists from TRSs; and multimedia personnel from base support units.
      10.2.2. For CDC IMI development, the CDC author will assist the team as the SME.
      10.2.3. ITU instructional designers are normally project managers (team leaders) for the
      design and development of IMI and DL courseware.
      10.2.4. Teams are formed to accomplish specific IMI/Type 6 DL projects, and team
      members may perform more than one function on a team. For example, a courseware
      and/or content developer may support some of the team’s graphic requirements by
      producing routine, computer-generated multimedia products. Note: Instructional
      designers, computer programmers, SMEs, and audiovisual personnel may be members of
      more than one team.
   10.3. Courseware and/or Content Design and Development
      10.3.1. The design and development of DL and IMI follows the same basic principles as
      all other forms of technical training. Designers and developers refer to guidance in this
      instruction, AETCI 36-2203, MIL-HDBK-29612-3A, MIL-HDBK-29612-5, and AFH
      36-2235, Volume 5.
      10.3.2. The ITU is responsible for the design, development and maintenance of
      courseware and/or content. After a coordinated decision is made to use IMI and/or DL,
      the ITU will assist in researching, planning, developing, and maintaining IMI and/or DL
      to meet training requirements.
      10.3.3. For IMI/DL developed by a contractor, the ITU (with assistance from the TRS)
      will prepare contract work documents (statements of work, statements of objective, or
      other documents required by the applicable contracting office) and perform quality
      assurance (QA) reviews of contractor-developed IMI/DL according to MIL-PRF-
      29612B, MIL-HDBK-29612, AFI 36-2201, and AFH 36-2235, Volume 3.
16                                                             AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


        10.3.3.1. For locally funded contract efforts, the ITU will perform contractor officer
        representative (COR) functions required by the contracting officer and develop and
        enforce quality control measures and standards.
        10.3.3.2. For centralized AETC-funded technical training contracted efforts, HQ
        AETC/A3IA will perform COR duties, work directly with the contracting office, and
        coordinate with 2 AF/TTOC, the TM, and the appropriate ITU on management and
        oversight of contracted projects. The appropriate ITU will provide QA support during
        and after development. HQ AETC/A3IA will provide the ITU with the applicable
        contracting documents to assist in performing QA functions.
     10.3.4. For IMI/DL developed in-house, the ITU and training squadron will prepare a
     project plan (or similar type of document –See attachment 2 for example) that identifies
     project requirements, responsibilities, timelines, and expectations.
     10.3.5. The ITU will also:
        10.3.5.1. Develop, apply, and enforce quality control measures and standards for all
        IMI/DL materials developed (in-house and by contractors) for the group or customer.
        Ensure all IMI programs comply with the standard DoD programming protocols and
        other technical requirements in MIL-PRF-29612B, DoDIs 1322.20 and 1322.26.
        10.3.5.2. Identify and recommend the IMI level that best supports learning
        requirements, from baseline presentations to high-level simulations, as defined in
        AFH 36-2235, Volume 5.
        10.3.5.3. Develop IMI/DL in accordance with DoDIs 1322.20 and 1322.26, MIL-
        PRF-29612B, MIL-HDBK-29612, and AFH 36-2235, Volume 5, for use in resident,
        nonresident, and continuation instructional programs. Ensure contractor-developed
        IMI/DL complies with applicable directives.
     10.3.6. Support TRSs by attending U&TWs and other training forums to provide media
     selection guidance. The 81 TRSS Q-Flight and the 367 TRSS will provide media
     selection guidance in accordance with AFI 36-2233 and the applicable MOA,
     respectively.
     10.3.7. Lifecycle Maintenance
        10.3.7.1. Provide life-cycle management and serve as the life-cycle management
        activity for both in-house and contractor-developed IMI/DL as explained in DoDIs
        1322.20 and 1322.26. Ensure life-cycle availability by maintaining a complete
        inventory of the version of the authoring system, assembly language, or higher order
        language compiler used to develop the courseware; source code for the courseware;
        accompanying documentation; associated software libraries; and all other materials
        necessary and sufficient to modify the courseware as outlined in DoDIs 1322.20 and
        1322.26.
        10.3.7.2. For formal technical training or BMT, provide final electronic or paper-
        based storyboards developed by the ITU or contractor to TMs for inclusion in course
        files to help TRS personnel review IMI/DL as part of their annual review of course
        materials and identify required changes. For TRS-developed IMI/DL, the TRS will
        ensure all required lifecycle material is provided to the ITU. Note: The 81 TRSS Q-
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                      17


         Flight and the 367 TRSS will maintain final storyboards in project files and review
         the storyboards at least biennially to ensure currency.
         10.3.7.3. Revise courseware and/or content as required. When staffing is not
         available or contractor maintenance is more efficient and funding is available,
         contractors may be used to maintain IMI/DL. When contractors revise courseware
         and/or content, ITUs will provide necessary materials and documentation to facilitate
         revisions.
         10.3.7.4. Maintain records of the labor hours (divided into time expended on FEA,
         design, and development for all in-house and contractor-developed courseware and/or
         content production). (Table 33 – 42, Rule 10.00) Also maintain records of the costs
         associated with the individual training group’s IMI development and maintenance
         projects. As a minimum, document the estimated number of IMI hours required for
         the courseware and/or content, estimated completion time, estimated cost, actual
         number of IMI hours, actual completion time, and actual costs. Also record the time
         spent on contractor-developed IMI to include, but not be limited to, contract
         administration, modifications to courseware and/or content and post-delivery
         maintenance.
      10.3.8. For formal technical training and BMT, help customers develop a validation plan
      for IMI/DL. Follow the validation guidelines in AETCI 36-2203. If changes are required
      to the IMI/DL product, forward a copy of the final validation report to 2 AF/TTOC and
      maintain a copy with the IMI/DL project documentation. Note: The 81 TRSS Q-Flight
      and the 367 TRSS will develop a validation plan for IMI they produce and will maintain
      a copy of the final validation report in the applicable project file.
   10.4. Section 508 Compliance. All courseware acquired or developed will comply with
   Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. HQ AETC/A3IA is the MAJCOM POC for Section
   508 requirements, issues, and sources for assessing compliance.
      10.4.1. Under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, agencies must provide employees
      and members of the public with disabilities access to electronic and information
      technology comparable to the accesses available to employees and members of the public
      who are not individuals with disabilities. The law applies to all Federal agencies when
      they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology. Section
      508 was enacted to eliminate barriers in information technology, to make available new
      opportunities for people with disabilities, and to encourage development of technologies
      that will help achieve these goals.
      10.4.2. Specific impairments include hearing, visual, mobility/manipulation, and
      cognitive. Specific technologies include software/operating systems. Some of the
      provisions include alternative keyboard navigation for people who cannot rely on
      pointing devices; Web-based intranet and Internet information and applications; labeling
      graphics so they can be converted into audio files or Braille presentations; using text
      telephone or other assistive listening devices; using caption decoders and audio
      description; self contained, closed products (kiosks, information transaction machines,
      copiers, etc.); built-in accessibility so users do not need to attach assistive devices; and
      desktop and portable computers focused on keyboards, other mechanically operated
      controls, touch screens, biometric forms of identification, ports, and connectors.
 18                                                               AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


       10.4.3. Scrutinize new acquisitions and development to determine whether the target
       audience can be reasonably expected to contain users with vision, hearing,
       manipulation/mobility, or cognitive impairments.
          10.4.3.1. Evaluate content modules individually as they may be subject to reuse
          under the SCORM model. Individuals with disabilities who are members of the
          public may generate requests for information or services which are comparable to
          those provided to individuals with no disabilities.
          10.4.3.2. Document possible accommodation strategies and keep documentation with
          the course folder.
       10.4.4. In-house developers should make every effort to accommodate the provisions of
       Section 508 but should not incur significant cost increases to do so. The key objective is
       accommodation, but it is an unfunded requirement.
       10.4.5. If accommodation would place an undue burden on the Federal agency (because
       of significant difficulty or cost increases), the burden must be identified and documented.
       Undue burden refers to 30 percent or higher increases in development time or costs.
       Where undue burden can be shown, the originating agency will provide HQ AETC/A3IA
       with appropriate documentation for the AETC Chief Information Officer (CIO) to
       include in the semiannual report on Section 508 activities.
Note: The 81 TRSS Q-Flight and 367 TRSS will also work with their customers and supply
required documentation, as necessary, to meet Section 508 reporting requirements outlined by
customer CIOs in accordance with applicable Air Force policy.
11. CDC IMI Development
   11.1. Coordination
       11.1.1. The TM or CDC writer will coordinate with the ITU serving their training group
       before beginning CDC IMI development. This early coordination is essential to ensure
       quality and standardization of CDC products.
       11.1.2. The training wing or group will establish procedures to ensure that plans to
       incorporate IMI into a CDC are coordinated with AU/A4L before working on an
       interactive CDC. EXCEPTION: Goodfellow AFB is excluded from coordinating
       classified CDCs and JKDCs with AU/A4L.
       11.1.3. TMs, CDC writers, and ITUs will refer to AFI 36-2201; AETCI 36-2203 and the
       Guide for Authors of Interactive Multimedia (IMI Guide) for additional information on
       IMI CDCs. AU/A4L will coordinate substantial changes to the guide with HQ
       AETC/A3PV before publication and implementation.
   11.2. Testing. The ITUs will provide copies of completed CDC IMI storyboards to the
   CDC writer who will, in turn, forward them to AU/A4L for review. AU/A4L will ensure
   objectives are tested, regardless of the media. AU/A4L will continue to develop course
   examinations in paper-based mode until computer-based testing is proven feasible based on
   field conditions and compatibility with AU/A4L software.
   11.3. Distribution. ITUs will furnish two master-quality copies of CDC IMI to the CDC
   writer who will, in turn, forward them to AU/A4L for duplication and distribution.
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                      19


   EXCEPTION: Due to classification requirements, the 17th Training Group, Goodfellow
   AFB TX, will review, edit, and distribute cryptologic and certain other CDCs and JKDCs
   and is excluded from coordination with AU/A4L.
12. Progress Report on Projects
   12.1. Each fiscal year quarter, training groups will report the progress of all projects on the
   Project Status Report (RCS: AETC-DOP[Q]0401) in the format provided by 2 AF/TTOC.
   12.2. Each ITU will upload one approved copy of the report to the AETC Instructional
   Technology Working Group CoP no later than 15 days following each quarter (for example,
   15 April for the January through March quarter).
   12.3. 2 AF/TTOC personnel will address and coordinate changes, as needed, and forward
   them to HQ AETC/A3T within 30 days of receipt with an information copy to AETC/A3PV.
   Note: The 81 TRSS Q-Flight and the 367 TRSS will provide required project information
   directly to 2 AF/TTOC with an information copy to the centralized ITU servicing the TRG to
   which they are assigned.
   12.4. For formal technical training and BMT, training group personnel preparing the report
   will also provide TMs a quarterly update on courses they manage. Quarterly updates should
   include a description of progress for ongoing development or conversion efforts under the
   remarks column. Extracts from the quarterly report will be e-mailed to applicable TMs.
13. Type 6 DL Administration
   13.1. Course Announcement. TMs publicize courses through the ETCA website at
   https://etca.randolph.af.mil/. The course announcement will specify registration
   requirements, course delivery requirements, and customer responsibilities at user sites. TMs
   will coordinate with the 2 AF/TTOC prior to finalizing ETCA content. In addition, TMs will
   coordinate with the 2 AF/TTOC, HQ AETC/A3T, and the AFCFM on a message to the field
   announcing course releases. TMs will provide inputs (broadcast schedules, course
   announcements, course revisions, etc.) for the 2 AF Live Guide. The 2 AF/TTOC will assist
   with preparing DL POC instructions on new courses.
   13.2. Annual Screening. Air Staff initiates the Type 6 DL annual screening concurrently
   with MRTP screening. See AFI 36-2201 for specific guidance on DL annual screening
   requirements. Use requirements identified in the annual screening to build annual broadcast
   schedules, and to plan and position resources in support of other Type 6 DL courses.
   13.3. Out-of-Cycle Requests. All Type 6 DL training requests submitted after the annual
   screening (out-of-cycle) are addressed based on availability of HQ AETC resources. Type 6
   DL out-of-cycle training requests are sent to the 2 AF DL Coordinator who forwards them to
   the appropriate TM. TMs determine whether the request can be met and act accordingly,
   either scheduling the required resources or advising the MAJCOM that the resources are not
   available to provide the requested training. (See paragraph 13.4 on scheduling training.) Due
   to the nature of Type 6 DL, most out-of-cycle requirements can be met with minimal impact
   on resources.
   13.4. Scheduling Training. The majority of Type 6 DL courses are designed to be self-
   paced, asynchronous and require minimal scheduling. However, some Type 6 DL courses
   such as Web cast and ITV are synchronous, designed to include interactivity with an
20                                                                AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


  instructor or other students. For these courses, the AETC TM validates and schedules
  requirements, as applicable and/or described in ETCA. Although allocations may be limited
  by the facilities on site or course design, normally the maximum number of students in
  training or at each base will determine the number of classes needed to meet the training
  requirement.
     13.4.1. Web-Based Training. Technical training courses accessible via the Internet are
     available on the ADLS. Contact HQ AETC/A3IA or 2 AF/TTOC for the Web address.
     Course descriptions are available in the ETCA. Students enroll via ADLS and notify the
     DL POC if they need additional materials and when ready to test, if applicable. After the
     schoolhouse confirms the students have successfully completed the test, AF Forms 1256
     are sent to the DL POC for distribution to graduates.
     13.4.2. Mandatory 7-Level Courses (Web-Based). TMs build the required number of
     classes to support training requirements. HQ AFPC/DPSIT enters student data for active
     duty students; AFRC and ANG enter student data for Reserve and Guard students.
     13.4.3. Courses Requiring Satellite Time. For courses requiring satellite time, the TM
     provides inputs such as uplink site requirements, downlink site locations, and broadcast
     schedule to the satellite scheduling function for the local broadcast facility. The satellite
     scheduling function will coordinate all requests with 2 AF/TTOC to minimize scheduling
     conflicts. TMs will deliver schedules to the satellite scheduling function for forwarding to
     2 AF/TTOC for inclusion in an annual broadcast schedule and 2 AF Live Guide.
     13.4.4. CD-ROM and Paper-Based Courses. CD-ROM and paper-based courses are
     shipped as directed by the TM. In some cases, they are prepositioned with the appropriate
     base level DL POC who maintains them in a library so they are available to students on
     an as-needed basis. Additional CD-ROMs and paper-based materials may be requested
     using an out-of-cycle request as described in paragraph 13.3. TMs build required number
     of classes to support training requirements.
  13.5. Training Delivery. The distribution function must dispatch training materials NLT 30
  days prior to class start date. For out-of-cycle requirements, dispatch course materials within
  15 days of receipt of the request. Base DL POCs may establish a library for DL materials for
  high-flow courses. The delivery process must remain responsive to customer needs. TMs
  should fill requests for additional materials and class seats if resources and timing permit.
  TMs will work with course personnel to ensure training materials are made available to the
  distribution function for reproduction and distribution, so the distribution function can
  comply with established timelines.
  13.6. Student Tracking. Student tracking and attendance will normally flow from the DL
  POC to the distribution function or to the instructor or faculty member assigned to the course.
  Exceptions to this may include ITV or Web-based DL courses where the instructor or faculty
  member administering the course interacts directly with the student or courses using the
  ADLS-TTMS interface. Authorized/identified students enroll according to specific
  procedures identified in the ETCA listing for the course.
     13.6.1. If there are training delays (for example, satellite malfunction), the TM will
     develop plans on how to complete the training requirement. Develop these alternative
     plans before the delays occur to minimize impact on the training. If there is a delay, the
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                      21


       TM should solicit advice from the instructor or faculty member assigned to the course
       and the DL POC in making decisions concerning training delays. TMs should keep a
       record summarizing training delays in TTMS course records set.
       13.6.2. TRGs should follow elimination and withdrawal guidance in AETCI 36-2215.
          13.6.2.1. For self-paced courses, the TRG will set NLT completion dates, as
          applicable. (Note: Exceptions to this may include courses using the ADLS-TTMS
          interface with after-the-fact reporting. Authorized/identified students enroll according
          to specific procedures identified in the ETCA listing for the course.) The instructor or
          faculty member assigned to the course may contact the DL POC as applicable when
          students miss the completion date, asking the POC to determine the reason for the
          missed date. DL POCs may also initiate requests for course extension and
          withdrawal, and submit them to the instructor or faculty member administering the
          course. The TRG/CC (or designated representative) will make the final determination
          on extensions.
          13.6.2.2. In order to gather data from students eliminated or withdrawn from training,
          the TRG must develop an elimination survey. The purpose of the survey (see sample
          in Attachment 3) is to determine the reasons for not completing DL courses. The data
          gathered should cover reasons under and not under direct AETC control.
              13.6.2.2.1. TRGs should ensure the elimination survey is available for DL POCs
              and completed on all eliminated or withdrawn students. The DL POC can help in
              the completion and return of the survey.
              13.6.2.2.2. Completed elimination surveys are returned to the distribution
              function or as directed in ETCA course instructions, and forwarded to the course
              TM. If an elimination trend develops, the course TM will determine the best
              course of action to reduce/eliminate future eliminations. TMs will ensure the
              required changes to the course are instituted and follow up to ensure they had the
              desired effect. The TM will elevate concerns outside AETC’s span of control to 2
              AF/TTOC for appropriate action.
14. Course Completion. The DL POCs should ensure course requirements, such as attendance
and testing, are met. They should also provide data on students eliminated from training (upon
TRG request), and make recommendations on student eliminations. However, TRGs will make
all decisions on student elimination and graduation. Also, TRGs will issue guidance to DL POCs
to enlist their help in conducting course evaluations as necessary.
   14.1. The DL POC should help ensure students meet course requirements. When students
   are ready to test, the DL POC or the test control officer will administer tests in accordance
   with course instructions.
   14.2. Course personnel will make graduation decisions based on student measurement and
   any other pertinent data, and input data into TTMS. They will also ensure diplomas (AF
   Form 1256) are prepared, provide them to the distribution function to send to the DL POC
   for local distribution, and notify the registrar of course completion.
15. Production. Training wing/groups must establish procedures to ensure student production
data is entered into appropriate student management systems. 2 AF/TTOC briefs 2 AF/CC on
 22                                                              AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


production, and provides an annual production report for Type 6 DL courses to higher
headquarters.
16. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training




                                  JAMES A. WHITMORE, Major General, USAF
                                  Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear Integration
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                   23


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1322.20, Development and Management of Interactive Courseware (ICW) for Military
Training, March 14, 1991
DoDI 1322.26, Development, Management, and Delivery of Distributed Learning, 16 June 2006
MIL-PRF-29612B, Performance Specification Training Data Products, 8 June 2006
MIL-HDBK-29612-1A, Guidance for Acquisition of Training Data Products and Services (Part
1), 8 June 2006
MIL-HDBK-29612-2A, Instructional Systems Development/Systems Approach to Training and
Education (Part 2), 8 June 2006
MIL-HDBK-29612-3A, Development of Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI) (Part 3A), 8
June 2006
MIL-HDBK-29612-4A, Glossary for Training (Part 4), 8 June 2006
MIL-HDBK-29612-5, Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL) Products and Systems (Part 5 of 5
Parts), 8 June 2006
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training, 22 March 2004
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management Program, 18 May 2006
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 Sep 2010
AFI 36-2233, Air Force On-the-Job Training Products for Communications-Electronics Enlisted
Specialty Training. 21 March 2001
AFH 36-2235, Volume 3, Information For Designers of Instructional Systems: Application to
Acquisition, 1 November 2002
AFH 36-2235, Volume 4, Information For Designers of Instructional Systems: Manager's Guide
to New Education and Training Technologies, 1 November 2002
AFH 36-2235, Volume 5, Information For Designers of Instructional Systems: Advanced
Distributed Learning: (ADL) Instructional Technology and Distance Learning, 1 November
2002
AFH 36-2235, Volume 6, Information For Designers of Instructional Systems: Guide to Needs
Assessment, 1 November 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AETCI 36-2203, Technical and Basic Military Training Development, 12 August 2009
AETCI 36-2215, Technical and Basic Military Training Administration, 9 Sep 2010
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
 24                                                         AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


AETCI 36-2218, Advanced Learning Technology Demonstrations (ALTD), 22 Dec 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A/CTP—abbreviated/course training plans
ADL—advanced distributed learning
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCFM—Air Force career field manager
AFQTP—-Air Force Qualification Training Packages
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ALTD—Advanced Learning Technology Demonstration
ANG—Air National Guard
ATN—Air Technology Network
BMC—base multimedia center
BMT—basic military training
CC—commander
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CDC—career development course
CIO—Chief Information Officer
COR—contractor officer representative
COTS—commercial off-the-shelf
CRE—course resource estimate
CTO—-Chief Technology Officer
CTP—course-training plan
DAVIS—Defense Automated Visual Information System
DITIS—Defense Instructional Technology Information System
DL—distance learning
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcements
FEA—front-end analysis
FY—fiscal year
HW—hardware
ICW—interactive courseware
IMI—interactive multimedia instruction
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                        25


ISD—instructional systems development
ITU—instructional technology unit
ITV—interactive television
JKDC—job knowledge development course
MAJCOM—major command
MOA—memorandum of agreement
MRTP—Mission Readiness Training Program
NLT—no later than
OPR—office of primary responsibility
POC—point of contact
POM—program objective memorandum
QA—quality assurance
RCS—-report control symbol
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
SCORM—shareable content object reference model
SME—subject-matter expert
SW—software
TDE—training development element
TI—-technology insertion
TM—training manager
TPM—training pipeline manager
TRG—training group
TRQI—-training requester quota identifier
TRS—training squadron
TRSS—-Training Support Squadron
TTMS—Technical Training Management System
U&TW—utilization and training workshop
 26                                                                 AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


                                        ATTACHMENT 2
                                  SAMPLE PROJECT PLAN

Note: The project plan below is just a sample. Change items as necessary to reflect an actual
agreement.

 This plan constitutes an understanding between the signed parties to work toward the
most effective and efficient use of resources for completing IMI development and
maintenance.
Course Supervisors/SMEs will:           Training                          The ITU will:
                                        Management/TDE will:
Discuss material to determine if the    Review initial request for        Determine whether the
request can be supported and            IMI to ensure compliance          request for IMI
whether IMI is appropriate.             with the ISD and designate a      development can be
                                        customer representative.          supported.
Assist in the completion of the FEA.    Attend course meetings with       Assist in deciding
Provide a request memorandum to         course and IMI personnel.         whether IMI is an
the ITU, signed by the squadron                                           appropriate medium,
commander, appointing a SME,                                              using applicable ISD
unless the SME is appointed through                                       guidance and other
other means. The SME must have                                            material, as needed.
the authority to make decisions
regarding course development and
content. The SME must be
knowledgeable, reliable, and
available during lesson design.
Provide all lesson materials.           Review and approve                Provide assistance to
Review the proposed lesson content      proposed and completed IMI        course personnel in
with ITU representatives to ensure      storyboards and lesson            obtaining lesson
cost-effective support of objectives.   materials.                        materials and text via
Meet milestones jointly set by ITU      Review final lesson to verify     electronic file transfer or
and course personnel for lesson         lesson is ready for validation.   CD/DVD.
development. Identify any changes                                         Design and develop the
in advance to the ITU.                                                    methods, set and meet
Provide the ITU an electronic copy                                        milestones required to
of current, complete, and                                                 produce the final product.
grammatically correct text in                                             Identify any changes in
Microsoft ® Word format for each                                          advance to TRS.
objective. Work with ITU to develop                                       Work with course
storyboards for production of                                             personnel to storyboard
lessons.                                                                  the lesson.
Review storyboards, indicating                                            Program and edit the
approval for use in courseware                                            lesson when the
development.                                                              storyboards are
                                                                          completed, reviewed, and
AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011                                                                       27


Course Supervisors/SMEs will:           Training                        The ITU will:
                                        Management/TDE will:
                                                                        approved.
Review and validate the lesson          Assist with course validation   Make corrections as
according to established procedures.    analysis.                       needed throughout the
                                        Coordinate on changes to        validation phase.
                                        IMI lessons, ensuring team      Ensure the project folder
                                        members are kept aware of       and all documentation
                                        all changes affecting IMI.      are completed and copies
                                        Ensure validated IMI is         provided to applicable
                                        documented in course            personnel.
                                        documents, e.g. Plan of         Maintain a list of current
                                        Instruction.                    IMI.

Review the lessons at least annually.   Develop and maintain annual     Complete or assist in
Submit requests for changes as          review procedures pertaining    completing revisions and
required.                               to IMI.                         documentation, as
Inform ITU whether lesson should                                        required.
be retained, revised, or removed                                        Determine if requested
from inventory.                                                         revision constitutes new
                                                                        development.


_____________________________           _______________________         _________________________
Squadron Commander/Date                 Training Manager/Date           ITU Chief or Commander/Date
 28                                                                AETCI36-2208 6 April 2011


                                       ATTACHMENT 3
                      SAMPLE ELIMINATION/WITHDRAWAL SURVEY

NAME __________________
COURSE ________________
LOCATION _____________
COMMAND _____________


Please help us improve this course. Select the top three problems that interfered most with your
efforts to complete the course. Rate each problem area you experienced as 1 = most severe, 2 =
next most severe, and 3 = least severe.
PROBLEMS                                                               RATING
Course scheduling
Problems with onsite equipment
Conflicts with duty
Personal or family medical problems
Instruction was hard to follow or didn’t track well
Personal or family emergency
Permanent change of station
Extended temporary duty (TDY) or deployments
If other problems interfered with your course completion, please describe them:




INSTRUCTIONS TO SITE MONITOR:
Collect student surveys and mail to:


Appropriate TRG
ATTN:
939 Missile Rd
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2337
