                          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                       AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND




                                                                          AETCI36-2215_AETCGM1

                                                                                       6 August 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR 2 AF/CC
               AU/CC

FROM: HQ AETC/A2/3/10
      1 F Street Suite 2
      Randolph AFB TX 78150-4325

SUBJECT: AETC Guidance Memorandum to AETCI 36-2215, Technical and Basic Military
        Training Administration

1. There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Commander Air Education and Training Command, this is an AETC
Guidance Memorandum (GM) implementing an immediate change to AETCI 36-2215,
9 September 2010. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications; the information herein prevails, in
accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. Effective immediately, AETCI 36-2215 is changed as reflected in the attachment to this
memo. This GM includes the following major changes: updates definitions for Non-prior
Service (NPS), Prior Service (PS) and Retrainees (RET) (Table 3.1.); roles and report
requirements changes to support implementation of the new record validation process in TTMS
projected for August 2013 (Paragraphs 12.17.15, 13, Tables 4.3, 4.6, 4.9, 4.16, 4.18, 11.2, 12.13,
A4.1, A7.2, A8.1, and A9.2); more specific reclassification guidelines (Table 12.12); new course
transfer guidance to include from one foreign language to another (Paragraphs 12.12.3 and
12.12.4); updates officer elimination and disposition procedures (Table 12.20, Paragraph
12.17.17); disposition guidance for categories of enlisted initial skills training (Table 12.25);
changes to requirements to resources and scheduling (Paragraph 18) due to publication of the
new AFI 36-2616, Technical Training Requirements Programs (Officer and Enlisted);
establishes quarterly requirement to submit action plans for significant changes in elimination
and washback rates (Tables 25.2 and 25.3); removes A1LP, A2LP from constraint worksheet
instructions (Tables A16.1 and A17.1); adjusts formula timeframe and implementation date for
programmed elimination rates (Paragraph A21.1.1) .

3. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
4. The policy in this Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon incorporation by an interim change or rewrite of AETCI 36-2215,
whichever is earlier. Our POC is Mr. Bill DeCleene, AETC/A3PV, DSN 487-6181.




                                                MICHAEL A. KELTZ, Major General, USAF
                                                Director of Intelligence, Operations,
                                                and Nuclear Integration


Attachment
Changes to AETCI 36-2215, 9 September 2010

cc:
AETC/A3T/IGIOT
2 AF/TTOC
                                         Attachment 1

                       Changes to AETCI 36-2215, 9 September 2010

Table 3.1. Explanation of Categories of ADAF Enlisted IST.
   Student Type Explanation
*1 NPS          Training pipeline students who enter the Regular Air Force with no
                previous military service, military training, have not been previously
                awarded an AFSC and whose designated Training Requester Quota
                Identifier (TRQIs) are AJ10, AJ20 or AJ30 as they progress through a
                specific set of pipeline courses as detailed in the most current programmed
                technical training (PTT) document for a given FY.
*2 PS           Training pipeline students who re-enter the military with previous military
                training equivalent to the completion of initial training in any branch of
                service or with total active federal military service totaling 24 months or
                more and whose designated TRQI is AJ1K as they progress through a
                specific set of pipeline courses as detailed in the most current PTT
                document for a given FY.
*3 RET          Training pipeline students representing current AF enlisted members
                authorized to retrain into a new AFSC and whose designated TRQIs are
                AJ1J, AJ3J, AMD0, AJ50) as they progress through a specific set of
                pipeline courses as detailed in the most current PTT document for a given
                FY.

3.2.1.4. Deleted

Table 4.3. Registrar Responsibilities.
     Category       Registrar - Duties
1    TTMS           Monitor for
                    Incorrect status codes and overdue student transactions; notify TRGs.
                    Reject/error data; report or reconcile errors as appropriate:
                    1 Monitor TTMS Upfront Reject Cube.
                    2 TTMS to OTA Rejects; TPS to TTMS Rejects; ADLS to TTMS Rejects;
                       report or reconcile errors as appropriate.
                    3 Within two duty days, initiate steps to resolve all “hard” TTMS/OTA
                       rejects that prevent a terminal status code match between TTMS and
                       OTA student records. Rejects should be resolved within ten duty days,
                       unless pending answers/actions from formal requests to AETC, TTMS
                       contractor and/or OTA.
                    4 Coordinate resolution actions with appropriate personnel (TM, Registrar
                       Focal Point (RFP)/Designated Group Representative (DGR)).
    Category       Registrar - Duties
                   5 Follow up to ensure errors are resolved within ten duty days.
                   6 Contact AETC/A3PZ (TTMS interface POC) for assistance.
                   Accurate, timely, complete and appropriately signed TTMS Student
                   Training (ST) Reports or validation process completion upon
                   implementation.
                   Students not in training to include reclassification actions.
                   Enter elimination codes of elimination students.
2   OTA            Sub-allocate students (AJ30) into follow-on courses with a max of seven
                   training days between graduation and follow-on Class Start Date (CSD) (if
                   feasible).
                   Change quota types for S-TLNs.
                   Delete “S- Training Line Numbers” as necessary.
                   Check OTA to verify force gain name and milstat information or delegate
                   function.
                   Change names for non-AF and International Military Students (IMSs).
                   Note: AFSAT changes names for non-AF International Military Students
                   (IMSs) before CSD in most cases.
3   Student        Review student accounting actions to ensure Training Squadrons (TRSs)
    Accounting     and TRGs appropriately manage student accounting actions from arrival,
                   through training and departure.
                   Stress consistency, accuracy, completeness, timeliness, and integrity.
4   Coordination   Students not in training
                       With the military personnel flight (FSS) and TRSs.
                   Eliminated international students who wish to continue in training
                       With Air Force Security Assistance Training (AFSAT) approval (work
                   with the local IMSO)
                   Lodging requirements:
                   1 Annually provide to the Lodging Manager class schedules of all TDY-
                      to-School (TTS) students IAW AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program
                      to allow proper forecasting of billeting needs.
                   2 Provide student lists with the funding source (quota type) to make
                      certain TTS students are billeted on base.
5   Training       Provide training and guidance for:
                   1 Force gain actions and validation of OTA information.
                   2 Accurate status code election.
                   3 Timeline restrictions.
                   4 Registrar Focal Points (RFPs)
6   Staff          Use to reinforce training, validate procedures and identify/resolve student
    Assistance     data management problems.
     Category       Registrar - Duties
                  Present recommendations, if appropriate, to TRGs, TRSs, and assigned
                  personnel.
*7 Validation and When AF members take training in courses that are other service/agency
    Storage For led and owned and the other service/agency stores graduation/report card
    Other Agency/ records and/or reports (whether digital or hard copy) that minimally match
    Service       the AF Record Disposition Schedule, there is no requirement for registrars
    Graduation    to maintain parallel AF or AETC records and reports in long term storage.
    Reports or    Upon implementation of the validation process, validate terminal events
    Records       and any associated training history in TTMS after confirming the terminal
                  event through the other service/agency system report or record whether
                  digital or hard copy. Use digital or hard copies of the other service/agency
                  graduation and elimination records/reports to verify training completion or
                  elimination before entering terminal events in TTMS. Minimally, enter
                  enough training data in TTMS to support AF and AETC’s data production
                  requirements (i.e., entry and terminal event: graduation, withdrawal,
                  elimination, recall). In addition, when AF personnel contact registrars for
                  official verification of training that was conducted in other service/agency
                  led and owned training, direct requestors to the appropriate other
                  service/agency institution to verify the training. Exception: Schoolhouses
                  are still responsible for completing AETC Form 125A on students
                  eliminated from other service/agency led schools and registrars will
                  continue to maintain AETC Form 125As to comply with the AF record
                  disposition schedule.
8   Metrics       Compile and provide metrics to report trends.
                  Monitor student in and out of training data for anomalies and trends.
9   Quality       Force-Gains
    Control       Student Status Changes
                  Center-Generated Classes
10 Special        Analyze data and provide interpretation to requester, as able.
    Projects      Provide data, as required to AETC, 2 AF, and Air Force Personnel Center
                  (AFPC).
*11 Audit         Review and compare TTMS, Upfront and OTA data, rosters and reports.
                  Within 10 duty days of graduation, identify where terminal status codes for
                  students do not match in TTMS and OTA; inform TRS of discrepancies,
                  suspense RFPs/DGRs for correction within 5 duty days, and follow up to
                  ensure resolution.
                  Identify inaccurate student transactions to TRSs for required corrective
                  action.
                  (Added) Past due unvalidated records (terminal events) and identify to
                  TRSs for validation action.
*12 Records       (Added) Review validated records; unlock records with errors for revalidation
     Category      Registrar - Duties
                   Provide appropriate verification memorandums.
                   Use the Registrar’s seal embosser to authenticate training
                   completion/elimination and other student training information. (Note: With
                   respect to eliminations, the seal embosser is only used for AETC Form
                   125As faxed from GSUs)
                   Maintain seal embosser securely and establish tracking system.
                   Maintain integrity of student training records.


Table 4.6. Training Squadron (TRS) Responsibilities.
    Category        TRS - Duties
1   TTMS            Effectively monitor and manage students out of training and facilitate the
                    prompt resolution of student delays (SATs, SOTs, IIT, Washbacks,
                    Elimination/Reclass actions, medical holds, disciplinary holds, and so
                    forth).
                    1 Monitor SATs, SOTs, and IIT rosters to track student delays.
                    2   Intervene when management action can facilitate student movement.
                        Distinguish between initial entry SATs (SATs in the first course in the
                    3
                        pipeline) and follow-on SATs (SATs in subsequent courses.)
                        Ensure timely coordination with AETC/FMAM all pipeline and TDY
                    4 en route to PCS student delays potentially of 7 training days or more.
                        AETC/FMAM works jointly with the 2 AF/TTOC on MRT issues.
                        Ensure coordination with Guard and Reserve training liaisons when
                    5
                        delays impact their personnel.
                    Monitor efficiency and effectiveness of resident and nonresident student
                    accounting procedures.
                    Monitor to ensure
                        On base training data/status updates are entered into TTMS within 24
                    1
                        hours (one duty day).
                        Off base training data/status updates are reported within 24 hours (one
                    2 duty day) and recorded within 24 hours of receipt or knowledge of the
                        action.
                        (Added) The validation of all terminal events are completed within
                    3
                        seven duty days.
                    Ensure all courses are either activated in TTMS Student Management or
                    being developed in TTMS Course Design and Development.
                    Ensure TRS representation at all TTMS SIIT meetings.
                    Monitor and ensure resolution of TTMS/TPS, TTMS/OTA rejects and
                    associated trends.
   Category          TRS - Duties
*2 Appoint           *Course validators and ensure that appropriate roles are established in
                     TTMS
                     TTMS TRS level POC.
                     Primary and alternate RFPs and maintain a current list of appointees.
                     TRS SOTs monitors and provide names to Registrar Section.
3   Approve          Washbacks.
                     AETC Forms 125, 125A, Student Administrative Actions only when
                     delegated by TRW or TRG/CC. When the TRS/CC is not on-station
                     because of leave or TDY, the official on G-Series orders may approve the
                     AETC Form 125A.
4   Interview        Students eligible for student initiated eliminations.
                     May delegate this responsibility but must document delegation.
*5 Training          *Within seven duty days from of terminal status code entry, process and
   Documentation     deliver ST Reports to the Registrar or complete the validation process
                     upon implementation.
                     *Within seven duty days of terminal status code entry, process and deliver
                     the Student Accounting and Attendance Report to the Registrar or
                     complete the validation process upon implementation.
                     Within three duty days finalize and forward AETC Forms 125A. (Table
                     12.22.)
6   Metrics          Monitor metrics established in Section F to validate effectiveness and
                     efficiency of training procedures.

Table 4.9. Instructor (I)/Instructor Supervisor (IS) Responsibilities.
   Category       I/IS Duties
*1 TTMS           Collect student orders at beginning of course, as requested.
                  Verify student information in TTMS.
                  Document all training in TTMS.
                  Record no shows. Confirm ARC member is truly not coming before recording
                  no show.
                  Record, within 24 hours (one duty day) of the event or knowledge of the event
                  student grades, comments/ remarks, statuses, PDSClass events, Special
                  Individual Assistance (SIA), Admin Actions (Letter of Reprimand [LOR],
                  Record of Individual Counseling [RIC], Art 15), absences, counseling,
                  washbacks, probationary continuation or advancements.
                  Track all student statuses of students enrolled in training, to include
                  ineffective time, until they are graduated, eliminated, or withdrawn from
                  training. Use appropriate out of training rosters.
                  Report student status changes.
                  Place students on IIT status, as required.
    Category   I/IS Duties
               Complete TTMS fields to enable the generation of an accurate Student
               Training Report (ST Report).
               Initiate the force-gain action using student orders. Forward a copy of the
               orders to the Registrar and/or TM depending on TRG processes.
               * Review ST Report, Student Accounting and Attendance Record and/or
               pertinent TTMS reports or record views supporting the validation process
               upon implementation.
               Identify and resolve appropriate student accounting actions for students
               appearing on the Hanging History Report.
               IS: Monitor class rosters approaching CSD (start checking 30 days prior to
               CSD) for projected international students (such as MX20).
2   Notify     TM if
               1 Student arrives without orders.
                   There are unfilled seats on class start date (CSD) to allow fills from SATs
               2
                   or permanent party.
               3 Deleted.
               4 A name on the class roster does not show on CSD.
               5 International students (such as MX20) on class roster.
               Military Training Flight (MTF) of SIA outside the training day.
               ANG/AFRC training liaisons if ANG/AFRC student placed IIT or when any
               of the following situations arise: injury (delay or not), illness (delay only),
               Special Individual Assistance (SIA), Admin Actions (Letter of Reprimand
               [LOR], RIC, Art 15), absences, counseling, washbacks, probationary
               continuation or advancements.
               TM, Registrar Section, ANG/AFRC liaisons, and follow on TM (as
               applicable) when initial skills grad date is advanced or delayed in last two
               weeks of training or is changed by more than five duty days.
               IMSO, if training or misconduct issues arise in relationship to international
               students
3   Student    Approve washbacks, monitor the SIA program and coordinate Proficiency
    Services   Advance (PA) with TM.
               Inform students of academic progress.
               Counsel students, as necessary.
               Provide special individual assistance (SIA) when needed or requested by
               student.
               Identify and remove students with permanent medical disqualifiers. Send to
               medical facility for evaluation.
               Select class leaders.
               Determine parts of training to be repeated.
               Explain to students what constitutes misconduct.
      Category        I/IS Duties
                      Identify and report to TM students who are not enrolled IAW ETCA.
                      Prepare AF Forms 1256, Certificates of Graduation.
                      Assists students in initiating their own on-time departure. (The theory is that
                      no one is more interested in on-time departure than the student. Students can
                      flag potential delays for themselves if given a “check point” in training when
                      they can expect to have assignment orders.)
4     Coordinate      Center generated classes (CGCs) with TM.
                      AETC Form 125A to ANG/AFRC training liaison on any ARC student
                      eliminated from course.
                      Training deficiencies with TM.
5     International   Record training in TTMS or on AETC Form 156.
      Students
6     Civilian        Do not assign civilian students details, or other out-of-class activities beyond
      Students        the standard 8-hour training day.

Table 4.16. Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) Responsibilities.
  Category                            GSU - Duties
1 Eliminations                        Fax elimination packages to parent base.
2 Proficiency Advancement             Commander directs instructor to administer PA measurement.
3 Student Accounting                  Monitor timeliness and accuracy of student accounting along
                                      with the efficiency and effectiveness of procedures.
*4 Student Administration              Forward AETC Forms 156 and 325 as required to the parent
   Records                            base
                                      *Upon implementation of the validation process, validation of
                                      terminal events supersedes forwarding or e-mailing hard copy
                                      or digital files to the greatest extent possible.

Table 4.18. 937 TRG Training Administration Compliance Table.
*1.     Complies with METC academic administration policies for academic processes related to
        METC; complies with AETCI 36-2215 training administration policy with the following
        provisions (2 – 29). Complies fully with AETCI 36-2215 for officer and medical
        readiness courses that are not under METC.
2.      Table 4.1 Training Wing (TRW)/Group (TRG) Responsibilities (to include 737 TRG) all
        EXCEPT Row 6 (Force Gain – METC ATRRS guidelines apply instead of TTMS
        specific annotations.), Row 8.
3.      Table 4.3 Registrar Responsibilities, Row 7
        In addition, works with METC registrar to identify, monitor and correct ATRRS/TTMS
        interface errors resulting in incorrect AF system student accounting data (TPS, TTMS, and
        OTA).
4.      Table 4.5 TRW/TRG TTMS POCs Responsibilities.
*5.     Table 4.6 Training Squadron (TRS) Responsibilities Including Row 2, Row 5 (ST Report
     process or validation process upon implementation). EXCEPT: TTMS 24-hour entry
     rules (subject to METC ATRRS entry timelines and ATRRS/TTMS interface).
6.   Table 4.8 Training Manager Responsibilities.
7.   Table 4.10 Military Training Leader (MTL) Responsibilities. EXCEPT: METC ATRRS
     entry guidelines apply instead of TTMS 24-hour entry guidelines and TTMS specific
     annotations.
8.   Para 10. The Arrival Process from paras 10.1 through 10.2.5. EXCEPT: Table10.1
9.   Table 12.5 Medical Hold Decision Points While Ineffective in Training INCLUDING:
     Paras 12.4.4.3 and 12.4.4.4.
10.   Paras 12.14.1 and 12.14.2 only with respect to Non-Academic Counseling and related use
     of AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling.
11. Table 12.12 Specific Reclassification Guidelines.
12. Table 12.15 The Typical Disposition of Eliminated Students.
13. Table 12.16 Determining the Disposition of Eliminated Students EXCEPT: Row 5.
14. Table 12.20 Officer Elimination.
15. Table 12.21 Approval Authority if Officer Misconduct.
16. Table 12.22 Processing Completed Elimination Packages.
17. Table 12.24 Enlisted Reclassification Decisions_2 AF/TTOC Det1/DXR.
18. Table 12.25 Guidance When Retention is Recommended Following Elimination.
19. Paras 12.17.20 Reclassification Decisions and Actions and 12.17.21. Reclassification
     Documentation.
20. Table 12.26 Exceptions for Eliminations of Certain Student Types.
21. Table 12.27 Training Orders or Amending Administrative Orders.
22. Table 12.32 How to Categorize SATs only as guidance for MTLs to enter the ATRRS
     code that most closely translates to the appropriate TTMS SAT code.
23. Table 12.34 Categorize IITs as Follows only as guidance for MTLs to enter the ATRRS
     code that most closely translates to the appropriate TTMS Ineffective code.
24. Table 12.37 Commander Actions With Respect to SOTs.
25. Para 13.1.5 AF IMT 475, Education/Training Report (TR).
*26. Para 18.7 and subs The Training Flow Management Working Group (TFM-WG)
*27. Para 18.8 and subs The Officer Accession Working Group (OA-WG)
28. Para 18.14 Elimination Rates.
29. Para 18.15 and subs Course Constraints (use of AETC format (Attachments 16 & 17) or
     METC forms that meet intent of AETC attachments).

Table 11.2. Type 6 Organizer – Student Tracking.
    Type of Training         Role in Student        Action – Student Accounting
                             Accounting
1   Type 6 in General        Type 6 Instructor /    Course design and delivery dictates the
                             DGR / Automated        process and timing to input student data
                             Entry
2   Type 6 – front end TLN   AFPC Call Center/      AFPC Call Center Personnel enroll students
    process including        Type 6 DL POC /        with essential student registration data
    centrally –managed       Type 6 DL Instructor   initiating the front end TLN process. The
    Type of Training            Role in Student        Action – Student Accounting
                                Accounting
    courses                     or DGR                 Type 6 DL POC sends course entry and
                                                       completion data to the TRG via AETC
                                                       Form 325 and the Type 6 DL instructor or
                                                       DGR inputs student data into TTMS.
3   LMS-delivered and/or        Partially-automated;   Courses designed for self-enrollment
    managed including LMS       no front end TLN –     delivered via ADLS that require a proctored
    proctored test and TTMS     Type 6 DL POC,         test. Interface automates the entry process;
    interface                   Type 6 DL Instructor   automatic entry awaiting graduation and test
                                or DGR                 score. Type 6 DL POC sends AETC Form
                                                       325. Type 6 DL Instructor or DGR enters
                                                       graduation code and grade fields into TTMS
*4 LMS-delivered and/or         Automated, no front    Courses designed for self-enrollment with
   managed with TTMS            end TLN and student    no requirement for a proctored test and
   interface and no             accounting             delivered via ADLS do not require manual
   proctored test               automated after        entry of student data. Students enroll via
   requirement                  course completion      ADLS; automated Entry and Grad after the
                                                       fact. The registrar generates the AETC
                                                       Form 325 as a TTMS report or reviews the
                                                       validation of associated terminal events
                                                       upon the implementation of the TTMS
                                                       validation process.

11.7. Civilian Students. Do not assign civilian students details or other out-of-class activities
beyond the standard 8-hour training day.
12.12.3. Submit an AETC Form 125A, without training or counseling records, to 2 AF/TTOC
Det 1 to process all course transfers related to proposed AFSC shred changes and any other
course transfer that impacts a shift or change to the originally scheduled and intended plan.
Exception: Language course transfers have additional coordination and routing requirements
(See 12.12.4). Submitting an AETC Form 125A outside the TRW/TRG is not required for
simple administrative course transfers needed due to the implementation of new versions of
existing courses.
12.12.3.1. Annotate in the summary section of the AETC Form 125A that this is an
administrative action to change the shred or language within the same AFSC. (Note: Such
actions are not considered elimination/reclassification actions and will not count against future
reclassification consideration.) Use the TC transfer code to document the action in TTMS.
Include in the summary section the justification for the course transfer and the new CSD and
CGD.
12.12.4. (Added) Course Transfer (NPS)/Reclassification to Another Language at Defense
Language Institute Foreign Language Center (DLIFLC)
12.12.4.1. A language course transfer may be considered when a student has been on
administrative/medical hold and there is no available seat in the language originally assigned
within a reasonable timeframe (available class start no more than 30 days future).
12.12.4.2. If unable to washback/recycle into originally assigned language within the 30-day
requirement, the 517 TRG (311/314 TRS) will complete an AETC Form 125A with the
schoolhouse and commander's language recommendation (student must have required DLAB
score for language recommended).
12.12.4.3. Prior to transmitting the AETC Form 125A, the 517 TRG/TSR will coordinate with
2 AF/TTOC Det 1 to ensure a seat is available to facilitate the course transfer (language to
language same AFSC), or reclassification (1N3X1to 1A8X1 or vice versa). 2 AF Program
Manager will assist 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 and/or the 517 TRG/TSR with determining if an
available seat exists in ATRRS. (Note: If no seat is available within 30 days, submit AETC
Form 125A for reclassification to a non-language AFSC).
12.12.4.4. The 517 TRG/TSR will e-mail the AETC Form 125A to the MAJCOM functional
manager (HQ AETC/A3T), with a courtesy copy to 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 and the 17 TRG
Registrar. (Note: If DLI By-pass, include an ESSS with supporting rationale in the e-mail).
12.12.4.5. The MAJCOM functional manager (HQ AETC/A3T) will:
12.12.4.5.1. Coordinate with the Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) CFM on:
12.12.4.5.1.1. Change/course transfer of 1N3X1/1A8X1 student at DLIFLC to a language for
which they were not originally classified, within the same AFSC.
12.12.4.5.1.2. DLI By-Pass recommendations.
12.12.4.5.1.3. Reclassification (within language AFSCs) to move a 1N3X1/1A8X1 student at
DLIFLC to a language AFSC for which they were not originally accessed (e.g. 1A8X1 to
1N3X1).
12.12.4.5.2. Reply via e-mail to 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 with courtesy copy to the 517 TRG/TSR,
17 TRG registrar, and 2 AF Program Manager with a concur or non-concur response to the
recommended language (AETC Form 125A) or action (DLI By-pass).
12.12.4.6. Upon MAJCOM functional manager concurrence and 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 approval, the
2 AF Program Manager takes required actions in ATRRS, and 17 TRG Registrar takes
appropriate action in TTMS/OTA.
12.12.4.7. If coordination with the MAJCOM functional manager results in a nonconcur, the
517 TRG/TSR and schoolhouse analyzes any accompanying recommendations from the
CFM/MAJCOM functional and proceeds with the next best plan (returns student to a seat in the
original language, generates a new AETC Form 125A for an alternate course transfer or
reclassification, etc.)
12.12.4.8. 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 takes no further action on recommendation/request if coordination
with the MAJCOM functional manager results in a non-concur response (language course
transfers within the same AFSC or reclassification within the language AFSCs).
Table 12.12. Specific Reclassification Guidelines.
   Role or Action            Guidance (Reclassification)
*1 2 AF/TTOC Det 1           Cleared to reclassify an NPS airman into an available class seat in
                             any AFSC in the AF for which the airmen is qualified throughout the
                             training pipeline until the airman signs into first permanent duty
                             station. This includes airmen recommended for retention who have
                             completed training for award of the 3-level, and are subsequently
                             eliminated from any additional course required to qualify or continue
                             to operate in the AFSC.
2   Eliminees                Defined as “students removed from training, whether by faculty
                             board or by administrative process (AETC Form 125A/126G,
                             Record of Commander's Review Action). Eliminees do not include
                             transfers or recalls.”
3   Commanders               Screen eliminees closely to ensure retention and separation
                             recommendations align with AFSC and AF needs. Separate those
                             airmen lacking the attitude, aptitude and motivation to serve in the
                             Air Force. Advise eliminees that the AF will reclassify them
                             based on the needs of the AF. Inform them that reclassification is
                             the exception rather than the rule, and not an entitlement.
4                            Consider the following when recommending eliminees for
                             reclassification or separation: Trainees receive established
                             opportunities to succeed in their original AFSC; to include well-
                             documented SIA, wash back, and retest opportunities. Difficult
                             retention decisions may be required if established opportunities
                             fall short of graduation. Instructor/instructor supervisor/MTL staff
                             spend the greatest amount of time with trainees, have the best
                             overall picture of trainees’ abilities and attitudes, and are
                             important sources of guidance.
5   Documentation of         Separation is warranted for trainees who exhibit disciplinary or
    Substandard              motivational problems for which there is appropriate
    Behavior                 documentation (Article 15, LOR, RIC). With the exception of
                             AFSCs requiring PRP or Top Secret clearance, airmen eliminated
                             for disciplinary reasons should be separated. Do not recommend
                             airmen for reclassification in these situations unless minor
                             offenses make them ineligible for PRP certification or Top Secret
                             clearance needed for their current career fields. Entry level airmen
                             should be discharged if unsatisfactory performance or conduct
                             shows they are not qualified to be productive members of the Air
                             Force. (Note: For further guidance on separation, see AFI 36-
                             3208, Section D, entry level performance or conduct.) If there is
                             insufficient justification for separation, either disapprove the
                             elimination and return the student to the classroom or make
                             retention recommendations. Commander’s comments
                             (recommendation for retention in the AF) on the AETC Form
    Role or Action          Guidance (Reclassification)
                            125A are mandatory.
6   Specific                Make AETC Form 125A comments specific to the situation so
    Recommendations         that they are helpful in making career affecting decisions. Include
    and Comments            any extenuating information that would be useful in making the
                            best reclassification. See Attachment 12. (Note: Commander’s
                            comments (approval authority comments) on the AETC Form
                            125A are mandatory). For reclassification purposes, include a
                            remark if the member was a student leader (red or yellow rope) or
                            a BMT Honor Grad.
7   Avoiding Multiple       Avoid multiple reclassifications of students who clearly do not
    Reclassifications       meet acceptable academic, performance, conduct, bearing and
                            behavior, discipline, medical, or other standards necessary for
                            mission accomplishment. The wing commander (381 TRG/CC at
                            VAFB ) is the approval authority for students recommended for a
                            second reclassification. Students will not be reclassified more
                            than two times. Ensure commander’s (recommendation for
                            retention in the AF) comments are specific and address abilities,
                            limitations, and any extenuating information that would be helpful
                            in making the best reclassification determination. Exception:
                            When a commander recommends retention to move an airmen
                            from one Battlefield Airmen AFSC to another Battlefield Airmen
                            AFSC or from one hard-to-fill AFSC to another hard-to-fill AFSC
                            (e.g., PJ to TACP or TACP to EOD) because it better fits the
                            airmen’s competencies and the needs of the Air Force, the
                            reclassification does not require Wing approval to process and
                            does not count toward the max number of reclassifications
                            allowed for the student.
8   TRG                     Forward AETC Form 125A elimination packages to the servicing
    Responsibilities with   FSS for reclassification when members exhibit strong potential for
    respect to              further AF service (e.g., morale, academic, and physical) or
    Reclassification.       separation when they do not exhibit this potential. Ensure
                            commander's (approval authority) comments on the AETC Form
                            125A are specific and address abilities, limitations, and any
                            extenuating information that would be helpful in making the best
                            reclassification determination. Note: If commander (approval
                            authority) comments are inadequate, 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 will return
                            packages to the TRGs. For airmen recommended for
                            reclassification, see Attachment 13 for a sample message.
     Role or Action          Guidance (Reclassification)
9    Force Support           Submit airmen for selected reclassification AFSCs if they meet
     Squadron (FSS)          minimum entry requirements per Air Force Enlisted Classification
     Responsibilities with   Directory (AFECD). Email reclassification messages to 2
     respect to              AF/TTOC Det 1. Include electronic copies of the AETC Form
     Reclassification        125A and the TTMS ST Report or AETC Form 126G, as
                             appropriate. Do not include RIC, LOR, or Articles 15. The
                             original reclassification message will indicate all AFSCs for which
                             the trainee qualifies.
10                           Separate airmen who do not meet minimum entry requirements for
                             authorized reclassification AFSCs.
11                           Query members regarding interest in a transfer to the ANG/AFRC.
                             For members who choose to pursue transfer, forward separation
                             packages to the in-service ANG/AFRC recruiter for review and
                             evaluation.

Table 12.13. Guidance on Type 6 DL Eliminations.
             Action           Centrally Managed Type 6 DL MAJCOM Managed Type
                                                                    6 DL
1    Withdrawal              Students may be withdrawn from Same
                             training as a result of mission
                             requirements, emergency leave,
                             medical, and any other reason
                             beyond the student’s control
                             without enrollment penalty. The
                             TRG will make final
                             determination of the student
                             status in context of the
                             underlying situation.
2    Elimination             TM coordinates if student did not Same
                             meet course standard to include
                             minimum grade and course
                             completion requirement time.
            Action             Centrally Managed Type 6 DL MAJCOM Managed Type
                                                                       6 DL
3   Applying re-enrollment    The TRG may approve                 Same
    penalty when course has   extensions to completion time at
    time completion           its discretion if the student has a
    standards (optional if    legitimate reason for
    desirable within the      noncompletion within the
    career field)             prescribed timeframe. If the
                              student has no legitimate reason,
                              TMs may impose a re-enrollment
                              penalty of 6 to 12 months from
                              elimination date. Include details
                              in the ETCA course
                              announcement and coordinate it
                              with the enrollment manager.
                              Note: For courses where this has
                              been applied, the schoolhouse
                              has had to act as an intermediary
                              in managing TLN requests or
                              other processes have to be put in
                              place to manage the enrollment
                              process.
4   Recommend                 The Type 6 DL POC may make Same
                              recommendations for elimination
                              or withdrawal based on his or her
                              observations of attendance,
                              performance, and student
                              conduct.
             Action             Centrally Managed Type 6 DL MAJCOM Managed Type
                                                                      6 DL
5   Develop Elimination        In order to gather data for       Same
    Survey and Make Them       students eliminated or withdrawn
    Readily Available          from training, the training group
                               will develop an elimination
                               survey and make it available to
                               Type 6 DL POCs to be
                               completed on all eliminated and
                               withdrawn students. The
                               purpose of the survey (see
                               sample in AETCI 36-2208,
                               Technical and Basic Military
                               Training Interactive Multimedia
                               Instruction (IMI) and Distance
                               Learning (DL),) is to determine
                               reasons for not completing Type
                               6 DL courses. The data gathered
                               should cover reasons under and
                               not under direct AETC control.
6   Complete Elimination       Type 6 DL POC or instructor       Same
    survey                     completes with eliminated
                               student and forwards to DGR
7   Follow-up Elimination      Completed elimination surveys     Same
    Survey                     are returned to the distribution
                               function and forwarded to the
                               course TM. If an elimination
                               trend develops, the course TM
                               will determine the best course of
                               action to reduce/eliminate future
                               eliminations. TMs will ensure
                               the responsible parties institute
                               required changes to the course
                               and follow-up to ensure they had
                               the desired effect. The TM will
                               elevate concerns outside AETC’s
                               span of control to 2 AF/TTOC
                               for appropriate action.
8   Execute Responsibilities   The Type 6 DL POCs perform        Same
                               responsibilities IAW AFI 36-
                               2201, Air Force Training
                               Program, and AETCI 36-2201.
                               TRGs receive recommendations
                               from Type 6 DL POCs on
                               student eliminations, but TRGs
            Action            Centrally Managed Type 6 DL MAJCOM Managed Type
                                                                           6 DL
                             make decisions on student
                             elimination and graduation.
                             TRGs will issue guidance to
                             Type 6 DL POCs to enlist their
                             help in conducting course
                             evaluations as necessary.
*9 Elimination               The TRG responsible for the       *The Type 6 DL POC
   Documentation             Type 6 DL course prepares the     forwards the AETC Form
                             AETC Form 125A on eliminees 325 and elimination survey
                             from mandatory courses (i.e., 7- with a recommendation and
                             level craftsman courses) and      supporting justification for
                             forwards to registrar for storage elimination or withdrawal
                                                               to the TRG distribution
                                                               function who forwards the
                                                               documentation to the TM.
                                                               AETC Form 325 with
                                                               student’s name lined out
                                                               and associated reason for
                                                               elimination briefly recorded
                                                               serves as the elimination
                                                               documentation for storage.
                                                               See instructions for AETC
                                                               Form 325 at Attachment 9.
                                                               The validation of terminal
                                                               events in TTMS supersedes
                                                               the storage of hard copy or
                                                               digital reports upon
                                                               implementation of the
                                                               validation process.

12.17.15. Documentation of Eliminations. Document eliminations on AETC Form 125A, to
include centrally-managed Type 6 DL. Exception: Document 982 TRG non-AFSC awarding
training eliminations on AETC Form 325. For other than mandatory 7-level craftsman courses,
the Type 6 DL POC forwards the AETC Form 325 and elimination survey with same info but
TRG is not required to complete 125A package. Upon implementation of the validation process,
validated records supersede the hard copy or digital storage of Student Accounting and
Attendance Reports or AETC Form 325’s.

Table 12.19. Deleted.
Table 12.20. Officer Elimination.
    Officers Being Recommended for        Prepare AETC Form 125A
    Elimination from IST for
1   Misconduct and the misconduct is      Through Section I to include signature and forward to 2
    serious enough to warrant discharge   AF/CC. The 2 AF/CC will sign the AETC Form 125A
    under AFI 36-3206                     indicating approval of the elimination and initiate
                                          discharge action.
2   Misconduct and the misconduct         Through Section I to include signature and forward to 2
    does not warrant discharge            AF/CC. The 2 AF/CC signs the AETC Form 125A
                                          indicating approval of the elimination and makes
                                          recommendations to HQ AFPC concerning
                                          reclassification.
*3 Any other reasons                      Through signature in Section II (See Table 12.21 for
                                          approval authority).

*Note: Refer to Air Force Personnel Center Instruction (AFPCI) 36-112, Line Officer Initial
Skill Training ReclassificationProcedures, for additional disposition guidance.

12.17.17. Deleted.

12.17.17.1. Deleted.

12.17.17.2. Deleted.

Table 12.25. Disposition Guidance for Categories of ADAF Enlisted IST.
   Student Type Action
*1 NPS          When a student is eliminated from a course, the commander recommends
                discharge or reclassification. If the commander recommends
                reclassification, appropriate paperwork is processed (AETC Form
                125A/126G) with 2 AF/TTOC, Det 1 and the servicing Military Personnel
                Section (MPS). The MPS will coordinate with AFPC/DPSIDC via the
                Case Management System (CMS) AFSC disqualification case IAW AFI
                36-2101 for removal of the awarded 3-skill level AFSC and update the
                appropriate disqualified airman reporting identifier (9A000). Once updated
                with the disqualified airman reporting identifier, 2 AF/TTOC, Det1 will
                process the reclassification action IAW AETC 36-2215.

                       Once the student has been re-classified and a new seat is secured in another
                       AFSC by 2AF/TTOC Det 1, AFPC/DPAA5 is notified to ensure that the
                       end assignment related to the original AFSC is deleted and an assignment
                       will be provided in new AFSC.

*2 PS                  Reclassification is not an option for PS members. PS enlistees sign an
                       enlistment contract informing them that they will be separated if they do
                      not successfully complete required training. Note: See AFI 36-3208 for
                      exceptions for PS. If a commander prefers to recommend retention, the
                      TRW/TRG/CC would have to initiate a request for exception to policy to
                      the OPR of AFI 36-2002, Regular Air Force and Special Category
                      Accessions, AF Form 3006, Enlistment Agreement (PS/Active
                      USAFR/ANG) United States Air Force in the form of an e-mail, seeking
                      approval by AF/A1PT.
*3 RET                The owning MPS will coordinate with AFPC/DPSIDC via the CMS AFSC
                      disqualification case IAW AFI 36-2101 for removal of the awarded 3-skill
                      level AFSC. If the airman possesses an AFSC for which he/she remains
                      qualified, the airman is returned to that AFSC for continued utilization by
                      AFPC/DPSIDC. If the airman does not possess an awarded AFSC, the
                      airman will be awarded the appropriate disqualified airman reporting
                      identifier (9A000, 9A100, 9A200, 9A300 or 9A500, as appropriate).
                      AFPC/DPAA deletes airman’s projected assignment and processes new
                      assignment based on currently awarded AFSC or retraining AFSC, if
                      selected for retraining.

13.1. ST Reports, Student Accounting and Attendance Reports and Validation Process.
13.1.1.1. Instructors prepare Student TRs for all students in IST courses or review Student TRs
for accurate data prior to the implementation of the validation process.
13.1.1.1.1. The TTMS-generated ST Report is a key report and validation tool where TTMS is
installed. Find instructions for this report at Attachment 8.
13.1.1.2. MTLs complete a military training assessment of the report for AF NPS students.
Comments can be inserted when substantive, but canned or conventional statements are not
necessary. There is no requirement for sister service NPS military assessments on the ST
Report. The MTF CC/chief reviews the Student Training Report. Exception: For NPS students
attending a prerequisite course with follow-on courses collocated at the same base, defer the
military training assessment until the students complete the follow-on course or eliminate from
the prerequisite or AFSC awarding course.
13.1.1.3. The signature requirement is reduced to a single signature per Student Training Report
and Student Accounting and Attendance Report until implementation of the validation process
which replaces it.
13.1.1.3.1. (Added) Until implementation of the validation process, the Flight Chief or above
will sign the Student Training Report. Internal procedures (e.g. signed e-mail) will be established
to ensure MTL, academic (instructor supervisor) and primary instructor review and comments
are all completed before the signature.
13.1.1.3.2. (Added) Until implementation of the validation process, the Primary instructor or a
Designated Group Representative (DGR) appointed to certify the Student Accounting and
Attendance Report as accurate will sign the Student Accounting and Attendance Report.
13.1.1.4. Until implementation of the validation process and the beginning of the first complete FY
for that process, within seven duty days of graduation, RFPs deliver a (hand-carried or electronically
transmitted), final copy of the ST Report to the Registrar Section for archiving. Do not send ST
Reports through the Official Mail Center (OMC). Registrars continue to archive signed authenticated
originals or official record-keeping copies of authenticated originals (i.e. GSUs) of the ST Report
(AF-led courses) as prescribed by Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) on the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).
13.1.2. If requested, provide ST Reports to officers going to follow-on training.
13.1.2.1. Deleted.
13.1.2.2. Deleted.
13.1.2.3. Deleted.
13.1.3. Validation Process (Contingent upon implementation).
13.1.3.1. (Added) Replaces the hard-copy signature, hand-carried process upon implementation.
13.1.3.2. (Added) Hard copy storage/archival process ceases the beginning of the first new FY
following implementation.
13.1.3.3. (Added) To be completed within 7-duty days of class graduation or entry of a terminal
event which ever event occurs first.
13.1.3.4 (Added) For NPS IST courses, Flight Chief level or above validates the terminal events
after thorough review of the ST Report coordinated through internal processes.
13.1.3.5.(Added) For other than NPS IST courses, a primary instructor or a DGR appointed to
validate the accuracy of terminal events and related training history (internal processes) validates the
terminal event(s) after a thorough review of individual ST Reports or the Multiple Student Record
View (validation by PDS Class is permissible).
13.1.3.6.(Added) Maintenance and archival of ST Reports and Student Accounting and Attendance
Reports will be completed through the validation of terminal events and related status history within
the TTMS beginning the first new FY following implementation of the validation process. Until
then, the RFP hand-carries the signed or validated report or e-mails as a PDF file to the Registrar
Section within 7 duty days of class graduation and or validation upon implementation of the
validation process. The Registrar Section archives signed authenticated originals or official copies as
prescribed by the Air Force RDS on the Air Force AFRIMS.
18.1. From Requirements to Resources. Reference AFI 36-2616, Technical Training
Requirements Programs (Officer and Enlisted) for a comprehensive list of roles and
responsibilities. The execution year quota management (QM) authority for AF provided training
is delegated to 2 AF/TTOC.
18.2. Program Requirements Documents/Program Guidance Letters (PRDs/PGLs). The
official tasking documents which enable AETC planners and programmers to identify and
acquire necessary resources to meet training requirements. The primary data sources for
PRD/PGL development are: AF/A1P’s Annual Data Call, Air Force Personnel Center’s (AFPC)
and AF/A1P’s Officer Sustainment and Distribution Model, AF/A1P’s Enlisted Sustainment
Model, and the projected FY Enlisted Retraining Programs. See AFI 36-2616 for the different
types of PRDs/PGLs which impact technical training. The primary differences between PRDs
and PGLs are relative to their position on the PPBE timeline. The PRD is earlier in the planning
process before A1P vets requirements to the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) while the
PGL represents the document after vetting through the AFCS. These documents (and changes to
these documents) are directly impacted by strategic level changes to: accessions, AFSC
sustainment, retention rates, AF end-strength, technical training planning and resource
assessments. HAF/A1P and HAF/A1M release the AETC tasking and resourcing documents
(PRD/PGL) to HQ AETC/A2/3/10 for HQ AETC/A3P and HQ AETC/A3R review and action.
In addition, recent AF decisions (i.e. Force Re-Shaping in FY04, AF over end-strength in FY05
and AF21 Transformation and ongoing AF Force Restructure issues) have driven ongoing budget
and execution training requirement changes to the Active Duty Air Force EIS/OIS/MRT PGLs.
18.2.1. Program Requirements Document (PRD). See AFI 36-2616. The PRD identifies
“unconstrained” accession and technical training requirements.
18.2.2. Program Guidance Letter (PGL). See AFI 36-2616. The PGL represents “constrained”
accession and training requirements.
18.2.3. Accession Constraints (Reconciling Accession and EIS PGLs). See AFI 36-2616 for
roles and responsibilities.
Table 18.1. Deleted.
18.3. PGL Requirements. See AFI 36-2616 for roles, responsibilities, programs and users.
Table 18.2. Deleted.
18.7. The Training Flow Management Working Group (TFM-WG). The TFM-WG is
scheduled annually to discuss the enlisted initial skills requirements. The conference focuses on
finalization of user enlisted training requirements. See AFI 36-2616 for its organization.
18.7.1. Course capacity, constraints, and shortfalls are identified and addressed. In preparation
for the TFM-WG and where final user requirements exceed course capacity, 2 AF units submit
draft constraint worksheets and BBPs through the schoolhouse’s appropriate squadron, group
and wing to 2 AF/TTOC who will post draft constraint worksheets to the EIS SharePoint three
working days prior to the first pre-TFM-WG VTC. Other organizations post constraint
worksheets directly to the EIS SharePoint. The constraint worksheets and BBPs may need to be
updated throughout the TFM-WG process as requirements fluctuate and are solidified.
18.7.2. When training requirements increase from FY to FY, 2 AF units submit draft Additional
Instructor Requirement Worksheets (AIRWs) through the schoolhouse’s appropriate squadron,
group and wing, to 2 AF/TTOC who will post draft AIRWs to the EIS SharePoint three working
days prior to the first pre-TFM-WG VTC. Other organizations post AIRWs directly to the EIS
SharePoint.
18.7.3. Following the TFM-WG, the Air Staff publishes the EIS PGL and AETC prepares a PTT.
AETC will send a staff package requesting operational assessment, to include validated
constraints and additional instructor requirements. By exception, submit new AIRWs to
AETC/A3P where changes to requirements drive concerns about overcoming instructor
shortfalls. For 2 AF schoolhouses, the 2 AF/CC confirms constrained courses, current
schoolhouse capacity and the resources/cost required to unconstrain the course. For
schoolhouses outside 2 AF, submit responses directly to AETC/A3P.
Table 18.3. Deleted.
18.7.4. Senior Level Review. Following the TFM-WG and publication of the EIS PGL
(targeted for Nov-Dec timeframe), senior leaders from AETC/A2/3/10-TT and 2 AF/CC and 2
AF/CV will confirm EIS requirements, constraints, and additional instructor prioritization for
early fills.
18.8. The Officer Accession Working Group (OA-WG). The OA-WG is scheduled annually
to discuss the officer initial skills requirements. The conference focuses first on finalization of
Sources of Commission (SOCs) accession targets, followed by officer training requirements
from other users, including Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, internationals and civilians.
See AFI 36-2616 for OA-WG organization.
18.8.1. Course capacity, constraints, and shortfalls are identified and addressed. In preparation
for the OA-WG and where final user requirements exceed course capacity, 2 AF units submit
draft constraint worksheets and BBPs through the schoolhouse’s appropriate squadron, group
and wing, to 2 AF/TTOC who will post draft constraint worksheets to the OIS SharePoint three
working days prior to the OA-WG. Other organizations post constraint worksheets directly to
the OIS SharePoint. The constraint worksheets and BBPs may need to be updated throughout
the OA-WG process as requirements fluctuate and are solidified.
18.8.2. When training requirements increase from FY to FY, 2 AF units submit draft AIRWs
through the schoolhouse’s appropriate squadron, group and wing, to 2 AF/TTOC who will post
draft AIRWs to the OIS SharePoint three working days prior to the OA-WG. Other
organizations post AIRWs directly to the OIS SharePoint.
18.8.3. Following the OA-WG, the Air Staff publishes the OIS PGL and AETC prepares a PTT.
AETC will send a staff package requesting operational assessment, to include validated
constraints and additional instructor requirements. By exception, submit new AIRWs through 2
AF/TTOC to AETC/A3P where changes to requirements drive concerns about overcoming
instructor shortfalls. For 2 AF schoolhouses, the 2 AF/CC confirms constrained courses, current
schoolhouse capacity and the resources/cost required to unconstrain the course. For
schoolhouses outside 2 AF, submit responses directly to AETC/A3P.
Table 18.4. Delete
18.9. Training Planning Cycle/Data Call as Related to MRTP process. The AF/A1PT data
call is a critical point triggering a data gathering point for all out-year Technical Training
requirements. See AFI 36-2616 for data call details and Mission Readiness Training Program
Working Group (MRTP-WG) organization.
18.9.2. AETC/A3P schedules the MRTP-WG annually to discuss supplemental training
requirements, including Type 6 Training.
Table 18.5. Delete
18.10.5. Quota Management (QM). QM is the operation of swapping or moving scheduled quotas
between non-ADAF users or requesting use of another non-ADAF training user’s future scheduled
unfilled seats. AF customers manage quotas during the execution year to ensure the most efficient
use of training resources. The execution year quota management (QM) authority for AF provided
training is delegated to 2 AF/TTOC. The QM authority (2 AF/TTOC) requires properly completed
forms for quota movements and out-of-cycles promoting a QM discipline among AF customers and
reducing risks of erroneous or unintended actions. All TRQIs are eligible to make quota management
requests except for Active Duty TRQIs (ADAF NPS, ADAF PS and ADAF RET). The QM authority
may reallocate scheduled training quotas after coordination with the TM for the following resource
categories in the execution year: Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, Sister Services,
Internationals and Civilians. TRQI managers may request QM actions (except for Active Duty
TRQIs) to the QM authority using the prescribed worksheets. The QM authority and the affected
TM will coordinate on each request. If requests involve adds/increases to the schedule outside the
definition of QM use process steps (2-8) in Table 18.6.
Table 25.1. HQ AETC/A3P Metric Responsibilities.
     Role/Responsibility (HQ AETC/A3P Metric Responsibilities)
1 Publishes monthly TTPA-F forecast for Predicted-Production metrics monitoring initial skills
  formal training to stay on top of command strategic goals. Metrics will include, but are not
  limited to historical entry, elimination and graduation rates in conjunction with execution
  data with an emphasis on pipeline visibility of the entire Training Enterprise to include
  agencies/commands outside of AETC.
2 Deleted.
3    Provides strategic oversight for all enlisted and officer initial skills training production and
     management.
4    Publishes monthly metrics monitoring initial skills formal training to stay on top of command
     strategic goals. Metrics will include forecast and execution information with an emphasis on
     pipeline visibility of the entire Training Enterprise including agencies/commands outside of
     AETC. Data trends, if applicable, that affect AETC’s strategic vision will be analyzed and
     compiled into a comprehensive report then provided to the appropriate agency/NAF for
     action.
5    Ensures data is available to provide periodic and end of fiscal year reports not later than 15
     November of each year. The standard reports are available from ADSS.
6    Deleted.
7    Prepare Programmed Elimination Annual Report and coordinate with 2 AF and other
     agencies
8    Coordinate with other outside AETC agencies for data, develop and submit annul
     Institutional Training Readiness Report (ITRR) to Air Staff/OSD no later than 15 February
     of each year. Data collection will be extracted from several different Air Force computer
     systems.
9    Coordinate with other outside AETC agencies for data, develop and submit semi-annual
     Budget Justification Book (J-Books) Report to HAF/A1PT no later than 30 June and 31
     December of each year. Data collection will be extracted from several different computer
     systems.
10   Provide annual and requested BMT/Technical Training Data Reports for AF Airman
     Magazine, AETC staff agencies and other Air Force agencies requesting data from A3PS.
     Data collection will be extracted from AETC Decision Support System (ADSS).
11   Provides oversight of BMT/Technical Training Computer Systems data integrity issues; A3P
     will identify data inaccuracies within TTMS and OTA affecting student management and
     overall accountability. A3P will create a monthly data integrity report and distribute to
     appropriate NAF/agency for action.
Table 25.2. 2 AF Metric Responsibilities.
    Role/Responsibility
1 Provides oversight of each training group’s student management practices.
*2 Submits Elimination Rates for out years to TRW/TRG TMs for validation. 2 AF approves
    the PERs and submits to AETC/A3PZ with rationale for adjusting the PER up or down.
3 Requests each training base designate a representative to provide metric inputs on an as-
    requested basis.
4 Monitors actual course washback and elimination rate metrics monthly.
5 Will extract data from several Air Force computer systems quarterly for the entire Initial
   Skills Training Enterprise to include 2AF, USAFSAM and other agencies inside and outside
   of AETC to compile into the 2 AF Quarterly Production Briefing for AETC/CC.
*6 Deleted

Table 25.3. Training Manager Metric Responsibilities with TRW/TRG Accountability.
   Role/Responsibility with Respect to PERs (Training Manager Metric Responsibilities)
*1 Check on a quarterly basis when actual course elimination rates vary from the current
   ADSS PER plus or minus 2% or when actual washback rates are greater than 20% or vary
   from the previous FY washback rates plus or minus 5%.
*2 Validate programmed elimination/washback rates resulting from 2 AF/TTOC tasker prior
   to the Training Flow Management Working Group (TFM-WG).
*3 On all applicable initial skills courses, the TM will monitor washback and elimination rates
   quarterly. The TRW/TRG will provide written analysis and proposed action plans in a
   semiannual report in either of the following situations: (1) When an actual course
   elimination rate varies from the approved PER from ADSS plus or minus 2% based on the
   ADSS report titled “rptFYPER_vs_Actual” or (2) when actual washback rates (at 6 month
   and 12 month mark of the current FY) are greater than 20% or vary from the previous FY
   washback rates plus or minus 5%. The report for the first two quarters of the FY is due to 2
   AF/TTOC by 30 Apr and the report for the last two quarters of the FY by 30 Oct. Copy the
   HQ AETC/A3P Workflow on the reports. Assessment will include a quality check on how
   instruction including instructional materials, techniques, strategies, PCs and tests may be
   contributing to the variation. Course owners conduct the quality check to analyze potential
   course changes to bring the elimination and or washback rates down or document any
   techniques or processes that may be successfully bringing the rates down. The TRG
   submits written analysis including a proposed action plan to 2 AF (if applicable) based on
   findings. The TRW/TRG implements an action plan (when applicable) based on analysis.
   If no action plan is included, submit the rationale for not including one as part of the
   written analysis. If a washback rate remains historically high resulting in pipeline flow
   issues and the TRG has implemented all known corrective steps, calculate the Expected
   Group Size Difference (EGSD) according to AETCI 38-202, Education And Technical
   Training Manpower, to create a slight differential between the programmed group size and
   the max class size to create a class buffer for efficient pipeline flow. Submit an abbreviated
   training plan (ATP) to gain approval for the differential, if applicable.
Table 25.6. 2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to TT (Initial Skills).
    Category Measure                                                                 Period
             Note: Analyze all metrics based on their relative positive or
             negative impact to Balanced Scorecard organizational goals at
             every level. Set objectives and adjust them as necessary to meet
             organizational goals.
1   TT       ZPs Filled: Number of TT Arrivals per Requirements (Reqs),              Week
             pulled from COGNOS (ZP).
2   TT       Number of TT Reclass students the 2 AF/TTOC Det 1                       Week
             suballocates into a class.
3   TT       (Beginning of FY-to-date) Entry Fill Rate based on Accession            Week
             Plan Reqs & Actual Entries in TTMS Course of Initial Entry
             (COIE) status code ET#.
4   TT       Pipeline Flow Utilization Rate per AFSC/shred: The actual time in       Month
             training days plus standard travel it takes for student to finish the
             pipeline to grad the AFSC awarding course / the ideal time in
             training days plus standard travel it takes for grads to flow through
             the pipeline (course length plus standard accepted travel time
             between courses). 2 AF analyzes the pipeline and works issues
             with impacted TRGs. Drill down issues may include adjustments
             in the management of SNIT time including SAT, SOT, and IIT.
             TRGs will recommend action plans and/or submit to 2 AF
             downward-directed action plans that result from analysis of
             unacceptable pipeline utilization rates.
    Category Measure                                                           Period
             Note: Analyze all metrics based on their relative positive or
             negative impact to Balanced Scorecard organizational goals at
             every level. Set objectives and adjust them as necessary to meet
             organizational goals.
*5 Training Washback rates by calculating the ratio of washbacks (W##) to the Quarter
             original entries (ET#, EE#) plus gains (EV#, EN#) minus losses
             (V##, T##) for completed classes. A transfer is defined as a
             student who transfers from one course to another or one shred to
             another. This measure is based on completed classes and a
             washback date occurring in the applicable FY. Calculate the rate
             both at the course level and for ADAF NPS students.

              Actual Washbacks (W##) (For Completed Classes)
              Original entries + gains (EV#, EW#) – losses (V##, T##, W##,
              R##)

                 Original Entries    Actual Gains           Actual Losses
                 Entries from        Entries from           Actual Washbacks
                 Transfer (EN#)      Washback (EW#)         (W##)
                 Initial Entries     Entries from           Actual
                 into Training       Advancements           Advancements
                 (ET#)               (EV#)                  (V##)
                 Entries from                               Actual Transfers
                 Elimination                                (T##)
                 (EE#)
                                                            Actual Recalls
                                                            (R##)
6 Graduate    Initial skills enlisted and officer graduate rates by calculating the Month
              ratio of graduates to the adjusted baseline as reflected by the TPR
              adjusted programmed graduates (minus programmed elimination)
              for the month and year to date for completed classes. Graduation
              rates are measured for time periods (months) at the course level by
              TRQI.
              Where AJB = the total Adjusted Baseline Trained Personnel
              Requirements to date
              Graduation Rate = Total G## events FY-to-date
                                     AJB – (PER *AJB)

GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 36-2616, Technical Training Requirements Programs (Officer and Enlisted), 24 April 2013
AETCI 36-2208, Technical And Basic Military Training Interactive Multimedia Instruction
(IMI) and Distance Learning (DL), 6 April 2011
AFPCI 36-112, Line Officer Initial Skill Training Reclassification Procedures, 13 April 2010

Adopted Forms

AETC Form 126G, Record of Commander's Review Action(Graduate Flying Training)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager
DLIFLC—Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center
MRTP-WG—MRTP Working Group
OA-WG—Officer Accession Working Group
TFM-WG—Training Flow Management Working Group
TRAP—Training Requirements Arbitration Panel
Terms

DLI Bypass—Individuals who are accepted into Cryptologic Analyst career fields based upon
existing, testable language skills in languages for which there is a defined operational
requirement. Individuals accepted with pre-existing language skills may be authorized to by-
pass official, initial acquisition language training and proceed directly to cryptologic training at
Goodfellow AFB with Career Field
Relanguage—Formal acquisition-level language training that provides 1N3X1/1A8X1 Airmen
who already hold the AFSC with an additional language capability. It should be used to meet AF
mission requirements by deliberately developing a cadre of language professionals equipped
with the requisite skills to accomplish the mission. Relanguaging normally occurs when
members are unable to be utilized in their existing language(s) or additional language skill is
required to complement existing skills.
Training Flow Management Working Group (TFM-WG)—Annual working group focusing
on the finalization of user enlisted training requirements considering AF requirements while
addressing accounting for course capacity, constraints and shortfalls.
Table A4.1. Some Key Student Management Reports and Forms Summary Table.
A4-Form serves when               Where TTMS Is                      Audience / Use
TTMS does not have a              Operational
Report or as a backup when
TTMS is not Operational
AETC Form 62, Absentee            Absences are recorded in the    Form for all types of training
Report                            system, but no parallel form or where attendance is measured
                                  report is generated in TTMS.    at a physical location: Tracks
                                                                  absence record where TTMS
A4-Form serves when               Where TTMS Is                     Audience / Use
TTMS does not have a              Operational
Report or as a backup when
TTMS is not Operational
                                                                    is not operational or where
                                                                    backup is needed.
AETC Form 125, Record of          Counselings and Eliminations      Form used in relationship to
Faculty Board Action,             are recorded in the system, but   elimination or pending
(original for records)            no parallel form or report is     elimination when a faculty
                                  generated in TTMS.                board action is used as a
                                                                    means of gaining information.
AETC Form 125A, Record of         Counselings and Eliminations      Form used in relationship to
Administrative Training           are recorded in the system, but   elimination from Tech
Action, (original or digitally-   no parallel form or report is     Training Courses (AETC
signed copy for records)          generated in TTMS.                Form 325 serves as sufficient
                                                                    documentation for Type 6 DL
                                                                    non-centrally managed and
                                                                    Type 4 courses).
*AETC Form 156, Student           Student Training Report is a    Initial Skills Courses
Record of Training, (original     parallel report generated in    (Prerequisite and AFSC
or properly signed copy [PDF,     TTMS and is used instead of     Awarding) – Use the Form
FAX] for records)                 the form where TTMS is          only where TTMS is not
                                  available and operational.      operational or where a user
*Upon implementation of the
validation process in TTMS,       (original, properly signed copy requires a backup form.
original or properly signed       [PDF, FAX] or digitally         Either the TTMS Student
                                                                  Training Report or the AETC
copy [PDF, FAX] for records       signed copy for records.)
will be superseded by                                             Form 156 is always used for
                                  *Upon implementation of the the international student’s
validated TTMS terminal           validation process, original or course report. Long term
events. The AETC Form 156         properly signed copy [PDF,      storage of this report is not
will only be valid as a backup    FAX] for records will be        required when other
should systems be down or         superseded by validated         service/agency leads, owns
unavailable for an extended       TTMS terminal events.           and conducts the training and
period of time.
                                                                  the other service/agency
                                                                  storage of their service unique
                                                                  form or report meets or
                                                                  exceeds the AF Record
                                                                  Disposition Schedule. *Upon
                                                                  implementation of the
                                                                  validation process, original or
                                                                  properly signed copy [PDF,
                                                                  FAX] for records will be
                                                                  superseded by validated
A4-Form serves when               Where TTMS Is                     Audience / Use
TTMS does not have a              Operational
Report or as a backup when
TTMS is not Operational
                                                                    TTMS terminal events. Note:
                                                                    other service/agency training
                                                                    terminal events must be
                                                                    validated in TTMS, but the
                                                                    other/service agency is the
                                                                    verifier of training.
AETC Form 173, Student            Counselings and Eliminations      Form used when a formal
Record of Academic/               are recorded in the system, but   counseling takes place on any
Nonacademic Counseling and        no parallel form or report is     student. Use the AETC Form
Comments, or AF Form 174,         generated in TTMS. The            173 for academic counseling.
Record of Individual              Student Training Report           Use the AF Form 174 when
Counseling (Original for          generates the reason, date, and   counseling for misconduct or
schoolhouse record but copy       time of counseling along with     disciplinary reasons.
may go into elimination           any associated comments.
package exhibits)
*AETC Form 325, Student           Student Accounting and            Upon implementation of the
Accounting and Attendance         Attendance Report (Original,      validation process, the
Record, (Original, properly       properly signed copy [PDF,        requirement for this form and
signed copy [PDF, FAX]            FAX] or digitally signed copy     report will be mostly
                                  when digital signature            superseded through the
Upon implementation of the
                                  becomes available).               validation of terminal events
validation process in TTMS,
                                                                    within TTMS. Once the
original or properly signed
                                                                    validation process is
copy [PDF, FAX] for storage       Upon implementation of the        implemented, DL eliminations
and archival records will be      validation process in TTMS,       communicated through the
superseded by validated           original or properly signed       AETC Form 325 will have
TTMS terminal events. The         copy [PDF, FAX] for records       corresponding validated
AETC Form 325 could be            will be superseded by             terminal events with any
used as a backup should           validated TTMS terminal           necessary comments
systems be down or                events.                           associated with the training
unavailable for an extended
                                                                    history. AETC Form 325A
period of time. In addition, it
                                                                    may be used to communicate
may still be used to
                                                                    training entry, grades, and
communicate some distance
                                                                    course completion from a
learning or field training
                                                                    course at a location where
completions.
                                                                    TTMS is not available to
                                                                    responsible base and course
                                                                    personnel where TTMS is
                                                                    available - It serves as
                                                                    sufficient elimination
A4-Form serves when            Where TTMS Is                    Audience / Use
TTMS does not have a           Operational
Report or as a backup when
TTMS is not Operational
                                                                documentation for non-
                                                                centrally-managed Type 6 DL
                                                                and non-quota Type 4 courses
                                                                (that is Type 4 courses that do
                                                                not obtain OTA TLNs). The
                                                                TTMS Student Account and
                                                                Attendance Report or AETC
                                                                Form 325 with student’s name
                                                                lined out and associated
                                                                reason for elimination briefly
                                                                recorded serves as the
                                                                elimination documentation for
                                                                storage. Use the AETC Form
                                                                325 only where TTMS is not
                                                                operational or where a user
                                                                requires a backup form. Long
                                                                term storage of this report is
                                                                not required when other
                                                                service/agency leads, owns
                                                                and conducts the training and
                                                                the other service/agency
                                                                storage for the corresponding
                                                                service unique form or report
                                                                meets or exceeds the AF RDS.
AETC Form 498, AETC            Top Grads are recorded in the Form used for rewarding Top
Commander’s Award              system, but no parallel form or Graduates.
                               report is generated in TTMS
AETC Form 499,                 Distinguished Grads are          Form used for rewarding
Distinguished Graduate         recorded in the system, but no   Distinguished Graduates.
Certificate                    parallel form or report is
                               generated in TTMS
AETC Form 581, Student         Student Status Change Report     Use the TTMS Student Status
Status or Data Change Report                                    Change Report where TTMS
                                                                is available and operational.
                                                                Use AETC Form 581 only to
                                                                communicate changes in
                                                                student status from a location
                                                                where TTMS is not
                                                                operational or where backup is
A4-Form serves when                Where TTMS Is                   Audience / Use
TTMS does not have a               Operational
Report or as a backup when
TTMS is not Operational
                                                                   needed.
AF Form 475,                       N.A.                            Use the AF Form 475 to
Education/Training Report                                          document officer student
                                                                   performance for all training
                                                                   and education courses as
                                                                   detailed in AFI 36-2406. In
                                                                   addition, use it for enlisted
                                                                   student performance for each
                                                                   training course other than IST
                                                                   with a course length of 20
                                                                   weeks (140 calendar days) or
                                                                   longer. Exception: retrainees
                                                                   and prior service airmen in
                                                                   each IST course with a course
                                                                   length of 20 weeks or longer
                                                                   will receive a TR.
AF Form 1256, Certificate of       Grads are recorded in the       Present AF Form 1256,
Training                           system, but no parallel form or Certificate of Training, to
                                   report is generated in TTMS     each student for each course
                                                                   successfully completed.
                                                                   Include as a minimum:
                                                                   student’s name, course
                                                                   number and title, course
                                                                   length in hours, applicable
                                                                   CCAF credit, date of
                                                                   graduation, and signature or
                                                                   signature facsimile at the
                                                                   Course Manager level or
                                                                   above. List only one course
                                                                   on a certificate.
Lackland AFB Form 205,             No parallel form or report is   Form used as a complete
Basic Military Training Student    generated in TTMS               record of the BMT student and
Performance Summary                                                accompanies the BMT
                                                                   graduate to Tech School.

Table A7.2. Completing the back side of AETC Form 156.
A7-Block Title                    Instructions
Special Individual                Under Subject/Objective, enter paragraph numbers or subject
A7-Block Title              Instructions
Assistance (SIA)            from the POI. Under Hours, enter the hours to the nearest quarter
                            hour.
Absence Record              Enter the date the student was absent from class, number of
                            hours of instruction missed (to the nearest quarter hour), and
                            block number.
Class Changes               Enter the class number to which the student is assigned and the
                            date and reason of the class change.
*Remarks                    The primary instructor may enter remarks and his or her grade
                            and name. Remarks could contain student academic strengths
                            and weaknesses. Comments are inserted when substantive, but
                            canned or conventional statements are not necessary. For
                            additional space, use plain bond paper, and attach it to the AETC
                            Form 156. Standardize documentation for an Articles 15,
                            UCMJ. The instructor may note that a student received an
                            Article 15 UCMJ, but specific comments as to why, and
                            punishment received is prohibited. List RICs and LORs,
                            including the reason for them.
*Academic Certification     When the student graduates or is eliminated (and retraining is
Review                      recommended), the instructor supervisor ensures blocks 1
                            through 22 are complete and correct; and forwards the form to
                            the MTF within 2 workdays. A signature is not required in the
                            Academic certification block.
*Military Training          The responsible MTL completes blocks 23 and 24 (self-
Assessment/ Certification   explanatory) and enters comments in block 25 (optional). MTLs
                            complete a military training assessment of the report for AF NPS
                            students. Comments can be inserted when substantive, but
                            conventional or canned comments are not regarded as value-
                            added. There is no requirement for sister service NPS military
                            assessments on the ST Report. While it may be noted that a
                            student received punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, specific
                            comments are prohibited. Continue to list RICs and LORs,
                            including the reason for them. Forward the completed form to
                            the flight commander/chief within 2 workdays of receipt. The
                            MTL no longer needs to sign Block 26.
*Commander’s Review         The Flight Chief or above will sign the Student Training Report.
                            Internal procedures (e.g. signed e-mail) will be established to
                            ensure MTL, academic (instructor supervisor) and primary
                            instructor review and comments are all completed if applicable
                            before the signature. The signatory ensures the completed
                            authenticated original or an official copy of the form is delivered
                            to the registrar. Note: the single signature process is only
                            required as a backup should systems go down or be unavailable
                            for an extended period. Upon implementation of the validation
                            process in TTMS the standard practice will be the automated
                            system validation process.
Table A8.1. Student Entry Completion Instructions for populating TTMS Student
Administration Fields.
A8-Section         Auto   Instructions
Page 1
Student                   SSN, Last Name, First Name, Initial
Course Number
Class Id           Yes
Course Title       Yes
Course Chart       Yes
Hours
Total Student             The hours the student spends with the instructor.
Hours
Average Grade      Yes
Final Grade        Yes    Auto-populates the student reports. Instructions: The final course
                          grade automatically averages the percentage block grades or a
                          summary grade when S or U is used. Some courses require the
                          instructor to manually enter the final grade in the final event if the
                          course does not automatically average the block grades. Rationale:
                          If the user follows the instructions provided the grade will
                          overwrite the previously calculated average grade.
w/Honors           Yes    If applicable
Reason for Elim    Yes    If applicable
Elimination Date   Yes    If applicable
Original Class     Yes
Start
Current Class      Yes
Start
Graduation Date    Yes
Sex                Yes
Curr Gd            Yes
Travel Status      Yes
Command/OGA        Yes
Original Entry     Yes
Scty Clear         Yes
DOB                Yes
Training           Yes
Squadron
Current PAS        Yes
Projected PAS      Yes
Course DSN         Yes
Projected PAS      Yes
Guaranteed         Yes
AFSC
A8-Section          Auto   Instructions
Aptitude Scores     Yes
Admin               Yes
Mech                Yes
Gen                 Yes
Elect               Yes
AFQT                Yes
Education           Yes
ADP Apt             Yes
Academic                   Name, Grade, Title, and Signature – space reserved
Certification              signature/electronic signature block
Training            Yes
Squadron/Flt
DSN No.
Current Class       Yes
Number
Block No., Title,   Yes
Name of
Instructor
CC Trn Hours        Yes
Stu Trn Hours       No     Enter (to the nearest quarter hour) all training conducted in a
                           formal environment, including classroom/laboratory training, SIA,
                           supervised study, supplementary study for proficiency
                           advancement, and wash back time. Do not include military
                           training time.
PC/Test Grade       No     Progress checks are not normally entered into TTMS because they
                           are part of the teaching or learning activity. However, if
                           performance progress check is the means of measurement, enter
                           the grades in the same manner as performance tests. Students
                           cannot receive a grade for a block until all progress checks are
                           passed. Record performance and written test grades in TTMS.
                           Performance grades may either be a summary S or U or an average
                           percentage grade. When there is more than one written test in the
                           block, the written grade is an average. TTMS automatically
                           rounds percentage grades. The instructor records each test item in
                           TTMS with scores representing exactly what the student achieved
                           including test passes, test fails, retest passes, and retest failures.
Block Grade         No     Enter the block grade. This grade is the average of percentage
                           grades or may be an S or U when percentage grades are not used.
                           If the student fails a test and retests, the block grade will be the
                           minimum passing score.
Graduation Date     No     Enter the year-month-day the student graduated from the course
                           (for example, 20050316).
Elimination Date    No     Enter the year-month-day the student was removed from the
                           course as reported on an AETC Form 125 or 125A.
Reason for          Yes
A8-Section         Auto   Instructions
Elimination
(Disenrollment)
Transferred to     No     Using PCS orders, the instructor staff enters the complete mailing
                          address of a student’s gaining unit.
Total CC Hours     Yes
Total Student      Yes    These are the hours the student spends with the instructor.
Hours
DG/TG/N/A          No     Indicate DG or TG as applicable.
Final Grade        No     Enter the final course grade as an average of the percentage block
                          grades or a summary grade when S or U is used.
Special            Yes
Individual
Assistance (SIA)
Absence Record     No     Enter the date the student was absent from class, time to the
                          nearest quarter hour of instruction missed, and block number.
Class Changes      No     Enter the class number to which the student is assigned and the
                          date and reason of the class change.
*Remarks           No     The primary instructor enters remarks and his or her grade and
                          name. Remarks could contain student academic strengths and
                          weaknesses, for example. Comments can be inserted when
                          substantive, but canned or conventional statements are not
                          necessary. Standardize documentation for an Article 15, UCMJ.
                          The instructor may note that a student received an Article 15
                          UCMJ, but specific comments as to why, and punishment received
                          is prohibited. List RICs and LORs, including the reason for them.
*Academic          No     When the student graduates or is eliminated (and retraining is
Certification             recommended), the IS ensures data is entered in TTMS according
                          to internal procedures for single signature or the validation process
                          upon implementation.
*Military          No     The responsible MTL completes. MTLs complete a military
Training                  training assessment of the report for AF NPS students. Optional
Review and                comments can be inserted when substantive, but form or canned
Comments                  comments are not regarded as value-added. There is no
                          requirement for sister service NPS military assessments on the ST
                          Report. While it may be noted that a student received punishment
                          under Article 15, UCMJ, specific comments are prohibited.
                          Continue to list RICs and LORs, including the reason for them.
                          Confirm review or validation to the flight commander/chief within
                          2 workdays of receipt. The MTL no longer needs to sign only
                          confirm review and assessment are complete according to internal
                          procedures of the single signature process or the validation process
                          upon implementation.
*Primary           No     The primary instructor no longer needs to sign only confirm
Instructor                review is complete according to internal procedures of the single
Review and                signature process or validation process upon implementation.
A8-Section         Auto      Instructions
Comments                     Optional comments can be inserted when substantive, but form or
                             canned comments are not regarded as value-added.
*Commander’s       No        The Flight Chief or above will sign the Student Training Report.
Review                       Internal procedures (e.g. signed e-mail) will be established to
                             ensure MTL, academic (instructor supervisor) and primary
                             instructor review and comments are all completed before the
                             signature. The signatory ensures the completed authenticated
                             original or an official copy of the form is delivered to the registrar.
                             The validation process supersedes the signature process upon
                             implementation.


Table A9.1. Instructions for Filling in the Front of AETC Form 325.
 A9-Block Title                  Instructions
 Training Organization and       When used for contract training, list the company name and
 Location                        training address. Otherwise, list training organization and
                                 base.
 Contract No                     For contract training only, list full contract number. Multiple
                                 lines within the block are acceptable.
 Monitoring Training Wing        The training wing responsible for managing the training.
 Type of Report                  Self-explanatory.
 Start, Graduation, and Report Self-explanatory.
 Dates
 Numbers 1 thru 24               Student tracking numbers for information on form (duplicated
                                 on the back of the form). Keep the same name with the same
                                 number throughout the form.
 Initials                        Place for the student to initial the form on the first class day to
                                 verify name, grade, and SSN.
 Name of Student                 Last, first, and middle initial (MI) in alphabetical order by last
                                 name.
 Grade                           Military or civilian grade.
 SSN                             For international students, use tracking number beginning
                                 with country code.
 Mil Status                      Military status (active duty, ANG, USA, etc.) as reflected on
                                 travel orders.
 Travel Status                   TDY, non-TDY, or PCS.
A9-Block Title       Instructions
TRQI                 (Training requester quota identifier) The training requester
                     (AJ10, CC20, etc.) in OTA edits tables. Squadrons will
                     ensure contract training and training conducted at other
                     locations contain the appropriate TRQI.
Block Grades         The grade the student receives for each block of instruction in
                     a course. May be for written or practical measurements. If
                     there is insufficient space on the front of the form, use blocks
                     on the back, or an additional form. Note: When students fail
                     block tests but pass retests, list the minimum passing score in
                     the appropriate block. (Use S or U where percentage grades
                     are not used.)
Final Grade          Student’s overall course grade. Average all prior course
                     measurements and round to the nearest whole number. (Use S
                     or U where percentage grades are not used.)
Course Number        Standard course number showing wing, training type,
                     residence value, AFSC, and course series number.
PDS Code             A three-character alphanumeric code referenced in the PDS.
Short Title          Enter the full course title if it fits. Otherwise, enter an
                     abbreviated title to identify the specific course. Multiple lines
                     within the block are acceptable.
Program Crs Length   The course length (in academic days or hours) as found in
                     ETCA, the course chart, or an authorized source listing.
Actual Length        Actual number of training days or hours required to teach this
                     particular class. For self-paced courses, enter the actual days
                     or hours required to teach the student with the most class
                     hours. Do not include SIA time.
Wing TM Code         Training manager for the course which is a two-character
                     alphanumeric value found in the OTA course area.
Program Manager      AETC program manager for the course. Available from OTA
                     edit tables or from 2 AF/TTOC-P.
 A9-Block Title              Instructions
 *Certified Accurate         The Primary instructor or a Designated Group Representative
                             (DGR) appointed to certify the Student Accounting and
                             Attendance Report as accurate will sign the Student
                             Accounting and Attendance Report. Upon implementation of
                             the validation process, a primary instructor or a Designated
                             Group Representative (DGR) appointed to validate the
                             accuracy of terminal events and related training history
                             (internal processes) validates the terminal event(s) after a
                             thorough review of individual ST Reports or the Multiple
                             Student Record View (validation by PDS Class is
                             permissible). Exception: AETC Form 325 may still be
                             necessary in a digital or hard copy format to communicate
                             proctored distance learning test results or in some other
                             distance learning applications where TTMS is not available.
 *Certified to OTA           Registrars review, but only the “certified accurate” signature
                             is required until the validation process supersedes the entire
                             signature process.

Table A16.1. EIS Instructions For Constraint Worksheet.
A16.1. BLOCK TITLE          INSTRUCTIONS
AFSC                        Enter the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) as found in the
                            Enlisted Initial Skills (EIS) Program Guidance Letter (PGL) or
                            Program Requirements Document (PRD).
                            Example: Security Forces would be entered on the Constraint
                            Worksheet as "3P031."
GROUP                       Enter the training group responsible for the course.
                            Example: "37 TRG"
BASE                        Enter the training location/base responsible for the course.
                            Example: "Lackland AFB"
COURSE NUMBER               Enter the AETC-approved course number as indicated in the
                            Training Planning System (TPS).
                            Example: "L3ABR3P031 0S1B"
COURSE TITLE                Enter the AETC-approved course title as indicated in the
                            Training Planning System (TPS).
                            Example: "Security Forces Apprentice Course"
COURSE LENGTH -             Enter the number of training days.
DAYS                        Example: "72"
PROGRAMMED                  Enter the approved programmed course non-prior service (NPS)
ELIMINATION RATE            elimination rate as a decimal number.
                            Example: NPS elimination rate of eleven percent would be
                            entered as ".11" and elimination rate of zero percent would be
                            entered as ".00" on the Constraint Worksheet.
A16.1. BLOCK TITLE       INSTRUCTIONS
*ADAF NPS (AJ10, AJ30)   Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the unconstrained Active
                         Duty Air Force (ADAF) Non-prior Service (NPS) production
                         requirement for each year. If the course is the Course Of Initial
                         Entry (COIE) and not the skill-awarding course, enter the
                         number of NPS Entries required from the follow-on course on
                         the Constraint Worksheet.
                         Note: May use the Programmed Tech Training to calculate the
                         NPS Entries from skill-awarding course/production from Course
                         Of Initial Entry (COIE). Ensure that the NPS production
                         requirement is entered into the AFSC Lookup worksheet tab
                         (automatically updates on appropriate worksheet tab) and the
                         Approved Programmed Attrition Rate is entered into the
                         appropriate worksheet tab.
Elim Rate Factor         The worksheet will automatically calculate this number.
NPS Entries Required     The worksheet will automatically calculate this number.
ADAF PS(AJ1K)            Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Prior
                         Service (PS) requirement for each year.
ADAF RET (AJ1J)          Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Retrainee
                         (RET) training requirement for each year.
*Subtotal ADAF Grads     The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                         adding ADAF NPS (AJ10, AJ30), ADAF PS, and ADAF RET
                         graduate requirements.
Subtotal ADAF Entries    The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                         adding NPS Entries Required, ADAF PS, and ADAF RET.
ANG NPS                  Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                         National Guard (ANG) Nonprior Service (NPS) requirements for
                         each year.
ANG PS                   Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                         National Guard (ANG) Prior Service (PS) requirements for each
                         year.
RES NPS                  Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                         Reserve (RES) Nonprior Service (NPS) requirements for each
                         year.
RES PS                   Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                         Reserve (RES) Prior Service (PS) requirements for each year.
RES IMA                  Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                         Reserve (RES) Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)
                         requirements for each year.
RES ART                  Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                         Reserve (RES) Air Reserve Technician (ART) requirements for
                         each year.
USA                      Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US Army
                         Active Duty (USA) requirements for each year.
A16.1. BLOCK TITLE       INSTRUCTIONS
AGD                      Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US Army
                         Guard (AGD) requirements for each year.
ARES                     Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US Army
                         Reserve (ARES) requirements for each year.
NAVY                     Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US Navy
                         requirements for each year.
MC                       Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US
                         Marine Corps (MC) requirements for each year.
CG                       Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US Coast
                         Guard (CG) requirements for each year.
AFSAT (MX20)             Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained
                         International or MX20 (AFSAT) requirements for each year
OFCR                     Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Officer
                         (OFCR) requirements for each year. It is rare, but occasionally
                         we do have officer students who attend EIS pipeline training
                         courses.
AF PAQ                   Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained AF
                         Palace Acquire Intern (AF PAQ) civilian training requirements
                         for each year
CIV                      Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Civilian
                         (CIV) requirements for each year
Subtotal Other Entries   Worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding
                         the following:

                         Air National Guard Nonprior Service (ANG NPS)
                         Air National Guard Prior Service (ANG PS)
                         AF Reserve Nonprior Service (RES NPS)
                         AF Reserve Prior Service (RES PS)
                         AF Reserve Individual Mobilization Augmentee (RES IMA)
                         AF Reserve Air Reserve Technician (RES ART)
                         Active Duty Army (USA)
                         Army Guard (AGD)
                         Army Reserve (ARES)
                         Navy (NAVY)
                         Marine Corps (MC)
                         Coast Guard (CG)
                         Internationals (AFSAT)
                         Officers (OFCR)
                         Palace Acquire Interns (AF PAQ)
                         Civilian Employees (CIV)
A16.1. BLOCK TITLE          INSTRUCTIONS
(Adjusted) Subtotal Other   International (AFSAT - MX20) requirements are not constrained.
Entries                     The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                            subtracting International (AFSAT - MX20) from Subtotal Other
                            Entries, thereby adjusting the total to remove Internationals from
                            the constraint.
Total Entries               Worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding
                            the following entries:

                            Active Duty Air Force Nonprior Service (ADAF NPS)
                            Active Duty Air Force Prior Service (ADAF PS)
                            Active Duty Air Force Retrainees (ADAF RET)
                            Air National Guard Nonprior Service (ANG NPS)
                            Air National Guard Prior Service (ANG PS)
                            AF Reserve Nonprior Service (RES NPS)
                            AF Reserve Prior Service (RES PS)
                            AF Reserve Individual Mobilization Augmentee (RES IMA)
                            AF Reserve Air Reserve Technician (RES ART)
                            Active Duty Army (USA)
                            Army Guard (AGD)
                            Army Reserve (ARES)
                            Navy (NAVY)
                            Marine Corps (MC)
                            Coast Guard (CG)
                            Internationals (AFSAT)
                            Officers (OFCR)
                            Palace Acquire Interns (AF PAQ)
                            Civilian Employees (CIV)
(Adjusted) Total Entries    International (AFSAT - MX20) requirements are not constrained.
                            The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                            subtracting International (AFSAT - MX20) from Total Entries,
                            thereby adjusting the total to remove Internationals from the
                            constraint.
Max Capacity                Enter the maximum number of student entries for one FY.
                            Example: Single aircraft allows only 72 trainees to enter the
                            course each year. Enter "72" on the Constraint Worksheet.
Limiting Factors            Select "YES" or "NO" for each of the four limiting factors
(LIMFACs)                   [LIMFAC(s)] on the constraint worksheet as applicable.
Describe Constraint         Briefly describe the course constraint. Provide detailed
                            information in attached bullet background paper (BBP).
                            Address, as a minimum, each LIMFAC marked "YES."
Proposed Resolution         Briefly list the steps required to remove the constraint. Provide
(Actions Required to Fix    detailed information in an attached BBP.
Constraint)
 A16.1. BLOCK TITLE         INSTRUCTIONS
 Get Well Date              Based on actions already underway, enter the month and year
                            when the constraint will be resolved. If no resolution is in sight,
                            enter "TBD."
 Remarks (Impact)           Briefly describe the impact of underproduction in this AFSC.
                            Provide detailed information in attached BBP. This information
                            will be used to justify resource requests.
 Point of Contact           Enter the name, rank/grade, office symbol, and DSN phone
                            number of the Constraint Worksheet POC.
 Date                       Enter the date the worksheet was last updated.

Table A17.1. Instructions for Constraint Worksheet – OIS.
A17.1. BLOCK TITLE   INSTRUCTIONS
AFSC                 Enter the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) as found in the Officer
                     Initial Skills (OIS) Program Guidance Letter (PGL) or Program
                     Requirements Document (PRD).
                     Example: Airfield Operations would be entered on the Constraint
                     Worksheet as "13M1."
TRAINING GROUP / ORG Enter the training group responsible for the course.
                     Example: "37 TRG"
BASE                 Enter the training location/base responsible for the course.
                     Example: "Lackland AFB"
COURSE NUMBER        Enter the AETC-approved course number as indicated in the
                     Training Planning System (TPS).
                     Example: "E3OBR13M1 00MC"
COURSE TITLE         Enter the AETC-approved course title as indicated in the Training
                     Planning System (TPS).
                     Example: "Airfield Operations Officer"
COURSE LENGTH -      Enter the number of training days.
DAYS                 Example: "76"
ACCESSIONS           Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Active Duty
                     Air Force Total Accessions (AM10) to be trained for the fiscal year
                     via Initial Skills Training (IST). Represents commissioned officers
                     from ROTC, OTS, or USAFA attending IST; which is the sum of
                     AM10 Carryovers + OPEX + New AM10s from the PGL or PRD.
CROSSFLOWS           Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Active Duty
                     Air Force Crossflow (AM11) training requirements for each year
                     (based on crossflow boards, represents officers retraining from one
                     AFSC into another).
Subtotal ADAF Grads  The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding
                     ADAF Accessions and Crossflows.
A17.1. BLOCK TITLE       INSTRUCTIONS
Subtotal ADAF Entries    The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding
                         ADAF Accessions and Crossflows. For OIS, grads and entries are
                         equal, because we currently do not utilize programmed elimination
                         rates.
ANG NON-FLY              Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                         National Guard (ANG) Non-flying (CC10) AFSC training
                         requirements for each year.
ANG FLY                  Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                         National Guard (ANG) Flying (CNN0) AFSC training requirements
                         for each year.
RES                      Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                         Reserve Command (RES) requirements for each year.
RES IMA                  Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                         Reserve (RES) Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)
                         requirements for each year.
RES ART                  Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                         Reserve (RES) Air Reserve Technician (ART) requirements for
                         each year.
AFSAT (MX20)             Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained
                         International or MX20 (AFSAT) requirements for each year
*CRO/STO                 Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained CRO / STO
                         requirements for each year. Combat Rescue Officers & Special
                         Tactics Officers are managed through their pipelines with Active
                         TRQIs (AM10 and AM11) and AF component
                         TRQIs (CNN0/CC10 - Guard, RR10 - Reserve).
AF PAQ                   Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained AF Palace
                         Acquire Intern (AF PAQ) civilian training requirements for each
                         year
CIV                      Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Civilian
                         (CIV) requirements for each year
Subtotal Other Entries   Worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding the
                         following:

                         Air National Guard Non-Fly (ANG NON-FLY – CC10)
                         Air National Guard Fly (ANG FLY – CNN0)
                         AF Reserve Command (RES)
                         AF Reserve Individual Mobilization Augmentee (RES IMA)
                         AF Reserve Air Reserve Technician (RES ART)
                         Internationals (AFSAT)
                         Officers (OFCR)
                         Palace Acquire Interns (AF PAQ)
                         Civilian Employees (CIV)
A17.1. BLOCK TITLE          INSTRUCTIONS
(Adjusted) Subtotal Other   International (AFSAT - MX20) requirements are not constrained.
Entries                     The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                            subtracting International (AFSAT - MX20) from Subtotal Other
                            Entries, thereby adjusting the total to remove Internationals from the
                            constraint.
Total Entries               Worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding the
                            following entries:

                            Accessions (Total AM10)
                            Crossflows (AM11)
                            Air National Guard Non-Fly (ANG NON-FLY – CC10)
                            Air National Guard Fly (ANG FLY – CNN0)
                            AF Reserve Command (RES)
                            AF Reserve Individual Mobilization Augmentee (RES IMA)
                            AF Reserve Air Reserve Technician (RES ART)
                            Internationals (AFSAT)
                            Officers (OFCR)
                            Palace Acquire Interns (AF PAQ)
                            Civilian Employees (CIV)
(Adjusted) Total Entries    International (AFSAT - MX20) requirements are not constrained.
                            The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                            subtracting International (AFSAT - MX20) from Total Entries,
                            thereby adjusting the total to remove Internationals from the
                            constraint.
Max Capacity                Enter the maximum number of student entries for one FY.
                            Example: Single aircraft allows only 72 trainees to enter the course
                            each year. Enter "72" on the Constraint Worksheet.
Limiting Factors            Select "YES" or "NO" for each of the four limiting factors
(LIMFACs)                   [LIMFAC(s)] on the constraint worksheet as applicable.
Describe Constraint         Briefly describe the course constraint. Provide detailed information
                            in attached bullet background paper (BBP). Address, as a
                            minimum, each LIMFAC marked "YES."
Proposed Resolution         Briefly list the steps required to remove the constraint. Provide
(Actions Required to Fix    detailed information in an attached BBP.
Constraint)
Get Well Date               Based on actions already underway, enter the month and year when
                            the constraint will be resolved. If no resolution is in sight, enter
                            "TBD."
Remarks (Impact)            Briefly describe the impact of underproduction in this AFSC.
                            Provide detailed information in attached BBP. This information
                            will be used to justify resource requests.
Point of Contact            Enter the name, rank/grade, office symbol, and DSN phone number
                            of the Constraint Worksheet POC.
Date                        Enter the date the worksheet was last updated.
A21.1.1. AETC/A3P proposes programmed elimination rates (PERs) for the budget year and
budget year +1 by analyzing prior and current actual elimination rates (AERs). Please note that
PERs are only applied to Active Duty Air Force Non-prior Service (ADAF NPS) students in
Enlisted Initial Skills courses. The analysis is based on data from the last 24 months (6 months
of the execution year (through 31 March), the entire execution year -1, and the last 6 months of
execution year -2) from the AETC Decision Support System (ADSS). For example, the
proposed PERs for FY15-16 were determined by analysis of FY 11-13 PER Data through 31
Mar 13 and the application of the specific formula:
FY15-16 proposed PER = data from completed classes (1 Apr 11 – 31 Mar 13).
Where courses are discontinued and replaced with new course numbers, the discontinued (or
former) course numbers' AER data are used to calculate proposed PERs where possible.
Elimination Rates are currently calculated by ADSS using the formula as follows:
                     Actual Eliminations + Disqualifications (For Completed Classes)
Elimination Rate = ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Original Entries + Disquals + (All Actual Gains) – (All Actual Losses)
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-2215
COMMAND
                                                                          9 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                                           Incorporating Change 1, 2 JULY 2012

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                        TECHNICAL AND BASIC MILITARY
                                                            TRAINING ADMINISTRATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A3PV                                                   Certified by: HQ AETC/A3P
                                                                        (Lt Col Matt A. Tyykila)
Supersedes:    AETCI 36-2215, 22 April                                               Pages: 236
               2003


*This instruction in combination with AFI 36-2201 implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force
Development, and establishes requirements for administering technical and basic military
training in Air Education and Training Command (AETC). It applies to AETC units responsible
for the management or operation of formal training courses that contribute to the enlisted trained
personnel requirements (TPR). It does not apply to units under 19 AF. This publication applies to
the Air Reserve Component (ARC) which includes the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC). The Inter-American Air Force’s Academy (IAAFA) and Defense
Language Institute English Language Center (DLIELC), as a unique subset of the international
community, have separate training administration processes and are not subject to specific
guidelines of this instruction nor to the use of the Technical Training Management System
(TTMS) for the student management functions.

*Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Systems of Records notice F036
AF PC Q, Personnel Data System, applies.

*Commanders responsible for implementing this instruction may supplement this instruction to
establish specific implementing procedures. All 2 AF units will send waiver requests, suggested
 2                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


changes, and proposed supplements through their training group or wing to 2 AF/DS, 721
Hangar Road, Suite 102, Keesler AFB MS 39534-2804 with a courtesy copy to AETC/A3PV for
review. The 2 AF will then forward inputs to HQ AETC/A3PV for final coordination of
supplements and/or approval of waivers by HQ AETC/A3P. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
numbered Air Force. Submit requests for waivers to any requirement stated in this instruction in
accordance with guidance in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. (Note: A waiver
remains in effect until the approving official cancels it in writing, the publication is revised, or
the waiver expires. When the publication is revised, the requester must renew the waiver.)



*SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Removes AJ11 as reclassification Training Requestor Quota Identifier (TRQI) code and reverts it
back to AJ10 to align with existing practice; Note: AJ11 was never implemented as a
reclassification code (para 3.2.1.3, Table 3.4, para 10.2.6, Table 18.2, para 18.10.5.2.3.1,
Attachment 1, Attachment 3); deletes A1LP, A2LP as TRQI exceptions for PJ/CRO (Table 3.4);
adds responsibility for approving AETC Forms 125, 125A and administrative actions as a
TRG/CC responsibility and lists it under TRS/CC as a delegated responsibility to ensure
understanding of the flow of authority on elimination/reclassification decisions (Table 4.1, Table
4.6); permits some 982 TRG unique role-sharing between 982 TRG schedulers and TMs (Table
4.2); changes AETC/A3PV to AETC/A3PZ on OPR for inside 30 day window waivers to align
with AETCI 36-2203 (Table 4.8); tasks TRSs to send the Student Accounting and Attendance
Report to the registrar in 7 days for resident courses (Table 4.6. and para 13.1.3); moves
recording training deficiencies from Instructor Supervisor to Training Manager (Tables 4.8, 4.9);
creates responsibilities for early identification of MX-20 student’s country to determine if any
disclosure issues exist for the course (Tables 4.8, 4.9, 4.14); adds table to outline training
administration compliance guidelines for the 937 TRG at METC (Table 4.18); adds an omitted
―2‖ to correct office symbol to 2 AF/TTOC (Para 7.1); changes Student Entry Completion Form
to Force Gain Completion Table and corrects references (11.1.4, 11.3.1, Attachment 10); adds
exception statement for downtime from weather or unplanned emergencies that allows for
extending graduation date in some situations (para 12.3.3); deletes a phrase under ineffective
guidance that causes confusion and added no value while clarifying intent (para 12.4.2); clarifies
washback and ineffective guidance (para 12.6.3. and Table 12.7); explains the use of a recall in
lieu of washback or elimination for initial skills pipelines when washback is cost prohibitive due
to MRTP costs (para 12.17.11.3); clarifies that the 381 TRG Commander is the approval
authority for second reclassification (Table 12.12, Table 12.16); corrects TRG/CC to TRF/CC or
chief for the typical recommending authority for an elimination/withdrawal action (Table 12.14);
updates guidance on Guard student eliminations (Table 12.16); deletes a ―seal record‖ statement
in reference to student training reports that did not reflect realistic registrar business practices
(Table 12:22); corrects statement about SAT guidelines (para 12.21.2, Table 12.33); clarifies that
a military assessment is not required for sister service NPS students (para 13.1.1.2); adds a part
person rule to DG guidance that covers when to allow rewarding one person DG when
conducting small classes (Para 13.3.3.2); changes office of coordination to validate Type 6
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                                                              3


requirements (18.13.1.1 and Table 19.13); changes interservice responsibilities from A3I to A3T
(Table 19.1 and Table 19.9); adds 2 AF/TTOC-P roles related to sister service suballocation
(Table 19.17); clarifies that 3-day rule applies to approving AETC Form 125A regardless of
command level approving (Table 25.8); deletes the discharge code for homosexual and
exceeding body fat measurement (Attachment 6); adds requirement to include fitness assessment
feedback as part of Military Certification comments in TTMS (Attachment 8); updates AETC
Form 125A exhibits to include copies of other pertinent documentation supporting disciplinarian
initiatives/actions (e.g. LOR, Article 15, etc.) (Attachment 12, Table A12.2); adjusts
Programmed Elimination Rate to include Disqualifications and Recalls (Attachment 21); adds
Attachment 27 for 2 AF Program Managers to gather required information for sister service
suballocation and corrects several incorrect references throughout. A margin bar (|) indicates
newly revised material.

Section A—Student Management Process Overview.                                                                                               9
       1.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   10
       2.     Process. ..................................................................................................................   10
Table 2.1.    Function of the Training Requester Quota Identifier (TRQI). ...............................                                   11
       3.     Types of Students Under Typical Programs. .........................................................                           12
Table 3.1.    Explanation of Categories of Enlisted IST. ...........................................................                        12
Table 3.2.    Explanation Categories of Officer IST. .................................................................                      13
Table 3.3.    Officer Accessions Categorized by their Accession Source. .................................                                   13
Table 3.4.    Summary of ADAF TPR Producing TRQIs. .........................................................                                15
Table 3.5.    MRTP Student Training Quotas. ...........................................................................                     18
Table 3.6.    Military Status Codes. ............................................................................................           18
Table 3.7.    External/Internal Military Status Groupings. .........................................................                        19
Table 3.8.    Travel Status Codes (Actual and Directed). ..........................................................                         19
       4.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................              19
Table 4.1.    Training Wing (TRW)/Group (TRG) Responsibilities (to include 737 TRG). .....                                                  20
Table 4.2.    982 TRG Unique Responsibilities (applies in addition to Table 4. .......................                                      21
Table 4.3.    Registrar Responsibilities. .....................................................................................             21
Table 4.4.    TT Systems - CCB, Program and Functional Manager Responsibilities ...............                                             24
Table 4.5.    TRW/TRG TTMS POCs Responsibilities. ............................................................                              26
Table 4.6.    Training Squadron (TRS) Responsibilities. ...........................................................                         26
Table 4.7.    TRS TTMS POC Responsibilities. ........................................................................                       27
Table 4.8.    Training Manager Responsibilities. .......................................................................                    27
Table 4.10.   Military Training Leader (MTL) Responsibilities. ................................................                             30
 4                                                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 4.11.    Registrar Focal Point (RFP) Responsibilities. .......................................................                         34
Table 4.12.    Student Out of Training Status (SOTS) Monitor Responsibilities. ........................                                      34
Table 4.13.    Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) Monitor Responsibilities. ...........................                                     35
Table 4.14.    International Military Student Organization (IMSO) Responsibilities. .................                                        35
Table 4.15.    Type 6 DL POC Responsibilities. ..........................................................................                    35
Table 4.16.    Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) Responsibilities. .......................................                                 35
Table 4.17.    2 AF/TTOC Det 1, 737 TRSS and 319 TRS Responsibilities. ..............................                                        36
Table 4.18.    937 TRG Training Administration Compliance Table ..........................................                                   38

Section B—Processing and Classifying NPS Enlistees.                                                                                          39
       5.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   39
       6.      Requirements. ........................................................................................................        39
       7.      Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................       39
Table 7.1.     Classification and Assignments: 2 AF/TTOC Det 1/POBB ..................................                                       39
Table 7.2.     Sensitive Skills: 737 TRSS/DS. .............................................................................                  40
Table 7.3.     Personnel Systems Management: ..........................................................................                      40
Table 7.4.     Shipping and Receiving: ........................................................................................              40
Table 7.5.     TTMS Management of BMT Students in Training. ..............................................                                   40
Table 7.6.     Honor Graduate Ribbon Criteria. ...........................................................................                   41
Table 7.7.     737 TRG Achievement Streamer Criteria. .............................................................                          42

Section C—Processing and Administering Technical Training Students.                                                                          42
       8.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   42
       9.      Requirements. ........................................................................................................        42
       10.     The Arrival Process. ..............................................................................................           43
Table 10.1.    MTL/DGR Procedures to In-Process BMT Arrivals. ............................................                                   43
Table 10.2.    Instructions to Process BMT Arrivals. ...................................................................                     44
Table 10.3.    PTTS Responsibilities. ...........................................................................................            45
Table 10.4.    Arrival Schedule for AFRC Students exercising STO. ..........................................                                 46
Table 10.5.    How to Handle Arrivals with/without Student Information in TTMS. ..................                                           46
       11.     The Entry Process. .................................................................................................          47
Table 11.1.    Centrally Managed and MAJCOM Managed Type 6 Suballocations. ..................                                                48
Table 11.2.    Type 6 Organizer – Student Tracking ....................................................................                      49
Table 11.3.    Type 6 DL Process. ................................................................................................           49
Table 11.4.    Priorities for Entries into a Class ...........................................................................               50
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                                                                    5


Table 11.5.          Guidance on Handling Various Entry Situations. ..................................................                            51
Table 11.6.          Force Gain Actions in TTMS. ...............................................................................                  53
Table 11.7.          OTA Quota Status Code Meanings. .......................................................................                      53
Table 11.8.          Gathering Info to Determine Whether to Record or Cancel No Shows. ................                                           54
          12.        Student Status Management. ..................................................................................                55
Table 12.1.          Student Status Code Explanation. ..........................................................................                  55
Table 12.2.          below summarizes potential values of the first digit of the key student status code
                     categories. ..............................................................................................................   56
Table 12.2.          Student Status Codes – First Digit Values. ............................................................                      56
Table 12.3.          Student Training Action Codes. .............................................................................                 57
Table 12.4.          Treatment of Absences. .........................................................................................             57
Table 12.5.          Medical Hold Decision Points While Ineffective in Training. ..............................                                   59
Table 12.6.          Ineffective-In-Training Responsibilities. ...............................................................                    61
Table 12.7.          TTMS Actions Regarding Washbacks. ..................................................................                         63
Table 12.8.          Washback Provisions for Certain Student Types. ..................................................                            63
Table 12.9.          Notification as Impacted by Changes in Grad Dates. ............................................                              64
Table 12.10. Major Elimination Categories. ...............................................................................                        68
Table 12.11. Typical Elimination Categories and Explanations. ................................................                                    68
Table 12.12. Specific Reclassification Guidelines. .....................................................................                          72
Table 12.13. Guidance on Type 6 DL Eliminations. ..................................................................                               74
Table 12.14. Initiating Elimination Paperwork. ..........................................................................                         78
Table 12.15. The Typical Disposition of Eliminated Students. ..................................................                                   79
Table 12.16. Determining the Disposition of Eliminated Students. ...........................................                                      79
Table 12.17. Guide for Briefing Students on Elimination from Training. ..................................                                         81
Table 12.18. Composition and Roles of Faculty Board. .............................................................                                82
Table 12.19. Board Conducted Under AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers. ....................................                                           84
Table 12.20. Officer Elimination. ...............................................................................................                 85
Table 12.21. Approval Authority if Officer Misconduct Not an Issue. ......................................                                        85
Table 12.22. Processing Completed Elimination Packages. .......................................................                                   85
Table 12.23. Applicable Status Code Actions in Relationship to Eliminations. .........................                                            86
Table 12.24. Enlisted Reclassification Decisions–2 AF/TTOC Det 1/DXR ..............................                                               86
Table 12.25. Guidance When Retention is Recommended Following Elimination. ..................                                                     87
Table 12.26. Exceptions for Eliminations of Certain Student Types. .........................................                                      87
 6                                                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 12.27. Training Orders or Amending Administrative Orders. ..........................................                                          89
Table 12.28. Process to Load International Military Student (IMS) Information in TTMS. ......                                                       89
Table 12.29. Guidelines for Special Holiday Leave and Duty at PDS. ......................................                                           90
Table 12.30. Typical Schedule and Corresponding Statuses for NPS Arrivals from BMT. .......                                                         92
Table 12.31. Key Management Tools Applicable to Students In and Out of Training. .............                                                      93
Table 12.32. How to Categorize SATs. ......................................................................................                         93
Table 12.33. Monitoring and Resolving SATs. ..........................................................................                              94
Table 12.34. Categorize IITs as Follows. ...................................................................................                        94
Table 12.35. Commander Actions With Respect to IITs. ...........................................................                                    95
Table 12.36. Categorize SOTs as Follows. .................................................................................                          95
Table 12.37. Commander Actions With Respect to SOTs. .........................................................                                      96
Table 12.38. TTMS Rosters and Reports to Manage Student Flow. ..........................................                                            97
Table 12.39. SNIT Responsibilities. ...........................................................................................                     97
          13.        Training Completion Process. ................................................................................                  98
Table 13.1.          Verification of Completed or Attempted Training. ...............................................                              100
Table 13.2.          Distinguished Graduate Criteria. ...........................................................................                  103
          14.        Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) Program. .................................................................                       104
Table 14.1.          SAV Procedures. ....................................................................................................          104
          15.        Procedures Where Training is not AETC Owned and/or TTMS is not Accessible
                     or not Feasible. .......................................................................................................      105
Table 15.1.          GSU Variations. .....................................................................................................         106
Table 15.2.          The TTMS Procedures Where Training is NOT AETC- Owned. .........................                                              106
          16.        Procedures for Field Training Detachments (FTDs). .............................................                               107
Table 16.1.          Training Terms Applicable to FTD Training. ........................................................                           107
Table 16.2.          Categories of FTD Training. ..................................................................................                108

Section D—General Planning and Management for Officer, Enlisted, and Mission Readiness
             Training Program (MRTP)                                                                                                               108
          17.        Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   108
          18.        Requirements to Resources and Scheduling. .........................................................                           108
Table 18.1.          Kinds of PRD/PGLs Impacting AETC Basic and Technical Training ..................                                              110
Table 18.2.          Categories of PGL Requirements. .........................................................................                     111
Table 18.3.          TFMC Organization. ..............................................................................................             113
Table 18.4.          OAC/TFMC Organization. ....................................................................................                   114
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                                                                      7


Table 18.5.          MRTP Conference Organization. ..........................................................................                      114
Table 18.6.          Rules of Engagement for AETC Increases/Adds in Execution Year .....................                                           116
Table 18.7.          Responsibilities Related to Instructor Requirements. ............................................                             121
Table 18.8.          Essential Documents in the Constraint Process. ....................................................                           122
Table 18.9.          Training Requirements Responsibilities. ...............................................................                       123
Table 18.10. Timelines Applicable to Annual Resource Activities. ...........................................                                       123
          19.        Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................              124
Table 19.1.          HQ AETC/A3T Responsibilities. ..........................................................................                      124
Table 19.2.          HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities. ...........................................................................                     124
Table 19.3.          HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities –EIS. ..................................................................                         125
Table 19.4.          HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities – Officer Initial Skills (OIS). ............................                                     125
Table 19.5.          HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities – MRTP. ............................................................                             126
Table 19.6.          HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities – Type 6 DL Training. ......................................                                     126
Table 19.7.          Common Responsibilities HQ AETC/A3R/A3T/A3Z/SGU and 2 AF. .................                                                   126
Table 19.8.          HQ AETC/A3R Responsibilities. ..........................................................................                      127
Table 19.9.          Deleted ...................................................................................................................   127
Table 19.10. HQ AETC/FMAM Responsibilities. .....................................................................                                  127
Table 19.11. HQ AETC/SGS and SGU Responsibilities. ...........................................................                                     128
Table 19.12. HQ AETC/A1MRT Responsibilities. ....................................................................                                  128
Table 19.13. 2 AF Responsibilities. ............................................................................................                   128
Table 19.14. Training Wings/Groups/Schoolhouses Responsibilities. .......................................                                          129
Table 19.15. HQ AU/CFR Responsibilities. ...............................................................................                           130
Table 19.16. ECPD/MSOT Responsibilities. ..............................................................................                            130
Table 19.17. 2 AF/TTOC-P Responsibilities Related to Sister Services ....................................                                          130

Section E—Programming and Scheduling.                                                                                                              131
          20.        Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   131
          21.        Requirements and Process. ....................................................................................                131
Table 21.1.          Validating the PTT. ................................................................................................          132
Table 21.2.          Type 6 DL Scheduling and Distribution Guidance. ...............................................                               134

Section F—Metrics.                                                                                                                                 137
          22.        Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   137
          23.        Definition. ..............................................................................................................    137
          24.        The Role of Systems. .............................................................................................            137
 8                                                                          AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 24.1.   Standard ADSS Reports. ........................................................................................    137
      25.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................   138
Table 25.1.   HQ AETC/A3P Metric Responsibilities. ...............................................................               139
Table 25.2.   2 AF Metric Responsibilities. ................................................................................     140
Table 25.3.   Training Manager Metric Responsibilities with TRW/TRG Accountability. ........                                     140
Table 25.4.   2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to Total Force Recruiting. .............                                140
Table 25.5.   2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to BMT. ........................................                        141
Table 25.6.   2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to TT (Initial Skills). .....................                           142
Table 25.7.   TRW/TRG Responsibilities. ..................................................................................       144
Table 25.8.   Goals for Processing Time For Initial Skills Reclassification Process. .................                           144

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                   145

Attachment 2—TRAINING MANAGEMENT PROCESS OVERVIEW                                                                                160

Attachment 3—LIST OF COMMON TRQI MANAGERS                                                                                        161

Attachment 4—*TABLE A4.1. SOME KEY STUDENT MANAGEMENT REPORTS AND
             FORMS SUMMARY TABLE                                                                                                 163

Attachment 5—TABLE A5.1. OVERARCHING AETC/2 AF ROLES                                                                             166

Attachment 6—*TABLE A6.1 BMT TRAINING CODES                                                                                      168

Attachment 7—INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AETC FORM 156                                                                           169

Attachment 8—TTMS STUDENT TRAINING REPORT AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR
             POPULATING TTMS STUDENT ADMINISTRATION FIELDS                                                                       173

Attachment 9—INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AETC FORM 325                                                                           177

Attachment 10—FORCE GAIN INSTRUCTIONS FOR REGISTRAR OR TM                                                                        180

Attachment 11—STUDENT TRAINING STATUS CODES                                                                                      182

Attachment 12—DISTRIBUTION AND EXHIBITS OF AETC FORMS 125 AND 125A                                                               185

Attachment 13—FORMAT – ELIMINATION OR RECLASSIFICATION MESSAGE                                                                   188

Attachment 14—FORMAT FOR MEMORANDUM TO STUDENT FACING FACULTY
             BOARD ACTION                                                                                                        190

Attachment 15—SAMPLE DUTY @ PDS MEMORANDUM - INSTRUCTIONS                                                                        191

Attachment 16—EIS COURSE CONSTRAINT WORKSHEET                                                                                    193

Attachment 17—OIS COURSE CONSTRAINT WORKSHEET WITH INSTRUCTIONS                                                                  202

Attachment 18—CAPACITY ASSESSMENT WORKSHEET WITH INSTRUCTIONS                                                                    207
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                    9


Attachment 19—TRAINING QUOTA MOVEMENT WORKSHEET INSTRUCTIONS     211

Attachment 20—OUT-OF-CYCLE WORKSHEET INSTRUCTIONS                215

Attachment 21—CALCULATING, VALIDATING, AND APPROVING COURSE
             PROGRAMMED                                          218

Attachment 22—USING PROGRAMMED ELIMINATION RATES TO DETERMINE
             THE NUMBER OF ENTRIES FOR EACH COURSE IN THE AFSC
             PIPELINE                                            221

Attachment 23—COURSE CONSTRAINT PROCESS FLOWCHART                223

Attachment 24—ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTOR REQUIREMENTS WORKSHEET
             (AIRW) WITH INSTRUCTIONS FOR EIS                    224

Attachment 25—ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTORS REQUIREMENTS WORKSHEET
             (AIRW) WITH INSTRUCTIONS FOR OIS                    228

Attachment 26—INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AETC FORM 179A         232

Attachment 27—SISTER SERVICE COURSE STUDENT ENROLLMENT
             INFORMATION                                         235
 10                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Section A—Student Management Process Overview.

1. Purpose.
   1.1. Sections A, B and C establish requirements for student training management. They
   provide guidance for entering students into training according to the planned schedules;
   consistent administration of student actions, from arrival through entry, graduation, and
   departure; and collecting, processing, and managing student accounting data to ensure all
   wings/groups report data consistently.
   1.2. Ensure all AETC courses are entered in the Technical Training Management System
   (TTMS) (to include courses not yet activated in the Training Planning System (TPS)).
   Where operational, use the TTMS for unclassified course student training administration
   functions, data entry for all types of training, and automated products to include record
   certification, and other technological advancements upon implementation. Build a shell in
   TTMS to track basic student accounting for classified courses. For courses containing
   classified information, enter all unclassified course information necessary to complete
   adequate student accounting when developing courses in the TTMS course design and
   development database. Locally developed automated information systems will not duplicate
   the functionality of TTMS and TPS. Exception: 737 TRG has limited TTMS functionality
   and will use TTMS as delineated in Section B, Processing and Classifying NPS Enlistees.
   Section C, Processing and Administering Technical Training Students, applies to all
   Technical Training courses with specified exceptions.
      1.2.1. Where TTMS reports replace or are used instead of AETC forms prescribed in this
      instruction, the intent is not for TTMS reports to exactly mirror the AETC forms. The
      AETC form has many of the same data elements and serves to record required training
      administration data where/when TTMS is not available for use. The intent of the TTMS
      report is to output the required training administration data and this TTMS report will not
      be in the same order as the prescribed AETC Form. (Examples: AETC Form 156, Student
      Training Report, serves as a backup to the TTMS Student Training Report; AETC Form
      325, Student Account and Attendance Record, serves as a backup to the TTMS Student
      Accounting and Attendance Record).
   1.3. Enter all changes to student data in TTMS within 24 hours (1 duty day) of receipt or
   knowledge of the change action. The person responsible for a particular function of training
   management enters into TTMS all daily transactional data associated with completing the job
   function. Centralized data entry points are not authorized. Exception: 319 TRS/DPD
   updates Basic Military Training (BMT) student status code changes only.
   1.4. The results of executing training planning and programming are analyzed through
   management reports available in the AETC Decision Support System (ADSS). The
   command's system tool to support management decisions for future planning. The ADSS
   collects a weekly snapshot from TPS and TTMS, analyzes the data, and produces historical
   metrics and resource modeling and training forecasts. AETC uses this data for production
   and financial decisions; timeliness is essential (See Section F).
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                   11


2. Process.
    2.1. The basic training management process involves the following steps (See Attachment 2
    for a flow diagram of this process).
       2.1.1. The results of the training programming process are reflected in training schedules
       in TPS. Finalized schedules flow from TPS to Oracle Training Administrator (OTA) and
       TTMS.
       2.1.2. The role of training requester in the technical training (TT) process is outlined
       below.
           2.1.2.1. Training Requester Quota Identifiers (TRQIs) are assigned to identify
           training customers to include major commands (MAJCOMs), Field Operating
           Authority (FOAs), and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) responsible for personnel
           training accountability. See Attachment 3 for a very basic list of TRQIs.

Table 2.1. Function of the Training Requester Quota Identifier (TRQI).
                  The TRQI is a four-character communication code used to
1   Convey        Annual or supplemental training requirements.
2   Allocate      Class seats reserved for a specific program user at their request.
3   Confirm       Allocations (affirm that the allocation will be used.)
4   Track         Student training.


           2.1.2.2. TRQI managers authorize training and associated funding through Training
           Line Numbers (TLNs).
           2.1.2.3. TRQI managers identify training requirements (needs) by their unique TRQI.
           The plan to satisfy those training requirements is allocations or class seat reservations
           in the training schedules. When the TRQI manager identifies a student to fill a class
           allocation (seat), the student is suballocated in OTA; that is, the student’s name is
           noted in OTA with a TLN. This OTA information flows to TTMS and is visible on
           the TTMS Upfront Forecast Start/Graduation Roster and the TTMS Student
           Management Class Start/Graduate Roster. Exception: New Active Duty Air Force
           (ADAF) enlistees are suballocated at BMT.
           2.1.2.4. All students must have TLNs prior to obtaining training. Accurate
           identification and recording of TLNs or information leading to assignment of TLNs is
           essential for students to receive credit for their training and reimbursement for their
           travel as well as reimbursement to the training school for training costs. Exception:
           Some Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) and non-TDY FTD Type 4
           course completions will receive TLNs after-the-fact.
           2.1.2.5. If the TRQI manager sends a student to training without timely creation of
           the TLN in OTA, that student may appear for training without the name and
           associated information on the TTMS Upfront Forecast Start/Graduation Roster and
           the TTMS Student Management Class Start/Graduate Roster. If a substitution was
           incorrectly made in OTA, the student who appears for training may not be the student
           associated with the TLN in OTA and on the TTMS rosters. This exception must be
 12                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


          addressed as the student is in-processed or entered in training. It may require a
          TTMS Force Gain action. Note: Force gains are discussed in Para 11.3.
      2.1.3. Military Training Leaders (MTLs) document student training actions and statuses
      in TTMS for initial skills students arriving from BMT – ADAF, ANG, and AFRC
      (Tables 4.10, 10.1, 10.2, 12.23, and 12.36). Training instructors document student
      training actions and statuses in TTMS for all other students.
      2.1.4. Training management personnel: TMs, Training Flight Chiefs (TRF/CCs),
      Training Squadron Commanders (TRS/CCs), and Training Group Commanders
      (TRG/CCs) review automated TTMS and OTA products to manage students and student
      flow issues.
      2.1.5. The Registrar Section reviews and validates training actions and associated
      documentation (See summary of documentation at Attachment 4). TMs coordinate force
      gain actions with the Registrar Section prior to entry.
3.Types of Students Under Typical Programs.
   3.1. BMT Students. Recent active duty AF accessions as well as ARC (Air Reserve
   Component, includes both ANG and AFRC students) without prior military experience. Also
   includes members who may have attended, but did not complete Air Force or sister-service
   basic military training. These students are identified with their unique TRQIs, referred to as
   Trained Personnel Requirements (TPR) producing TRQIs (see Table 3.4). This indicates
   their role in contributing to the ADAF initial skills production.
   3.2. ADAF TPR.
      *3.2.1. AF Initial Skills Training (IST) Students. These are ADAF students enrolled
      in TT courses, either prerequisite or follow-on. Typically, the final course in the training
      pipeline awards their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC).
          3.2.1.1. Enlisted Students. Enlisted students in IST (prerequisite or follow-on
          through AFSC-awarding courses) may be nonprior service (NPS), prior service (PS)
          or retrainees (RET). NPS students typically arrive in groups from BMT on Mondays
          and are in-processed at gaining TT units. They are considered in a pipeline status
          until awarded the AFSC and assigned and arrived at their first permanent duty station
          (PDS). NPS students may attend prerequisite training at one location and flow to
          follow-on training at another location on any day. Note: ANG and AFRC NPS
          students do not contribute to the ADAF TPR but they will arrive from BMT with the
          ADAF NPS students.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                    13


Table 3.1. Explanation of Categories of Enlisted IST.
      Student Type Explanation
 1    NPS          An enlistee who has no previous military service or who has not completed
                   initial training in any branch of the U.S. military, as evidenced by no
                   specialty recorded on the DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge
                   from Active Duty, Block 11, Primary Specialty.
 2    PS           An enlistee who enters the military with previous military service that
                   includes completion of initial training in any branch of the U.S. military, as
                   evidenced by a specialty recorded on the DD Form 214, Certificate of
                   Release or Discharge from Active Duty, Block 11, Primary Specialty.
 3    RET          Current AF enlisted members authorized to retrain into a new AFSC.
            3.2.1.2. Officer Students. In IST (prerequisite or follow-on through AFSC-
            awarding courses), these students may be new accessions or crossflows.

Table 3.2. Explanation Categories of Officer IST.
     Student Type              Explanation
1    Accession                 Have either no prior military service or no prior military service as
                               an officer, newly accessed into the AF officer corps through
                               accession sources (AFA, ROTC, OTS).
2    Crossflow                 Current AF officers with an awarded AFSC retraining into a
                               different AFSC.

Table 3.3. Officer Accessions Categorized by their Accession Source.
     Accession Source                     Typical Availability for TT Scheduling
1    Air Force Academy (AFA)              The summer months
2    Reserve Officer Training Corps       After commissioning and ASBC, typically available
     (ROTC)                               Sep-Dec and Mar-Jun
3    Officer Training School (OTS)        After commissioning and ASBC, available all year long
4    Direct Commission                    Medical Service Corps (MSC), Nurse Corps (NC),
                                          Biomedical Services Corps (BSC), Dental Corps (DC)
                                          and Medical Corps (MC). Officer initial skills AFSC-
                                          awarding courses include the Health Service
                                          Administrator Course at Sheppard AFB, Perioperative
                                          Nurse, Nurse Anesthetist, nurse midwife, etc.
                 3.2.1.2.1. OTS accessions may be college graduates who did not attend a military
                 academy or ROTC or former enlisted military members.
*3.2.1.3. Reclassified (Reclass) Students. These are current AF members (typically NPS),
recently eliminated from a TT IST course, being scheduled for a new AFSC training program.
These students use the AJ10 TRQI code for the NPS category when entering a new pipeline at
the course of initial entry (COIE). If an NPS student is enrolled in the second/subsequent course
of an AFSC pipeline, that student is assigned a TRQI code of AJ30 (see Table 3.4).
            3.2.1.4. Exception for Pararescue (PJ) and Combat Control (CCT)
            Students. ADAF students in the PJ/CCT (1C2X1/1T2X1) pipeline courses (other
14                                           AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     than the COIE) are scheduled as A1LP if they are enlisted and A2LP if they are
     officer students.
     3.2.1.5. Exception for 8B and 8R Students. ADAF RETs are under the AJ50
     TRQI.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              15




*Table 3.4. Summary of ADAF TPR Producing TRQIs.
    Student     Student Sub             COIE            Subsequent          Exceptions
    Category    Category                                Course
*1 Enlisted     NPS                    AJ10             AJ30
*2              PS                     AJ1K             AJ1K
*3              Ret                    AJ1J, AMD0       AJ3J                AJ50 (8B/8R)
                                                                            AJ3J (8M)
*4              Reclassified NPS       AJ10             AJ30
*5 Officer      Accession              AM10             AM10
*6              Crossflow              AM11             AM11
   3.3. Total Force Students. These are ADAF students in IST and ANG and AFRC in Initial
   Active Duty Training (IADT).
      3.3.1. ANG Students: (CC10 most common TRQI for ANG students).
         3.3.1.1. NPS ANG Students will always attend IADT in active duty status per U.S.C.
         Title 10. This status affords the TRS/CC full administrative control (ADCON) and
         operational control (OPCON), with the exception that the TRS/CC will not have
         MilPDS (military personnel data system) access, and cannot discharge an ANG
         Student*. All MilPDS documents must be requested from and provided to the ANG
         Training Liaison. When ANG students are eliminated from training, they are
         returned to their ANG unit for reclassification or for discharge from both their state
         and federal enlistment. All documents to justify and support discharge are routed to
         the ANG discharge authority through the liaison.
         * For courts martial where the convening authority determines an ―other than
         honorable‖ discharge is warranted, incarceration must be included in the sentence to
         cause a transfer from the ANG (AG file) to the RegAF (AA file) through AFPC.
         Once in the AA file, the courts martial authority now has full OPCON and ADCON,
         to include MilPDS, and the student may be discharged by the courts martial authority,
         as with any other ADAF student.
         3.3.1.2. PS ANG students must attend Initial Skills Training (IST) in a military
         status. Undergraduate Pilot Training (UPT), and Professional Military Education
         (PME) students must attend in Title 10 status. ADCON and OPCON are in
         accordance with AF doctrine. Administrative and punitive sanctions are available to
         the TRS/CC in coordination with the ANG Training Liaison. Administrative
         sanctions are available to the TRS/CC and punitive sanctions may be coordinated
         with the ANG unit commander, through the ANG Training Liaison. If a criminal act
         is committed by ANG PS student, on or off base, the student must be treated the same
         as a civilian.
16                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


         3.3.1.3. ANG Training Liaison Contact Information. All formal courses are assigned
         a technical training liaison, who acts as the focal point on all training issues. Liaison
         scope of responsibility is determined by the ANG Liaison Superintendent.
     3.3.2. AFRC Students.
         3.3.2.1. TRQI: RR10 for RES NPS, RES PS and RES IMA; A0M0 for AFRC
         civilian students, Active Guard Reserve (AGR) or Air Reserve Technician (ARTs)
         attending in civilian status.
         3.3.2.2. NPS AFRC Students attend IST in active duty status per U.S.C. Title 10.
         TRS/CCs have full ADCON and OPCON to include separation authority, with the
         exception that the TRS/CC does not have access to MilPDS documents. All MilPDS
         documents must be requested from and provided to the AFRC Training Liaison.
         When AFRC students are eliminated from training, they are reclassified in-place
         through the Liaison. In those cases when an AFRC student is not recommended for
         further training, the TRS/CC must process the student for entry-level separation, and
         provide the AF Form100, Request and Authorization for Separation, to the Liaison as
         soon as possible, if not on the same day of separation. Where discipline is
         administered in conjunction with a separation, advanced notification of monetary
         forfeiture awards must be provided to ensure funds are available on the date of
         separation.
         3.3.2.3. PS AFRC Students attend IST in civilian, air reserve technician (ART), or
         active duty status. Note: With some exceptions, an ART may attend IST in either
         civilian or in active duty military status. When an AFRC student attends school in
         active duty status it is per U.S.C. Title 10. OPCON and ADCON may be shared
         between both the TRS/CC and the PDS/CC. In all cases where discipline is justified
         and necessary for the good order of the Air Force, the AFRC Training Liaison must
         be contacted to verify the student’s status and category, and to establish coordination
         between commanders to determine the best course of action. AFRC civilians are not
         subject to the UCMJ but the TRS/CC does have administrative options. If a criminal
         act is committed by a civilian-status, AFRC PS student (on or off base), the student
         must be treated the same as any other civilian. An ART student may attend training
         in civilian status and still wear the military uniform. Schoolhouse personnel complete
         the AETC Form 125A, Record of Administrative Training Action on prior service
         AFRC students eliminated from training and they are returned to their PDS.
  3.4. Other Initial Skills Students. These students are scheduled under the TRQI that
  requested the training. They may include other service students, international students,
  civilians and contractors.
  3.5. Mission Readiness Training Program (MRTP). The MRTP funds a variety of
  training courses typically excluding initial skills courses, Type 6, and medical courses (check
  with AETC/FMAM and AFI 36-2616, Trained Personnel Requirements, for a complete
  description of the program and for exceptions). While the TRQI is important for MRTP
  courses, the quota type (refer to Table 3.5) is also important as it identifies the type of
  funding.
     3.5.1. ANG students attend MRTP in PS status only.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                             17


     3.5.2. AFRC students attend MRTP in NPS or PS status and may travel as a unit reserve
     member on active duty orders, as an ART, in either military or civilian status or as an
     IMA. MRTP does not fund AFRC students in TRQI RR10 or R310. Track AFRC
     civilians against TRQI A0M0.
  3.6. Permanent Party Students. These may be officer, enlisted, or civilian attending
  training on the base to which they are permanently assigned. The TRQI is determined by the
  unit assigned.
  3.7. Other Service Students. These are active duty military personnel assigned to services
  other than the AF: U S Army (USA), U S Navy (USN), U S Marine Corps (USMC), or U S
  Coast Guard (USCG).
  3.8. International Students. These are identified by TRQI MX20. They may be enlisted,
  officer, or civilian students. The MILSTATs for international students: foreign military
  student (MILSTAT – F), foreign civilian student (MILSTAT – T).
  3.9. Contractor Students. As a subset of civilian students, the quota type for a contractor
  student is CN. Special requirements exist for contractors. Do not force gain contractors, as
  they must obtain TLNs on the front end. See other requirements under the ETCA Procedures
  tab, Section E, table 5.2.
  3.10. Further Categories of Students. Students are also categorized by their quota type,
  military status code, and travel status code. Each of these categories provides essential
  information present in the student’s training record that comes from OTA to TTMS. In
  addition, when students have no TTMS record from OTA, this information is required to
  force gain (discussed in 11.3.) students into training to create a TLN in OTA.
  3.11.1. Quota Types. Two-character codes indicate the student’s duty status and the travel
  fundingstatus.
 18                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


    Table 3.5. MRTP Student Training Quotas.
  Active       Travel Funding      Priority Ranking         MRTP Users        Other Notes
  Duty         Status
  Status
1 A–          T - AETC-            Level 1: Allocation   Air Force      N/A
  Airman      Funded               Types AT/OT/CT        Directed and
                                                         MAJCOMs,
                                                         DRUs, and FOAs
2 O – Officer P – Unit funded or   Level 2: Allocation   MAJCOMS,       P may be used if
              permanent party =    Types – AP/OP/CP      DRUs, and FOAs student is co-
              no funds                                                  located with
                                                                        school location
3 C–          N – Non-TDY or       N/A: Allocation Types Non-Air Force  N also used for
  Civilian    Guard or Reserve     – AN/ON/CN            Users          NPS pipeline
              funded request                                            students and
                                                                        Permanent
                                                                        Change of Station
                                                                        (PCS) length
                                                                        courses (20 weeks
                                                                        or longer) or non-
                                                                        active duty Air
                                                                        Force users; N is
                                                                        used with C for
                                                                        contractor quotas
       3.11.2. Military Status Codes (MILSTATs). These one character codes indicate the
       student’s military branch and category.

Table 3.6. Military Status Codes.
1   A – Active AF Officer     I – Marine Civilian        R –AF Reserve Officer
2   B – Active AF Enlisted    J – Army Officer           S – AF Reserve Enlisted
3   C – Air Force Civilian    K – Army Enlisted          T – Foreign Civilian Student
4   D – Navy Officer          L – Army Civilian          U – Navy Civilian
5   E – Navy Enlisted         M – ANG Enlisted           W – DoD Civilian
6   F – Foreign Military      N – ANG Officer            Z – Other, Contractor
    Student
7   G – Marine Officer        O – Coast Guard
                              Officer
8   H – Marine Enlisted       P – Coast Guard
                              Enlisted
           3.11.2.1. Military Status Codes may be organized in OTA (MILPDS) into external
           and internal tables.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                19


Table 3.7. External/Internal Military Status Groupings.
1   Student Type                      Military Status Code Equals
2   External Non-Foreign              C, D, E, G, H, I, J, K, L, O, P, U, W, or Z
3   External Foreign                  F or T
4   MilPDS Internal                   A, B, M, N, R, or S
           3.11.2.2. When matching MilPDS Internal student records, only include those
           personnel contained on the Active Airman, or Officer, ANG Airman or Officer,
           AFRC Airman or Officer file types.
       3.11.3. Military Status for Civilian Students. These are civilian employees of any
       government agency, for example, AF (MILSTAT – C), ANG (MILSTAT – Z), AFRC
       (MILSTAT – Z), USA (MILSTAT – L), USN (MILSTAT – U), USMC (MILSTAT – I),
       or USCG (MILSTAT – Z), DoD {(Department of Defense); MILSTAT – W}, DoE
       {(Department of Energy); MILSTAT – Z}, DHS {(Department of Homeland Security);
       MILSTAT – Z}.
       3.11.4. Travel Status Codes. These one digit codes indicate the student’s funded travel
       status.

Table 3.8. Travel Status Codes (Actual and Directed).
0   Non USAF active duty military/civilian
1   Temporary duty (TDY) and return
2   Permanent change of station (PCS) without permanent change of assignment (PCA)
3   PCS with TDY enroute as declared
4   PCS with PCA
5   TDY pending further orders
6   PCA without PCS
7   Permanent party attending course on base assigned
8   TDY to consecutive training locations and return
9   Unspecified
A   TDY – User funded
B   Training in association with a PCS assignment
4. Roles and Responsibilities. The purpose of the tables below and Attachment 5 is to provide
a summary of specific responsibilities of organizations (TRWs/TRGs, TRS) and primary roles
(System-Related, TMs, Instructors/ISs, MTLs etc.). The tables outline major responsibilities, but
do not capture all responsibilities. Other guidance/direction in this instruction may imply
additional responsibilities.
    20                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table 4.1. Training Wing (TRW)/Group (TRG) Responsibilities (to include 737 TRG).
      Category        TRW/TRG Duties
1     TTMS            Monitor efficiency and effectiveness of resident and nonresident student accounting
                      procedures.
                      Monitor SATs, SOTs, and Ineffective in Training (IITs) to track student delays.
                      1 Intervene when management action can facilitate student movement.
                          Distinguish between initial entry SATs (SATs in the first course in the pipeline)
                      2
                          and follow-on SATs (SATs in subsequent courses).
                      Ensure all courses are either activated in TTMS Student Management or being
                      developed in TTMS Course Design and Development.
                      Notify the servicing TTMS Customer Support when a TTMS user no longer requires
                      access (PCS, PCA, duty position change, etc)
2     TPS             Monitor to ensure all courses in TPS are also implemented in TTMS.
3     ADSS            Monitor initial skills production; identify and track significant deviations.
4     Communication   Establish reporting instructions for students graduating from BMT during the Dec/Jan
                      holiday break.
                      Report all submitted and approved organizational changes that impact the hierarchy
                      within TTMS and related TT systems to HQ AETC/A3P to plan for and make
                      necessary parallel TT system changes.
5     Appointment     Appoint a TTMS TRW or TRG level POC.
                      Appoint TRG and/or TRS Registrar Focal Points (RFPs).
                      Appoint a Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) monitor, as required.
*6 Approval           Delegate responsibility of military information for force gain actions from Registrar
                      and/or Training Manager in some circumstances. Delegation to role outside registrar
                      or TM requires 2 AF/TTOC approval.
                      AETC Forms 125, 125A, Student Administrative Actions; may delegate
                      responsibility no lower than TRS/CC or equivalent. When the command authority is
                      not on-station because of leave or TDY, the official on G-Series orders may approve
                      the AETC Form 125A.
7     Metrics         Monitor established metrics to validate effectiveness and efficiency of training
                      procedures. (see Section F)
                      Track the number of AF student separation packages submitted, the number finalized,
                      and the number returned from JAG for insufficient cause.
                      Forward to 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 monthly (Eaker Center –as applicable due to low
                      student flow).
8     Distinguished   Establish a distinguished graduate program.
      Graduates
9     TTMS/OTA        Within two duty days, initiate resolution of all ―hard‖ TTMS/OTA rejects that prevent
                      a terminal status code match between TTMS and OTA student records. Rejects
                      should be resolved within ten duty days, unless pending answers/actions from formal
                      requests to AETC, TTMS contractor and/or OTA.
                      Monitor and resolve course and class flow problems impacting the TTMS/OTA
                      interface.
                      Establish responsibility to complete ―needs military information‖ area in TTMS for
                      force gain actions. Actions include ensuring:
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              21


    Category         TRW/TRG Duties
                     1 TTMS name and MILSTAT information match OTA
                     2 All fields are complete and accurate.

*Table 4.2. 982 TRG Unique Responsibilities (applies in addition to Table 4
     Category                  Duties
1   Training                 Manage all field training detachment Type 4 multiphase training
                             student actions including class entry, status reporting,
                             disenrollment, and graduation.
*2 AFSC Awarding and         982 TRG will determine location of scheduling responsibilities
   Type 4 Courses            between Training Managers and the 982 TRG Scheduling Office.
                             TMs will establish and maintain capacity assessments and
                             develop/coordinate initial schedules and significant changes for
                             AFSC awarding courses with the prerequisite course TMs and the
                             applicable detachment(s). The Scheduling Office personnel will
                             serve as alternate training managers for programming in TPS,
                             OTA, TTMS, and performing day-to-day tasks in EIS and Type 4
                             training.
                             Activate and ensure training is updated in TTMS
3   Multiphase Training      Notify the appropriate training detachments of multiphase training
    Schedules                schedules.

Table 4.3. Registrar Responsibilities.
    Category       Registrar - Duties
1   TTMS           Monitor for
                   Incorrect status codes and overdue student transactions; notify TRGs.
                   Reject/error data; report or reconcile errors as appropriate:
                   1 Monitor TTMS Upfront Reject Cube.
                   2 TTMS to OTA Rejects; TPS to TTMS Rejects; ADLS to TTMS Rejects;
                      report or reconcile errors as appropriate.
                   3 Within two duty days, initiate steps to resolve all ―hard‖ TTMS/OTA
                      rejects that prevent a terminal status code match between TTMS and
                      OTA student records. Rejects should be resolved within ten duty days,
                      unless pending answers/actions from formal requests to AETC, TTMS
                      contractor and/or OTA.
                   4 Coordinate resolution actions with appropriate personnel (TM, Registrar
                      Focal Point (RFP)/Designated Group Representative (DGR)).
                   5 Follow up to ensure errors are resolved within ten duty days.
                   6 Contact AETC/A3PZ (TTMS interface POC) for assistance.
                   Accurate, timely, complete and appropriately signed TTMS Student Training
                   (ST) Reports.
 22                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


    Category       Registrar - Duties
                   Students not in training to include reclassification actions.
                   Enter elimination codes of elimination students.
2   OTA            Sub-allocate students (AJ30) into follow-on courses with a max of seven
                   training days between graduation and follow-on Class Start Date (CSD) (if
                   feasible).
                   Change quota types for S-TLNs.
                   Delete ―S- Training Line Numbers‖ as necessary.
                   Check OTA to verify force gain name and milstat information or delegate
                   function.
                   Change names for non-AF and International Military Students (IMSs).
                   Note: AFSAT changes names for non-AF International Military Students
                   (IMSs) before CSD in most cases.
3   Student        Review student accounting actions to ensure Training Squadrons (TRSs) and
    Accounting     TRGs appropriately manage student accounting actions from arrival, through
                   training and departure.
                   Stress consistency, accuracy, completeness, timeliness, and integrity.
4   Coordination   Students not in training
                   With the military personnel flight (FSS) and TRSs.
                   Eliminated international students who wish to continue in training
                   With Air Force Security Assistance Training (AFSAT) approval (work with
                   the local IMSO)
                   Lodging requirements:
                   1 Annually provide to the Lodging Manager class schedules of all TDY-to-
                       School (TTS) students IAW AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program to
                       allow proper forecasting of billeting needs.
                   2 Provide student lists with the funding source (quota type) to make certain
                       TTS students are billeted on base.
5   Training       Provide training and guidance for:
                   1 Force gain actions and validation of OTA information.
                   2 Accurate status code election.
                   3 Timeline restrictions.
                   4 Registrar Focal Points (RFPs)
6   Staff          Use to reinforce training, validate procedures and identify/resolve student
    Assistance     data management problems.
                   Present recommendations, if appropriate, to TRGs, TRSs, and assigned
                   personnel.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                23


   Category       Registrar - Duties
7  Validation and When AF members take training in courses that are other service/agency led
   Storage For    and owned and the other service/agency stores graduation/report card
   Other Agency/  records and/or reports (whether digital or hard copy) that minimally match
   Service        the AF Record Disposition Schedule, there is no requirement for registrars to
   Graduation     maintain parallel AF or AETC records and reports in long term storage. Use
   Reports or     digital or hard copies of the other service/agency graduation and elimination
   Records        records/reports to verify training completion or elimination before entering
                  terminal events in TTMS. Minimally, enter enough training data in TTMS to
                  support AF and AETC’s data production requirements (i.e., entry and
                  terminal event: graduation, withdrawal, elimination, recall). In addition,
                  when AF personnel contact registrars for official verification of training that
                  was conducted in other service/agency led and owned training, direct
                  requestors to the appropriate other service/agency institution to verify the
                  training. Exception: Schoolhouses are still responsible for completing
                  AETC Form 125A on students eliminated from other service/agency led
                  schools and registrars will continue to maintain AETC Form 125As to
                  comply with the AF record disposition schedule.
8 Metrics         Compile and provide metrics to report trends.
                  Monitor student in and out of training data for anomalies and trends.
9 Quality Control Force-Gains
                  Student Status Changes
                  Center-Generated Classes
10 Special        Analyze data and provide interpretation to requester, as able.
   Projects       Provide data, as required to AETC, 2 AF, and Air Force Personnel Center
                  (AFPC).
11 Audit          Review and compare TTMS, Upfront and OTA data, rosters and reports.
                  Within 10 duty days of graduation, identify where terminal status codes for
                  students do not match in TTMS and OTA; inform TRS of discrepancies,
                  suspense RFPs/DGRs for correction within 5 duty days, and follow up to
                  ensure resolution.
                  Identify inaccurate student transactions to TRSs for required corrective
                  action.
12 Records        Forward electronically unsigned copies of TTMS ST Reports to the base
                  education and training managers or phase II course supervisors. Exception:
                  Other service/agency led and owned training that accomplishes AF IST.
                  Provide appropriate verification memorandums.
                  Use the Registrar’s seal embosser to authenticate training
                  completion/elimination and other student training information. (Note: With
                  respect to eliminations, the seal embosser is only used for AETC Form
                  125As faxed from GSUs)
                  Maintain seal embosser securely and establish tracking system.
 24                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


    Category       Registrar - Duties
                   Maintain integrity of student training records.

Table 4.4. TT Systems - CCB, Program and Functional Manager Responsibilities
    Category     TT Systems - Duties
1   TTMS CCB     AETC/A3P presides over the CCB for TTMS:
                 TTMS CCB chairperson functional manager
                 Final decision maker on TTMS change requests and configuration priorities
                 Designates representative to conduct CCB
                 Held on calendar dates in February, August at a minimum; however, CCB
                 chair can request additional CCBs as required
2   Functional   AETC/A3PZ manages functional process improvement initiatives
    Management - 1 Designated branch to conduct CCB
    TTMS
                 2 Command liaison link between CCB Chairperson and TTMS PMO
                     Serves as POC for customer feedback and issues related for TTMS
                 3
                     website functionality and data collection processes.
                     Reviews users requirements to support current and future system
                 4
                     initiatives
                 5 Sets up and schedules Integrated Product Teams (IPTs)
                     Develop, publish, and distribute formal CCB documents such as charters,
                 6
                     agenda, meeting minutes, etc.
                 7 Coordinate on technical solution requirements
                     Disseminates release notes on data fixes and new software
                 8
                     implementation
                     Analyzes user feedback with PMO input and advises the chair on
                 9
                     recommended priority and criticality of TTMS change requests
                     Information link between users and TTMS Functional Manager and
                 10
                     TTMS PMO
                     Resolves any network issues through coordination with TTMS PMO,
                 11
                     system developers, and AETC CSS
3   Program      AETC/A3PZ
    Management – 1 Performs sustainment acquisition management for TPS and ETCA
    TPS and
                 2 Completes system certification processes through coordination with
    ETCA
                     AETC/A6
4   System       Provides a central communication interface between the primary functional
    Integration  users of AETC-owned systems and technical system personnel (AETC/A5RI,
                 AETC/A6)
                 Research, propose and advocate new technologies and software applications
                 to support and improve AETC business processes
                 Performs as business process owner (BPO) for learning management system
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               25


    Category    TT Systems - Duties
5    ADSS       AETC lead.
     Functional     Report development of data pulled from ADSS computer system
     Manager -  1 providing data for periodic requests from AF/AETC agencies for their
     AETC/A3PS      reports/magazines.
                2 System tester for all ADSS software releases (Technical Training).
                    Analyst for Technical Training providing statistical reports to all echelons
                3
                    of AF.
                    Analyze, review and publish monthly Technical Training Production
                4
                    Analysis – Forecast (TTPA-F).
                    Extract data from ADSS for annual Programmed Elimination Rates (PER)
                5
                    for incorporation into Program Technical Training (PTT).
                6 Provide support for A3P Metrics and Balanced Scorecard initiatives.
                Manages and prioritizes ADSS Change Requests (CR) for ADSS CCB.
                AETC Technical Training Focal Point.
                1 For all ADSS TT CRs for initial approval and submission.
                    To ADSS when other Air Force and AETC IT Systems have changes that
                2
                    may affect the configuration and operations of ADSS.
                    For ADSS Reference Table Administration Application (RTAA) software
                3
                    application.
                    For the verification of all ADSS business rules associated with ADSS TT
                4
                    formulas/calculations.
6   System      Provides a central communication interface between the primary functional
    Integration users of AETC-owned systems and technical system personnel (AETC/A5RI,
                AETC/A6).
                Research, propose and advocate new technologies and software applications
                to support and improve AETC business processes.
                Performs as business process owner (BPO) for learning management system.
 26                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010




Table 4.5. TRW/TRG TTMS POCs Responsibilities.
    Category Duties
1   TTMS     Focal point for all TTMS issues.
             Hold TTMS Site Integration and Implementation Team (SIIT) meetings at least
             on a quarterly basis (March, June, September, December).
                 Invite AETC TTMS Functional Manager (FM), TTMS Program Manager
             1
                 (PM), and TTMS customer support and TRG representatives.
             2 Write SIIT minutes for posting to the TTMS webpage.
             3 Advise TRS representatives to brief their TRS/CCs on current issues.
             Review user suggestions to TTMS inbox, filter and organize.
             Coordinate on major software updates, interface releases, business process
             adjustments, and policy changes.
             Represent base TTMS issues at TTMS Configuration Control Board (CCB)
             meetings and advise TTMS Functional Manager (FM) and the CCB chair
             concerning problems/recommended solutions.
             Assist in the establishment of Integrated Product Teams (IPTs) in support of
             specific TTMS phases.

*Table 4.6. Training Squadron (TRS) Responsibilities.
    Category         TRS - Duties
1   TTMS             Effectively monitor and manage students out of training and facilitate the
                     prompt resolution of student delays (SATs, SOTs, IIT, Washbacks,
                     Elimination/Reclass actions, medical holds, disciplinary holds, and so
                     forth).
                     1 Monitor SATs, SOTs, and IIT rosters to track student delays.
                     2 Intervene when management action can facilitate student movement.
                         Distinguish between initial entry SATs (SATs in the first course in the
                     3
                         pipeline) and follow-on SATs (SATs in subsequent courses.)
                         Ensure timely coordination with AETC/FMAM all pipeline and TDY
                     4 en route to PCS student delays potentially of 7 training days or more.
                         AETC/FMAM works jointly with the 2 AF/TTOC on MRT issues.
                         Ensure coordination with Guard and Reserve training liaisons when
                     5
                         delays impact their personnel.
                     Monitor efficiency and effectiveness of resident and nonresident student
                     accounting procedures.
                     Monitor to ensure
                         On base training data/status updates are entered into TTMS within 24
                     1
                         hours (one duty day).
                         Off base training data/status updates are reported within 24 hours (one
                     2
                         duty day) and recorded within 24 hours of receipt or knowledge of the
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               27


    Category         TRS - Duties
                         action.
                     Ensure all courses are either activated in TTMS Student Management or
                     being developed in TTMS Course Design and Development.
                     Ensure TRS representation at all TTMS SIIT meetings.
                     Monitor and ensure resolution of TTMS/TPS, TTMS/OTA rejects and
                     associated trends.
2   Appoint          TTMS TRS level POC.
                     Primary and alternate RFPs and maintain a current list of appointees.
                     TRS SOTs monitors and provide names to Registrar Section.
*3 Approve           Washbacks.
                     AETC Forms 125, 125A, Student Administrative Actions only when
                     delegated by TRW or TRG/CC. When the TRS/CC is not on-station
                     because of leave or TDY, the official on G-Series orders may approve the
                     AETC Form 125A.
4   Interview        Students eligible for student initiated eliminations.
                     May delegate this responsibility but must document delegation.
*5 Training          Within seven duty days from of terminal status code entry, process and
   Documentation     deliver ST Reports to the Registrar. (13.1.1.4.)
                     Within seven duty days of terminal status code entry, process and deliver
                     the Student Accounting and Attendance Report to the Registrar (Para
                     13.1.3)
                     Within three duty days finalize and forward AETC Forms 125A. (Table
                     12.22.)
6   Metrics          Monitor metrics established in Section F to validate effectiveness and
                     efficiency of training procedures.

Table 4.7. TRS TTMS POC Responsibilities.
    Category    Duties
1   TTMS        On an annual basis or more frequently as required, inform squadron commander
                of phases, successes, and overall progress of the TTMS program covered during
                recent TTMS SIIT meetings.
                Identify defects and any new requirements for enhancements to the Wing/Group
                TTMS POC.
                Forward TTMS squadron training requirements to the Wing/Group TTMS POC
                Review user TTMS suggestions; forward those with merit through the TTMS
                suggestion process; advise submitters of resolution.
 28                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table 4.8. Training Manager Responsibilities.
   Category         TM - Duties
*1 TTMS             Ensure appropriate course data, to include components, are loaded in
                    TTMS Course Design and Development and Student Management.
                    Activates/deactivates curricula/course items (blocks, objectives, tests,
                    admin acts, PDSclasses) as required.
                    Add center generated classes as needed and approved.
                    Shift, cancel, zero-out classes as needed and approved.
                    Coordinate and input course transfers.
                    Ensure process is in place for recording student actions and statuses, as
                    required, to include off base training.
                    Ensure course/class schedules are accurately reflected in all systems
                    (TPS, TTMS, OTA).
                    Assist with resolution of incomplete, incorrect, or missing student data.
                    Set parameters to allow Type 6 course to interface with ADLS if
                    appropriate.
                    Records training deficiencies.
*2 TPS              Add, change, cancel/delete courses/classes as required (See Attachment
                    26 – 179A).
                    Ensure course/class schedule is accurately reflected in all systems (TPS,
                    TTMS, OTA).
3   Education       Ensures information is updated and accurate at all times with special
    Training and    attention to:
    Course          1 Basic course information including prerequisites.
    Announcements
                    2 Course length matches current course training plan’s course length
    (ETCA)
                        Note: Training days must match ETCA, Training Plan and CSD/CGD
                        on orders to receive funding from TTS for MRTP.
                    3 Course contact with telephone number(s)
                    4 Course Owner Code
                    5 Reporting instructions
                    6 Location information
                    7 Weblink if included
                    Ensure ETCA properly reflects added (new) and deleted courses
                    (cancelled).
                    When a course replaces another course ensure ETCA reflects this change
                    and the connection between the two courses.
                    Ensure AETC/FMAM has coordinated on all AETC formal Training
                    course changes impacting courses added/deleted, course length/location
                    changes, excess baggage, meals, travel directions. (Any changes having a
                    potential financial impact).
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              29


   Category        TM - Duties
*4 Coordinate      Proposed class changes with follow on TMs.
                   Requested course audits with 2 AF/TTOC-S.
                   On manner by which training objectives missed due to AETC-directed
                   activities such as Wingman Day will be made up.
                   With IMSO to determine incoming international student’s country so the
                   TM can verify there are no disclosure issues within the course.
                   With Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO), AFSAT, IMSO if
                   clearance/disclosure issues with incoming international student (such as
                   MX20).
5   Class Entry    Determine student entry priority when necessary.
    Management     Authorize exceeding max/programmed class size.
                   Approve instructor permanent party course monitoring without TLN
                   when the normal suballocation process is not feasible.
                   Approve waivers of required training where documentation of equivalent
                   training is provided.
6   Type 6         Schedule classes throughout FY IAW requirements.
                   Coordinate eliminations.
7  Training        Authorize training deficiencies.
   Deficiency      Use existing guidance to prepare reports (AETCI 36-2203).
*8 TT Systems      Ensure course flow from TTMS Course Design and Development to
                   TTMS Student Management in timely manner before CSD and staff
                   through Wing to HQ AETC/A3PZ for flow inside 30 day window when
                   necessary.
                   Monitor interface reject cubes and resolve course and class flow problems
                   impacting the TTMS/OTA interface.
                   Within ten duty days, take necessary steps to resolve TPS/TTMS,
                   TTMS/TPS, ADLS/TTMS rejects.
                   Be responsive to registrar personnel when contacted with TPS
                   course/class flow, ADLS/TTMS rejects.
                   Funnel rejects requiring outside intervention to registrar as focal point to
                   contact HQ AETC/A3PZ for resolution.
                   Upon TRG approval, TM may be delegated responsibility to complete
                   ―needs military information‖ area in TTMS for force gain actions.
                   Actions include ensuring.
                   1 TTMS name and MILSTAT information match OTA.
                   2 All fields are complete and accurate.
9   Student Flow   Approve the following student actions:
                   1 Early graduation.
                   2 Proficiency advancements.
 30                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


   Category         TM - Duties
                    3 Entries that exceed max class sizes.
                    Recommend course audits to 2 AF/TTOC-S; gain approval.
                    Contact respective ARC training liaison to verify ARC students’ no-show
                    status prior to recording
                    Coordinate centrally managed Type 6 eliminations.
                    Resolve issues with students who are not enrolled IAW Air Force ETCA.
                    Research and validate no shows (typically other than NPS); ensure they
                    are recorded in TTMS.
                    Determine student entry priority.
                    Forward AETC Forms 179A, Course Training Schedule for Allocations,
                    to 2 AF/TTOC-P (for medical courses route through HQ AETC/SGNU),
                    to generate a class for entry if students will not be entering class as
                    currently scheduled.
                    CC registrar on 179As that generated additional classes.
                    Monitor and analyze
                    1 Student flow issues.
                    2 Students Not In Training (SNIT) data.
                    3 Course washback and elimination rates and deviations.
                        Reasons for student eliminations to ensure appropriate elimination
                    4
                        codes are being used.
                    Monitor student re-entry codes to ensure such actions are appropriate.
                    Obtain ATRRS/CETARS (read only) access from AETC/A3PZ to
                    manage/verify class schedules and requirement allocations from Sister
                    Services for assigned courses.
10 Other Service    The class roster contained within the Army Training Requirements and
   Training         Resources System (ATRRS)/Corporate Enterprise and Training Activity
                    Resource System (CETARS) or equivalent source service/agency
                    documents may replace the AETC Form 156, 325 for other service
                    training.
                    Enter data from ATRRS/CETARS using AETC Form 325 or equivalent
                    service/agency forms into TTMS (Type 5, 9, B, D) or delegate this
                    function in coordination with the appropriate training group or training
                    squadron level.
11 Initial Skills   Monitor course production.
   Production       Identify adverse trends.
                    Propose corrective action to achieve production goals.
                    Identify courses where washback rates increase by 5% or more from
                    historical rates or exceed 20%.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                31


*Table 4.9. Instructor (I)/Instructor Supervisor (IS) Responsibilities.
   Category       I/IS Duties
*1 TTMS           Collect student orders at beginning of course, as requested.
                  Verify student information in TTMS.
                  Document all training in TTMS.
                  Record no shows. Confirm ARC member is truly not coming before recording
                  no show.
                  Record, within 24 hours (one duty day) of the event or knowledge of the event
                  student grades, comments/ remarks, statuses, PDSClass events, Special
                  Individual Assistance (SIA), Admin Actions (Letter of Reprimand [LOR],
                  Record of Individual Counseling [RIC], Art 15), absences, counseling,
                  washbacks, probationary continuation or advancements.
                  Track all student statuses of students enrolled in training, to include
                  ineffective time, until they are graduated, eliminated, or withdrawn from
                  training. Use appropriate out of training rosters.
                  Report student status changes.
                  Place students on IIT status, as required.
                  Complete TTMS fields to enable the generation of an accurate Student
                  Training Report (ST Report).
                  Initiate the force-gain action using student orders. Forward a copy of the
                  orders to the Registrar and/or TM depending on TRG processes.
                  Print and proof ST Report, Student Accounting and Attendance Record.
                  Identify and resolve appropriate student accounting actions for students
                  appearing on the Hanging History Report.
                  IS: Monitor class rosters approaching CSD (start checking 14 days prior to
                  CSD) for projected international students(such as MX20).
*2 Notify         TM if
                  1 Student arrives without orders.
                      There are unfilled seats on class start date (CSD) to allow fills from SATs
                  2
                      or permanent party.
                  3 At CSD, class is less than minimum size.
                  4 A name on the class roster does not show on CSD.
                  5 International students (such as MX20) on class roster.
                  Military Training Flight (MTF) of SIA outside the training day.
                  ANG/AFRC training liaisons if ANG/AFRC student placed IIT or when any
                  of the following situations arise: injury (delay or not), illness (delay only),
                  Special Individual Assistance (SIA), Admin Actions (Letter of Reprimand
                  [LOR], RIC, Art 15), absences, counseling, washbacks, probationary
                  continuation or advancements.
 32                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


    Category        I/IS Duties
                    TM, Registrar Section, ANG/AFRC liaisons, and follow on TM (as
                    applicable) when initial skills grad date is advanced or delayed in last two
                    weeks of training or is changed by more than five duty days.
                    IMSO, if training or misconduct issues arise in relationship to international
                    students
3   Student         Approve washbacks, monitor the SIA program and coordinate Proficiency
    Services        Advance (PA) with TM.
                    Inform students of academic progress.
                    Counsel students, as necessary.
                    Provide special individual assistance (SIA) when needed or requested by
                    student.
                    Identify and remove students with permanent medical disqualifiers. Send to
                    medical facility for evaluation.
                    Select class leaders.
                    Determine parts of training to be repeated.
                    Explain to students what constitutes misconduct.
                    Identify and report to TM students who are not enrolled IAW ETCA.
                    Prepare AF Forms 1256, Certificates of Graduation.
                    Assists students in initiating their own on-time departure. (The theory is that
                    no one is more interested in on-time departure than the student. Students can
                    flag potential delays for themselves if given a ―check point‖ in training when
                    they can expect to have assignment orders.)
4   Coordinate      Center generated classes (CGCs) with TM.
                    AETC Form 125A to ANG/AFRC training liaison on any ARC student
                    eliminated from course.
                    Training deficiencies with TM.
5   International   Record training in TTMS or on AETC Form 156.
    Students
6   Civilian        Do not assign civilian students details, or other out-of-class activities beyond
    Students        the standard 8-hour training day. If homework beyond the 8-hour day training
                    is required for a course, ensure civilian students and home units are notified at
                    least two weeks prior to class start. Note: Civilian employees may be
                    expected to perform homework during the training program. There will be no
                    compensation or reimbursement for training beyond the 8-hour day.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              33


Table 4.10. Military Training Leader (MTL) Responsibilities.
     Category     Duties
*1   TTMS         Utilize TTMS to track NPS (ADAF, Guard and Reserve) students in all
                  activities (except dormitory management). Record status changes within 24
                  hours or one duty day.
                  Validate BMT ship list.
                  Record student arrivals.
                  Identify BMT arrivals who arrive not physically fit and not on medical
                  waivers.
                  Provide students (when available) to fill class seats.
                  Update and track all student statuses of assigned students, to include
                  ineffective time, until they are graduated, eliminated, or withdrawn from
                  training. Use appropriate out of training rosters.
                  Record student status changes within 24 hours (one duty day).
                  Annotate all applicable student admin actions to include comments/ remarks,
                  LOR, RIC, Article 15, Counseling, Remedial Military Training, Military
                  Assessment, and Student Activity.
                  Notify respective ARC training liaison in the event of injury (delay or not),
                  illness (delay only), RIC, LOR, Art 15, or any delay or change in Class
                  Graduation Date (CGD).
                  Weekly, advise TRS/CC of SATs.
                  Assist students in initiating their own on-time departure.
                  Complete TTMS training assessment.
                  Record as SOTs students who do not depart within 24 hours of elimination or
                  graduation; record the SOT code on the day after graduation. Note: Current
                  TTMS business rules require recording SOT one day following Grad/Elim
                  but allow two different SOT codes with the same completion date.
                  For departing students going to follow-on training for the award of the
                  AFSC, forward the BMT report card to the next training squadron.
2    Student      Research and validate NPS no shows; ensure they are recorded in TTMS.
     Flow         Confirm with ANG/AFRC liaison that ARC member will not arrive before
                  recording a no show.
3    SOTs         Determine the cause for the student to be out of training and list it as the
                  student’s status.
4    Coordinate   Proper status coding with the RFP or the Registrar.
                  Scheduling and delivery of in-processing briefings.
                  Placement of ANG/AFRC student on IIT.
                  Force Support Squadron (FSS) when receiving a medical hold update on a
                  student pending reclassification.
 34                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     4.1. Lines of Communication–Accounting for Students. It is important to establish a line
     of communication between the registrar, the flight, and the training squadrons to account for
     all student status changes occurring before, during, and after training. Registrar Focal Points
     (RFPs) are established for the purpose of this communication.

*Table 4.11. Registrar Focal Point (RFP) Responsibilities.
      Category      RFP-Duties
*1    TTMS         Coordinate as required between the TRG/TRS and the Registrar’s office.
                   Track student statuses for students under the TRS/TRG, to include
                   ineffective time. Maintains current status (entry, ineffective, washback,
                   elimination, graduation) for each student.
                   Coordinate the correction of the TTMS student training record discrepancies
                   identified by registrar personnel. Schedule pickups from the Registrar
                   Section, distribute to the action officer responsible for correction; issue
                   suspenses and follow up until resolved.
                   Record student status changes within 24 hours (one duty day).
                   Monitor to ensure student data is recorded in TTMS within 24 hours or one
                   duty day. Same day recording is encouraged; recording within one duty day
                   is mandatory.
                       For on-base training, the person responsible for performing the work
                 1
                       enters all daily transactional data in TTMS.
                       For Dets without TTMS access, the RFP records within one duty day of
                       receipt student events, grades, comments/remarks, statuses, PDS
                 *2 Class/Block enroll/grad, SIA, Admin Actions (LOR, RIC, Art 15),
                       absences, counseling, washbacks, probationary continuation and
                       advancements.
2     Assists      In resolving documentation discrepancies.
                   In resolving data reporting problems.
                   In verification that Registrar Section received graduation rosters within one
                   day of graduation.
3     Coordinates Schedule distribution runs to the Registrar Section for elimination packages
                   and other student documents.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               35


Table 4.12. Student Out of Training Status (SOTS) Monitor Responsibilities.
     Category    Duties
1    TTMS        Ensure a terminal status code (H##) is recorded for all departed SOTs. Monitor
                 Hanging Histories to validate.
                 Track and manage SOTs; update TTMS as required.
                 Coordinate security clearance updates.
                 Assist students in initiating their own on time departure.
                 Prepare weekly SOTs update for TRF/CC.
                 Prepare monthly SOTs update for TRS/CC.

Table 4.13. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) Monitor Responsibilities.
      Category    Duties
 1    PRP         Identify issues and work resolutions.
      Concerns

*Table 4.14. International Military Student Organization (IMSO) Responsibilities.
      Category    Duties
 1    Student     Manages international students.
      services    Verifies accuracy and completeness of OTA data.
                  Provides two copies of student orders to Registrar Section upon arrival of
                  student.
                  Makes all necessary contacts to determine if student should be washed back.
                  Initiates elimination packages (non academic reasons only).
                  Provides written invitation to DoD Field Studies Program (if long enough).
                  Notifies AFSAT of pending and completed IMS eliminations.
                  Upon TM, IS or Registrar request, researches and provides international
                  student’s (such as MX20) country in advance of CSD.

Table 4.15. Type 6 DL POC Responsibilities.
     Category      Duties
1    AETC Form 325 Validate student information and forward to designated group
                   representative (DGR).
2    Elimination   Forward Type 6 elimination survey to DGR.
     Survey
 36                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 4.16. Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) Responsibilities.
      Category                     GSU - Duties
1     Eliminations                 Fax elimination packages to parent base.
2     Proficiency Advancement      Commander directs instructor to administer PA measurement.
3     Student Accounting           Monitor timeliness and accuracy of student accounting along
                                   with the efficiency and effectiveness of procedures.
4     Student Administration       Forward AETC Forms 156 and 325 as required to the parent
      Records                      base
                                   Forward AETC Forms 156 to student’s education and training
                                   offices, as appropriate.

Table 4.17. 2 AF/TTOC Det 1, 737 TRSS and 319 TRS Responsibilities.
    Section                BMT - Duties
1   TTMS                   Monitor efficiency and effectiveness of student accounting procedures.

                        Monitor Holds and Recycles to track trainee delays. Intervene when
                        management action can facilitate trainee movement.
                        Ensure all courses are either activated in TTMS Student Management
                        or being developed in TTMS Course Design and Development.
2   Appoint             TRG level POC.
                        TRG and/or TRS Registrar Focal Points (RFPs).
3   Metrics             Monitor established metrics to validate effectiveness and efficiency of
                        training procedures.
4   Recognition Program Establish an honor graduate program.
5   2 AF/TTOC Det 1     Compiles classification data.
                        Interfaces with other automation systems.
                        Upon notification from 319 TRS/DPD personnel.
                        1 Finalize appropriate TTMS Ship List.
                        2 Coordinate late BMT departures with the appropriate TT school via
                            email.
                        Receives training requirements for weekly classification.
                        Classifies students.
                        Identifies the eligibility of NPS enlistees.
                        Updates classification tables.
                        Briefs airmen regarding AFSCs and assignment preferences.
                        Screens and classify students.
                        Verifies enlistment agreements.
                        Reclassifies disqualified airmen.
                        Fills available quota with qualified airmen.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                         37


    Section        BMT - Duties
                   Refers all ARC trainees to appropriate ARC training liaison for action.
                   Processes unassigned airmen and special assignment actions.
                   Publishes orders.
                   Briefs students proceeding to technical schools.
                   Reviews AETC Form 530, Nonprior Service Classification.
                   Note: TTMS Student Management automatically records student
                   departures (T04s) when the shipping list is finalized.
6   737 TRSS       Compiles classification data.
                   Interfaces with other automation systems.
                   Updates TTMS with all student status changes to include: discharges,
                   holds in training, recycles, transfers, graduations, and graduated
                   students placed on or removed from hold, and all other status codes as
                   required. Enter the codes in TTMS IAW Attachment 6 within one
                   duty day of the occurrence of each student status event or change. The
                   same duty day recording is highly encouraged, within one duty day is
                   mandatory.
                   Process arrivals into TTMS by scanning bar codes or typing key
                   information on orders into BMT Online or follow established backup
                   contingency plan. Note: TTMS automatically records student entries
                   (T01s) when flights are closed.
                   Ensures the timely and accurate recording of student accounting
                   information into TTMS during the student management process at
                   BMT IAW Attachment 6.
                   Use TTMS BMT Online or follow established backup contingency
                   procedures for scheduling and setting up week-group flights in TTMS.
                   Ensure the BMT Supplement reflects TTMS use as applicable to
                   scheduling, receiving, shipping, and student management.
                   1 State explicitly roles and responsibilities for BMT TTMS current
                       phase processes.
                   2 Specify procedures ensuring the timely and accurate recording of
                       TTMS student status changes IAW Attachment 6 including
                       discharges, holds in training, recycles, transfers, graduated
                       students, graduated students placed on hold, and all other status
                       codes as required.
                   3 Specify contingency backup procedures in the event of an
                       interruption in connectivity to BMT Online or TTMS through
                       regular established channels.
                   Ensure that AETC/A3PV, A3TB and 2 AF have a courtesy copy of the
                   most up-to-date BMT Supplement.
                   Screens airmen for substance abuse, emotional/behavioral problems.
                   Recommends retention and/or job selection.
 38                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


      Section             BMT - Duties
                          Initiates and forwards security packages (if required).
                          Provides guidance on unique data items.
7     319 TRS             Track the number of AF student separation packages submitted, the
                          number finalized, and the number returned.

*Table 4.18. 937 TRG Training Administration Compliance Table
1.     Complies with METC academic administration policies for academic processes related to
       METC; complies with AETCI 36-2215 training administration policy with the following
       provisions (2 – 33).
2.     Table 4.1 Training Wing (TRW)/Group (TRG) Responsibilities (to include 737 TRG) all
       EXCEPT Row 6 (Force Gain – METC ATRRS guidelines apply instead of TTMS specific
       annotations.), Row 8.
3.     Table 4.3 Registrar Responsibilities, Row 7
       In addition, works with METC registrar to identify, monitor and correct ATRRS/TTMS
       interface errors resulting in incorrect AF system student accounting data (TPS, TTMS,
       OTA).
4.     Table 4.5 TRW/TRG TTMS POCs Responsibilities.
5.     Table 4.6 Training Squadron (TRS) Responsibilities Including Row 2, Row 5 (ST Report
       process). EXCEPT: TTMS 24-hour entry rules (subject to METC ATRRS entry timelines
       and ATRRS/TTMS interface).
6.     Table 4.8 Training Manager Responsibilities.
7.     Table 4.10 Military Training Leader (MTL) Responsibilities. EXCEPT: METC ATRRS
       entry guidelines apply instead of TTMS 24-hour entry guidelines and TTMS specific
       annotations.
8.     Para 10. The Arrival Process from paras 10.1 through 10.2.5. EXCEPT: Table10.1
9.     Table 12.5 Medical Hold Decision Points While Ineffective in Training INCLUDING:
       Paras 12.4.4.3 and 12.4.4.4.
10.     Paras 12.14.1 and 12.14.2 only with respect to Non-Academic Counseling and related use
       of AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling.
11.    Table 12.12 Specific Reclassification Guidelines.
12.    Table 12.15 The Typical Disposition of Eliminated Students.
13.    Table 12.16 Determining the Disposition of Eliminated Students EXCEPT: Row 5.
14.    Table 12.20 Officer Elimination.
15.    Para 12.17.17 Actions Based on Officer Choices.
16.    Table 12.21 Approval Authority if Officer Misconduct.
17.    Table 12.22 Processing Completed Elimination Packages.
18.    Table 12.24 Enlisted Reclassification Decisions_2 AF/TTOC Det1/DXR.
19.    Table 12.25 Guidance When Retention is Recommended Following Elimination.
20.    Paras 12.17.20 Reclassification Decisions and Actions and 12.17.21. Reclassification
       Documentation.
21.    Table 12.26 Exceptions for Eliminations of Certain Student Types.
22.    Table 12.27 Training Orders or Amending Administrative Orders.
23.    Table 12.32 How to Categorize SATs only as guidance for MTLs to enter the ATRRS code
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                   39


    that most closely translates to the appropriate TTMS SAT code.
24. Table 12.34 Categorize IITs as Follows only as guidance for MTLs to enter the ATRRS
    code that most closely translates to the appropriate TTMS Ineffective code.
25. Table 12.37 Commander Actions With Respect to SOTs.
26. Para 13.1.5 AF IMT 475, Education/Training Report (TR).
27. Para 18.7 and subs The Training Flow Management Conference (TFMC) including Table
    18.3 TFMC Organization.
28. Para 18.8 and subs The Officer Accession Conference (OAC)/Training Flow Management
    Conference (TFMC) including Table 18.4 OAC/TFMC Organization.
29. Para 18.14 Elimination Rates.
30. Para 18.15 and subs Course Constraints (use of AETC format (Attachments 16 & 17) or
    METC forms that meet intent of AETC attachments).

Section B—Processing and Classifying NPS Enlistees.

5. Purpose. This section explains how to begin the process of screening qualified enlistees for
selection into Air Force specialties.
6. Requirements. Ensure the best fit of all NPS resources to balance AF sustainment
requirements.
7. Responsibilities:
      *7.1. 2 AF/TTOC Det 1. 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 identifies the eligibility of NPS enlistees and
      executes the classification process. Force Management Branch responsibilities are 2
      AF/TTOC Det 1.

Table 7.1. Classification and Assignments: 2 AF/TTOC Det 1/POBB
       Action          Explanation (2 AF/TTOC Det 1/POBB)
 1     Compiles        Classification data.
 2     Updates         Classification tables to ensure qualified NPS are selected for Air Force
                       skills.
 3     Briefs          Airmen regarding AFSC selection and assignment preferences prior to
                       classification.
 4     Screens and     NPS enlistees for qualification into Air Force skills according to Enlisted
       classifies      Classification Directory (ECD).
 5     Verifies        Enlistment agreements and reclassifies disqualified airmen.
 6     Ensures         The classification process fills available quotas with qualified airmen for
                       technical schools.
 7     Processes       Unassigned airmen and special assignment actions.
 8     Publishes       Orders.
 9     Briefs          Students proceeding to technical schools.
 10    Reviews         AETC Form 530 to ensure proper documentation of each airman’s
                       qualifications and skill preferences.
 40                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 7.2. Sensitive Skills: 737 TRSS/DS.
      Action          Explanation
1     Initiates and   Appropriate personnel security packages on students requiring clearances.
      Forwards
2     Screens         Airmen for such issues as substance abuse and emotional or behavioral
                      problems.
3     Makes           Appropriate recommendations regarding retention and/or job selection.

Table 7.3. Personnel Systems Management:
      Action               Explanation
 1    Provides             Guidance on unique data items.
 2    Interfaces           With other automation systems.
 3    Updates              TTMS student statuses as required.

Table 7.4. Shipping and Receiving:
      Action                             Explanation
 1    Processes – (737 TRSS/DS)          Arrivals into TTMS by scanning orders into BMT
                                         Online.
 2    Finalizes (2 AF/TTOC Det           TTMS Ship List.
      1/POBBO)
 3    Requirement                   BMT graduates will not be shipped to assigned training
      (2AF/TTOC Det 1/POBBO)        wings until all medical waivers preventing them from
                                    training are cleared.
 4    Ships (2 AF/TTOC Det 1/POBBO) 737 TRG graduates will proceed to assigned training
                                    wings the first Monday after graduation.
 5    Coordinates (2 AF/TTOC Det    Via email, late BMT departures with the appropriate TT
      1/POBBO)                      school.
 6    Updates (737 TRSS/TSOP)       TTMS student statuses as required
     7.2. BMT Training Management.
        7.2.1. Recruit Arrival/Entry Process. 737 TRSS/TSOP personnel process arrivals into
        TTMS by scanning orders into BMT Online.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               41


Table 7.5. TTMS Management of BMT Students in Training.
    When                      Personnel Action
1   Notified                  Updates student statuses in TTMS, to include Hold in Training and
    (737 TRSS/TSOP)           Recycle.
2   Airmen have graduated     Finalizes appropriate TTMS Shipping List.; TTMS Student
    and are ready to depart   Management automatically records the departure code.
    (2 AF/TTOC Det 1)
3   Late BMT departures       Coordinates with the appropriate TT school via email.
    occur
    (2 AF/TTOC Det 1)
4   Notified                  Updates TTMS to reflect the student status of graduated students
    (737 TRSS/TSOP)           placed on or removed from hold after graduation and those released
                              due to discharge; TTMS Student Management automatically
                              updates departure after hold when the student is processed through
                              the Shipping List.
    7.3. BMT Recognition Program. The goal of the BMT Recognition Program is to provide
    special recognition of trainees who achieve outstanding performance. BMT establishes
    programs to recognize superior individual accomplishments and exemplary flight
    performance.
       7.3.1. BMT Honor Graduate (HG).
           7.3.1.1. IAW AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, award
           the USAF BMT Honor Graduate Ribbon to graduates who demonstrate excellence in
           all academic and military training phases as designated by the military training
           instructor (MTI) and school commander.
           7.3.1.2. MTIs ensure all trainees understand the eligibility criteria for the honor
           graduate ribbon. Base honor graduates on the whole-person concept including
           academics, performance, leadership, teamwork, and conduct.
           7.3.1.3. Recognize as HG up to, but do not exceed, 10 percent of the BMT weekly
           graduates. Determine the top 10% using a point system to rank order students who
           meet the minimum criteria listed below.

Table 7.6. Honor Graduate Ribbon Criteria.
    Honor Graduate Criteria
1   Achieves satisfactory grade on core value ratings, courtesy, drill, reporting, dorm
    performance and weapons evaluations.
2   Scores a 90% or above on both Written Test 1 and 2.
3   Attains a minimum Air Force fitness composite score of 90 or higher on the final
    Performance Readiness Test (PRT)
       7.3.2. BMT Top Graduate (TG). Recognition may be given to a TG from the group of
       weekly BMT honor graduates. A TG is the number one graduate in BMT. Recognize
 42                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


       TGs for superior academic achievement and high standards of leadership, teamwork, and
       character. Comprehensively, the TG must exceed the performance of all honor
       graduates.
       7.3.3. Top Fitness/Physical Training (PT) Airman. Recognition may be given to the
       top PT male and female trainee from the group of weekly BMT graduates. Recognize for
       superior fitness achievement and demonstration of a solid foundation for a ―fit to fight‖
       AF life style.
       7.3.4. Additional Recognition.
           7.3.4.1. 737 TRG Achievement Streamers are awarded weekly to flights who
           demonstrate teamwork, strength and unity of the military and pride in an Air Force
           organization. Flights compete within week-groups for excellence in Academics,
           Fitness, Marksmanship and AEF.

Table 7.7. 737 TRG Achievement Streamer Criteria.
    Streamer              Awarded to the
1   Flight Academic       Flight with the highest overall academic average.
2   Flight Fitness        Male and female flight with the highest overall fitness score.
3   Flight                Flight with the highest overall marksmanship score.
    Marksmanship
4   AEF Streamer          Field Training AEF scoring the most points during field training.
                          Award is to all flights within that AEF.
           7.3.4.2. All basic military training flights participate in the squadron Honor Flight
           program. All evaluations/inspections are conducted in the same week of training for
           all flights in a cycle, competing in the same squadron. Award honor flight to no more
           than 10 percent of flights/Squadron in a particular week group.
       7.3.5. Recording HG status in MilPDS. 319 TRS updates honor graduate status in
       MilPDS.
       7.3.6. Monitoring DG/TG Awards. 737 TRG/CC determines who monitors the
       recognition program.

Section C—Processing and Administering Technical Training Students.

8. Purpose. This section establishes requirements for administering student training. It provides
guidance for collecting, processing, and managing student accounting data to ensure all
wings/groups report data consistently. For optimal data flow ensure all type (1-9, A-D, M, W)
courses are in the Technical Training Management System (TTMS), Training Planning System
(TPS), and Oracle Training Administration (OTA).
9. Requirements. Use TTMS for student training administration functions, data entry for all
types of training, and automated products to include record certification, and other technological
advancements upon implementation. Where TTMS is not available ensure the accurate
recording of initial skills student information on the AETC Form 156 IAW with Attachment 7.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                   43


10. The Arrival Process.
   10.1. Arrival. An arrival is any student, regardless of travel type or source (Army, Navy,
   etc.), who reaches the training site for the purpose of attending a formal course of instruction.
   There are unique in-processing requirements for NPS arrivals from BMT.
   10.2. NPS Arrivals from BMT to the Technical Training Site.
      10.2.1. Arrival of NPS Students. NPS students shipped from BMT (ADAF, ANG and
      AFRC students) arrive with the BMT Shipping List for the training location.
      10.2.2. Responsibilities on Arrival. MTLs or Registrar Focal Points (RFPs) at
      receiving TT locations use BMT Shipping List to check actual arrivals. Identify
      discrepancies (students on the report who did not arrive or students who arrived but were
      not on the report). The Registrar Focal Point is the position the unit designates to flow
      student information to the parent unit. The DGR is the position the TRG designates to
      input TTMS information at the parent unit.
      10.2.3. Discrepancies. Notify 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 Outbound Assignments of noted
      discrepancies or if the report did not arrive. Forward an updated/annotated copy of the
      report to 2 AF/TTOC Det 1/POBBO.
      *10.2.4. Lackland AFB Form 205, Basic Military Training Student Performance
      Summary. Arrivals from BMT hand carry BMT Student Performance Summaries.
      MTLs/RFPs collect envelopes and file forms in the airman’s collateral training folder.
      TRSs use BMT Student Performance Summaries to help manage students during
      technical training. Destroy the BMT Student Performance Summary with Airman’s
      collateral training folder (CTF) in accordance with AETCI 36-2216. Upon completion of
      a qualifier course, MTLs/RFPs forward the BMT Student Performance Summary with the
      TTMS Student Training Report to the follow on course.
 44                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 10.1. MTL/DGR Procedures to In-Process BMT Arrivals.
    Day                TTMS Student           Select/Enter
                       Management –
                       Learning Events
                       Recorder
1   Arrival            Component              1. ADMIN/ACT and the course against which the
                                              arrival code applies. If the student is not in
                                              TTMS, use the student’s orders as the source
                                              document
2                      Completion Date        2. The date the arrival code is effective.
3                      Default Status         3. The student’s arrival to base code.
4                      Student ID             4. The student’s Social Security Number (SSN).
5                      Complete Action        5. Record event.
6 Next Day             Component              1. Course and PDSClass on the student orders
7                      Completion Date        2. The date the ZP code is effective.
8                      Default Status         3. The ZP status code.
9                      Student ID             4. The student’s SSN.
10                     Complete Action        5. Record event.
       10.2.5.Resolution of Missing Student Data. Conflicts in student data or missing student
       data may cause the status not to be recorded until the conflict is resolved or the missing
       data is entered. The MTL or DGR notifies the TM for resolution assistance.
       *10.2.6. Three Days Max In-processing (Enlisted Initial Skills). When the
       MTL/DGR records the ZP status, the student’s in-processing time begins, not to exceed
       three days. Without exception record a ZP status for AJ10, AJ11 students before entering
       these students into training.

Table 10.2. Instructions to Process BMT Arrivals.
    Week of Arrival      Day       Activity             TTMS Action Status Time
    from BMT
1   Yes                  Mon        Arrival             Admin Act              1 day
2   Yes                  Tue –      In-processing       ZP             SIT     3 days
                         Thur
3   No, Fri through      Fri – Thur Expected training   AE#            SAT     1-4 days
    Thur of the next                entry
    week
       10.2.7. Three Days Max In-processing (Officer PCS-to-school). Place officer
       students on PCS-to-school orders in SITS (TTMS code ZP) for a maximum of 3
       academic days beginning the day after arrival. If students do not start class immediately
       upon completion of in-processing actions or 3 academic days (whichever is less), place
       the students in awaiting training status (SATS) pending CSD.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                     45


           10.2.7.1. Place officer students selected to attend initial PME after arrival but prior to
           starting training in AXE status (Ineffective - Other) in TTMS beginning the date the
           student departs for training. In the comments section annotate what form of PME,
           e.g. ASBC, the student is attending. Place the student back in the appropriate
           awaiting training status effective the date of return from PME.
       10.2.8. Transition to Students Awaiting Training. Students In-processing Training
       Status (SITS) ends after the three days, usually when the student enters training. If the
       student does not enter training the day after SITS ends, the MTL/DGR places students in
       Students Awaiting Training Status (SATS) the day after completion of SITS. The
       awaiting training status is typically SATS awaiting entry into training (an AE# code),
       unless the student is delayed entry into training due to security clearance issues (an AS#
       code).
       10.2.9. Pre-Technical Training Students. Collectively, arrivals from BMT in SITS
       and SATS are known as Pre Technical Training Students (PTTS). The MTF and the IS
       track and control PTTS to ensure all available class seats are filled. When a particular
       AFSC or several AFSCs have a substantial quantity of students who arrive early for a
       CSD, the TM notifies 2 AF/TTOC Det 1.

Table 10.3. PTTS Responsibilities.
    POC      Action
1   MTF      Pulls daily TTMS Awaiting Training Rosters to send students to training on
             the CSD.
2   MTF      Notifies the Registrar Section of the arrival of students reclassified from
             another TRG or TRS.
3   Training Verifies quantity of students scheduled to attend class.
    Flight
    (TRF)
4   TRF      Ensures all student status changes are entered in TTMS within 24 hours (one
             duty day).
       *10.2.10. PTTS Briefings. Provide all students arriving from BMT standardized and
       location-specific in-processing briefings to facilitate their transition to TT. Briefing topics
       are specified in AETCI 36-2216, Administration of Military Standards and Discipline
       Training. In addition, the ANG and AFRC liaison NCOs at TTW brief incoming ANG
       and ARC TT students (NPS and PS) during the first week of training. Exception: ANG
       and AFRC training liaisons are physically assigned only to Keesler, Goodfellow,
       Lackland and Sheppard Air Force Bases. There is also an ANG liaison at Goodfellow
       AFB and the Medical Education and Training Campus at Ft Sam Houston. Appropriate
       MTL or Instructor personnel brief officer and enlisted personnel. If problems arise with
       ANG/AFRC students, contact the appropriate ARC training liaison for guidance.
       10.2.11. AFRC Split Training Option (STO). AFRC students may complete BMT,
       return to their home unit and then ship to the TT location at a later date. These Split
       Training Option (STO) students should arrive at the initial TT location to allow sufficient
       in-processing time. The student should arrive based on the following schedule:
 46                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 10.4. Arrival Schedule for AFRC Students exercising STO.
    TT CSD           Student Should Arrive NLT
1   Friday           Close of business (COB) Monday same week of the CSD
2   Monday –         COB Monday of the previous week of the CSD
    Thursday
           10.2.11.1. When possible, delay entry of STO students arriving too late for scheduled
           in-processing time. Exception: When delayed TT entry will cause extensive SAT
           time, MTLs and local AFRC liaison work to maintain TT entry schedule. STO
           students given expeditious entry due to delayed arrival must receive required in-
           processing NLT one week after arrival.
       10.2.12. Fitness. Students must be physically capable of entering training on class entry
       date. MTLs validate arrivals from BMT and newly arrived reclassified NPS students are
       physically fit.
       10.2.13. Arrival from BMT Without Student Information in TTMS. If the name of a
       new BMT arrival appears on the TTMS Upfront Forecast Start/Graduation Roster, the
       student was appropriately suballocated.

Table 10.5. How to Handle Arrivals with/without Student Information in TTMS.
    TTMS Upfront Forecast                     MTL/RFP
    Start/Graduation Roster
1   Contains student name                     Records arrival in TTMS.
2   Doesn’t contain student name              Collects one copy of student’s special orders
                                              Carries or faxes to Registrar Section
                                              If orders do not contain TRQI or TLN, contacts
                                              TM
           10.2.13.1. TMs work with the registrar section to determine next action. Exception:
           If an ANG or AFRC student arrives without a TLN on the special orders or the name
           is not in OTA, do not enter the student into training. The TM immediately notifies
           the ANG or AFRC liaison to obtain a TLN from the member’s home unit and publish
           amended orders. Exception: ROTC eliminee that reports to BMT. In this case,
           contact 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 for a TLN.
       10.2.14. Late Arrivals from BMT. Process as late arrivals students shipped from BMT
       after the CSD indicated on their orders. On the day after arrival, MTLs/DGRs ZP
       students into the next PDSCLASS to start in that AFSC and immediately contact the TM.
       Place the students in SATS the day after they complete SITS unless entered into training.
       In all cases, students must complete in-processing within the first week after arrival.
       When delayed TT entry will cause extensive SAT time, MTLs/RFPs and TMs work to
       maintain the programmed TT entry schedule.
    10.3. Reclassification Arrivals. Reclassifications should arrive early for some training
    courses to allow adequate time for security clearance interviews, photographs, and badges.
    MTLs will coordinate with the school to determine the required time needed and then send
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                    47


   reclassification arrivals to the school before required class entry date to accomplish security
   processing, if needed. However, if under MRTP, all travel is subject to MRTP TDY rules
   and constraints.
   10.4. Arrivals at Second and Subsequent Locations. Students should be suballocated to
   attend training at a subsequent location. If the student has been delayed at the COIE, the
   suballocation should be moved to a later class.
11. The Entry Process.
   11.1. Entries into TT.
      11.1.1. Copies of Orders. Instructors collect copies of students’ orders and verify
      information in TTMS student records for accuracy.
      11.1.2. MRTP Students. Students should have both a valid OTA TLN and a set of
      orders upon arrival to all courses. It is the students’ responsibility to contact their unit to
      determine the necessary action if they do not have orders or TLN. All schoolhouse
      personnel with TRQI manager roles will not delete TLNs of MRTP students who have
      travelled to class (whether entered or not entered into the course) to maintain their
      funding under MRTP. Rationale: Not having a valid TLN will revoke their orders. The
      MRTP will not take fiscal responsibility for training delays or travel from situations
      arising from students arriving without a valid set of orders/TLN. When a student arrives
      with orders, but without a valid OTA TLN follow entry guidance in 11.2. and Table 11.4.
      11.1.3. Other Service Students. Students should have both a valid set of orders and an
      OTA TLN when arriving for a class. Students call their respective service liaison or
      POC to work out course of action if either or both of these requirements are not met. A
      student with orders, but without an OTA TLN is subject to the entry guidance and
      priorities in 11.2. and Table 11.4.
      *11.1.4. Incomplete Student Information. If the student information is not available
      on the TTMS Class Start/Graduate Roster or if the information is not complete, within 24
      hours the instructor may use the Force Gain Completion Table or similar template to
      collect and organize required information (For Students Not Loaded in TTMS) see
      Attachment 10, Table A10.1.
      11.1.5. Decision to Force Gain. The RFP works with the Registrar Section to complete
      and verify the required information. If necessary, contact the parent unit for missing
      data. If force gain becomes a viable option see 11.3.1. A force gain becomes a
      consideration when a student who arrives for training does not have a valid OTA TLN in
      TTMS for the course they seek to attend.
      11.1.6. Prerequisite Issues. The instructor immediately identifies students arriving out
      of compliance with prerequisites outlined in ETCA and coordinates with the IS. The IS
      will notify the appropriate TM for disposition. The schoolhouse will send MRTP-funded
      members home upon determination that they are ―unqualified‖ or do not meet
      ―prerequisites‖. They return home at the unit’s expense with the unit responsible for the
      total cost of the TDY.
      11.1.7. Guard/Reserve Entry Issues. Enter NPS ANG and AFRC students into
      scheduled class dates if in-processing has not been completed, when possible. When
48                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     NPS ANG/AFRC arrivals are identified as being unqualified for any reason, instructors
     immediately notify ANG/AFRC liaison, as appropriate. An AETC Form 125A with the
     following additional information: the home unit, course start date, reason for
     disqualification, TLN, and the date of arrival is required to document the disqualification
     action. The ANG liaison coordinates with NGB/A1DC and the member’s unit to obtain
     another quota or AFSC for which the member qualifies. The ARC liaison contacts
     AFRC/A1KE and provides quota information.
     11.1.8. Permanent Party Formal Quotas. Permanent party students meet formal
     training requirements by official enrollment and attendance in established courses with
     quotas allocated by 2 AF/TTOC. Accomplish all reports to include student training
     reports and course completion certificates in a manner consistent with all other students.
     11.1.9. Enter Original Course Before Transfer. Enter students into the course for
     which they were originally intended/shipped (if feasible) and then course transfer the
     students to the new course, course version, or shred. If not feasible to enter the student
     into the originally intended course, minimally use disqualification other (QX#) to code
     pre-entry initial skills students who were scheduled and in-processed against one AFSC,
     but administratively directed to move to another AFSC or shred. Document transfers and
     pre-entry changes with an AETC Form 125A.
     11.1.10. Auditing a Class. 2 AF/TTOC-S is the final approval authority for audits
     based on the prerequisite of prior coordination and approval of the TM. Only by
     exception should a student be permitted to audit (sit through or observe) a course or a
     portion of a course for the knowledge. If training is a true requirement, formal
     enrollment and official credit is recommended and is not given under audit conditions. If
     audit permission is granted, neither measurement during training nor credit for training is
     allowed. The student does not appear on the class roster and receives no record of
     training. Only allow an audit if there is an available seat in a non-validation course.
     Note: Auditing any part of the course disqualifies a student for Distinguished Graduate if
     they take the course for credit later since it gives the student additional exposure and an
     unfair advantage.
     11.1.11. Type 6 Distance Learning (DL). Type 6 is technical training delivered to
     students at their current location without a HQ AETC instructor physically present. Type
     6 is also known as Type 6 formal technical training, exportable training, and Advanced
     Distributed Learning (ADL). The Type 6 DL POC is the organization or person at the
     receiving site responsible for all aspects of distributed learning training administration.
        11.1.11.1. Students are authorized to attend Type 6 courses through prior
        suballocation of their names (referred to as ―by name suballocation‖) in OTA and the
        generation of accompanying front-end TLNs. Additionally, students may enroll
        through the AETC Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) and back-end
        (after-the-fact) TLN generation.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                  49


Table 11.1. Centrally Managed and MAJCOM Managed Type 6 Suballocations.
    Type 6 Course          Suballocation Accomplished By/Student Enrollment Managed By
    Managed
1   Centrally              The Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC)
2   By MAJCOM              The MAJCOM TRQI owner

Table 11.2. Type 6 Organizer – Student Tracking
    Type of Training          Role in Student        Action – Student Accounting
                              Accounting
1   Type 6 in General         Type 6 Instructor /    Course design and delivery dictates the
                              DGR / Automated        process and timing to input student data
                              Entry
2   Type 6 – front end TLN    AFPC Call Center/      AFPC Call Center Personnel enroll students
    process including         Type 6 DL POC /        with essential student registration data
    centrally –managed        Type 6 DL Instructor   initiating the front end TLN process. The
    courses                   or DGR                 Type 6 DL POC sends course entry and
                                                     completion data to the TRG via AETC
                                                     Form 325 and the Type 6 DL instructor or
                                                     DGR inputs student data into TTMS.
3   LMS-delivered and/or      Partially-automated;   Courses designed for self-enrollment
    managed including LMS     no front end TLN –     delivered via ADLS that require a proctored
    proctored test and TTMS   Type 6 DL POC,         test. Interface automates the entry process;
    interface                 Type 6 DL Instructor   automatic entry awaiting graduation and test
                              or DGR                 score. Type 6 DL POC sends AETC Form
                                                     325. Type 6 DL Instructor or DGR enters
                                                     graduation code and grade fields into TTMS
4   LMS-delivered and/or      Automated, no front    Courses designed for self-enrollment with
    managed with TTMS         end TLN and student    no requirement for a proctored test and
    interface and no          accounting             delivered via ADLS do not require manual
    proctored test            automated after        entry of student data Students enroll via
    requirement               course completion      ADLS; automated Entry and Grad after the
                                                     fact. The registrar generates the AETC
                                                     Form 325 as a TTMS report.

Table 11.3. Type 6 DL Process.
    Action              Centrally Managed and MAJCOM Managed Type 6 DL
1   Student entry       The DGR records the entry information in TTMS or on AETC Form
                        325. Note: Refer to Table 11.2, lines 3 and 4 for automated entry
                        process.
2   Enrollment tracking DGR tracks to identify students exceeding prescribed completion time,
                        if applicable.
 50                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


   Action               Centrally Managed and MAJCOM Managed Type 6 DL
3  Student completes    Students go to an authorized Type 6 DL POC to take the End of
   training             Course test.
4  Student passes test  Student annotates course, name, SSN, rank and unit on AETC Form
                        325.
5 Validation of AETC Type 6 DL POC or instructor validates accuracy. See instructions for
   Form 325             AETC Form 325 at Attachment 9.
6 Forwarding of         Type 6 DL POC or instructor forwards to DGR.
   AETC Form 325
7 Receipt of            DGR records the graduation information in TTMS. Note: Refer to
   graduation AETC      Table 11.2, line 4 for automated graduation process.
   Form 325
8 Student requests      TRG may approve extensions to completion time at its discretion if the
   completion time      student has a legitimate reason for noncompletion within the prescribed
   extension            timeframe.
9 Withdrawal            Students may be withdrawn from training as a result of mission
                        requirements, emergency leave, medical, and any other reason beyond
                        the student’s control without enrollment penalty. The TRG will make
                        final determination of the student status in context of the underlying
                        situation.
Note: Elimination covered in paragraph 12.
       11.1.12. Entry after Elimination. Do not force gain students who are entering the same
       course after a previous elimination. Instead, contact the responsible TRQI for a new
       TLN. Once EE# is entered as a status code against the new TLN, the record will pass
       successfully across the reverse interface.
   11.2. Entry Priorities.
       11.2.1. For IST, the approved plan for training is the schedule programmed into TPS.
       Approved by the Group Quality Review Council and 2 AF/TTOC and flowed to OTA
       and TTMS, these schedules are used to build the Accession Plan which drives recruiting
       goals.
       11.2.2. Enter students into training according to the schedules in TPS. The TM approves
       deviations to the schedule, if required.
       11.2.3. If possible, enter any ADAF NPS, ANG or AFRC students (arriving late for class
       due to delayed BMT graduation) in the next available class on a priority basis. Use the
       TTMS BMT Upfront data to identify students arriving late from BMT.
       11.2.4. Consider returning TDY students only when no other alternative is available;
       coordinate with the TRF and TRS/CCs, the home unit, the TRQI manager, and the ANG
       and AFRC liaisons, as appropriate.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                    51


Table 11.4. Priorities for Entries into a Class
1   Members with TLN for Specific CSD
2   Foreign Nationals without a TLN
3   TDY without a TLN
4   NPS without a TLN

Table 11.5. Guidance on Handling Various Entry Situations.
    Crs   CSD Entry Situation          Instructor TM Action
1   IST   Available students in a      Notifies   Designate students awaiting entry to fill the
          TRQI exceed                  TM         available seats according to Table 11.4.
          programmed seats and                    Notify the Registrar Section.
          class size can be
          expanded
2   IST   Available students in a      Notifies    TM contacts TRQI owner/owning unit for
          TRQI exceed                  TM          disposition instructions
          programmed seats and
          class size cannot be
          expanded
3   IST   Programmed class seats       Notifies    Designate students awaiting entry to fill the
          exceed available students    TM          available seats. Notify Registrar.
4   Other The students available for   Notifies    Determine whether to teach those present or
          entry is less than the       TM          coordinates with the home unit, TRF,
          minimum class size                       TRS/CC, TRQI manager and the ANG and
                                                   AFRC liaisons (as appropriate) to move the
                                                   students to another suitable alternative course,
                                                   hold in SATS until the next CSD, or return.
    11.3. Force Gains
       *11.3.1. Force Gain by Exception. A force gain is an option when a member arrives for a
       course without a TLN and it is no longer feasible to flow a quota to the projected class. A
       force gain executes a TRQI quota (and potentially allocates a seat to one member that
       may have been intended for another member). It is important for the TM to be aware of
       what was planned and approved for TRQI allocations for a given class. The programmed
       plan is the primary consideration. In addition, it is important to determine who approved
       the member to come to training before force gaining the member. If a student arrives for
       training and the student’s record is not available in TTMS or is missing essential
       information and the event is considered a necessary exception (TM and registrar call),
       enter the student through a force gain after coordinating with the TRQI. Force gain as an
       option should not become a pattern from any TRQI unless it is part of a larger strategy as
       it is for some distance learning courses. Type 6 DL courses avoiding upfront TLN
       processing may use an automated version of force gain as an acceptable ADL strategy.
       Faculty Development Units may force gain students using their local TRQI code and 982
       TRG detachment production supervisors/schedulers may force gain students in Type 4
52                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     courses using their AJ40 TRQI code more frequently due to often unpredictable
     enrollment of students. When registrars identify a problematic force gain trend (a regular
     and predictable occurrence of preventable events – a percentage greater than 2% tied to a
     TRQI), they may elevate it to the TRG and/or 2 AF to counter a TRQIs abuse of the
     system as necessary. Do not force gain contractors as they require contract provision
     verification IAW ETCA before entering training through a TRQI generated TLN. Use the
     Force Gain Application of the Student Management section of TTMS with the student’s
     training orders as a source document during the force gain process. In addition, use the
     Force Gain Completion Table (Attachment 10, Table A10.1) or similar template to
     organize and transfer mandatory force gain information. Note: See Attachment 10, for
     information required for a force gain.
     11.3.2. Accuracy in Matching Key Personnel Information. Force gain errors can
     potentially affect a student’s upgrade training, promotion, or pay. Registrars/TMs will
     take extreme caution when matching up key information in TTMS (student names
     MILSTAT, and SSNs) with OTA to minimize interface rejects.
     11.3.3. International Students. If an IMS arrives to the technical school not loaded in
     TTMS/OTA, contact the IMSO immediately before attempting to force gain the student.
     *11.3.4. Do not force gain an ANG member into any course without first coordinating
     with the appropriate liaison.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           53




Table 11.6. Force Gain Actions in TTMS.
    Student     No                     Yes                Result            POC
    Previously
    Attended
    TTMS
    Training at
    the TRG
    (The
    Student Has
    a Record in
    TTMS)
1   Step 1      Enter the student’s                       Creates a         TM
                name, SSN, domain                         personnel
                and organization.                         record in
                (100% accuracy                            TTMS
                required)
2   Step 2      Record student         Record student     Puts student onInstructor,
                status against a PDS   status against a   class roster   Instructor
                class                  PDS class          with a hold    Supervisor or MTL
                                                          TLN.           responsible for
                                                                         entering student
                                                                         status in TTMS
3 Step 3         Enter the Needs      Enter the Needs Creates a Force Registrar Section
                 Military Information Military           Gain TLN in     personnel or
                 Fields in the Force Information Fields TTMS.            Training Manager
                 Gain Window in       in the Force Gain Removes          approved by
                 TTMS by entering, Window in TTMS individual from Wing/Group
                 Grade, Gender,       by entering Grade, Force Gain
                 Military Status,     Gender, Military screen in
                 TRQI, Quota Type Status, TRQI,          TTMS. Sends
                 and Travel Status    Quota Type and to OTA on the
                                      Travel Status      next data flow.
Always use OTA to validate accuracy of force gain data.
*Note: Refer to the TTMS User’s Manual for instructions on completing applicable steps.
    11.4. OTA Quota Status Codes. These one-character codes indicate the status of the
    training quota in OTA. A, B, and C represent active quotas.
 54                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 11.7. OTA Quota Status Code Meanings.
      Code     Meaning
1     A        Quota suballocated to FSS/FSMP/FSMC; quota
               unconfirmed.
2     B        Suballocated quota confirmed by FSS/FSMP/FSMC.
3     C        Quota confirmed by MAJCOM; no RIPs generated.
4     D        Quota cancelled; RIP forwarded to FSS/FSMP/FSMC.
5     E        Quota cancelled. No FSS/FSMP/FSMC RIPs
               generated.
6     F        Schedule module reservation.
7     G        Student entered into earlier class by Student
               Accounting.
    11.5. No Shows. A No Show is a programmed and suballocated seat where the scheduled or
    substituted student did not report to class on the CSD. It is important to track and resolve
    student quotas. Unless a quota is cancelled in OTA (as evidenced by a D or E quota status),
    a student status in TTMS should accompany the quota. If the student did not arrive for
    training but the name was visible in TTMS or OTA, notify the TM on CSD. The TM will
    contact the TRQI to determine status and whether to record a no show action against the
    student. However, if student has not reported to class, the NS event must be recorded within
    one duty day. (Exception: gain concurrence from Guard or Reserve liaison before entering
    no show on Guard or Reserve member. Recording a no-show cancels the TLN and has
    adverse impacts on their accounting system). If student arrives after the NS is recorded,
    cancel the NS and perform standard student management, recording absence time as
    appropriate for unattended training hours.

Table 11.8. Gathering Info to Determine Whether to Record or Cancel No Shows.
      Categories             Responsibility
1     NPS                   MTL determines status of student whether no show or delayed
                            arrival from BMT.
2     NPS                   TM contacts Guard/Reserve liaison or POC and receives
      Guard/Reserve         confirmation that a Guard/Reserve student is a no show or
                            delayed arrival for the class.
3     TDY                   TM contacts Guard/Reserve liaison or POC and receives
      Guard/Reserve         confirmation that a Guard/Reserve student is a no show or
                            delayed arrival for the class.
4     TDY Students,         TM contacts Sister Service liaison or TRQI if no liaison assigned
      Sister Services       to determine status of student whether no show or delayed
                            arrival.
5     Others                TM contacts TRQI manager and receives confirmation that
                            student is a no show or delayed arrival for the class.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                            55


   11.6. Class Leaders. TRSs determine criteria for selection of class leader.     Instructor
   selects a class leader on the first day of class.
   11.7. Civilian Students. Civilian employees may be expected to complete homework
   during the training program. Do not assign civilian students details or other out-of-class
   activities beyond the standard 8-hour training day. If homework beyond the 8-hour training
   day is required for civilian students, specify in the course announcement listed in ETCA.
   There is no compensation or reimbursement for training beyond the 8-hour day.
12. Student Status Management.
   12.1. TTMS Student Status Codes.
      12.1.1. Student status codes are three-digit codes that indicate temporary or permanent
      training statuses.
 56                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 12.1. Student Status Code Explanation.
      Student Status    Meaning
      Code Digit
1     1                 Identifies the general purpose of the code
2     2                 Gives additional information
3     3                 Gives information about the type of training (fundamental or
                        equipment – F or E) or the status of the departing student (eliminee or
                        graduate – L or G.)
         12.1.2. Student status codes are three-digit codes that indicate temporary or permanent
         training statuses.

Table 12.2. below summarizes potential values of the first digit of the key student status
code categories.

Table 12.2. Student Status Codes – First Digit Values.
    Code:      Temporary Code Final Code (Terminal Status Codes)
    First
    Digit
1   A          Awaiting
2   E          Entry
3   F          Forecast Arrival
4   G          Graduation *        Graduation
5   H                              Departure
6   I          Ineffective-in-
               Training
7 L            Elimination *         Elimination
8 N                                  No Show
9 Q                                  Disqualification
10 R                                 Recall
11 S           Out of Training
12 T                                 Transfer (Ends a training session)
13 V           Advancement
14 W           Washback
15 Z           In-processing
* When a student does not depart the base within 24 hours after being graduated or eliminated,
the G or E status is not final: the next temporary status would be S, then the final status is H.
         12.1.3. Some student training action codes (transfers, advancements, and washbacks)
         must be followed by an entry student status in TTMS.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                  57


Table 12.3. Student Training Action Codes.
    Code: First Digit        Temporary Code      Follow-on Code
1   T                        Transfer            EN#
2   V                        Advancement         EV#
3   W                        Washback            EW#
       12.1.4. Refer to Attachment 11 for a comprehensive list of student training status codes.
    12.2. Entries into Technical Training.
       12.2.1. At point of entry into training, instructors record an ET# code in TTMS to
       indicate an original entry in the courses. ET# has significance in production metrics
       when comparing the actual entries by TRQI category against the programmed entries in
       that category.
       12.2.2. After initial entry into a course, students are assumed to remain in training unless
       a terminal event is recorded. At the end of training (elimination or graduation),
       instructors and MTLs resolve the TTMS student status of all departed students by
       recording the appropriate terminal status code. Terminal events include no shows,
       disqualifications, recalls, eliminations, graduations, transfers (ends a training session
       related to one course while the entry from transfer begins a training session in another)
       and departures.
    12.3. Absences.
       12.3.1. Absence is a short-term condition that acknowledges a student missed class time
       but is not a status change in TTMS. The instructor records all absences from training in
       TTMS; annotate the reason in the Comment Block when recording the learning event.
       12.3.2. Some students’ absences require special treatment. (See Table 12.4.)

Table 12.4. Treatment of Absences.
    Student Type      Report Absence To
1   Civilian          The home unit or supervisor for the purpose of adjusting leave records.
2   NPS               The appropriate MTF.
3   NPS ANG/AFRC      The base ARC liaison.
4   International     The IMSO immediately by telephone.
       *12.3.3. Some events that result in temporary suspension of classes will require make up
       time because they fall on one or more of AETC’s 246 required training days (Examples:
       Wingman Day, Family Day, weather-related downtime, HQ-approved events). Do not
       record this time in TTMS on the student as ineffective or absent. Record a comment
       associated with the event resulting in temporary suspension of classes through TTMS
       Student Management (Admin/Act) identifying the activity or event resulting in
       downtime, the event date, how the training was made up and other pertinent information.
       Except for weather or unplanned emergencies leading to downtime, course owners will
       make up the training objectives without extending the course length or changing the
       CGD. Take appropriate steps to make up missed objectives through special individual
58                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     assistance (SIA), homework or additional training time, as appropriate. For weather or
     unplanned emergencies, course owners will make reasonable attempts to make up the
     training objectives without extending the course length or changing the CGD. When this
     proves impractical, they will include a TTMS comment (Admin Act) explaining the
     situation.
     12.3.4. Wash back students who incur excessive absences or fail to meet standards.
     Course personnel determine which portion(s) of the course students must repeat.
     12.3.5. International students may be excused from training for participation in the DoD
     Field Studies Program (FSP) when training is not adversely impacted. The IMSO
     provides a written invitation for coordination by the instructor to permit the student to
     attend any FSP training activity. The instructor annotates permission to attend/not attend
     based on the impact to each student’s training situation. Document any training lost due
     to Department of Defense Field Studies Program (DoD FSP) as an absence; do not place
     the student IIT. Upon approval of the training flight or designated representative,
     coordinate excusals from training with the TRS/CC or the Faculty Development Chief
     who have final approving authority.
  12.4. Ineffective.
     12.4.1. Use Ineffective in Training Status (IITS) to account for students temporarily
     removed from training but expected to return to the current course. Use this status for
     full missed days. Record part of a missed day as an absence and place the student IIT
     effective the first full day of the absence. The student remains in IITS until returned to or
     is eliminated from training. TTMS automatically captures ineffective time at the point
     where a subsequent code other than IITS is recorded on the student. Record a reentry
     into the same course, class on the student as an (ER#). Use of IIT is not appropriate for
     type 4 FTD, MTT, or Type 6 DL training. At the point a type 4 field training detachment
     (FTD) student has missed sufficient training time to preclude return to the current class,
     withdraw that student from training. Withdraw students unable to complete Type 6 DL
     from training due to duty or deployment commitments.
     *12.4.2. When a student has been temporarily removed from a class or from further
     progressing in training pending elimination, record the ineffective code that most closely
     applies to the situation until the commander makes a decision.
     12.4.3. Use IITS for any of the following reasons: confinement, leave, awaiting reentry
     into training (same course), medical, security, excessive absence (including absent
     without leave [AWOL]), awaiting class start, administrative action, academic failure,
     and/or performance failure.
         12.4.3.1. Use IX# for a hold on a student for disciplinary reasons.
     12.4.4. Place students ineffective for medical reasons using the IM# TTMS status code.
     If that student has a medical condition that either disqualifies him or her from meeting the
     standards for continued military service or from performing the duties in the member’s
     current career field or both, the commander decides whether to place that student on
     medical hold which temporarily retains the member in the AF. If medical hold is
     approved, the MTL enters a comment in TTMS to indicate the medical hold approval and
     the date of approval.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               59


        12.4.4.1. The TRF/CC or TRS/CC weighs the input of the concerned student,
        pertinent medical information, standards for continued military service (AFI 48-123,
        Medical Examination and Standards), as well as how the medical condition impacts
        the qualifications of the student to handle the specific duties of his/her career field.
        Reference the Enlisted Classification Directory (ECD) or the Officer Classification
        Directory (OCD). The commander carefully analyzes available information relative
        to the best interests of the impacted AFSC and the AF to reach a determination on the
        disposition of any student with a prolonged medical condition. The decision whether
        a member can continue in the current training/AFSC is a local one based upon the
        member’s abilities (Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) input) and the job
        requirements (school, commander, FSS input).
        12.4.4.2. The TRS/CC may begin the elimination from training process on a student
        with a prolonged medical condition at anytime when a student is medically
        ineffective given an official diagnoses and prognosis from the Flight Surgeon or MD
        that conclusively shows the student’s medical condition either disqualifies him/her
        from performing the duties of the current career field, renders him/her unable to meet
        the standards for continued military service, or exceeds the 60 ineffective medical
        training day limit (approximately 3 calendar months). ARC students receiving
        medical treatment are required to have a Line of Duty (LOD) generated by medical
        provider and forwarded to appropriate ARC liaison.
 60                                                        AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 12.5. Medical Hold Decision Points While Ineffective in Training.
      Situation (Medical           Guidance                Additional Points
      Hold)
 1    Student medically          Get a determination       Note: AF Form 422, Notification of
      ineffective for < = to 60  from the Flight Surgeon   Air Force Member’s Qualification
      training days:             or MD on the exact        Status may authorize student to return
                                 nature of the medical     to training IAW instructions and
                                 condition.                limitations noted on form.
 2    If the Flight Surgeon or The TRF/CC or               Note: If the condition or defect is
      MD determines that the TRS/CC weighs all             disqualifying or fails to meet the
      condition is disqualifying input and                 criteria noted in Enlisted
      for the AFSC or military recommendations and         Classification Directory (ECD) or
      service and the condition may eliminate the          Officer Classification Directory
      will last indefinitely     student or seek medical   (OCD) for the AFSC, HQ
      beyond 60 training days hold or administrative       AETC/SGP will not grant a medical
      (approximately 3           exception.                hold to the criteria noted in AFI 48-
      calendar months):                                    123 without the written concurrence
                                                           from the AF career field manager
                                                           (AFCFM). (Reason: AETC/SG does
                                                           not set the criteria for the AFSCs,
                                                           therefore if one fails to meet AFSC
                                                           specific criteria and the SGP
                                                           unilaterally waives the condition the
                                                           AFCFMs criteria for that AFSC is
                                                           undermined).
 3    Medical condition fails      If medical hold sought: Submit all documentation and obtain
      the standard for                                     medical hold through AETC/SGP.
      continued military service
      (AFI 48-123) and not
      those standards required
      by the AFSC (AFI
      ECD/OCD)
 4    Medical condition            If administrative       Submit package to AFCFM to obtain
      disqualifies student for     exception sought:       administrative exception.
      AFSC IAW ECD; OCD.
 5    Documentation for            The Flight Surgeon or   TRS/CC submits support letter along
      medical holds and            MD at the Medical       with medical hold request or request
      administrative               Treatment Facility      for administrative exception. If
      exceptions:                  provides all the        medical condition fails the standard
                                   necessary supporting    for continued military service and
                                   documentation (i.e.     disqualifies the member to perform
                                   Narrative Summary and   essential duties in the career field,
                                   AF Form 422).           submit the official approval of
                                                           administrative exception from the
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                     61


      Situation (Medical        Guidance                  Additional Points
      Hold)
                                                           AFCFM along with the medical hold
                                                           request.
 6    Time period before re-      Every 60 ineffective     Flight Surgeon updates information
      evaluating members who medical days                  and status on AF Form 422. TRS/CC
      are on medical hold:        (approximately 3         has another decision point on
                                  months).                 elimination or retention of member.
 7    TRS/CC may appeal to If medical condition            Initiation of this process is
      local Medical Treatment will last more than a        independent from decision to
      Facility for long term      year or the condition is eliminate the student; commander
      diagnosis and initiation of disqualifying for        may elect to proceed with elimination
      Medical Examination         continued military       process during the MEB process.
      Board (MEB).                service:
            12.4.4.3. The TRS/CC and/or TRF/CC requests the Medical Treatment Facility
            HIPAA representative furnish the diagnoses from the medical file to complete the
            AETC Form 125A.
            12.4.4.4. The TRS/CC may have sufficient justification to eliminate a member from
            training and/or the AFSC when recurrent medical conditions cumulatively result in
            the loss of 60 or more training days, even when the member improved enough to
            return to training one or more times during the time period.

Table 12.6. Ineffective-In-Training Responsibilities.
     POC     Action
1    TRF     Reports IIT student in TTMS.
2    MTF     Notifies the TRG of IIT student’s availability to return to
             class.
3    TRF     Determines the earliest possible return to class for IIT
             student.
4    MTF/TRF Updates TTMS when IIT student’s status changes.
     12.5. Special Individual Assistance (SIA).
        12.5.1. Provide SIA (personal remediation) for students who have difficulty attaining the
        required level of achievement. SIA is mandatory for students (except civilians) during
        probationary continuation and is optional during washback. Notify the MTL when a
        student is assigned SIA outside the normal training day. Civilian students may be
        scheduled for voluntary SIA outside the training day, but overtime compensation is not
        authorized.
        12.5.2. Administer SIA to one or several students at a time depending on the nature of
        the training and the learning objective. A qualified instructor supervises SIA in a training
        environment appropriate to the objective. The IS monitors the SIA program to ensure
        adequacy and completeness.
62                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     12.5.3. The instructor annotates the SIA hours in TTMS. When SIA is conducted within
     the training day, do not duplicate this time in the total student hours in TTMS. Record
     and report absences from mandatory SIA (outside of the eight-hour training day) in
     TTMS.
  12.6. Washbacks.
     12.6.1. Course personnel may allow students with excessive absences or performance
     below acceptable standards to repeat parts of the course to bring them up to standards.
     Determine the training the student will repeat and document the authorized repeat as a
     washback in TTMS.
     12.6.2. The IS should have students washed back or eliminated from training remain in
     class until course personnel complete the washback/elimination action (AETC Form
     125A signed). When a student remains in class, place the student in a block up to but not
     later than the one not successfully completed. Do not administer measurement devices.
     Record the student training hours in TTMS as ineffective.
     *12.6.3. When washing a student back, course personnel may place a student back into a
     block that the student already successfully completed to position the student in the new
     class to repeat the entire block they failed. While the student attends the block they
     already successfully completed, the student attends class, but course personnel will not
     administer measurement. While attending the block of instruction already successfully
     completed, place the student in IITS—IF# (if generated from academic failure), IR (if
     generated from performance failure) and IX - Other (if coming off some other ineffective
     status). Upon reentry into the block of training the student will formally repeat, perform
     washback and entry from washback actions in TTMS. However, if the washback action
     would result in a transfer into a class having a new course number (indicating a new
     course version), the Registrar Section verifies in TTMS Student Management and OTA
     that the old course and all of its components are valid and then center generates a class in
     the old course. Perform the washback and entry from washback action using this center
     generated class in the old course. Once course personnel enter the student into training
     (EW* status is complete), the Registrar Section course transfers the student into the
     appropriate class in the new course version.
     12.6.4. The approval authority for washback is the IS. The TRS/CC approves all
     washback decisions for students with two or more previous washbacks. For prerequisite
     courses with follow-on courses, the approving TRS/CC briefs any special circumstances
     associated with the action and coordinates with the follow-on TRS/CC.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                    63




*Table 12.7. TTMS Actions Regarding Washbacks.
    Washed Back Student                 Record in TTMS
*1 Reentered into failed block or       W## and EW# (You must provide a brief explanation for
   block of training to be repeated     the washback in the comments field.)
   on the same day as the washback
*2 Must wait to re-enter failed block   I## the following day; W## and EW# on the day student
   or the block of training to be       re-enters beginning of the failed block or block of training
   repeated in the next class           to be repeated. (You must provide a brief explanation for
                                        the washback in the comments field.)

Table 12.8. Washback Provisions for Certain Student Types.
    Student Type        TRS Coordinates
1   MRTP TDY to         Prior approval of washback that could result in a training delay of 7
    School              training days or more with 2 AF/TTOC and HQ AETC/FMAM for
                        orders amendment.
2   Pipeline and TDY    Prior approval of washback that could result in a training delay of 7
    Enroute to PCS      training days or more with 2 AF/TTOC and AETC/FMAM for orders
                        amendment and funding.
3   ARC                 With ARC liaison needed orders extension who contacts member’s unit.
4   International       Contact IMSO who will make necessary contacts to determine if
                        students should be washed back.
    12.7. Center Generated Classes (CGCs).
       12.7.1. A CGC is an unprogrammed class containing no seat allocations and therefore
       not impacting programmed numbers and associated metrics. Create CGCs only at the
       direction of the TM and only when use of a programmed class is not feasible. For
       example, use CGCs to move washbacks when no existing class is available or no seat is
       available in a given class. Note for Initial skills courses: Prior to a TM creating CGCs
       in multi-course pipelines, the TM must receive coordination/concurrence with all other
       TMs (in writing) to ensure that there will not be adverse impacts to prior/follow-on
       course(s). If feasible, do not enter students directly into center-generated classes (i.e.,
       class-transfer students from a programmed class into a center-generated class).
       12.7.2. Do not use CGCs to train students in courses unapproved and/or not activated in
       the TPS and not properly flowed from TTMS Course Design and Development to TTMS
       Student Management.
    12.8. Probationary Continuation (PC).
       12.8.1. PC allows a student to progress with the current class when additional work is
       required to bring the student’s performance to an acceptable level. A qualified instructor
       will administer SIA and retest the student when ready. PC may be the appropriate
 64                                                        AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


         solution for a student in a low flow course where a washback will result in an excessive
         delay.
         12.8.2. At the point of PC, the instructor or IS records ―test fail‖ action in TTMS without
         entering the block completion action/grade and makes the appropriate remarks. The
         student continues with his/her class into the next block of instruction. Before the next
         block test, the student must have successfully completed the failed block. When the
         student takes the block retest, record the retest pass score and record the minimum
         passing score for the "block pass", along with any appropriate remarks. If the student
         failed the retest, record the test failure in TTMS and place the student ineffective in
         preparation for wash back or elimination.
    12.9. Advancement in Training.
         12.9.1. Proficiency advancement (PA) is a means to reduce training time for uniquely
         qualified students who demonstrate proficiency and have an available class to which they
         may advance.
         12.9.2. PA retrainees or prior service students who have documented previous technical
         training or civilian equivalent training that contains subjects that are part of the current
         course and have applied the training within the last three years. Students must be able to
         pass all measurement devices associated with blocks, modules or units of training. The
         IS coordinates with TRF/CC or chief and receives written approval from the TM before
         taking PA action. Exception: 982 TRG: When PA is appropriate, the GSU CC/chief
         directs the instructor to administer to the student the designated measurement device.
         12.9.3. Document PA in TTMS with a V## action code. Record the specifics of the PA
         in the comments block when recording the V## learning event.

Table 12.9. Notification as Impacted by Changes in Grad Dates.
      If the Graduation Date is Advanced     Notify via e-mail (as appropriate) the
1     During the last 2 weeks of the class   MTF, Registrar Section, ANG/AFRC Liaison
2     More than 5 duty days in an IST        TM, Registrar Section, FSS, MTF
      course
3     During the last 2 weeks of training    TM, Registrar Section, FSS, MTF
    12.10. Prerequisite Waivers.
         12.10.1. TMs refer to AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program Training Management,
         for information on prerequisite waivers to IST.
         12.10.2. TMs approve waivers of required training when the student can provide
         documentation of equivalent training. Attach justification for the waiver to the TTMS
         Student Accounting and Attendance Record.
         12.10.3. TDY students who the TM determines do not meet course prerequisites, as
         stated in ETCA, may be returned to their home station at the expense of their MAJCOM.
         The TM recommends the return, via email, which is forwarded through IS, TRF/CC, and
         TRS/CC to TRG/CC for approval. For ARC students, notify the appropriate ARC
         training liaison.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               65


  12.11. Individual Training Deficiencies.
     12.11.1. Some individuals with a temporary condition may not be able to perform the
     practical phase (hands on) of training, but may be able to attend academic training. The
     attending physician or profile office records appropriate restriction on AF Form 422 and
     send copies to training and personnel authorities.
     12.11.2. Such students receive a training deficiency letter. Coordinate the letter with the
     AFCFM prior to student graduation. The AFCFM approves receipt of the AFSC pending
     certification on items not trained.
  12.12. Transfers.
     12.12.1. A class transfer is a transfer between individual classes in the same course.
     Accomplish this in TTMS by assigning the student to a new PDSCLASS.
     12.12.2. A course transfer is a transfer from one course to another, frequently involving
     the change of AFSC or shred. In TTMS, the registrar section or designee is responsible
     to do the transfer action in TTMS to move the student between courses or shreds, using
     the appropriate T## code. The instructor or IS then does the appropriate entry code
     (EN#) to place the student in the new course.
     12.12.3. Submit an AETC Form 125A, without training or counseling records, to 2
     AF/TTOC Det 1 to process course transfers related to the following AFSCs: 1P0X1,
     2A0X1, 2A3X1, 2A3X2, 2A3X3, 2A5X1, 2A5X2, 2A5X3, 2A6X1, 2M0X1, 2T3X2,
     2W1X1, 4N0X1, 4N1X1, 4Y0X1, 4Y0X2. Document the action in TTMS. Exception:
     This does not apply to TTMS transfers resulting from implementation of new versions of
     existing courses.
         12.12.3.1. Annotate in the summary section of the AETC Form 125A that this is an
         administrative action to change the shred within the same AFSC. (Note: Such actions
         are not considered elimination/reclassification actions and will not count against
         future reclassification consideration.) Use the TC transfer code to document the
         action in TTMS. Also include in the summary section the justification for the course
         transfer and the new CSD and CGD.
         12.12.3.2. Email requests to the 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 for final approval/disapproval. 2
         AF/TTOC Det 1 will email the approval/disapproval decision to the TM and AFPC
         assignments. Note: The TRG/CC is responsible for oversight of course/shred
         transfers and should be aware of the impact these decisions make on production
         across career fields. For course transfers, the recommending official level is the
         course training manager or higher. Reasons for course transfer might be pregnancy or
         personnel reliability program (PRP) disqualification.
  12.13. Accelerated Training and Delayed Graduation.
     12.13.1. Accelerated Training is training that can be accomplished more quickly than
     programmed due to reasons such as small class size, previous experience of students, etc.
     12.13.2. The TM approves classes that graduate early or late mindful of potential
     student-man-year ramifications (delayed graduation) and patterns requiring training plan
     amendments. In addition, regardless of the number of accelerated or delayed days, add a
     comment in TTMS. If either accelerated or delayed graduation occurs in an imbalanced
66                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     way consistently weighted toward one or the other, adjusting course parameters and
     gaining approval for an amended training plan is required. Any change in grad dates
     (accelerated or delayed) should show realistic contact hours and include brief comments
     providing the reason. If MRT TDY funds are in any way impacted by late graduation of
     seven days or more, including the current course or any follow-on course, coordination
     with 2 AF/TTOC and AETC/FMAM is mandatory. The TM notifies the Registrar
     Section of graduation deviations. Where the CGD is advanced five training days or
     more, the TM notifies the FSS to initiate orders amendments, if necessary. Notify the
     ARC liaisons and the IMSO, as appropriate.
     12.13.3. Whether group-paced or lockstep, an early graduation is still technically
     accelerated training and is appropriately marked as such (Accel-Pass). The instructor
     changes the block time in the Block Component to reflect the actual completion time.
     Add a comment when recording the graduation training event to indicate why course
     personnel accelerated the block and state ―All course objectives have been met; there is
     no training deficiency.‖ Similarly comment on delayed graduation briefly capturing the
     reason for the delay (time loss due to equipment repair, simulator nonavailability, etc)
  12.14. Counseling.
     12.14.1. Inform students of their academic progress throughout the course and counsel
     them as soon as any problem is detected. Counsel students whose attitude and behavior
     do not meet Air Force standards. Record serious deficiencies, trends of poor
     performance, and any other academic, discipline or conduct problems.
     12.14.2. Use AETC Form 173, Student Record of Academic Counseling and Comments,
     for academic and performance counselings.           Describe the academic or course
     performance deficiency in a short, concise narrative summary and identify the root cause
     for the deficiency. Use AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling, to document
     nonacademic counseling such as military standards infractions and any infraction where
     the member departs from standards of conduct, bearing, and integrity, on or off duty.
     Reference AETCI 36-2216. Keep counseling forms in the student’s record at all times
     throughout training.
     12.14.3. Document the reason (PC failure, block failure, safety violation, attitude,
     military standard, etc.), and date of counseling in TTMS. Additional TTMS comments, if
     included, will be in a brief synopsis format and will not duplicate counseling details
     already captured on the AETC Form 173 or AF Form 174.
  12.15. Discipline. Coordinate matters of classroom discipline between the MTF and
  academic schoolhouse.
  12.16. Students Out of Training (SOTs). Place Tech Training students who have
  graduated or been eliminated from training but did not depart the base in SOTS within 24
  hours. Students in SOT status will typically have several SOT codes prior to departing the
  base. Update SOT codes as necessary to ensure the status is current and accurate. For
  example, SL# is used when the security clearance is the issue, but change to SX# when the
  clearance has been granted and the student is awaiting orders. Do not use SC# if the student
  had an assignment and orders but was delayed due to an assignment swap. Ensure the proper
  departure code is recorded (H##) when they actually depart the base.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 67


  12.17. Eliminations and Reclassifications.
     12.17.1. Elimination from Training. Once a student is entered into training, there must
     be an event to end the training. If the student does not graduate, eliminate or withdraw
     the student from training. Document all elimination/withdrawal actions on AETC Form
     125A with the exception of non-centrally managed Type 6 DL and non-quota (no OTA
     TLN) Type 4 students. Do not hold up signing the AETC Form 125A awaiting
     disposition of the student, unless a legal or medical review is in process. If a legal review
     is pending, consult the Base Staff Judge Advocate before signing the AETC Form 125A.
     Refer to Table 12.14. for AETC Forms 125A processing guidelines.
     12.17.2. Removing Volunteer Status - Student-Initiated Elimination (SIE).
         12.17.2.1. Monitor student volunteer status. Volunteer status is a prerequisite to
         continue in certain career fields. Students who withdraw their volunteer status cannot
         continue in the career field or the associated pipeline courses. Students who graduate
         BMT and belong to Aircrew Operations (1AXXX); Combat Control/Special Tactics
         Officer; Pararescue/Combat Rescue Officer; Survival, Evasion, Resistance and
         Escape (SERE); Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD); Special Operations Weather
         Team (SOWT); Air Liaison Officer (ALO), or Officer Space and Missile Operations
         may not withdraw their volunteer status before they have officially entered the course
         of initial entry (COIE). TRG commanders may increase the time students must
         remain in the COIE before exercising the option to withdraw, as long as the
         requirement applies consistently to all students in the course.
         12.17.2.2. For AFSCs that have an SIE option, training personnel will verbally brief
         students during in-processing that if they exercise the SIE option, they will be subject
         to potential discharge. When a student exercises the SIE option, counsel them using
         the AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling that if they follow through with
         the SIE course of action, the commander can discharge them without further
         counseling. Have the student sign the AF Form 174 acknowledging the counseling.
         12.17.2.3. Use the code LE# (Elimination: self-initiated) for students who withdraw
         volunteer status after entering training. Only use the LE# code for student self-
         initiated withdrawal of volunteer status. TTMS LE# elimination code comments are
         mandatory and must accurately capture the student's rationale for self-elimination.
         The AETC Form 125A will clearly indicate that the student initiated withdrawal from
         the career field or a requirement of the career field. When a commander recommends
         discharge on the AETC Form 125A following SIE, comments will include that the
         member was briefed and counseled according to 12.17.2.2. (EXAMPLES: Career
         Enlisted Aviator (CEA) is a volunteer choice. The officer Space and Missile
         Operations career field, 13S, requires a member to sign a statement that they are
         willing to perform nuclear weapons duty during the commission portion of the
         pipeline. After course entry, elimination from a technical training course based on a
         refusal to sign this statement or a withdrawal of this statement after signature
         constitutes a self-elimination.) Maintaining this status is mandatory to remain in
         some career fields.
     12.17.3. Typical Reasons for Eliminations from Training. Refer to Attachment 11 for
     a complete list of possible reasons for eliminations.
 68                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


         12.17.4. Categories of Eliminations. There are two major categories of eliminations:
         academic and non academic, as noted in Table 12.10. Table 12.11 provides a more
         detailed explanation for each elimination type.

Table 12.10. Major Elimination Categories.
      Academic Eliminations       Non Academic Eliminations
1     Academic deficiency         Compassionate
2     Performance deficiency      Death – Other
3                                 Death – Training Related
4                                 Disciplinary
5                                 Medical
6                                 Misconduct
7                                 Personnel reliability program (PRP)
8                                 Prerequisite deficiency
9                                 Recall
10                                Security
11                                Self-initiated
12                                Separated
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              69


Table 12.11. Typical Elimination Categories and Explanations.
   Academic Eliminations        Explanation: A Student
1  Academic deficiency (LA)     Fails to achieve the required level of academic proficiency
                                during classroom training.
2 Performance deficiency (LR) Is unable to apply safety principles or satisfactorily complete
                                training tasks in a performance environment.
3 Non Academic Eliminations Explanation: A Student
4 Compassionate (LV)            Has an emergency or other unusual and/or unforeseeable
                                circumstance. If at the convenience of the AF, if the member
                                or immediate family suffers severe personal hardship and
                                emergency or ordinary leave will not ease the hardship,
                                eliminate for compassionate reasons. Include notification of
                                hardship in the supporting documentation for the AETC Form
                                125A. Coordinate with the registrar section, the 1st Sergeant
                                and commanders to determine when compassionate
                                elimination is appropriate.
5 Death – Other (LL)            Dies while in training but not during a training activity.
6 Death – Training Related      Dies while enrolled in training and during a training activity.
    (LQ)
7 Disciplinary (Military        Exhibits behavior, attitude, or lack of military bearing that
   Bearing) (LD)                prevents continuation in training. This is based on the
                                student’s overall behavior.
8 Medical (LM)                  Is diagnosed with either a chronic or temporary physical
                                condition (to include pregnancy) that will prevent the student
                                from beginning or continuing training within a reasonable
                                period of time (normally not to exceed three months.)
                                Squadron complies with notification procedures in Table 12.5.
9 Misconduct (Academic          Was involved in a test compromise, cheating, or a dishonest
   Behavior) (LI)               attempt/ completion of a course measurement or deliberately
                                failed a course measurement. This is academic behavior that
                                is within the student’s control. A student eliminated from a
                                course for misconduct will not be allowed to reapply to that
                                career field.
10 Personnel Reliability        Cannot be ensured to perform duties involving nuclear
   Program (PRP) (Analysis      weapons and meet the highest possible standards of reliability.
   required to determine root   This was determined either through an initial or a follow-up
   cause behind not meeting the evaluation of the student. Failure to acquire PRP certification
   requirements of this program may not be punitive in nature; most students are re-classified
   before coding the            into a career field that does not require PRP.
   elimination)
11 Prerequisite Deficiency (LP) Is determined to not meet the initial eligibility requirements
                                for a course.
 70                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


12 Recall (R##)                   Parent unit/state requests student returned home, due to
                                  extenuating circumstances or for disciplinary reasons.
13 Security (LS)                  Received unfavorable results of a security investigation or
                                  clearance was suspended or revoked. This also includes PRP
                                  issues.
14 Self-initiated (LE)            Withdraws volunteer status after entering training.
15 Separated (LG)                 Has been separated from the military; the elimination action is
                                  being done after the fact. This event is rare.
       12.17.5. Academic Deficiency/Performance Deficiency. Normally, do not consider
       students for elimination due to academic deficiency until exhausting all reasonable
       attempts to help the student succeed in the current course. (i.e., SIA, counseling,
       washback, etc.). Describe academic or performance deficiency (LA#, LR#) in a short,
       concise narrative summary in Block 2 of AETC Form 125A, (Attachment 12, Table
       A12.3), identifying the root cause for the deficiency.
       12.17.6. Disciplinary. Disciplinary (LD#), as a reason for elimination, indicates conduct
       detrimental to good order. This may involve behavior that prevents the accomplishment
       of training, a lack of responsibility toward assigned duties or continued military service,
       or other character disorders over which students have control and which raise doubts
       about fitness for continuation in training.
       12.17.7. Medical elimination. Immediately identify and remove students discovered to
       have permanent medical conditions not compatible with the duties and responsibilities of
       the career field (LM#). Course personnel who question the student’s medical suitability
       for an AFSC notify the TRS/CC who ensures the student receives a medical examination.
       Only medical authorities may determine medical ineligibility that can result in
       elimination. If results of the examination are below requirements for the AFSC (OCD,
       ECD, or AFI 48-123, the TRS/CC completes AETC Form 125A and recommends
       elimination.
       12.17.8. Misconduct. This occurs when a student compromises a test, makes a
       dishonest attempt/completion of a course measurement; or deliberately fails a course
       measurement (formerly known as prejudicial conduct). When course personnel give
       misconduct as the reason for elimination (LI#), take appropriate action. Explain to the
       student what constitutes misconduct and what action course personnel are contemplating.
       Document misconduct on AF Form 174 and AETC Form 125A. The Air Force may
       release a student from active duty under AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge
       Procedures for Commissioned Officers, or AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of
       Airmen, without faculty board action for misconduct.
       12.17.9. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) Eliminations. The unit PRP monitor
       administers students eliminated due to permanent decertification of PRP IAW DoDI
       5210.42, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program; DoD 5210.42-R, Nuclear
       Weapon Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) Regulation; and DoD 5210.42R_AFMAN
       10-3902_AFGM1, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP); along with
       any locally established guidelines. Eliminate students attending courses disqualified for
       not meeting PRP requirements with an AETC Form 125A; consider for course transfer
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                71


     into another shred without PRP requirements. Do not forward eliminations for PRP
     purposes to the FSS (i.e. 125A) for re-classification actions when a potential transfer of a
     student into another shred is a possibility. In that case, use procedures identified in
     paragraph 12.12.3 on course transfers. Coding an elimination related to PRP must be
     carefully analyzed for its root cause and can be coded differently based on the analysis
     (e.g., LS if security issues are the root cause, LP if analyzed to be a prerequisite
     deficiency where PRP is required for the AFSC, LM if medical is the main root cause,
     etc.)
     12.17.10. Prerequisite Skill/Knowledge Deficiency. Use the TTMS disqualification
     terminal event code (Q##) when a student is found unqualified for entry into training due
     to fitness/weight, skill/knowledge, medical or security reasons. If a student already
     entered into training is found to have a prerequisite deficiency, eliminate that student
     from training using prerequisite deficiency as the elimination reason (LP#). Use the
     AETC Form 125A to process both pre-entry disqualifications (Q##) and prerequisite
     deficiency eliminations (LP#).
     12.17.11. Recall. Recalls are due to unexpected extenuating circumstances occurring
     outside the training environment. When a home unit recalls a student, remove the student
     from training after the school or registrar receive a memo or message from the
     organization commander or MAJCOM verifying the recall. (See Alternate ARC process
     at 12.17.11.1) Enter the appropriate recall code into TTMS (Attachment 11). Document
     all recalls with AETC Form 125A.
        12.17.11.1. Alternate ARC Process. Coordinate all ARC recalls with the
        appropriate ARC Liaison office prior to processing or removing a student from class.
        Submit recalls in writing to the Liaison from the Wing Commander or designee
        stating the reason. The Liaison will provide the recall documentation to the school
        authorizing the recall.
        12.17.11.2. (Exception) Disciplinary Recall. The Wing Commander can recall
        ANG PS students to administer disciplinary action for an incident that occurs while
        student is in training. This recall is appropriate when Non-Judicial or Judicial
        punishment is warranted. Prior to release, document the recall with AETC Form
        125A, and code the student with an LD, elimination for disciplinary reasons.
        *12.17.11.3. A recall may be used for an initial skills pipeline student in TDY status
        when washback is not a viable option due to a lengthy interval until the next class
        start date. This action is taken in lieu of washback or elimination only when TDY
        expenses are prohibitive for washback (AETC/FMAM) and the intent is to re-enter
        the student into the same course at a later date, not to permanently eliminate the
        student from the AFSC. Comments on the AETC Form 125A (for recall) will indicate
        the intent to re-enter the student into the course and include a projected class start
        date. Should the initial intent change to permanently eliminate the student from the
        course/AFSC after the recall, but before the student re-enters the course, the decision
        authority will generate a new AETC Form 125A and the registrar will replace the
        recall code with an elimination code upon receiving the AETC Form 125A to
        permanently eliminate the student from the course. In this instance, the AETC Form
        125A might not include a memo or e-mail exhibit (Attachment 12) since the
 72                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


           authorizing signature on the AETC Form 125A may serve the purpose the exhibit
           would serve.
        12.17.12. Separated. Separated is used to document an elimination that has already
        occurred; in this case, the documentation follows the action. For a student who is being
        eliminated for a stated reason and separation is proposed as a future action, the
        elimination will be under the actual elimination reason, not ―separated‖. Accordingly,
        elimination code LG# will have rare application.
        12.17.13. Reclassification Guidelines.
           12.17.13.1. SAF accessions resources are very tightly monitored and an important
           asset. As we are molding a quality force, it is imperative not to waste any of those
           resources. On the other hand, despite the best efforts of Recruiting Service to bring in
           the most suitable candidates, some individuals are not cut out for military service.
           Focus on the core values as you screen eliminees to ensure that we retain every viable
           airman while returning to the civilian workforce those without the attitude, aptitude
           and motivation to serve in the AF.


*Table 12.12. Specific Reclassification Guidelines.
      Role or Action          Guidance (Reclassification)
1     2 AF/TTOC Det 1         Cleared to reclassify an airman into an available class seat in any
                              AFSC in the AF for which the airmen is qualified.
2     Eliminees               Defined as ―students removed from training, whether by faculty
                              board or by administrative process (AETC Form 125A).
                              Eliminees do not include transfers or recalls.‖
3     Commanders              Screen eliminees closely to ensure retention and separation
                              recommendations align with AFSC and AF needs. Separate those
                              airmen lacking the attitude, aptitude and motivation to serve in the
                              Air Force. Advise eliminees that the AF will reclassify them
                              based on the needs of the AF. Inform them that reclassification is
                              the exception rather than the rule, and not an entitlement.
4                             Consider the following when recommending eliminees for
                              reclassification or separation: Trainees receive established
                              opportunities to succeed in their original AFSC; to include well-
                              documented SIA, wash back, and retest opportunities. Difficult
                              retention decisions may be required if established opportunities
                              fall short of graduation. Instructor/instructor supervisor/MTL staff
                              spend the greatest amount of time with trainees, have the best
                              overall picture of trainees’ abilities and attitudes, and are
                              important sources of guidance.
*5 Documentation of           Separation is warranted for trainees who exhibit disciplinary or
   Substandard                motivational problems for which there is appropriate
   Behavior                   documentation (Article 15, LOR, RIC). With the exception of
                              AFSCs requiring PRP or Top Secret clearance, airmen eliminated
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               73


    Role or Action          Guidance (Reclassification)
                            for disciplinary reasons should be separated. Do not recommend
                            airmen for reclassification in these situations unless minor
                            offenses make them ineligible for PRP certification or Top Secret
                            clearance needed for their current career fields. Entry level airmen
                            should be discharged if unsatisfactory performance or conduct
                            shows they are not qualified to be productive members of the Air
                            Force. (Note: For further guidance on separation, see AFI 36-
                            3208, Section D, entry level performance or conduct.) If there is
                            insufficient justification for separation, either disapprove the
                            elimination and return the student to the classroom or make
                            retention recommendations. Commander’s comments
                            (recommendation for retention in the AF) on the AETC Form
                            125A are mandatory.
6   Specific                Make AETC Form 125A comments specific to the situation so
    Recommendations         that they are helpful in making career affecting decisions. Include
    and Comments            any extenuating information that would be useful in making the
                            best reclassification. See Attachment 12. (Note: Commander’s
                            comments (approval authority comments) on the AETC Form
                            125A are mandatory).
*7 Avoiding Multiple        Avoid multiple reclassifications of students who clearly do not
   Reclassifications        meet acceptable academic, performance, conduct, bearing and
                            behavior, discipline, medical, or other standards necessary for
                            mission accomplishment. The wing commander (381 TRG/CC at
                            VAFB ) is the approval authority for students recommended for a
                            second reclassification. Students will not be reclassified more
                            than two times. Ensure commander’s (recommendation for
                            retention in the AF) comments are specific and address abilities,
                            limitations, and any extenuating information that would be helpful
                            in making the best reclassification determination. Exception:
                            When a commander recommends retention to move an airmen
                            from one Battlefield Airmen AFSC to another Battlefield Airmen
                            AFSC or from one hard-to-fill AFSC to another hard-to-fill AFSC
                            (e.g., PJ to TACP or TACP to EOD) because it better fits the
                            airmen’s competencies and the needs of the Air Force, the
                            reclassification does not require Wing approval to process and
                            does not count toward the max number of reclassifications
                            allowed for the student.
8   TRG                     Forward AETC Form 125A elimination packages to the servicing
    Responsibilities with   FSS for reclassification when members exhibit strong potential for
    respect to              further AF service (e.g., morale, academic, and physical) or
    Reclassification.       separation when they do not exhibit this potential. Ensure
                            commander's (approval authority) comments on the AETC Form
                            125A are specific and address abilities, limitations, and any
                            extenuating information that would be helpful in making the best
 74                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


      Role or Action         Guidance (Reclassification)
                             reclassification determination. Note: If commander (approval
                             authority) comments are inadequate, 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 will return
                             packages to the TRGs. For airmen recommended for
                             reclassification, see attachment 13 for a sample message.
*9 Force Support             Submit airmen for selected reclassification AFSCs if they meet
   Squadron (FSS)            minimum entry requirements per Air Force Enlisted Classification
   Responsibilities with     Directory (AFECD). Email reclassification messages to 2
   respect to                AF/TTOC Det 1. Include electronic copies of the AETC Form
   Reclassification          125A and the TTMS ST Report. Do not include RIC, LOR, or
                             Articles 15. The original reclassification message will indicate all
                             AFSCs for which the trainee qualifies.
10                           Separate airmen who do not meet minimum entry requirements for
                             authorized reclassification AFSCs.
11                           Query members regarding interest in a transfer to the ANG/AFRC.
                             For members who choose to pursue transfer, forward separation
                             packages to the in-service ANG/AFRC recruiter for review and
                             evaluation.
        12.17.14. Type 6 DL Eliminations. For Type 6 DL courses where course enrollment
        dates are tracked, course personnel may eliminate students due to failure to meet the
        standard to include minimum grade and course completion time requirements. (See
        additional guidance in Table 12.13)
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                  75


Table 12.13. Guidance on Type 6 DL Eliminations.
    Action                    Centrally Managed Type 6 DL MAJCOM Managed Type
                                                                  6 DL
1   Withdrawal                Students may be withdrawn from Same
                              training as a result of mission
                              requirements, emergency leave,
                              medical, and any other reason
                              beyond the student’s control
                              without enrollment penalty. The
                              TRG will make final
                              determination of the student
                              status in context of the underlying
                              situation.
2   Elimination               TM coordinates if student did not Same
                              meet course standard to include
                              minimum grade and course
                              completion requirement time.
3   Applying re-enrollment The TRG may approve                    Same
    penalty when course has extensions to completion time at
    time completion standards its discretion if the student has a
    (optional if desirable    legitimate reason for
    within the career field)  noncompletion within the
                              prescribed timeframe. If the
                              student has no legitimate reason,
                              TMs may impose a re-enrollment
                              penalty of 6 to 12 months from
                              elimination date. Include details
                              in the ETCA course
                              announcement and coordinate it
                              with the enrollment manager.
                              Note: For courses where this has
                              been applied, the schoolhouse has
                              had to act as an intermediary in
                              managing TLN requests or other
                              processes have to be put in place
                              to manage the enrollment process.
4   Recommend                 The Type 6 DL POC may make Same
                              recommendations for elimination
                              or withdrawal based on his or her
                              observations of attendance,
                              performance, and student
                              conduct.
76                                            AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


     Action                   Centrally Managed Type 6 DL MAJCOM Managed Type
                                                                6 DL
5    Develop Elimination      In order to gather data for       Same
     Survey and Make Them students eliminated or withdrawn
     Readily Available        from training, the training group
                              will develop an elimination
                              survey and make it available to
                              Type 6 DL POCs to be completed
                              on all eliminated and withdrawn
                              students. The purpose of the
                              survey (see sample in AETCI 36-
                              2208, Job Site Training) is to
                              determine reasons for not
                              completing Type 6 DL courses.
                              The data gathered should cover
                              reasons under and not under
                              direct AETC control.
6    Complete Elimination     Type 6 DL POC or instructor       Same
     survey                   completes with eliminated student
                              and forwards to DGR
7    Follow-up Elimination    Completed elimination surveys     Same
     Survey                   are returned to the distribution
                              function and forwarded to the
                              course TM. If an elimination
                              trend develops, the course TM
                              will determine the best course of
                              action to reduce/eliminate future
                              eliminations. TMs will ensure
                              the responsible parties institute
                              required changes to the course
                              and follow-up to ensure they had
                              the desired effect. The TM will
                              elevate concerns outside AETC’s
                              span of control to 2 AF/TTOC for
                              appropriate action.
8    Execute Responsibilities The Type 6 DL POCs perform
                              responsibilities IAW AETCI 36-
                              2201. TRGs receive
                              recommendations from Type 6
                              DL POCs on student
                              eliminations, but TRGs make
                              decisions on student elimination
                              and graduation. TRGs will issue
                              guidance to Type 6 DL POCs to
                              enlist their help in conducting
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               77


    Action                  Centrally Managed Type 6 DL MAJCOM Managed Type
                                                              6 DL
                            course evaluations as necessary.
9   Elimination             The TRG responsible for the       The Type 6 DL POC
    Documentation           Type 6 DL course prepares the     forwards the AETC Form
                            AETC Form 125A on eliminees 325 and elimination survey
                            from mandatory courses (i.e., 7- with a recommendation and
                            level craftsman courses) and      supporting justification for
                            forwards to registrar for storage elimination or withdrawal to
                                                              the TRG distribution
                                                              function who forwards the
                                                              documentation to the TM.
                                                              AETC Form 325 with
                                                              student’s name lined out and
                                                              associated reason for
                                                              elimination briefly recorded
                                                              serves as the elimination
                                                              documentation for storage.
                                                              See instructions for AETC
                                                              Form 325 at Attachment 9.
       12.17.15. Documentation of Eliminations. Document eliminations on AETC Form
       125A, to include centrally-managed Type 6 DL. Exception: Document 982 TRG non-
       AFSC awarding training eliminations on AETC Form 325. For other than mandatory 7-
       level craftsman courses, the Type 6 DL POC forwards the AETC Form 325 and
       elimination survey with same info but TRG is not required to complete 125A package.
 78                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010




*Table 12.14. Initiating Elimination Paperwork.
      Topic                    Activity (Elimination Paperwork)
1     Student placed in IITS   Commanders have 3 duty days to sign the AETC Form 125A,
                               Record of Administrative Training Action. The 3 duty day period
                               begins with entry of the ineffective code into TTMS and ending
                               with the commander’s signature in Section III of the Form 125A.
                               Exception: In the case of a medical or legal review, the 3 duty day
                               period begins upon completion of the review.
*2 Level of initiation         Any level within the school may initiate an AETC Form 125A, but
                               the elimination/withdrawal recommendation (Section I) is normally
                               authorized (signed) by the TRF/CC or chief or TRS/CC or
                               equivalent responsible for the training.
                               - Either the school or the appropriate unit with administrative
                               responsibility for the student will initiate non-academic
                               eliminations.
                               - For ANG/AFRC students, coordinate student disposition with the
                               appropriate liaison.
                               - For international students, the IMSO initiates nonacademic
                               eliminations when applicable.
3     Package preparation      - Include a copy of the digitally signed AETC Form 125A, or the
                               completed and authenticated original hard copy (hand-signed), the
                               TTMS Student Training Report (AF-led course) from the course of
                               elimination and any qualifying courses, and the BMT report card, if
                               available.
                               - Supporting documentation will include previous counselings.
                               - Ensure information regarding elimination is consistent on all
                               forms, to include the elimination date and reason.
                               - GSUs see table 4.16.
4     Coordination             - For students being eliminated from a prerequisite course, the
                               approval authority coordinates with the follow-on course TRS/CC.
                               - For ANG/AFRC students, coordinate with the appropriate liaison
                               office prior to initiating AETC Form 125A.
5     Reversing and            In the event a commander, legal or higher authority reverses an
      Rescinding an            elimination decision after course personnel filed a 125A and entered
      Elimination              the elimination code in TTMS, a memo with the TRS or TRG
                               commander’s signature rescinding the 125A will be sent to the
                               registrar before removing the elimination code.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                79


     Topic                 Activity (Elimination Paperwork)
6    Reversal of           If the reversal is not rescinding or reversing the elimination, but is
     Recommendation        reversing the recommendation on a signed AETC Form125A then
                           the schoolhouse must generate a new AETC Form 125A. Ensure
                           commander's (approval authority) comments on the AETC Form
                           125A are specific and address abilities, limitations, and any
                           extenuating information that would be helpful in making the best
                           reclassification determination. Likewise, if the recommendation is
                           discharge ensure commander’s comments on the AETC Form 125A
                           are specific to the rationale for the discharge.

Table 12.15. The Typical Disposition of Eliminated Students.
     Student type          Disposition
1    NPS – enlisted        Discharge or reclassification
2    Officer               Discharge, reclassification
3    Other students        Typically return to home unit
4    Internationals        IMSO provides direction

*Table 12.16. Determining the Disposition of Eliminated Students.
          Students          Issue               Resolution (Determining Disposition of
       Recommended                                       Eliminated Students)
            For
 1    Discharge from   Student            Use transition flights where available.
      the AF           placement          AFI 36-3208 addresses that TRGs may isolate NPS
                                          students from the other NPS airmen pending
                                          separation
 2                     ARC students       ANG/AFRC training liaisons assist with disposition
                                          of these students.
*3                     ANG students       No TRG, to include 737 TRG, has the authority to
                                          discharge Non Prior or Prior Service ANG
                                          members; return them to their home unit for
                                          disposition or discharge by the state. Non Prior
                                          service members undergraduate pilot training (UPT),
                                          professional military education (PME) and fliers on
                                          a seasoning day status that train overseas have to
                                          attend in a Title 10 status, and are subject to the
                                          Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
                                          Notification to the ANG Training Liaison must be
                                          made on all ANG members pending elimination.
                                          The AETC Form 125A must have ANG Liaison
                                          coordination. Provide a copy of the finalized 125A
                                          to the Liaison.
80                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


        Students               Issue              Resolution (Determining Disposition of
      Recommended                                          Eliminated Students)
          For
4                        AFRC                Notify AFRC training liaison of decision to separate.
                                             The AETC Form 125A must have AFRC liaison
                                             coordination. TRS/CC makes a recommendation for
                                             discharge to TRG/CC, same as for ADAF students.
                                             Liaisons provide MilPDS documents as necessary.
                                             TRG/CC provides entry-level separation for AFRC
                                             students and provides AF 100, Separation Orders.
                                             Provide a copy of the finalized 125A to the liaison.
5                        TTMS                Place students recommended for discharge in SOTS
                                             pending separation (SV#, Enlisted, SW#, Officer).
                                             Enter the TTMS departure code (H##) for any
                                             student in SOTS upon permanent departure from the
                                             base.
6     Reclassification   Applicability       Reclassify students in a timely manner to reduce
                                             costs.
7                        Commander’s         See Table 12.12.
                         Process             Exception: GSU reclassification authorities may
                                             conduct telephone interviews.
8                        AFRC                Upon recommendation for reclassification by
                                             TRS/CC, as indicated on AETC Form 125A, AFRC
                                             Training Liaisons will arrange for reclassification of
                                             NPS students only, while they remain in-place. If
                                             no valid position exists for the student, entry-level
                                             separation will be necessary. Return PS students to
                                             PDS as soon as elimination is confirmed by AETC
                                             Form 125A or other document.
9                        ANG                 Upon recommendation for reclassification by
                                             TRS/CC, as indicated on AETC Form 125A, the
                                             ANG Training Liaison will coordinate the students
                                             return to PDS for reclassification.
*10                      Multiple            The approval authority for students recommended
                         reclassifications   for a second reclassification is the wing commander
                                             (381 TRG/CC at VAFB).
11                       Medical             Normally, recommend reclassifying a student
                         reclassifications   eliminated from a career field due to medical
                                             concerns when the member meets qualifications of
                                             other career fields; however, evaluate the student’s
                                             current performance and attitude. Consider medical
                                             limitations in recommendations for potential AFSCs.
12                       Communication       MTLs contact the FSS on medical or administrative
                         on Medical          holds to ensure that FSS personnel are up-to-date on
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                81


         Students             Issue               Resolution (Determining Disposition of
       Recommended                                         Eliminated Students)
           For
                        Holds               the latest status.
13                      Referral            Refer ADAF students who desire further training to
                                            the FSS’s classification and training section for
                                            counseling.
14                      Documentation       An elimination or reclassification message to request
                                            further training.

Table 12.17. Guide for Briefing Students on Elimination from Training.
     Activity                 Action (Guidance on Briefing Students on Training
                              Elimination)
1 Administrative Elimination Inform student that action is being initiated to eliminate him/her
                              from training.
2                             Explain the elimination procedure.
3                             Brief student on the training status while administrative action is
                              pending.
4                             Inform the student that he/she will be notified of final
                              elimination action.
5                             Brief students on reassignment procedures upon withdrawal or
                              elimination.
6 Faculty Board               Purpose: to consider only the academic deficiency or
                              substandard student performance that affects academic
                              achievement, and whether there is sufficient cause to eliminate
                              the student from training (academic elimination).
7                             Optional at the discretion of the local commander or appointing
                              authority when the review process for the elimination proves
                              inadequate. A faculty board is not a student entitlement. The
                              faculty board lengthens the
                              reclassification/discharge/continuation in training decision
                              process. Use it as the exception not the rule. Clear facts
                              surrounding an academic/administrative elimination preempt the
                              need for a faculty board in most cases. Timely, decisive action
                              and involvement on the commander’s part are vital to keep the
                              disposition process moving forward.
8 When decision is made to Give students a letter of notification.
   proceed with faculty board
9                             Have student acknowledge receipt by endorsement.
10                            Inform student of the training status while pending board action.
11                            Inform student of the
                              Right to request legal assistance and advice before the board
 82                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


      Activity                   Action (Guidance on Briefing Students on Training
                                 Elimination)
                                 meets rather than formal representation during board
                                 proceedings.
                                 Right to request waiver of faculty board action by submitting a
                                 request in writing to the appointing authority. If the waiver is
                                 granted, the student is eliminated from training.
12                               Inform student of witnesses to be called by the board and ask if
                                 the student wants witnesses called on his/her behalf.
13                               Let students review all exhibits (records or documentation) the
                                 faculty board will review.
14                               Explain faculty board proceedings to the student relative to
                                 Uniforms
                                 Reporting
                                 Right to testify, make statements, or remain silent
                                 Right to question witnesses
                                 Sequence of faculty board events
                                 Board findings and recommendation
15                               Explain review and approval procedures.
16                               Inform students that they will receive notification of action by
                                 the approving official.
17                               Explain possible reassignment action or release from active duty
                                 under current separation policies if a commander chooses to
                                 eliminate a student.
18 If international student is   Immediately notify the IMSO who will make all necessary
   involved                      contacts.
19                               When appointing the student’s Country Liaison Officer as a
                                 nonvoting member, identify the member as a member of the
                                 AETC staff, and indicate the country he or she represents.
20                               Follow the action above with an electronic message to AFSAT
                                 within two workdays. Send an information copy to SAF/IAP,
                                 the appropriate security assistance organization, and the CLO, if
                                 applicable. Include the student’s name, grade, country, line
                                 number, project, and the reason for the faculty board
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                  83


Table 12.18. Composition and Roles of Faculty Board.
     Role or Category         Guidance (Composition and Roles of Faculty Board)
1    Composition              Three voting members senior in rank to the student, a recording
                              secretary, and any nonvoting members who are invited to
                              participate. For reviewing a military member at least two out of
                              three voting members will be AD military allowing for one
                              civilian member with rank equivalency senior to the student and
                              active in a training professional series or leadership position.
2    Other qualifications /   For ANG or AFRC students, contact HQ AETC/CG or RF to
     limitations              determine if a nonvoting representative is required.
3                             The recording secretary must be a military member when a
                              military student is before the board and a commissioned officer
                              when a commissioned officer is before the board
4                             The senior voting member serves as president.
5                             No person who has instructed or recommended the member for
                              elimination may be on the board.
6    Appointing Official      Publishes orders appointing members of the faculty board. The
                              orders will specify the purpose and duties of the board.
7                             Ensures each faculty board member understands the functions,
                              duties, and procedures of such a board
8                             Ensures students are notified in writing to appear before a faculty
                              board and obtain written acknowledgment from the student
                              (Attachment 14).
9                             Ensures students are briefed on faculty board procedures,
                              including the following information: students may submit
                              evidence, call witnesses, question witnesses, elect not to make a
                              statement, or elect to make a sworn or unsworn statement to the
                              board. If students make a sworn statement, they are subject to
                              cross-examination by members of the board.
10 Board President            Conducts faculty board in a military manner with due respect
                              accorded to individual’s dignity and rights.
11                            Fully develops and clarifies all relevant information in the
                              student’s record.
12                            Grants the student the opportunity to fully present his or her
                              testimony or evidence, and to question witnesses.
13                            Rules on questions of order and procedure, and the admissibility
                              of evidence.
14                            Conducts a vote on faculty board findings and recommendations.
15                            Submits a report of faculty board findings and recommendations
                              to the appointing official. The report will contain a summary of
                              proceedings, testimony, pertinent documents, and the signatures
 84                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


      Role or Category          Guidance (Composition and Roles of Faculty Board)
                                of voting board members. The report will become an exhibit to
                                the AETC Form 125A (Attachment 12, Table A12.1).
16 Recorder                     Designates the board room.
17                              Notifies necessary personnel of time and place of the board.
18                              Ensures all aspects of the case are fully developed.
19                              Maintains an electronic recording or written notes of the
                                proceedings to aid in the preparation of board summaries. Retain
                                the recording (or notes) for at least 120 days.
20                              Prepares a summary or record of the board proceedings to include
                                the following: references to the specific records the board
                                reviewed, a list of witnesses appearing before the board, a resume
                                of the testimony of each witness, a description of any extenuating
                                circumstances that may have contributed to a student’s deficiency,
                                a summary of the major factors and specific rationale the board
                                considered in arriving at its finding and recommendations.

Table 12.19. Board Conducted Under AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers.
      Detail              Reasons to Use the Board of Officers
1     Circumstances      The issue is or becomes the potential separation from the Air Force:
      may require a      examine AFI 36-3206 for officers and AFI 36-3208 for enlisted.
      board hearing
      under AFI 51-
      602 when
2                        The circumstances involve misconduct and the inquiry is into the nature of
                         the misconduct (including whether the misconduct occurred) rather than
                         the effect of the misconduct on academic proficiency.
3                        Students are officers and the inquiry will determine whether the
                         deficiency resulted from factors within the student’s control.
4                        The authority deems the procedures warranted and imposes the
                         requirement.
5                        Findings may result in other serious administrative actions or financial
                         liability.
6     If an officer      Refer to this instruction or to the particular AFI/AFPD that grants them
      board is formed    entitlement for more particular guidance/restrictions on membership.
      under AFI 51-
      602
         12.17.16. Approving Eliminations. Officer elimination requires 2 AF/CC approval
         when recommended for misconduct.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 85


Table 12.20. Officer Elimination.
    Officers Being Recommended for        Prepare AETC Form 125A
    Elimination from IST for
1   Misconduct and the misconduct is      Through Section I to include signature and forward to 2
    serious enough to warrant discharge   AF/CC. The 2 AF/CC will sign the AETC Form 125A
    under AFI 36-3206                     indicating approval of the elimination and initiate
                                          discharge action.
2   Misconduct and the misconduct         Through Section I to include signature and forward to 2
    does not warrant discharge            AF/CC. The 2 AF/CC signs the AETC Form 125A
                                          indicating approval of the elimination and makes
                                          recommendations to HQ AFPC concerning
                                          reclassification.
3   Any other reasons                     Through signature in Section II (See Table 12.21 for
                                          approval authority). Offer the officer eliminee the
                                          following options:
                                          Opportunity to reclassify into a new career field
                                          Apply for a blue to green interservice transfer
                                          Voluntarily separate
       12.17.17. Actions Based on Officer Choices. If an officer chooses:
           12.17.17.1. To reclassify, AFPC identifies an appropriate career field for retraining,
           based on the needs of the AF and officer qualifications.
           12.17.17.2. To voluntarily separate, the officer must acknowledge counseling on the
           possibility all or a portion of his/her education costs and/or bonuses received are
           subject to recoupment based on AFI 36-3206. The training commander (elimination
           approval authority) and/or the FSS briefs the member and requires them to sign an
           Officer Training Eliminee Recoupment Statement.

Table 12.21. Approval Authority if Officer Misconduct Not an Issue.
    Topic              Explanation
1   Approval Authority TRG/CC or CD
    for AETC Form 125A May be delegated to the TRS/CC or equivalent other service
                       commander.
                       When the TRS/CC is not on-station because of leave or TDY, the
                       official on G-Series orders may approve the AETC Form 125A.
2   CC                 Accomplish a Corrected Copy AETC Form 125A to document
    Recommendations    change. Hand carry the original Corrected Copy (faxed by GSUs)
    Changed after      to registrar section NLT the next duty day following the change.
    Signature
 86                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table 12.22. Processing Completed Elimination Packages.
      Issue          Due           Action
1     Signed         Next duty day Submit package with a (digitally-signed or authenticated
      elimination                  original) of the AETC Form 125A and all exhibits to the
      package                      Registrar Section, with an official copy (without attachments) to
                                   the FSS. (Attachment 12 )
                                   Exception: GSU faxes entire package to the TRS. A faxed or
                                   electronically attached copy of the authenticated original AETC
                                   Form 125A may serve as the source for an official record-
                                   keeping copy with the registrar.
*2 Storage of                      Registrar Section maintains the signed elimination package,
   completed                       with all supporting documentation IAW the Air Force Records
   elimination                     Disposition Schedule (RDS) on the Air Force Records
   package                         Information Management System (AFRIMS).
   (official
   record)
         12.17.18. Elimination Processing Time. Time is tracked from the point where the
         member goes ineffective through the approval authority signature. Time should not
         exceed three duty days. Each TRS tracks processing time until the Registrar Section logs
         and acknowledges receipt of the completed elimination package.
         12.17.19. TTMS Statuses Pending and After Elimination. Update in TTMS student
         status changes resulting from an elimination action, using the AETC Form 125A as the
         source document.

Table 12.23. Applicable Status Code Actions in Relationship to Eliminations.
                                                              TTMS Code
      POC           Action: Update TTMS to Reflect            AF NPS           All other
                                                              student          students
1     MTL, I, IS Ineffective code                             I##              I##
2     Registrar  Elimination code and comment                 L##              L##
                 summarizing the reason that caused the
                 elimination.
3     Registrar  Initial out-of-training code                 S##
4     MTL        Student’s SOT code change, if applicable     S##
5     MTL        Student’s departure from base                H##
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                   87


Table 12.24. Enlisted Reclassification Decisions–2 AF/TTOC Det 1/DXR
    Role                    Responsibility
1   Is responsible for      Furnishing guidance and instructions on reclassification of all
                            airmen eliminated from TT and identified for further training.
2   Is the approving        For all reclassification decisions, including ones that may result
    authority               from students awaiting security clearances.
3   Coordinates             Reclassification decisions with functionals as necessary
                            (AF/A1PT, A3O, 2 AF, and AFPC).
4                           This is a collaborative approach (in consultation with the student
                            when necessary) among aforementioned entities to make effective
                            use of personnel to meet the Air Force’s mission

Table 12.25. Guidance When Retention is Recommended Following Elimination.
    Student Type                        Action
1   NPS student eliminated from a       The FSS sends a message to 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 to
    course, but retained in the AF      request reclassification (Attachment 13) with an
                                        information copy to HQ AFPC/DPAA5 TTG Inbox
                                        (Professional Student and Language Assignment
                                        Section) to delete the eliminee’s end assignment.
2   PS eliminations                     Units send the reclassification message IAW this table
                                        and Attachment 13.
*12.17.20. Reclassification Decisions and Actions. Individually reclassify eliminees IAW AFI
36-2110, Assignments. If an eliminee is to be retained, 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 decides where to best
use the individual based on the information provided in the reclassification message, AF needs,
and airmen skills/abilities and preferences. When a student is reclassified, forward a copy of the
TTMS student training report (AF-led course) and Lackland AFB Form 205, Basic Military
Training Student Performance Summary, to the next TRS.
       12.17.21. Reclassification Documentation. 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 annotates the
       reclassification action on a copy of the eliminee message, sends it to the losing FSS with
       courtesy copies to the gaining registrar, losing registrar, and HQ AFPC/DPAA5 TTG
       Inbox.
 88                                                        AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 12.26. Exceptions for Eliminations of Certain Student Types.
      Eliminee        Special Action
1     TDY Student     The TRS coordinates prior to approval with 2 AF/TTOC on changes (wash-
      (funded         back, medical hold, elimination, disciplinary holds, etc.) that result in a
      under the       training delay or change greater than 7 academic days.
      AETC MRT        Initiate the process to approve amending orders as soon as delay is known
      TDY-to-         but NLT 10 days after student was eliminated or washed back from class or
      School          TRS is notified of pending action (whichever is sooner).
      program)        Coordinate all pipeline and TDY en route to PCS students directly with
                      AETC/FMAM who works jointly with 2 AF/TTOC.
2     Retrainee       Considered students during an elimination process.
                      Accomplish the student eliminee message according to AFI 36-2626,
                      Airman Retraining Program, and send to HQ AFPC/DPPAET for
                      disposition instructions. Return eliminated retrainees in TDY status to their
                      parent unit for disposition within 3 duty days after the AETC Form 125A
                      approving the elimination is signed.
                      Report eliminated PCS without PCA students to the parent MAJCOM
                      within 1 duty day after the AETC Form 125A approving the elimination is
                      signed.
3     ANG             The TRS/CC or MTL immediately notifies the ANG liaison at the TRW.
                      The liaison notifies the member’s unit of elimination within 24 hours.
                      Cite the reason for elimination and recommended action.
                      The eliminee remains at the TRW until the liaison, in coordination with the
                      home unit, decides what action will be taken.
                      The liaison counsels the eliminee to ensure he or she is familiar with out-
                      processing requirements.
                      The liaison forwards a copy of AETC Form 125A to the student’s servicing
                      FSS.
                      Members of the ANG that attend TT Undergraduate pilot training (UPT),
                      professional military education (PME) and fliers on a seasoning day status
                      that train overseas have to attend under Title 10 USC, and are subject to the
                      UCMJ.
                      Each state adjutant general has the authority to recall a student to his or her
                      home base for disciplinary action.
4     AFRC            Immediately notify the Reserve liaison who contacts AFRC/A1KE for
                      disposition and forwards one copy of AETC Form 125A.
5     International   Contact the IMSO when a student is experiencing difficulties that may lead
      Students        to elimination. The IMSO contacts AFSAT for guidance.
                      The IMSO initiates nonacademic elimination packages, the TRS initiates
                      academic elimination packages and forwards to the IMSO.
                      The IMSO processes the package and forwards through the TRW to
                      AFSAT/CC, Randolph AFB TX.
                      The package must contain the TRS/CC’s recommendation of removal from
                      training and all supporting documents.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                89


Table 12.27. Training Orders or Amending Administrative Orders.
    Student Type        Action
1   AFRC                Coordinate all orders amendments with the supporting AFRC liaison
                        who contacts student’s home unit for issuance of modifications.
2   ANG                 Coordinate all orders amendments with the supporting ANG liaison who
                        contacts the student’s home unit for issuance of amendments.
3   AETC MRT TDY        The TRS coordinates in advance with 2 AF/TTOC potential delays
    to School Funded    greater than 7 academic days due to washbacks, medical hold,
                        elimination, disciplinary holds, etc.
                        This approval is needed for amending training orders or administrative
                        orders and should be initiated as soon as delay is known, but NLT 10
                        days after student was eliminated or washed back from class or the TRS
                        is notified of pending action (whichever is sooner).
                        Coordinate directly with AETC/FMAM all pipeline and TDY en route to
                        PCS student delays. AETC/FMAM works jointly with the OPR on MRT
                        issues – 2 AF/TTOC.
    12.18. International Students.
       *12.18.1. AFSAT is the MAJCOM equivalent for quota allocation, confirmation, and
       OTA accounting for international students. AFI 16-105 (I), Joint Security Cooperation
       Education and Training, prescribes the education and training for international personnel.
       This is a joint publication that applies to active and reserve components of the Army,
       Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard for security assistance.
       12.18.2. The IMSO at each base is the liaison between the student and AFSAT. When a
       student is experiencing difficulties that may lead to elimination, training personnel
       contact the IMSO who, in turn, contacts AFSAT for guidance.

Table 12.28. Process to Load International Military Student (IMS) Information in TTMS.
    Timing             POC               Action
1   45 days before CSD AFSAT/TOS         Load filler data in OTA as a place-holder until an
                                         IMS’s identity is known
2   No later than 1 day AFSAT/TOA        Uses necessary means to gather student identities and
    before CSD                           load student data in OTA
3   Upon arrival        IMSO             Verifies accuracy and completeness of OTA data
                                         Sends 2 copies of orders to Registrar Section
       12.18.3. IMSs being considered for academic elimination may request a faculty board
       prior to elimination. International Military Student Office (IMSO) advises student of
       nature of faculty board and assists IMS in decision for whether to request the board. The
       TRS notifies the IMSO at least 10 days before scheduled board proceedings. The IMSO
       informs AFSAT and the senior student from the individual’s country. Process board
       proceedings as expeditiously as possible.
 90                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


         12.18.4. If the IMS is eliminated, cite the specific cause. Do not cite English language
         proficiency as the specific cause of elimination; however, if it was a contributing factor,
         note in board proceedings. The eliminated IMS receives no further training without
         approval from AFSAT or the country concerned.
    12.19. Leave.
         12.19.1. ADAF Students. The TRS/CC (for GSUs, the unit CC/chief, or equivalent) is
         the final approval authority for emergency leave, although, for NPS students commanders
         may delegate, in writing, to the MTF/CC. Regular leave is not normally granted to
         students in SOTs pending reclassification following elimination; if regular leave granted
         to a SOTs pending reclassification is approved by the TRS/CC or GSU unit CC/chief,
         who ensures the student is available during the reclassification process and for the new
         training CSD following reclassification. Leave is not normally granted between phases
         of training. Exception: Leave may be granted during Holiday Exodus. Exception: If
         leave is granted between training locations, the TRS will notify the follow-on course of
         the student’s leave and when he/she will arrive at the next location.
         12.19.2. Special Holiday Leave Provisions. AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program
         establishes holiday leave provisions, but also allows for not charging leave when the
         member performs authorized duty either at the TDY site or the permanent duty station.
         However, the AFI does not establish a detailed process for commander communication
         and accounting for duty at the permanent duty station should the student seek such an
         arrangement during a training session that overlaps the holiday season. The purpose of
         Guidelines for Special Holiday Leave, Table 12.29, is to grant general guidance for leave
         along with specific guidance on how to document and verify that duty actually took place
         as stated if duty at the permanent duty station was arranged over the holiday break.
            12.19.2.1. Guiding the student in the right direction when it comes to leave questions
            and providing the student a memo template to arrange holiday duty at the Permanent
            Duty Station if requested is the combined responsibility of all in the TRS and MTF to
            whom the student may appeal for help or guidance in this area. (MTL, I, IS, TM).
            ARC liaisons also inform students in their respective areas and point them in the right
            direction.

Table 12.29. Guidelines for Special Holiday Leave and Duty at PDS.
      Category           Guidance (Special Holiday Leave and Duty at PDS)
1     Ordinary Leave     Students may take up to the amount of leave they accrue, or will
                         accrue during the period of their orders, at their own expense.
2     Advanced Leave     Is authorized.
3     Excess Leave       Is not authorized.
4     Travel Orders      For the purpose of the holiday closure period will NOT be issued.
5     Students who       Perform duties as required by the training organization.
      Remain at School
6     Duty at the      Students who live within commuting distance of their PDS, or who
      Permanent Duty will otherwise lodge within commuting distance of their PDS (at their
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                   91


   Category          Guidance (Special Holiday Leave and Duty at PDS)
   Station (PDS)     own expense) for the duration of the Duty @ PDS, may return at their
   during the Formal own expense to perform duty during the holiday closure period. This
   School Holiday    is at the member’s request and convenience. They must have written
   Closure           authorization from the TRS commander, coordinated with their
                     Permanent Duty Station (PDS) commander. (See Attachment 15)
                     Authority: AFI 36-3003, Paragraph 6.1.3. and JFTR U-4175. This
                     duty is performed at no-cost-to-the-government. Approval authority
                     rests with the training squadron commander (TRS/CC) or authorized
                     representative, with the duty being ―concurred‖ by or coordinated
                     with, the PDS/CC, or authorized representative.
7 Constructive       According to JFTR U-4175, actual and allowable expenses will be
   Computation of    reimbursed up to but not more than the cost of expenses that would
   Travel Expenses have been incurred if the student had remained at the training location.
                     A TDY student who checks out of lodging may then use that
                     authorized expense ―saved‖ to offset the actual and allowable expense
                     of mileage or airfare (only if tickets are purchased through a CTO) for
                     travel to the PDS location and return. An NPS Student assigned to a
                     no-cost lodging MTF, or a PCS Student with no lodging or per diem
                     entitlements would benefit little from this program, except it would
                     save leave, or allow the student to return home for the duration of the
                     holiday break, when the student did not have sufficient leave for the
                     duration.
8 Recall             Not permitted under any circumstances. The PDS/CC cannot
                     authorize or direct a member to return to perform duty as this would
                     constitute a unit recall, which is prohibited. A recall action terminates
                     course enrollment, cancels the training line number, and precludes the
                     student’s return after the holiday period.
9 Definition of Duty Consider duty or suitable work to be comparable to the type of duty a
   or Suitable Work student would perform at the training location during the holiday
                     break, to include: cleaning details, runner, answering phones, or
                     helping in the area of the student’s assigned AFSC. Specific duty
                     within the student’s assigned AFSC is not required. Note: Duty
                     cannot be performed at the student’s home of record (no
                     telecommuting).
10 Departure and     Students may not depart earlier than nor return later than times
   Return            authorized by school officials. Training squadron commanders are the
                     final authority for approval.
11 Memo Requesting Complete (Sample at Attachment 15) through the first indorsement
   Duty at the       prior to departure. The member completes the required information
   Permanent Duty and faxes to the PDS/CC for indorsement. The technical training
   Station (PDS)     squadron that the member is assigned to provides the memorandum
   during the Formal for their students. Provide a copy of the completed memorandum to
   School Holiday    the Liaison Office and submit with the travel voucher at the end of
   Closure           training.
 92                                                        AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 12.30. Typical Schedule and Corresponding Statuses for NPS Arrivals from BMT.
      Week of Arrival from         Day        Activity               Status Time in Days
      BMT
1     Yes                          Mon        Arrival                         1 day
2     Yes                          Tue –      In-processing          ZP       3 days
                                   Thur
3     Fri through Thur of the      Fri – Thur Expected Training      AE#      1-4 days
      next week                               Entry
    12.20. Scheduling Concepts and Problems
         12.20.1. Week Groups. BMT students are accessed and assigned to a particular week
         group and remain in that week group (unless recycled, put on medical hold, etc.) until
         BMT ships them out. Week groups are developed from the Technical Training class
         schedules. Both Air Force Recruiting Service and BMT rely heavily on the week group
         integrity to allow for a smooth flow within the accession pipeline.
         12.20.2. The Classification Process. 2AF TTOC Det 1 matches students with available
         jobs and class seats. Students with GTEPs enter the AF with a guaranteed AFSC but no
         specific TT CSD. Other students are Aptitude Index enlistees with a guarantee of a
         specific aptitude area (Mechanical, Administrative, General or Electronics) but no
         guarantee of a specific AFSC. During the weekly job spin, both GTEP and AI enlistees
         are classified into a specific TT CSD compatible with their BMT Week Group.
         Occasionally, the available jobs in the weekly Job Spin imperfectly match the available
         skills or quantity of available students to be classified. This may occur because the actual
         BMT attrition for that accession week was in excess or lower than the expected BMT
         attrition either overall or in specific aptitude areas. If BMT attrition was higher than
         expected, the BMT arrivals may be lower than required to meet TT entries. If BMT
         attrition was lower than expected, the Job Spin will have more students than jobs. As a
         result, the job spin will classify students to TT CSDs in advance of those associated with
         the BMT Week Group being classified. Because the TT CSD is in the future, such BMT
         students are considered futured. Washbacks at BMT (called recycles) could also
         contribute to too few or too many BMT arrivals for TT CSD.
    12.21. Students Not in Training (SNIT). SATs, SOTs, and IITs are collectively known as
    SNIT. These statuses are used to identify and track resident students not productive in their
    training experience. Do not place students scheduled for or enrolled in MTT or Type 6 DL,
    in SAT, SOT or IIT statuses. Disenroll students returned to parent units, deployed or
    otherwise productively used, just not in a training environment.
         12.21.1. Out of Training Rosters. Use TTMS SAT, SOT, and IIT rosters to track
         SNIT. Training personnel who input TTMS data are responsible for the accuracy of the
         SAT, SOT, and IIT Rosters. Track such students by the root cause action and the remedy
         action required. Elevate trends where management assistance could result in more
         expeditious movement of students. Commanders at all levels use these rosters to track
         students not in training and efficiently manage student resources.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                     93


Table 12.31. Key Management Tools Applicable to Students In and Out of Training.
    Student         Title           Explanation                                       Tool
    Category
1   SIT             Student In-    Time for NPS student (ADAF, Guard,                 TTMS Alpha
                    processing     Reserve) to receive key in-processing              Roster
                    Training       briefings.
2   SAT             Student        The student is available to begin training but     TTMS Upfront
                    Awaiting       the CSD is in the future. Occasionally, the        SAT Student
                    Training       student may be unavailable to enter training       Roster
                                   due to medical or security clearance reasons.
3   IIT             [Student]      The student has entered training but is not        TTMS Upfront
                    Ineffective In currently in the assigned class and has not        Ineffective
                    Training       been eliminated or graduated. The student is       Student Roster
                                   expected to return to the same course to
                                   complete training.
4   SOT             Student Out of The student has been eliminated or has             TTMS Upfront
                    Training       graduated from training but has not departed       SOT Student
                                   the base.                                          Roster
5   Elim            Elimination    Decision to reclassify a student, placed in IIT,   TTMS Upfront
                                   through initiation of AETC Form 125A.              Elimination
                                                                                      Student Roster
6   Reclass       Reclassificatio ADAF NPS student eliminated from IST and            AETC Form
                  n               recommended for reclassification into another       125A, Record of
                                  AFSC. (This is the time from the date of the        Administration
                                  initiating signature on the AETC Form 125A          Training Action
                                  to the date of the approving signature.)
Note: Use the Elimination Roster to track who was eliminated, but the Ineffective Roster to track
how long it took to eliminate them.

Table 12.32. How to Categorize SATs.
    SAT Code Basis: Student Code                Explanation
    Available?
1   Available, waiting on training AE#          Class seat is not available.
    start
2   Not available                  AA#          Student unavailable due to delay, excessive
                                                absences, AWOL
3   Not available                    AC#        Confinement
4   Not available                    AD#        Administrative Reasons
5   Not available                    AL#        Leave (Ordinary or Emergency)
6   Not available                    AM#        Medical
7   Not available                    AS#        Security Clearance
8   Not available                    AX#        Other
 94                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


#: E for equipment course (or only course in AFSC pipeline), F for fundamentals
        *12.21.2. Reasonable Time in SATS. A reasonable SATS goal for new BMT arrivals
        is less than five SAT days. According to week group scheduling, some NPS arrivals will
        enter training on the Friday after arrival from BMT; others will enter the following
        Monday through Thursday. Therefore, some will have no SAT days; others will have
        four SAT days. Consider arrivals from BMT that enter training during the arrival week
        Friday through the second week on base Thursday period within the acceptable SAT
        standard. If the CSD is later than the second Thursday, they are considered in a futured
        CSD.

*Table 12.33. Monitoring and Resolving SATs.
      Monday    Tuesday      Wednesday      Thursday Friday
 1                                                         BMT Graduation
 2 TT Arrival SIT        SIT                SIT            ET# or SAT
*3 ET# or     ET# or SAT ET# or SAT          If still SAT on Thursday, monitor closely and take
   SAT                                      actions as feasible and appropriate
        12.21.3. SAT for Security Reasons. If class entry is delayed because of security
        clearance reasons, the SAT is properly coded AS#. At the point the clearance is granted;
        update the SAT code to AE#.
        12.21.4. Initial vs. Follow-on SATs. Distinguish between initial entry SATs (students
        awaiting training in the first course in the pipeline) and follow-on SATs (students
        awaiting training in subsequent courses.) Determine the distinction by examining the
        TPS Course Associations or examining the course id. Remedy actions may be different
        for initial entry vs. follow-on SATs.
        12.21.5. Commander actions with regard to SATs. TRSs identify and track all
        arrivals identified under AE# that did not enter training by the Friday after arrival from
        BMT. As discussed above, the first four SAT days of new arrivals from BMT are
        reasonable. After four SAT days, TRSs analyze the cause of the SAT time. If BMT
        arrivals are routinely shipped in a manner to cause AE# SAT time in excess of four
        training days (that is, the shipment week group is not compatible with the BMT-
        scheduled TT CSD), examine potential causes, to include an excess of students arriving
        from BMT or TT scheduling problems. Advise the 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 of futuring issues
        and examine potential remedies: enter above program group size, add additional
        class/classes, reduce later BMT shipments, submit ATP to create differential between
        max group size and programmed group size, etc.
        12.21.6. IITs. When students are out of training but are expected to return to training in
        the same course, the student is IIT. Update student statuses appropriately. If the IIT
        reason changes, adjust the status accordingly. For example, effective the date an IIT for
        academic failure (IF#) develops a medical problem the TTMS status becomes IM#.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              95


Table 12.34. Categorize IITs as Follows.
    Student Out of Class     Code       IIT Pending
1   Short Term – ECD Set     ID#        Awaiting Class Start (Same Course, Different Class)
                                        (CSD known)
2 Short Term – ECD Set        IL#       Leave (Ordinary or Emergency) (Return Date Known)
3 Short Term – no ECD         IB#       Pending Board Action
4 Short Term – no ECD         IE#       Awaiting Entry into Training
5 Short Term – no ECD         IF#       Academic Failure
6 Short Term – no ECD         IR#       Performance Failure (Removed Pending W/B or Elim,
                                        Skill Application Reasons, Not Academic)
7 Long Term (Potential)       IA#       Administrative Reasons
8 Long Term (Potential)       IC#       Confinement
9 Long Term (Potential)       IM#       Medical While in Training
10 Long Term (Potential)      IS#       Security Reasons
11 Long Term (Potential)      IW#       Excessive Absences (Including AWOL)
12 Long Term (Potential)      IX#       Other While in Training
#: E for equipment course (or only course in AFSC pipeline), F for fundamentals

Table 12.35. Commander Actions With Respect to IITs.
    Short Term/Long Term            Action
1   Short Term – ECD Known          Initiate follow up action once ECD exceeded.
2   Short Term – no ECD             Follow up monthly to validate student status. Where delays
                                    seem unreasonable and intervention appears warranted;
                                    initiate action.
3   Long Term (Potential)           Follow up quarterly to validate student status. Where
                                    delays seem unreasonable and intervention appears
                                    warranted; initiate action.
       12.21.7. SOT. When an NPS student is out of training either due to graduation or
       elimination, the student is a SOT. When a student graduates but does not depart the base
       within 24 hours, place the student in SOT status (S#G) using the appropriate reason.
       MTLs/RFPs update SOT codes in TTMS. The Registrar Section produces current TTMS
       SOTS rosters and, together with the FSS and TRF, reconciles the roster weekly.
       Document and file reconciliation actions and accomplish necessary activities for
       individuals on the SOTS roster as soon as possible.
 96                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 12.36. Categorize SOTs as Follows.
      Type of SOT: Student Available?        Code       SOT Pending
1     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SA#        Port Call
2     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SB#        Join Spouse Assignment
3     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SC#        Assignment
4     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SD#        Household Goods Shipment
5     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SE#        Reclassification Action
6     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SF#        Passport
7     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SG#        Concurrent Travel
8     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SH#        Weapons Qualification
9     Available but Temporarily Delayed      SM#        Course/Class Start Determination
10    Available but Temporarily Delayed      SX#        Orders
11    Not Available – Short Term             SK#        Under Investigation
12    Not Available                          SL#        Security Clearance
13    Not Available                          SU#        Other Reasons
14    Not Available                          SV#        Pending Involuntary Discharge
                                                        Action (ENL)
15 Not Available                             SW#        Pending Involuntary Discharge
                                                        Action (OFF)
16 Not Available – Potentially Long Term     SJ#        Confinement/AWOL/Deserter
17 Not Available – Potentially Long Term     SS#        Medical Hold
18 Not Available – Potentially Long Term     ST#        Administrative Hold
#: G for graduate, L for eliminee

Table 12.37. Commander Actions With Respect to SOTs.
      Student Available/Not        Action: Commander Initiated Follow Up Action
      Available
1     Available but Temporarily    Weekly–Validate students make associated appointments
      Delayed                      and responsible parties and/or organizations complete
                                   required actions.
2     Not Available Short Term     Weekly– Validate students are progressing towards
                                   departure.
3     Not Available Long Term      Quarterly–Validate student status. Where delays appear
      (Potential)                  unreasonable and intervention warranted; initiate action.
         12.21.8. Rosters and Reports to Help Monitor. Course, squadron and group personnel
         use TTMS rosters and reports outlined below to manage student flow and validate
         training data.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              97


Table 12.38. TTMS Rosters and Reports to Manage Student Flow.
    TTMS              Contains Basic     Use to Identify
    Roster/Report     Student Data *
1   Alpha             Yes                Overdue student actions; students assigned
2   Elimination       Yes                Students eliminated from training during the
                                         specified period
3 Forecast             Yes               Students forecasted to graduate within the specified
   Graduation                            period
4 Forecast Start       Yes               Students forecasted to enter training within the
                                         specified period
5 Hanging History Limited                Overdue student actions (part of ADSP Report)
6 Ineffective          Yes               Students in training ineffective during the specified
                                         period
7 PTTS Arrival         Yes               Report showing students projected from BMT until
                                         MTL records the arrival status in TTMS; students fall
                                         off the report following recording of the arrival
                                         status.
8 SATS                 Yes               Students awaiting entry into training
9 SOTS                 Yes               Students out of training due to elimination or
                                         graduation during the specified period
10 TRQI Initial        No                Summarizes student entry, elimination and
   Skills                                graduation data by month and by TRQI for an FY for
                                         enlisted IST
11 Washback            Yes               Students washed back during the specified period
* Basic student data such as name, SSN, TRQI, TRS, PDSClass, start and grad dates
       12.21.9. Using the Alpha Roster Effectively. Training flight personnel review the
       TTMS Alpha Roster at least monthly to identify students who have passed their CGD
       without a terminal event entered in TTMS. Identify all students not in training and
       validate the statuses are still applicable. When it is no longer applicable, ensure the
       person responsible enters the appropriate event in TTMS.
       12.21.10. Emergency Conditions and Student Accountability. Under emergency
       conditions, especially when conditions may warrant shelter activation, the Alpha Roster
       becomes the main tool to assist management in student accountability. For this to be a
       viable tool, immediately update statuses on all in-processing, awaiting training and
       entered students in TTMS. Equally important is to update departed students with the
       appropriate G## code or the applicable SOT code and terminated students with an H##
       code. Under these circumstances, the 24 hour rule does not apply because course
       personnel must accelerate data entry to account for students in a timely fashion.
 98                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 12.39. SNIT Responsibilities.
      POC                   Action
1     MTFs and/or TRF       Appoint and train SNIT monitors to track and assist SOTs.
2     Registrar Section     Appoints and trains a SNIT monitor to oversee and manage SOT
                            program.
3     MTF SNIT Monitor      Tracks SNIT and records status changes in TTMS, as appropriate.
4     Registrar Section     Places eliminees in initial SOT status when the AETC Form 125A is
                            signed.
5     MTF SNIT Monitor      Uses the flight SNIT rosters to track and manage SNIT.
6     MTF SNIT Monitor      Notifies the registrar section when the commander formally notifies
                            a student of pending separation and updates SNIT status.
7     TRG/MTF               Upon notification of pending separation, updates TTMS status from
                            administrative hold to pending discharge.
8     MTF SNIT Monitor      Coordinates security clearance updates with local security police.
9     MTF SNIT Monitor      Updates TTMS immediately when student permanently departs the
                            base.
10 MTF SNIT Monitor         Updates TTMS immediately when student’s duty status changes (i.e.,
                            to confinement, hospitalization, AWOL, etc.).
11 Registrar Section        Reviews TTMS SNIT rosters for accuracy and coordinates problems
                            and discrepancies with MTF SNIT monitors.
12 MTF SNIT Monitor         Prepares weekly SNIT report for TRF commander.
13 MTF SNIT Monitor         Prepares monthly SNIT briefing for TRS commander.
14 Registrar Section        Prepares monthly SNIT briefing for TRG commander.
         12.21.11. Hanging Histories (HHs). This TTMS report is run in conjunction with the
         Average Daily Student Population (ADSP) Report. The HH may be used to identify
         students that might be skewing the ADSP numbers. Use the HH to identify potential
         incomplete student transactions. The HH options allow the user to specify the number of
         days the student has been in the latest status or to exclude training events that occurred
         before a [user specified] date. The HH measures how long a student has been in a non-
         terminal status without a follow on status. For example, change the default in the HH
         report on a 30-day training course to 30 days. Then, if any student has been in training
         over 30 days without a status change (elimination, graduation, etc.), the HH would
         identify those names. ISs, TMs, and RFPs run HHs and research identified students and
         resolve associated issues.
13. Training Completion Process.
*13.1. ST Reports and Student Accounting and Attendance Reports.
         13.1.1. TTMS ST Report or AETC Form 156, Student Training Report.
            13.1.1.1. Instructors prepare STRs for all students in Type 2 and Type 3 IST courses.
                13.1.1.1.1. The TTMS-generated ST Report is the acceptable and required
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                99


            standard product where TTMS is installed. Find instructions for this report at
            Attachment 8.
            13.1.1.1.2. The AETC Form 156, Student Training Report only requires use in
            type 2 or type 3 IST courses where TTMS is not installed or when a back up is
            required. Find instruction for this form at Attachment 7.
        *13.1.1.2. MTLs complete the military training assessment of the report for AF NPS
        students. There is no requirement for sister service NPS military assessments on the
        ST Report. The MTF CC/chief reviews the Student Training Report, enters name,
        rank, title and signature. Exception: For NPS students attending a prerequisite course
        with follow-on courses collocated at the same base, defer the military training
        assessment until the students complete the follow-on course or eliminate from the
        prerequisite or AFSC awarding course. Comment in TTMS: Military training
        assessment is deferred until completion of the collocated follow-on course.
        13.1.1.3. The IS and the flight chief (or designee) sign the ST Report.
        13.1.1.4. Within seven duty days of graduation, RFPs deliver a (hand-carried or
        electronically transmitted), final copy of the ST Report to the Registrar Section for
        archiving. Do not send ST Reports through the Official Mail Center (OMC).
        Registrars continue to archive signed authenticated originals or official record-
        keeping copies of authenticated originals (i.e. GSUs) of the ST Report (AF-led
        courses) as prescribed by Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) on the Air
        Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).
        13.1.1.5. International students: Use only the ST Report or AETC Form 156 upon an
        International Student’s graduation from either initial skills or advanced supplemental
        training. Forward a copy of the final, signed ST Report or AETC Form 156 to the
        IMSO office after certification.
     13.1.2. Electronic Forwarding of TTMS ST Reports to Base Education and Training
     Offices.
        13.1.2.1. The completed TTMS STRs provide supervisors a comprehensive report of
        the students’ performance during training. For enlisted IST, the Registrar Section is
        responsible to electronically forward completed copies, without handwritten
        signatures, to the gaining base education and training offices or Phase II training site
        for distribution to the gaining supervisor.
        13.1.2.2. If requested, provide ST Reports to officers going to follow-on training.
        13.1.2.3. Release of the ST Report or AETC Form 156 to other than the student’s
        first-assignment supervisor and other personnel, who have a need to know, is
        restricted to the academic portion of the form. Do not include the military training
        assessment, if provided.
     *13.1.3. Maintenance of ST Reports and Student Accounting and Attendance
     Reports. The RFP hand-carries the signed report or e-mails as a PDF file to the
     Registrar Section within 7 duty days of class graduation. The Registrar Section archives
     signed authenticated originals or official copies as prescribed by the Air Force Records
     Disposition Schedule (RDS) on the Air Force Records Information Management System
 100                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


       (AFRIMS). TRGs may use electronic/digital signature, long term storage of official
       records, archival, and retrieval once HQ AETC approves a standard approved enterprise
       software solution, storage and retrieval strategy / business practice is approved. A faxed
       copy of the authenticated original or PDF attachment may serve as a record-keeping copy
       for those units approved through the overseeing base registrar.

*Table 13.1. Verification of Completed or Attempted Training.
    Document                   Provide to                Request Type         Registrar
                                                                              Technician
1   Training Verification      Students, Education       For Official Use     Signs via password
    Letter                     Offices or CCAF           Only or includes a   protection to
                                                         signed approval      prevent editing and
                                                         release from the     forwards via
                                                         student              office’s official e-
                                                                              mail address to the
                                                                              official e-mail
                                                                              address.
2   Training Verification      Office of Personnel       For Official Use     Embosses with
    Letter                     Management (OPM)          Only or includes a   Registrar’s seal
                               Investigators, civilian   signed approval      embosser and faxes
                               universities, and         release from the     or mails.
                               potential employers       student
3   Training Verification      Other agencies            For Official Use     Embosses with
    Letter                                               Only or includes a   Registrar’s seal
                                                         signed approval      embosser and
                                                         release from the     forwards with letter.
                                                         student
4  Certified Duplicate Copy Students, Education          For Official UseMarks as duplicate,
   of Student Accounting      Offices, Unit TM,          Only or includes a
                                                                         embosses with
   Records, Training          Supervision, civilian      signed approval Registrar’s seal
   Completion Forms and       universities, and          release from theembosser and faxes
   Records of                 potential employers        student         or mails.
   Administrative Actions
Do not forward to personal e-mail accounts or individual government e-mail addresses other
than the military member’s.

Handle all documents within the guidelines of the Privacy Act and AFI 33-332, Air Force
Privacy Program.

Letter of verification may be sent in lieu of duplicate training certificates (AF Form 1256,
Certificate of Training).
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               101


     13.1.4. TTMS Student Accounting and Attendance Record. Instructors prepare
     TTMS Student Accounting and Attendance Records for all students in other than IST
     courses, to include documentation of absences.
     13.1.5. AF IMT 475, Education/Training Report (TR)
         13.1.5.1. Use the AF IMT 475 to document officer student performance for all
         training and education courses as detailed in AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted
         Evaluation Systems. In addition, use it to document enlisted student performance for
         courses other than Initial Skills Training (IST) with a course length of 20 weeks (140
         calendar days) or longer. Exceptions: Retrainees and prior service Airmen in IST
         courses lasting 20 weeks or longer will receive TRs.
            13.1.5.1.1. For individuals eliminated a TR is still required and the referral
            procedures in AFI 36-2406 must be followed.
            13.1.5.1.2. Ensure evaluators understand their responsibilities and the impact the
            AF IMT 475 has on an officer or enlisted member’s career. The TR is a
            mandatory report documenting the member's performance for the period of the
            course. The follow-on enlisted performance report (EPR) start date is the day
            after TR close-out (course completion date). Exception: In a multiple course
            pipeline the follow-on EPR start date will be the day after the final pipeline course
            completion.
            13.1.5.1.3. Follow Officer Performance Report (OPR) and EPR distribution and
            filing timelines, with TRs due no later than 60 days after the course completion
            date. Forward all original officer and senior noncommissioned officer (NCO) TRs
            to AFPC/PBSE. Forward original TRs on technical sergeants (TSgt) and below to
            AFPC/DPSIR for inclusion into the member electronic record. Maintain a copy of
            each in the Unit Personnel Record Group (UPRG) and MAJCOM record.
            Distribute no other copies.(Exception: For officer students scheduled for follow-
            on training, the registrar may provide copies of the electronic TTMS Student
            Training Report or the AETC Form 156, and the AF IMT 475,
            Education/Training Report, at the follow-on-training unit’s request). Contact
            AFPC or the ratee’s FSS for any other additional copies of the AF IMT 475. Refer
            to AFI 36-2406 for more information.
  13.2. AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training.
     13.2.1. Present AF Form 1256 to each student for each course successfully completed.
     Include as a minimum: student’s name, course number and title, course length in hours,
     applicable CCAF credit, date of graduation, and signature or signature facsimile at the
     Course Manager level or above. List only one course on a certificate.
     13.2.2. For Type 6 DL: Course personnel prepare AF Form 1256 for distribution to
     students who complete distance learning courses if the appropriate completion certificate
     cannot be auto-generated with the proper facsimile signature through the Learning
     Management System (LMS).
102                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


  13.3. The Student Recognition Program.
      13.3.1. Goal. The goal of the program is to provide special recognition of students who
      achieve outstanding performance. TRGs establish programs to recognize distinguished
      and top graduates.
      13.3.2. Recognition Criteria.
         13.3.2.1. Selection criteria should apply the whole-person concept, giving the
         flexibility to weigh performance and academic achievement against other qualities.
         As an example, consider overall professional qualities such as leadership and
         follower-ship abilities, conduct, bearing, behavior, attitude, oral and written
         communication skills, problem-solving abilities, adaptability, and faculty and staff
         recommendations.
         13.3.2.2. Include tie breaker factors in selection criteria.
         13.3.2.3. NPS selection criteria must include recommendation for Distinguished
         Graduate (DG) for NPS students with the MTF/CC or First Sgt. If non-concurring,
         the MTF CC provides reason via email.
         13.3.2.4. Exceptions.
             13.3.2.4.1. The Consolidated Training Plan guidelines cover the recognition
             program of 882 TRG follow-on training sites.
             13.3.2.4.2. Courses that do not have percentage scores for an end of course grade
             are not required to have a DG program.
      13.3.3. DG Program.
         13.3.3.1. Each TRG will establish a DG program to recognize outstanding
         achievement in AFSC-awarding and supplemental courses of 20 training days or
         more. TRGs may include qualifying courses in the DG program and may use its
         discretion to exclude certain other courses.
         *13.3.3.2. Recognize up to, but not exceeding, 10 percent of a graduating class.
         Consistently apply a set percentage of a graduating class to preserve the integrity of
         the DG recognition program. When 10 percent yields a part person, courses may
         bestow DG on one person when one of two conditions is met: the part person is 0.5 or
         greater or a part person less than 0.5 is derived from a class size greater than or equal
         to max class size. If more than one person, round up only if the part person decimal
         part is 0.5 or greater. TRGs may create DG subcategories when clearly definable
         subgroups exist within a class (i.e. NPS vs. PS). If awarding DG on basis of subgroup
         apply the 10 percent calculation to the subgroup. Deviations/exceptions dilute the
         desired goal of the standardized program. A graduating class does not have to
         recognize a DG if no one meets the selection criteria. Expand the quantity authorized
         to receive DG if an international student otherwise meets the criteria for DG.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 103


Table 13.2. Distinguished Graduate Criteria.
    Distinguished Graduate Criteria




1   Meets high standards of attitude, bearing, behavior, conduct, teamwork, and leadership.
2   Meets the required final course grade established by the flight/course.
3   Has no failing written or performance test grades.
4   Has no academic washbacks or mandatory SIA.
5   Has no disciplinary problems or derogatory comments on file (Letters of Reprimand, Letters
    of Counseling, etc.).
6   Has no unexcused absence.
       13.3.4. Top Graduate (TG) Program.
           13.3.4.1. Additional recognition may be given to a TG from the group of DGs. A TG
           is the number one graduate in a class. Recognize TGs for superior academic
           achievement and high standards of leadership, teamwork, and character.
           Comprehensively, the TG must exceed the performance of the DGs. TRFs may
           establish more stringent TG selection criteria, including a higher final course grade.
           13.3.4.2. International students may be awarded the TG certificate, if qualified.
       13.3.5. Recognition Program Certificates.
           13.3.5.1. Award AETC Form 498, AETC Commander’s Award, for TG and AETC
           Form 499, Distinguished Graduate Recognition Certificate, for DG. Exception: 737
           TRG uses 737 TRG Form 1 to recognize honor graduates from BMT.
           13.3.5.2. Ensure each recognized student receives a congratulatory letter from the
           TRG/CC, TRS/CC or TRF/CC, with a memo mailed to the honoree’s CC,
           recommending the DG status be included in the student’s next performance report.
           13.3.5.3. TRG/CCs may authorize the use of a scanned signature, providing adequate
           procedures are in place to ensure limited access.
       13.3.6. Recording DG/TG in TTMS. Instructors annotate DG/TG recognition in the
       TTMS for output on the ST Report or on the AETC Form 156.
       13.3.7. Other Recognition Programs.
           13.3.7.1. Training flights may establish other awards or honors to recognize
           noteworthy accomplishments of individual students, for example Best Speaker. Do
           not use ranking of students (Top Third, etc.).
           13.3.7.2. TRGs may implement a Commander’s Honor Roll program to recognize
           enlisted IST students who achieve high academic grades on end-of-block exams.
           TRSs establish honor roll criteria based on block score ranges determined by the TRF
 104                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


            CC/chief. Names of Commander’s Honor Roll students may be published in the base
            newspaper.
       13.3.8. Monitoring DG/TG         Awards. TRG/CCs        determine who      monitors the
       recognition program.
    13.4. The Registrar’s seal embosser verifies authenticity, prevents fraudulent
    documentation, and validates faxed elimination actions. Apply appropriate safeguards to
    secure embosser. If the embosser is lost, misplaced, or presumed stolen, immediately inform
    the following personnel or agencies: Chief or Director of Operations, Security Forces, and 2
    AF/TTOC.
14. Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) Program.
    14.1. Registrar Sections are responsible to provide regular SAVs to assist TRSs and TRFs
    with hands on guidance in student flow management and administration and in the proper
    procedures for documenting student actions.

Table 14.1. SAV Procedures.
    Activity            POC             Action
1   Planning            Registrar       Prepare and disseminate an annual SAV schedule for
                        Section         organizations. Evaluate each squadron annually.
2   Planning            Registrar       Develop an inspection checklist to ensure all items are
                        Section         checked during each visit. Revise as necessary to
                                        address recent changes in policy/directives.
3   Notification        Registrar       Provide an announcement of a scheduled
                        Section         squadron/flight SAV thirty days in advance of the
                                        scheduled SAV.
4   Notification        Registrar       Request each organization identify to the registrar
                        Section         section any special interest areas.
5   Preparation         Registrar       Verify current RFP and DGR appointment memos are
                        Section         on file, as applicable.
6   Preparation         Registrar       Check the late report log to determine the number of
                        Section         late reports received since last SAV.
7   Preparation         Registrar       Check the discrepancy log to determine the type and
                        Section         quantity of typical flight discrepancies.
8   Preparation         Registrar       Review previous elimination packages for type and
                        Section         quantity of typical errors.
9   Visit               Registrar       Review student accounting procedures and late
                        Section         reporting; review student administration to include
                                        timeliness and accuracy of entry of ST Reports and
                                        Student Accounting Records.
10 Visit                Registrar       Review elimination packages for accuracy and
                        Section         completeness. Do the packages adequately explain
                                        the root cause of the elimination? Does the word
                                        picture support the reason for elimination?
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               105


   Activity            POC             Action
11 Visit               Registrar       Review the student recognition program to ensure
                       Section         compliance.
12 Visit               Registrar       Discuss problems in student administration and
                       Section         student flow management.
13 Visit               Registrar       Out brief the squadron/flight chief or course
                                       supervisor on all findings.
14 Visit               Registrar       Prepare a written report of findings. Establish
                                       milestones to ensure follow-up actions identified
                                       during the visit (i.e., in-service training, additional
                                       information, etc.) are accomplished as required.
15 Follow-up           Registrar       Provide summary report to TRS commander, as
                                       appropriate.
16 Follow-up           Registrar       Provide quarterly recap of SAVs to TRG commander,
                                       to include completed milestones.
   14.2. Include the following topics in the SAV report: Unit Visited, Personnel Conducting
   Visit, Personnel Contacted, Functional Area Being Visited, Comments and Findings, and
   Recommendations (if appropriate).
   14.3. When appropriate provide checklists to TMs scheduled for on-site visits to GSUs.
   TMs complete checklists and return to Registrar Section for inclusion in SAV summary
   report.
   14.4. Standardized student accounting is vital to good management practices. Base
   Registrars should identify GSUs that require hands-on assistance to achieve acceptable
   student accounting. Use telephone conferences, video teleconferences, and on site visits, as
   feasible, to ensure student accounting is effective and efficient.
15. Procedures Where Training is not AETC Owned and/or TTMS is not Accessible or not
Feasible.
   15.1. 2 AF geographically separated units (GSUs) take one of four different forms, as noted
   in Table 15.1 below.
 106                                                  AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table 15.1. GSU Variations.
    A 2 AF GSU:           At Which:                                   Student Accounting
                                                                      Accomplished
1   Detachment (Det) or   AF instructor personnel are available for   Via TTMS Student
    Operating Location    AETC standardized student accounting,       Management, once
    (OL)                  especially when TTMS Student                available, as specified in
                          Management is available. This includes      this instruction.
                          type 3 initial skills Field Training
                          Detachment (FTD) training.
2   Det or OL             There are AF management personnel         Via TTMS Student
                          available for student accounting but not  Management, once
                          AF instructors.                           available, as specified in
                                                                    this instruction.
3   Det or OL             There are no AF instructor or             By entering limited
                          management personnel available for        student status
                          student accounting or the available AF    information in TTMS
                          personnel accomplish student accounting (entry, graduation,
                          under the requirements of the host (Army, elimination) (ref Table
                          Navy, DINFOS, etc.) This is referred to 16-2). DGR does
                          as non-AETC owned training.               student entry at the
                                                                    parent base (ref para
                                                                    16.1).
*4 Field Training         Different variations of training may be   By different methods,
   Detachment (FTD)       accomplished.                             depending on the
                                                                    training variation being
                                                                    taught. (See para 16.)
    15.2. AETC GSUs that do not have TTMS Student Management available will provide
    appropriate student documentation by fax and/or email to the DGR for entry into TTMS.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               107


Table 15.2. The TTMS Procedures Where Training is NOT AETC- Owned.
  Issue                                    Procedure
1 Shell information in TTMS                See AETCI 36-2203.
2 Data entry into TTMS                     Forward authorized document/email into DGR
                                           for input into TTMS Student Management.
3   Verification of student information in RFP prints TTMS Upfront data and has students
    TTMS                                   validate personal data.
4   Record of formal counseling of student No requirement to forward to the DGR
5   Student Training Record                Host service’s documentation, archiving
                                           procedures apply.
6   DG/TG                                  Host service’s rules apply.
7   Accounting and Attendance Record       RFP forwards data via AETC Form 325, Host
                                           service documentation, email, or
                                           telecommunications as prescribed by TRG.
    15.3. If the TRG determines non-AETC student accounting procedures apply, the TRG
    documents that decision via memo and retains on file. Include in the memo a description of
    the process to flow student data from the course to the parent unit.
    15.4. Forward student status changes to the DGR within 24 hours of knowledge or
    occurrence. The DGR has 24 hours (one duty day) to input the information in TTMS.
16. Procedures for Field Training Detachments (FTDs).
    16.1. FTDs provide a variety of technical training not otherwise available. There are several
    terms that uniquely apply to FTD training.

Table 16.1. Training Terms Applicable to FTD Training.
  Term             Definition: Type 4 Training
1 Type 4 training Conducted at a FTD (host) training location.
2 Partial training Interrupted without completion due to unavailability of equipment or
                   personnel or mission requirements. Accounted for partial training that is
                   resumed and completed like other Type 4 unfunded training
3 Training         Below the course level or where no course exists. No student accounting
  session          required.
4 FTD CGC          Classes created using the Center Generated Class Recorder are unique to
                   FTD unfunded type 4 training when the third character of the class
                   number is a "4" (09401). The class is created in TTMS but does not flow
                   to TPS or OTA.
    16.2. Training at FTD locations is categorized by the type of students and whether the
    training seat is funded (involves a TLN) or not, and the method of student accounting.
 108                                                  AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 16.2. Categories of FTD Training.
  Type of            TLN      Qualified By Class Created                  Student
  Training                                                                Accounting
1 IST                Yes      AFSC-         In TPS via annual programming Normal
                              awarding
2 Type 4             Yes      Funded        Near term, in TPS via AETC       Normal
                                            Form 179A
3 Type 4             No       Unfunded      In TTMS, under FTD CGC           After the fact
                                            application
4 Partial Training No         Incomplete    No                               None
5 Training Session No         Unfunded      No                               None

Section D—General Planning and Management for Officer, Enlisted, and Mission Readiness
Training Program (MRTP)

17. Purpose. This section provides general out-year planning process information to show how
AETC relates to Air Staff and other MAJCOMs and guidance for all types of formal training for
AETC and subordinate units. All references to Air Staff and other MAJCOMs are not directive
in nature, but meant to show how, when and with whom AETC interfaces with these
organizations.
18. Requirements to Resources and Scheduling.
   18.1. From Requirements to Resources. Technical Training Concept of Operations
   (CONOPS) is designed to align technical training requirements with the Planning,
   Programming, Budgeting, and Execution system (PPBE). The primary vehicles that capture
   and align training requirements to resources are the Program Requirements Document (PRD)
   and the Program Guidance Letter (PGL).
   18.2. Program         Requirements        Documents/Program          Guidance       Letters
   (PRDs/PGLs). The official tasking documents which enable AETC planners and
   programmers to identify and acquire necessary resources to meet training requirements. The
   primary data sources for PRD/PGL development are: AF/A1P’s Annual Data Call, Air Force
   Personnel Center’s (AFPC) & AF/A1P’s Officer Sustainment & Distribution Model,
   AF/A1P’s Enlisted Sustainment Model, and the projected FY Enlisted Retraining Programs.
   Table 18.1 lists the different types of PRDs/PGLs which impact technical training. The
   primary differences between PRDs and PGLs are relative to their position on the PPBE
   timeline. The PRD is earlier in the planning process before A1P vets requirements to the Air
   Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) while the PGL represents the document after vetting
   through the AFCS. These documents (and changes to these documents) are directly impacted
   by strategic level changes to: accessions, AFSC sustainment, retention rates, AF end-
   strength, technical training planning and resource assessments. HAF/A1P and HAF/A1M
   release the AETC tasking and resourcing documents (PRD/PGL) to HQ AETC/A2/3/10 for
   HQ AETC/A3P and HQ AETC/A3R review and action. In addition, recent AF decisions (i.e.
   Force Re-Shaping in FY04, AF over end-strength in FY05 and AF21 Transformation and
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              109


  ongoing AF Force Restructure issues) have driven ongoing budget and execution Active
  Duty Air Force EIS/OIS/MRT PGL training requirement changes.
     18.2.1. Program Requirements Document (PRD). The PRD enables planners and
     programmers to program for necessary resources to support out-year (current year +3;
     e.g. in Aug 09, AETC reviewed FY12 EIS PRD) Air Force (AF) requirements. The
     PRD identifies ―unconstrained‖ accession and technical training requirements.
     18.2.2. Program Guidance Letter (PGL). The PGL serves as the official tasking
     document reflecting Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) acknowledgement of the
     technical training requirements (current year +2; e.g. in Aug 09, AETC reviewed FY11
     EIS PGL); the requirements briefing to the AFCS highlights there will be training bills in
     the upcoming POM. The PGL represents ―constrained‖ accession and training
     requirements.
     18.2.3. Accession Constraints (Reconciling Accession and EIS PGLs). For a given
     FY, on the Accession PGL, AF/A1M identifies the aggregate NPS and PS accession
     limits. The aggregate NPS accession limit must be reconciled/balanced against the NPS
     Tech Training course of initial entry (COIE) requirements on the EIS PGL using the
     AETC/A3P Programmed Tech Training (PTT). When the aggregate COIE NPS
     requirement (based on the EIS PGL and PTT) exceeds the NPS accession limit (based on
     the Accession PGL), the HAF/A1PF/A1PT staff will reduce individual AFSCs’ NPS
     training requirements on the EIS PGL (resulting in a corresponding NPS COIE
     requirements reduction to balance to the Accession PGL).
     18.2.4. Technical Training Constraints. Includes AETC and Sister Service/Other
     Agency limitations/shortfalls.
        18.2.4.1. AETC Constraints (equipment/facility/instructors).
            18.2.4.1.1. EIS/OIS. If entries identified on the PTT exceed existing schoolhouse
            capacity, schoolhouse personnel complete a constraint worksheet (Attachments
            16 and 17). The constraint worksheet identifies existing maximum capacity for
            the schoolhouse and the resource shortfall(s). Using the constraint worksheets,
            the AETC/A3PZ staff will identify to the AF/A1PT staff, the AFSCs/courses
            where the requested PRD/PGL training requirement exceeds the current/existing
            AETC schoolhouse capacity. AF/A1PT uses the constraints identified to
            advocate for resources to unconstrain the AFSC/course. When the PGL
            constraint/delta cannot be resolved immediately, the AF/A1PT staff must consider
            the re-distribution of the active duty training requirement delta to other AFSC(s).
            Note: For 2 AF schoolhouses, TMs as directed by 2 AF/TTOC will use the
            capacity assessment worksheet (Attachment 18) to calculate the maximum
            capacity for each course under their purview. TMs must ensure that when courses
            share resources (equipment, facilities, etc.) all courses are listed in the comments
            section of the worksheet.
            18.2.4.1.2. MRTP. When out-year MRTP (advanced/supplemental) training
            requirements loaded into MILPDS/OTA exceed schoolhouse capacity,
            schoolhouse training managers will advise AETC/A3PZ staff of how to distribute
            and reduce training requirements down to within schoolhouse capacity (based on
110                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


         historical users’ utilization rates).
      18.2.4.2. Sister Service/Other Agency Constraints (quota/equipment/facility).
      Using the constraint worksheets, the AETC/A3PZ staff will identify, to the AF/A1PT
      staff, the AFSCs/courses where the requested EIS/OIS PRD/PGL training
      requirement exceeds the current requested training requirement from the sister
      service/other agency (AF and sister service out-year PPBE timelines do not match).
      AF/A1PT uses the constraints identified to advocate for resources to un-constrain the
      AFSC/course. The out-year delta (increased AF training requirement) will be
      worked/requested at HAF and HQ AETC levels with the appropriate sister
      service/other agency counterparts.        (Note: Increases to the linguist training
      requirements are worked/vetted by the AETC/A3P staff through the TRAPP process.)
      When the EIS PGL constraint/delta cannot be resolved immediately, the AF/A1PT
      staff must consider the re-distribution of the active duty training requirement delta to
      other AFSC(s).        When out-year MRTP (advanced/supplemental) training
      requirements loaded into MilPDS/OTA exceed schoolhouse capacity, program
      managers (2AF TTOC-P) will advise training managers who have not acquired
      ATRRS/CeTARS access of the total requirements received from sister service/other
      agency upon request. The TM will distribute based upon fair share and advise
      AETC/A3PZ staff and 2 AF/TTOC-P.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                             111


Table 18.1. Kinds of PRD/PGLs Impacting AETC Basic and Technical Training
    PGL                     Description
1   Accessions              AF/A1MP develops the Accessions Program Guidance Letter
                            (APGL) which identifies enlisted and officer accession levels for
                            the current fiscal year and the Future Years Defense Plan (FYDP)
                            years. For enlisted, the APGL identifies the number of Non-Prior
                            Service (NPS) and Prior Service (PS) the Air Force will recruit for
                            a given fiscal year. For officers, the APGL identifies the number
                            of line and non-line officer accessions for a given fiscal year.
                            AETC/A3P must work in conjunction with AF/A1P to ensure the
                            accession levels are balanced with the PGL and the PTT.
2   Enlisted Initial Skills Reflects the total validated training requirements necessary for
    (EIS)                   force sustainment in each Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC).
                            Includes initial skills training requirements for Active Duty Air
                            Force, Air National Guard, AF Reserve, Sister Service,
                            International, and Civilian personnel.
3   Trained Dog Requirement Reflects the Military Working Dog requirements for sustainment
    (TDR)                   across the AF
4   Mission Readiness       Reflects TDY-to-School centrally-funded and locally-funded
    Training Program        baselines for AF directed and MAJCOM (Warfighter and
    (MRTP)                  Support) training requirements (prior service, retraining,
                            supplemental, 7-Level, etc.).
5    Officer Initial Skills Reflects the officer requirements for force sustainment in each
    (OIS)                   Officer Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). Includes initial skills
                            training requirements for Active Duty Air Force, Air National
                            Guard, AF Reserve, International, and Civilian personnel.
    18.3. PGL Requirements. The PGL requirements are identified in the categories shown in
    Table 18.2. below. Each category is ultimately broken into TRQIs (Training Requester
    Quota Identifiers). TRQIs are four-character communication codes within MILPDS/OTA
    used to convey annual or supplemental training requirements, quota allocations, quota
    confirmations, and student-tracking information between a training user and the training
    provider (owner). In accordance with AFI 36-2201 the AF assigns TRQIs to MAJCOMS,
    Forward Operating Agencies (FOAs), and Direct Reporting Units (DRU s) to ensure training
    accountability.
 112                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table 18.2. Categories of PGL Requirements.
   Entry Category         PGL Grouping        PGL Student Type
*1 Trained Personnel      Active Duty Air      NPS (AJ10, AJ11, AJ20, AJ30), Officer
   Requirement            Force (ADAF)        (AM10, AM11), Retrainee (RET) (AJ1J,
   (TPR)                                      AJ3J, AMD0, AJ50), Prior Service (PS)
                                              (AJ1K, AJ3K),
2   Student Training      ARC                 ANG: NPS, PS (CC10), Flying Training
    Requirement                               (CNN0)
    (STR)                                     AFRC: NPS, PS (RR10), Air Reserve
                                              Technician (ART) (A0M0)
3                         Sister Services     USA (US Army - DA00), AGD (Army Guard
                                              - DANG), ARES (Army Reserve - DAAR)
                                              Navy (DN00)
                                              MC (Marine Corps – DM00)
                                              USCG (US Coast Guard – DP10)
4                         Other TRQIs (A      Palace Acquire (A2C0)
                          few examples        Internationals (MX20)
                          among many)
    18.4. EIS Programmed Tech Training (PTT). Using the EIS PTTs (one per FY), the
    AETC/A3PZ staff converts NPS production requirements from the EIS PRD and the EIS
    PGLs to NPS entries by course by applying a programmed elimination rate to individual
    courses (to account for historical losses due to eliminations from the course). The
    AETC/A3P EIS PTT (entry) serves as a companion document to the HAF/A1P EIS PRD or
    PGL (production). To reconcile the Accession PGL to the EIS PGL (NPS), the EIS PTT is
    used to aggregate the NPS COIEs for all AFSCs/pipelines. The aggregate NPS COIEs on the
    PTT can be compared to the aggregate NPS on the Accession PGL to determine if EIS PGL
    changes (increases/decreases) will be required to balance the EIS PGL to the Accession PGL.
    The total training requirements by course assist the schoolhouse personnel in determining
    whether schoolhouse capacity has been exceeded prior to, during and after the EIS TFMC.
    Schoolhouses use the entry requirements for course/class scheduling while A1MRT uses
    them for programming manpower.
    18.5. Trained Personnel Requirement (TPR). TPR states the AF personnel need for
    trained personnel by AFSC. Out of this requirement Air Staff projects training and retraining
    required by FY to keep the active airman force at manning levels needed by the Air Force.
    Air Staff communicates the TPR to AETC (the process to satisfy TPR is not limited to AETC
    formal schools) as the total Air Force production requirements for a given AFSC. The TPR
    categories are non-prior service (NPS), prior service (PS), retrainees (RET). It does not
    include Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, Sister Service, International or Civilian
    personnel.
    18.6. Student Training Requirement (STR). STR is the sum of ANG, AFRC, Sister
    Service, International, and civilian training requirements for IST. It represents all resource
    categories EXCEPT ADAF NPS, PS, and RET.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                             113


    18.7. The Training Flow Management Conference (TFMC). The TFMC is scheduled
    annually to discuss the enlisted initial skills requirements. The conference focuses on
    finalization of user enlisted training requirements.
       18.7.1. Course capacity, constraints, and shortfalls are identified and addressed. In
       preparation for the TFMC and where final user requirements exceed course capacity, 2
       AF units submit draft constraint worksheets and BBPs through the schoolhouse’s
       appropriate squadron, group and wing to 2 AF/TTOC who will post draft constraint
       worksheets to the EIS CoP three working days prior to the first pre-TFMC VTC. Other
       organizations post constraint worksheets directly to the EIS CoP. The constraint
       worksheets and BBPs may need to be updated throughout the TFMC process as
       requirements fluctuate and are solidified.
       18.7.2. When training requirements increase from FY to FY, 2 AF units submit draft
       Additional Instructor Requirement Worksheets (AIRWs) through the schoolhouse’s
       appropriate squadron, group and wing, to 2 AF/TTOC who will post draft AIRWs to the
       EIS CoP three working days prior to the first pre-TFMC VTC. Other organizations post
       AIRWs directly to the EIS CoP.
       18.7.3. Following the TFMC, the Air Staff publishes the EIS PGL and AETC prepares a
       PTT. AETC will send a staff package requesting operational assessment, to include
       validated constraints and additional instructor requirements. By exception, submit new
       AIRWs to AETC/A3P where changes to requirements drive concerns about overcoming
       instructor shortfalls. For 2 AF schoolhouses, the 2 AF/CC confirms constrained courses,
       current schoolhouse capacity and the resources/cost required to unconstrain the course.
       For schoolhouses outside 2 AF, submit responses directly to AETC/A3P.

Table 18.3. TFMC Organization.
    Category               Conference Participants
1   Co-chairs              AF/A1PT and AETC/A3P
2   Attendees              Reps from HQ AETC/A1K/A1M/A3I/A3R/A3T/A3Z/SGU, 2AF,
                           schoolhouses, ANG, AFRC, Sister Services, Internationals, AFPC
                           Retraining, AF Recruiting
3   Preparation VTCs       AETC/A3P coordinates video-teleconferences with 2 AF/TTOC,
                           TRGs and schoolhouses to firm up enlisted requirements prior to the
                           TFMC.
       18.7.4. Senior Level Review. Following the TFMC and publication of the EIS PGL
       (targeted for Nov-Dec timeframe), senior leaders from AETC/A2/3/10-TT and 2 AF/CC
       and 2 AF/CV will confirm EIS requirements, constraints, and additional instructor
       prioritization for early fills.
    18.8. The Officer Accession Conference (OAC)/Training Flow Management
    Conference (TFMC). The OAC/TFMC is scheduled annually to discuss the officer initial
    skills requirements. The conference focuses first on finalization of Sources of Commission
    (SOCs) accession targets, followed by officer training requirements from other users,
    including Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, internationals and civilians.
 114                                                  AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


       18.8.1. Course capacity, constraints, and shortfalls are identified and addressed. In
       preparation for the OAC and where final user requirements exceed course capacity, 2 AF
       units submit draft constraint worksheets and BBPs through the schoolhouse’s appropriate
       squadron, group and wing, to 2 AF/TTOC who will post draft constraint worksheets to
       the OIS CoP three working days prior to the OAC. Other organizations post constraint
       worksheets directly to the OIS CoP. The constraint worksheets and BBPs may need to be
       updated throughout the OAC process as requirements fluctuate and are solidified.
       18.8.2. When training requirements increase from FY to FY, 2 AF units submit draft
       AIRWs through the schoolhouse’s appropriate squadron, group and wing, to 2 AF/TTOC
       who will post draft AIRWs to the OIS CoP three working days prior to the OAC. Other
       organizations post AIRWs directly to the OIS CoP.
       18.8.3. Following the OAC/TFMC, the Air Staff publishes the OIS PGL and AETC
       prepares a PTT. AETC will send a staff package requesting operational assessment, to
       include validated constraints and additional instructor requirements. By exception,
       submit new AIRWs through 2 AF/TTOC to AETC/A3P where changes to requirements
       drive concerns about overcoming instructor shortfalls. For 2 AF schoolhouses, the 2
       AF/CC confirms constrained courses, current schoolhouse capacity and the resources/cost
       required to unconstrain the course. For schoolhouses outside 2 AF, submit responses
       directly to AETC/A3P.

Table 18.4. OAC/TFMC Organization.
    Category               Conference Participants
1   Co-chairs              AF/A1PT, AETC/A3P, AFPC/DPPS
2   Attendees              Representatives from HQ AETC/A3T, 2AF, schoolhouses, ANG,
                           AFRC, Internationals, AFPC, AFIT, AF Recruiting, SOCs (USAFA,
                           OTS, ROTC)
3   Preparation VTCs       If required, AETC/A3P coordinates with 2 AF/TTOC, TRGs and
                           schoolhouses to firm up officer requirements prior to OAC.
    18.9. Training Planning Cycle/Data Call as Related to MRTP process. The AF/A1PT
    data call is a critical point triggering a data gathering point for all out-year Technical
    Training requirements.
       18.9.1. AETC/A3P works prescheduling requirements and prepares the MRT
       spreadsheets.
       18.9.2. AETC/A3P schedules an MRTP conference annually to discuss supplemental
       training requirements, including Type 6 Training.

Table 18.5. MRTP Conference Organization.
    Category                Conference Participants
1   Co-chairs               AF/A1PT and HQ AETC/A3P
2   Attendees               AETC/A3P, 2 AF, TRQIs Managers, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs,
                            non-AF TRQI Managers
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                            115


  18.10. Training Requirement Changes.
     18.10.1. Definition of Scheduling Completion. Scheduling is complete when the OPR
     for programming and scheduling (2 AF/TTOC) officially announces that scheduling is
     complete for EIS, OIS, and MRT. This delineates the line between prescheduling and
     postscheduling timeframes.
     18.10.2. PGL Amendments (Pre/Postscheduling).
        18.10.2.1. When HAF/A1PT requests a proposed amendment to the PGL,
        AETC/A3PZ updates the PTT to identify the proposed change to the specific
        pipeline(s) and posts it to the CoP. AETC/A3P then staffs an ESSS (with link to
        program CoP) with all appropriate organizations (AETC A-Staffs, 2 AF/TTOC,
        AFPC, Brooks, etc.) requesting that the impacted organizations assess capacity and
        identify if all, part or none of the proposed change (increase/decrease) can be
        implemented with existing resources. The appropriate AETC/A2/3/10 office, in
        coordination with affected organizations, will determine if the changes are executable
        against AETC’s current resource profile or if additional resources are required. If
        additional resources are required, AETC/A3RB will notify AF/A1PT and
        AETC/A8PP. Upon AFCS approval and AF/A1P transmittal of an amended PGL,
        AETC will take appropriate action to immediately execute the amended change and
        simultaneously bring any unfunded portion of the original change into the next
        Program Budget Review (PBR) and/or Quarterly Program Execution Review as
        appropriate for AFCS decision. Upon receiving AFCS approval, A3PZ will update
        the PTT with the proposed changes (Exception: A3PZ will update MRT PTT and/or
        metrics). 2 AF/TTOC will update Monthly Execution Report (MER) Tracker during
        year of execution).
            18.10.2.1.1. Within Capacity/Resources. Upon receipt of the amended PGL
            reflecting changes that are executable and funded, AETC will document the
            changes in their management tools/metrics and will take appropriate action to
            immediately execute the accepted change.
            18.10.2.1.2. Exceeds Capacity/Resources. Within 2 AF resources are checked
            on an ascending basis up through squadron, group and wing. If the schoolhouse
            checks all avenues up the chain and resource requirements are still not met then
            the appropriate AETC/A2/3/10 office will bring the unfunded portion of the
            change into the next PBR and/or Budget Execution Review (BER) as appropriate
            for Air Force Corporate Structure decision. All other training users will forward
            their assessments directly to AETC/A3PZ.
     18.10.3. Adjustments (Pre/Post-scheduling) AF/A1PT transmits budget year and
     execution year adjustments to HQ AETC/A3P representing customer requirements.
     Changes/adjustments during execution year must be coordinated according to Table 18.6.
     Regardless of the timeframe, number of AFSCs and training users impacted, AETC/A3P
     staffs training requirement changes/adjustments to appropriate organizations and capacity
     is consistently assessed to ensure that AETC is responsive to changing AF needs.
 116                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 18.6. Rules of Engagement for AETC Increases/Adds in Execution Year
    Category         Action
1   Quota            Research and assess requests to determine if user needs can be met
    Management       through QM (18.10.5 and subs) within existing schedules. If user needs
    (QM)             cannot be met through QM follow steps 2-8 below.
2   EIS/OIS ADAF     All ADAF enlisted and officer change requests are submitted to
    Change Requests  AETC/A3P (with suspense, e.g. normally correlated to affected
                     course/class start date). Review requests to determine if it is a constrained
                     course (if at max capacity, offsets must be taken to increase one user’s
                     requirements). Consider pipeline impacts before recommending change
                     (sufficient quotas in follow-on courses).
3   EIS/OIS Non-     When 2 AF/Other organizations (e.g. ANG, AFCFM, etc.) receive Non-
    ADAF             ADAF Out-of Cycle change requests (increases/adds to schedules), they
    Increases/Adds: will forward a recommendation to AETC/A3P (with suspense, e.g.
                     normally correlated to affected course/class start date). Review requests
                     to determine if it is a constrained course (if at max capacity, offsets must
                     be taken to increase one user’s requirements). Consider pipeline impacts
                     before recommending change (sufficient quotas in follow-on courses).
4   Steps for Either A3P reviews and determines impact to multiple FYs/resources/PGLs.
    of the Two
    Previous
    Categories
5                    A3P coordinates change with appropriate organization(s) (e.g. AF/A1PT,
                     AETC/A3R/A3T/A3Z/A1M, AFPC, AFCFM, etc.).
6                    A3P provides responsive reply, to 2AF in writing (email), identifying
                     multiple FY/resource/PGL impacts.
7                    2AF provides executable changes to A3P in writing (by user/TRQI).
8                    A3P updates PTT (or awaits change from AF/A1PT to update PTT).
           18.10.3.1. EIS, OIS or MRT PGL Adjustments (One PGL impacted – no impact to
           other PGLs). When HAF/A1PT requests proposed adjustments to the PGL,
           AETC/A3PZ updates the PTT to identify the proposed change to the specific
           pipeline(s) and posts it to the appropriate CoP. AETC/A3P then staffs an ESSS (with
           link to CoP) with all appropriate organizations (AETC A-Staffs, 2AF/TTOC, AFPC,
           Brooks, etc) requesting that the impacted organizations assess capacity and identify if
           all, part or none of the proposed change (increase/decrease) can be implemented with
           existing resources. Once notification is received identifying what part of the change
           can be supported, AETC/A3PZ updates the applicable PTT with the portion that can
           be executed and notifies AF/A1PT of the portion that could not be supported without
           additional resources. If additional resources are required, AETC/A3P notifies
           AETC/A3R (and/or other users of required unfunded resources). For ADAF, A3R
           will request that an unfunded requirement submission be placed in the execution plan
           to AFCS. For non-ADAF, the A-Staff will work with other users to resolve resource
           shortfalls. The applicable PTT will not be updated with the proposed change until the
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           117


        resources are procured. Exception: AETC/A3PZ will update MRT PTT and/or
        relevant metrics depending on position relative to pre/postscheduling .
            18.10.3.1.1. Active Duty AF (ADAF) Changes/Adjustments. HAF/A1PT
            approval is required because of implications to AF end strength, accession
            balancing, and overall career field sustainment; follow the process in 18.10.3.1.
            18.10.3.1.2. Non ADAF (Other Users) Changes/Adjustments. For EIS/OIS
            courses, follow the Quota Management Adjustment process in 18.10.5 when non
            ADAF Tech Training users request scheduled unfilled seats. This process
            assumes post-scheduling activity. If EIS/OIS/MRT changes/adjustments affect
            resources, multiple FYs, or multiple PGLs, use process in 18.10.3.1.
     18.10.4. EIS/OIS/MRT PGL Changes/Adjustments (Two or more PGLs
     impacted). During both pre/post scheduling, any change/adjustment can drive impacts to
     multiple PGLs and can also result in adjustments across FYs. HQ AETC/A3PZ will
     analyze the impacts; staff capacity assessments with appropriate organizations and make
     adjustments to PTTs and/or metrics as applicable. The following real world historical
     examples illustrate how changes can impact multiple PGLs and can impact the execution
     year:
        18.10.4.1. Two or More PGLs Impacted/Multiple Fiscal Years Impacted. The
        Air Staff identified a need to reduce enlisted 1C431 RET as an offset to increase the
        officer 13L1 AM10. The officer and enlisted pipelines share capacity and at the time
        of the change were scheduled at full schoolhouse capacity. To effect the change,
        AETC/A3PZ had to decrease RET on EIS PTT by 10; then coordinate with the officer
        TM to remove seats from the EIS schedules for courses/classes when needed by
        officer 13L1 pipeline. This also drove an increase to active duty new accessions
        AM10 on OIS PTT by 10. It was necessary to assess capacity to handle increase. In
        addition, A3P and A3R had to assess the impact to RET baselines on MRTP PGL and
        determine whether the program could accommodate the change within existing MRT
        baselines. The changes drove ripple effects cutting across multiple FYs.
        18.10.4.2. Resources Impacted. During the execution year (in FY06 and FY07), the
        Navy requested increases in CE courses (3E031, 3E131 and 3E431) that impacted
        FY06-09 training requirements. These requests were in direct support of the Global
        War on Terror and were extremely time sensitive. Their request was forwarded to
        AF/A1P and it was staffed through A2/3/10 (requesting a capacity assessment). The
        FY07 USN memo stated, ―Naval Personnel Development Command is prepared to
        fund these additional quotas once quantified by your office. We appreciate your
        support in meeting this demand signal in support of the Global War on Terror.‖ The
        USN training requirement increase impacted: funding, facilities, training equipment,
        and USN instructors. A2/3/10 hosted a meeting with A-Staff personnel (A1M, FM,
        A3I, A3R, A3P, A3T staff) to identify what was required to expedite the increased
        training requirements and outstanding funding, facilities, equipment and instructors.
        Several follow-on meetings among A-Staff personnel were required to work and
        resolve outstanding issues.
        18.10.4.3. Two or More PGLs Impacted/Resources Impacted. Due to the FY09
        4,000 enlisted accession increase, during FY09, the 8B000 (MTIs) and 8R000
118                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


         (Recruiters) training requirements on the FY09 EIS PGL were increased. These
         AFSCs are also included on the MRT PGL so the increase to these AFSCs resulted in
         an adjustment to the FY09 MRT PGL as well. The A-Staff and AF/A1PT staff
         worked the resourcing issues to resolve and implement the change.
      18.10.5. Quota Management (QM). QM is the operation of swapping or moving
      scheduled quotas between non-ADAF users or requesting use of another non-ADAF
      training user’s future scheduled unfilled seats. AF customers manage quotas during the
      execution year to ensure the most efficient use of training resources. The QM authority
      (2 AF/TTOC) requires properly completed forms for quota movements and out-of-cycles
      promoting a QM discipline among AF customers and reducing risks of erroneous or
      unintended actions. All TRQIs are eligible to make quota management requests except
      for Active Duty TRQIs (ADAF NPS, ADAF PS and ADAF RET). The QM authority
      may reallocate scheduled training quotas after coordination with the TM for the following
      resource categories in the execution year: Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, Sister
      Services, Internationals and Civilians. TRQI managers may request QM actions (except
      for Active Duty TRQIs) to the QM authority using the prescribed worksheets. The QM
      authority and the affected TM will coordinate on each request. If requests involve
      adds/increases to the schedule outside the definition of QM use process steps (2-8) in
      Table 18.6.
         18.10.5.1. Training Quota Movement Worksheet. The TRQI Manager uses the
         worksheet to request a movement of quota(s) from one class to another class. The
         training requester’s (TRQI Manager’s) total number of quotas in the course should
         not increase or decrease. See Attachment 19.
             18.10.5.1.1. The TRQI sends all completed worksheets impacting AP/OP/CP
             quota types and AN/ON/CN quota types to the appropriate 2 AF/TTOC-P
             Program Manager and all completed worksheets impacting AT/OT/CT quota
             types to 2 AF/TTOC-O MRTP Execution Manager. Note: Ensure that the e-mail
             subject line includes the Course Number and Class Start Date (CSD).
             18.10.5.1.2. 2 AF/TTOC-O&P must ensure that schoolhouse capacity exists
             within class(es)/course(s) where the quotas are being moved. If schoolhouse
             capacity does not exist, notify the TRQI Manager that no action was taken on
             their request.
         18.10.5.2. Out-of-Cycle (OoC) Request Worksheet. The TRQI Manager uses the
         worksheet to request use of another training user’s unfilled seats. See Attachment 20.
             18.10.5.2.1. Under Max Class Size. TRQIs may submit OOC to the PMs for all
             classes allocated under their maximum size starting in post-scheduling.
             (Exceptions: enlisted & officer initial skills courses).
             18.10.5.2.2. Mission Readiness Training Program (MRTP). Prior to
             completing the Out-of-Cycle Request Worksheet, the TRQI Manager must
             coordinate the proposed out-of-cycle request action with the TRQI Manager
             having the unused quota(s) if outside timelines as follows:
                 18.10.5.2.2.1. The PM may distribute unexecuted allocations within the
                 following timelines if not suballocated by the TRQI owner.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              119


                 18.10.5.2.2.1.1. NET 60 days for Types 5, 8, 9, A, B, C and D, Other US
                 Government Agency Operations Training, ITRO consolidated, DOD
                 executive agencies courses and AF/Other Collocated.
                 18.10.5.2.2.1.2. NET 45 days for Type 4 and 7, Field Training Detachment
                 and Mobile Training Team (MTT) courses.
                 18.10.5.2.2.1.3. NET 30 days for Type 2, 3, AETC Resident Special
                 Training and AETC Resident Regular Training Courses. Even though not
                 part of the MRTP program, Type 6 DL courses that have programmed
                 allocations and maximum enrollment limits fall under the NET 30-day rule.
            18.10.5.2.3. Enlisted Initial Skills/Officer Initial Skills. The TRQI Manager
            must coordinate the proposed out-of-cycle request action with the TRQI (with
            unfilled quotas) if outside timelines set in (18.10.5.2.2.) and subs. Training users
            cannot request out-of-cycle or unfilled enlisted and officer initial skills ADAF
            (NPS/Re-Training/Prior Service) quotas. Initial skills quotas directly impact
            AFSC health and cannot be converted without AF/A1PT coordination/approval.
               *18.10.5.2.3.1. The Out-of-Cycle Request Worksheet does not apply to
               enlisted and officer initial skills ADAF users’ (NPS: AJ10/AJ11/AJ30; Re-
               training: AJ1J/AJ3J/AJ50/AMD0; Prior Service: AJ1K; Officer Accessions:
               AM10; Officer Cross-Flows: AM11) requests. Due to AFSC sustainment and
               AF end-strength implications, all out-of-cycle ADAF requests must be
               coordinated with and approved by AF/A1PT. Note: Due to computer system
               limitations (*STD), NPS follow-on (AJ30) quotas may be increased within
               capacity to accommodate initial skills pipeline training.
            18.10.5.2.4. Designated POCs. The TRQI Manager sends all completed
            worksheets impacting AP/OP/CP quota types and AN/ON/CN quota types to the
            appropriate 2 AF/TTOC-P Program Manager and all completed worksheets
            impacting AT/OT/CT quota types to 2 AF/TTOC-O MRTP Execution Manager. 2
            AF/TTOC-P Program Managers send copies of completed worksheets impacting
            EIS/OIS to AETC/A3P Workflow.
  18.11. Type 6 DL Training Adjustments. Out-of-cycle training requests are requests
  TRQIs submit after the annual screening. 2AF/TTOC-S is the POC for questions pertaining
  to procedures regarding out-of-cycle training requests as outlined in AFI 36-2201.
     18.11.1. Unit Training Managers (UTMs) or training requesters submit Type 6 DL out-
     of-cycle requirements to their base Type 6 DL POC. The Type 6 DL POC coordinates
     out-of-cycle training requests with appropriate POCs that may include one or more of the
     following, depending on the delivery medium of the Type 6 DL: MAJCOM Type 6 DL
     POC, MAJCOM functional managers, schoolhouse TM, 2AF/ TTOC-S and/or TRQI
     Manager.
     18.11.2. TRQI Managers ensure additional requirements data for out-of-cycle
     requirements is entered into MILPDS/OTA. MILPDS/OTA must reflect at least the
     minimum number of students to be trained.
120                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


      18.11.3. All Type 6 DL training requests submitted after the annual screening (out-of-
      cycle) are addressed based on availability of HQ AETC resources. Type 6 DL out-of-
      cycle training requests are sent to the appropriate TM. TMs determine whether the
      request can be met and act accordingly, either scheduling the required resources or
      advising the MAJCOM that the resources are not available to provide the requested
      training.
  *18.12. Training Planning Data Quality Checks for EIS/NRLOIS/MRTP Out-Year Planning.
      *18.12.1. In preparation for out-year scheduling, TMs will review their courses in TPS to
      ensure historical users have loaded their training requirements. In the event historical
      training users have not loaded their out-year training requirements, TMs must
      immediately notify their training users (via e-mail) to load their training requirements.
      (Note: The training users should have loaded training requirements based on AF/A1P
      Data Call deadlines.)
         18.12.1.1. AETC/A3PZ forwards the programmed data spreadsheet to 2 AF/TTOC-S
         to distribute to all TRQI Managers, MAJCOM Type 6 DL POCs and AETC Type 6
         DL Training Managers for validation.
         18.12.1.2. Type 6 DL Training Managers ensure that TRQI Managers make
         appropriate adjustments to quotas requiring modification prior to beginning of the
         execution year. TRQI managers may also initiate quota modifications, as needed.
         18.12.1.3. 2 AF/ TTOC-S provides AETC/A3P the quality checked requirements
         used to create a revised Type 6 DL PTT after each annual QC cycle is complete for
         posting on the HQ AETC/A3P website.
         18.12.1.4. Immediately prior to the execution year, AETC/A3PZ compares the Type
         6 DL PTT with the requirements and TRQI Managers or the AFPC Call Center
         personnel enter into MILPDS/OTA.           This information and any significant
         discrepancies in the data comparison are forwarded to TRQI Managers for final
         validation.
  *18.13. Type 6 DL Training Planning Data Quality Checks.
      *18.13.1. Type 6 DL Planning Data Quality Checks. AETC/A3PZ will create a
      spreadsheet that reflects the Type 6 DL courses and projected requirements loaded in
      MILPDS/OTA for the quality check out year. Requirements to be validated are primarily
      for Type 6 DL courses required to be scheduled such as Webinar, ITV, group-paced
      courses. To minimize workload on field units, 2 AF will validate self-paced course
      requirements based on historical usage. Due to the nature of Type 6 DL, most out-of-
      cycle requirements can be met with minimal impact on resources. Exception: AFPC
      identifies ADAF requirements and AFRC and ANG identify Reserve and Guard
      requirements respectively in MilPDS/OTA for mandatory 7-level training.
         *18.13.1.1. AETC/A3PZ forwards the emergent year programmed data spreadsheet
         (DRAFT PTT) to 2 AF/TTOC-P to distribute to all Training Managers for validation
         (Note: For Type-6 courses, Training Managers will also coordinate with TRQI
         Managers and MAJCOM Type-6 DL POCs).
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               121


         *18.13.1.2. Type 6 DL Training Managers ensure that TRQI Managers make
         appropriate adjustments to quotas requiring modification prior to beginning of the
         execution year. TRQI managers may also initiate quota modifications, as needed.
         *18.13.1.3. 2 AF/ TTOC-P provides AETC/A3P the quality checked requirements
         used to create a revised Type 6 DL PTT after each annual QC cycle is complete for
         posting on the HQ AETC/A3P website.
         *18.13.1.4. Immediately prior to the execution year, AETC/A3PZ compares the Type
         6 DL PTT with the requirements and TRQI Managers or the AFPC Call Center
         personnel enter into MILPDS/OTA. This information and any significant
         discrepancies in the data comparison are forwarded to TRQI Managers for final
         validation.
  18.14. Elimination Rates. Attachment 21 identifies the step-by-step process used to
  calculate, coordinate and approve PERs and a summary of roles. Attachment 22 identifies
  how to determine use of the PERs in a pipeline.
  18.15. Course Constraints.
     18.15.1. The TM reviews the entry requirements for all pipeline courses and determines
     if the requirements exceed capacity. If requirements exceed capacity, that is, if there are
     shortfalls in equipment, facilities, training devices, or funding as a result of increased
     student entry requirements, the TM prepares constraint packages (Attachment 16) to
     include constraint worksheets and explanatory bullet background papers (BBPs). The
     constraint worksheets and BBPs identify potential production capability shortfalls
     through 2 AF/TTOC to HQ AETC/A3T/A3P or directly to HQ AETC/A3P for non-2 AF
     schoolhouses. (See Attachment 23).
     18.15.2. If the shortfall is manpower only, the TM will complete an Additional Instructor
     Requirements Worksheet (AIRW) (Attachment 25 and 25). Do not constrain courses
     for instructors only, unless operations tempo is such that personnel cannot be released to
     instructor duty. Thus, in rare cases AETC restricts courses for problems with instructor
     fills causing the schoolhouse to lack qualified instructors to teach the numbers required in
     the PTT.
 122                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 18.7. Responsibilities Related to Instructor Requirements.
     OPR                 Action
1   2 AF                 Identifies AFSCs where early reporting of instructors is required to meet
                         course entry requirements and completes draft AIRWs and posts to
                         EIS/OIS CoP.
2 AETC/A3PZ              During the TFMC, discusses draft AIRWs for required courses.
                         Consolidates and forwards AIRW package to AETC/A3P.
3 AETC/A3P               Reviews and signs memo and forwards to AETC/A1MRT.
4 AETC/A1MRT Based on AIRWs, calculates estimated instructors earned to show increases
                         and decreases. Returns consolidated AIRWs showing estimated instructors
                         earned to AETC/A3P.
5 AETC/A3P               Collaborates with 2 AF to form package, then forwards package to
                         AETC/A1K.
6 AETC/A1K               Contacts AFPC to work early reporting of required instructors. Forwards
                         approved AIRWs to AFPC and AETC/SG (medical only) for filling of
                         instructor positions.
7 AETC/A1K               Notifies AETC/A3P and 2 AF/TTOC on any issues surrounding early
                         instructor reporting to allow TRGs to identify course impacts due to
                         delayed instructor reporting.
Note: The additional instructor requirements generated by the AIRW are estimates based only on
initial skills training requirements, and may change during official pricing when all programs
(EIS, OIS and MRT) are considered.
       18.15.3. AETC/A3PZ forwards data on unresolved constrained courses to AF/A1PT with
       a recommendation for action. AF/A1PT revises the draft EIS PGL to reflect unresolved
       constrained courses.
       18.15.4. If any course in a multiple course pipeline is constrained, it affects all courses in
       the pipeline with a proportional decrease in course entries.

Table 18.8. Essential Documents in the Constraint Process.
    Document                                    Purpose
1   Course Constraint Worksheet                 Determines a fair share distribution of users’
    Attachment 16, 17                           student training requirements based on
                                                maximum course capacity.
2   Bullet Background Paper                     Identify the reasons for the constraint worksheet
    Attachment 16                               (equipment, facilities, funding, or
                                                manpower/personnel.)
3   Additional Instructor Requirements          Provides an estimated number of instructors
    Worksheet (AIRW) Attachment 24, 25          required to support the PGL/PTT training
                                                requirements. AETC/A3P forwards to
                                                AETC/A1MRT for staffing and future pricing.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              123


    Document                                  Purpose
4   Capacity Assessment Worksheet (2 AF       Calculates course capacity.
    units only) Attachment 18
       18.15.5. The constraint process is used in two ways. Initially, it informs Air Staff that
       production in the AFSC must be limited unless the constrained items (facilities,
       equipment, or money) are funded sufficiently to be removed. If that does not occur, the
       constrained requirements are levied on a fair share basis with most TRQIs to the level at
       which the schoolhouse’s capacity can perform. One TRQI is not fair shared in the
       constraint (that is, they are not limited to the constrained amounts): international
       students.

Table 18.9. Training Requirements Responsibilities.
    OPR                  Responsibility
1   HQ AETC/A3T          Coordinates actions to reconcile EIS, OIS, and MRTP formal training
                         requirements with existing TRW/TRG/school resources when the
                         additional resources needed to eliminate the course constraint are not
                         available.
                         Tasks TRG with CRE submission; reviews and validates constraint
                         worksheets. (Attachment 16) including elimination rates.
2   HQ AETC/SGS          Accomplishes programming actions consistent with the PPBS to
                         ensure training requirements are met for medical courses.
3   HQ AETC/A3R          Price the PGL requirements for insertion into the POM process.
                         Reviews constraint worksheets with accompanying resource
                         requirement bullet background papers for compliance (Attachment
                         16) and validates the recommended actions and resources designed to
                         eliminate conditions of the constraint.
                         Works with AF/A1PT to determine whether to submit the constrained
                         course in POM, Fin Plan, or BER.

Table 18.10. Timelines Applicable to Annual Resource Activities.
    Notification FY      PGL        Applicable Resource Activity
                         FY
1   Current year         +1         Financial Plan (FinPlan), BER
    (CY)
2   CY + 1               CY + 2     Program Objective Memorandum (POM)
    18.16. Procedures for Unconstraining a Course.
       18.16.1. Follow the student entry rule (for example, the total FY entries determine when
       a course is not constrained.)
       18.16.2. Check for any other resource impacts other than instructors.
       18.16.3. Prepare an unconstraint worksheet using the same format as the constraint
       worksheet. Reflect the new maximum capacity, and add an update in the remarks block
 124                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


        describing what has been done to fix the constraint. Send the worksheet through the
        schoolhouse’s appropriate squadron, group, wing, NAF, and HQ AETC/A3P/A3T
        advising of the removal of the constraints. Attachment 23 identifies the process of
        seeking resources to unconstrain a course progressively from the lowest level (Squadron
        Level) to higher levels (TRG, TRW, NAF, HQ AETC, Air Staff).
        18.16.4. HQ AETC/A3P will inform AF/A1PT of the constraint removal. AF/A1PT will
        coordinate with HQ AETC/A3P, and HQ AETC/A3T for any program changes desired
        during the execution year. Otherwise, program changes will not occur until the next
        TFMC (unconstraining a course).
19. Roles and Responsibilities.
     19.1. Related to Resources and Requirements Supporting 2 AF Courses/Pipelines.

*Table 19.1. HQ AETC/A3T Responsibilities.
       Organization            Role/Responsibility
       Subgroup/category
1                              Provides guidance, assistance, and oversight in the development
                               of resource requirements needed to eliminate constrained
                               AFSCs, or course conditions for all technical training.
2                              Submits resource requirements to HQ AETC/A3P/A3R.
3                              Works with AETC/A3R to track and advocate resource
                               requirements for constrained AFSCs, or courses as they move
                               through the BER, Financial Plan, and/or POM process.
4                              Coordinates actions to reconcile enlisted initial skills formal
                               training requirements with existing training group/school
                               resources when the additional resources needed to eliminate the
                               course constraint are not available.
5      TPM                     Notifies AETC/A3TI of any interservice constrained course.
*6     Interservice            Respond to queries about ongoing/ proposed interservice training
                               collaborations and other training policy issues.
*7                             Assist in resolving constrained interservice course issues.
*8                             Attend TFMC including preliminary and after conference
                               meetings as required to support.

Table 19.2. HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities.
     Organization           Role/Responsibility (HQ AETC/A3P)
     Subgroup/category
1                           Serves as the AETC strategic processing point for all technical
                            training requirements including: Enlisted Initial Skills (EIS), Officer
                            Initial Skills (OIS) and advanced/supplemental training (MRT).
2                           Works directly with 2 AF/TTOC and non-2 AF schoolhouses to
                            determine EIS and OIS course capacity and with AF/A1PT to
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               125


    Organization            Role/Responsibility (HQ AETC/A3P)
    Subgroup/category
                            determine out-year EIS and OIS training requirements (by AFSC
                            and course).
3                           Input PRD and PGL data into the PTT to convert grad requirements
                            to entry requirements to assist schoolhouses with capacity drills and
                            balance fiscal year accession resources.
4                           Based on training requirement increases, works with AETC/A1M to
                            identify additional instructor requirements and AETC/A1K to
                            ensure the early reporting of instructors.
5   MAJCOM                  Researches and reports on technical training production and pipeline
    Production POC          metrics from strategic perspective.
6   Systems Integration     Oversees functional and program management for all TT data
                            systems (ADSS, TTMS and TPS) for the command.
7                           Oversees functional and program management of ETCA.
8                           OPR for ELM functional management and business process
                            ownership issues.

Table 19.3. HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities –EIS.
    Role/Responsibility
1   Approves annual enlisted initial skills production report to HQ USAF/A1P in conjunction
    with A3R.
2   Reviews training requirements from other services and federal agencies, and submits to HQ
    USAF/A1PT.
3   Provides HQ USAF/A1PT a constraint worksheet (see Attachment 16) for each course
    AETC is unable to meet the Air Force enlisted initial skills training requirement, and a plan
    for remediation (OCRs: A3T, A3R).
4   Hosts and co-chairs the annual TFMC during which all out-year enlisted initial skills
    training requirements are reviewed and validated with AF training users (ANG, AFRC,
    Sister Services, and International). Coordinates with HQ USAF/A1PT to establish the
    specific date and location of the conference.
5   Staffs course programmed elimination rates for NPS IAW Attachment 21.
6   Receives and distributes the EIS PGL, converting it to the AETC Programmed Technical
    Training document (PTT) by listing entry requirements by course.
7   Ensures TPS is updated with approved programmed elimination rates.
8   Coordinates with Computer Contractor to ensure Baseline PTT (TPR and STR) requirements
    are developed in TPS.
 126                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 19.4. HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities – Officer Initial Skills (OIS).
    Role/Responsibility
1   Approves annual officer initial skills production report to HQ USAF/A1P.
2   Reviews training requirements from other services and federal agencies, and submits to HQ
    USAF/A1PT
3   Provides HQ USAF/A1PT a constraint worksheet (see Attachment 17) for each course
    AETC is unable to meet in the Air Force officer initial skills training requirement, and a
    plan for remediation.
4   Co-chairs the annual OAC during which all out-year officer initial skills training
    requirements are reviewed and validated with AF training users (ANG, AFRC, AFPC and
    International).
5   Receives the OIS PGL and develops, distributes and posts the OIS PTT to the OIS CoP.

Table 19.5. HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities – MRTP.
    Role/Responsibility
1   Co-chairs the MRTP conference each year with USAF/A1PT.
2   Receives, distributes and posts the MRTP PGL. Converts MRTP schedule to MRT PTT
    which 2 AF/TTOC/P uses as the basis for scheduling advanced and supplemental courses.


Table 19.6. HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities – Type 6 DL Training.
    Organization             Role/Responsibility (HQ AETC/A3P Responsibilities – Type 6
    Subgroup/category        DL Training)
1                            Provides spreadsheet to 2 AF/TTOC to solicit Type 6 DL
                             requirements.
2                            Compile, distribute and post the Type 6 DL spreadsheet each year,
                             following the annual data call.
3                            Create programmed requirements document from planning data to
                             be used as the basis for quality checks (QC).
4                            Revise the Type 6 DL spreadsheet after each annual QC cycle is
                             complete for posting on the HQ AETC/A3P website.
5                            Submits validated requirements to TRQI managers.
6   HQ AETC/A3PZ             Immediately prior to the execution year, compares the Type 6 DL
                             spreadsheet with the requirements entered into MILPDS/OTA by
                             MAJCOM/A1P. Discrepancies are referred to AETC TMs and
                             TRQI Managers for final validation.

Table 19.7. Common Responsibilities HQ AETC/A3R/A3T/A3Z/SGU and 2 AF.
    Role/Responsibility
1   Attend TFMC including preliminary and after conference meetings as required to support.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                127


        Role/Responsibility
2       Identify and resolve problems associated with actual elimination rates exceeding the
        programmed elimination rate.
3       Identifies trends in graduate over and/or under production in the execution process and
        report these differences to AETC/A3PZ.
4       Review constraint worksheets and accompanying bullet background papers for compliance
        (Attachment 16), and validate the recommended actions and resources designed to
        eliminate conditions of the constraint. Consolidate and forward to HQ AETC/A3P valid and
        complete constraint worksheet, and accompanying bullet background papers.
5       Provides guidance, assistance, and oversight in the development of resource requirements
        needed to eliminate constrained course conditions.

Table 19.8. HQ AETC/A3R Responsibilities.
        Organization           Role/Responsibility
        Subgroup/category
1                              Price the PGL requirements for insertion into the POM process.
2                              Submits resource requirements for constrained courses for action in
                               the BER, Fin Plan and/or POM submissions.
3                              Submit field data sheets to AETC/A3PZ for the Institutional
                               Training Readiness Report (ITRR) to the US Congress according to
                               data call.
4                              Provides data to A3P on all required annual reports.
5       AETC/A3RF              AFI 11-412, Aircrew Management, is the governing instruction on
                               Programmed Flying Training (PFT). AF/A30T provides AF/A1PT
                               with the Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA) negotiated PFT number
                               that is derived from projected PFT capacity calculated from the
                               PFT Conference. AETC does not constrain EIS PGL numbers
                               based on PFT.

*Table 19.9. Deleted

Table 19.10. HQ AETC/FMAM Responsibilities.
        Role/Responsibility
    1   Prepare the AETC TDY to School Budget submission in coordination with AETC/A3R for
        Execution Plans, Initial Distribution, Operating Budget Review Committee (OBRC), and
        POM Cycle. Price out and compute the cost per quota for all exercises, including lodging
        rate increases, per diem increases, for MRTP and apply against PGL.
    2   Provide input for 2AF/TTOC MER Tracker – Fund Cites Issued by TRQI.
    3   TDY to School Program Management.
 128                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 19.11. HQ AETC/SGS and SGU Responsibilities.
    Organization             Role/Responsibility
    Subgroup/category
1   EIS                      SGU Tracks and advocates resource requirements for constrained
                             medical AFSCs or courses as they move through the BER, Fin
                             Plan, and/or POM process.
2                            SGU coordinates actions to reconcile enlisted initial skills formal
                             training requirements with existing training group/school
                             resources when the additional resources needed to eliminate the
                             course constraint are not available.
3                            SGS accomplishes programming actions consistent with the
                             Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS) to ensure
                             training requirements are met.
4   MRTP                     SGU provides guidance, assistance, and oversight in working 7-
                             Level requirements. SGU tracks and advocate resource
                             requirements for constrained medical AFSCs or courses as and
                             coordinate with SGS as they move through the BER, Fin Plan,
                             and/or POM process.

Table 19.12. HQ AETC/A1MRT Responsibilities.
    Role/Responsibility
1   Based on AIRWs, calculates estimated instructors earned to show increases and decreases.
    Returns consolidated AIRWs showing estimated instructors earned to AETC/A3P.
2   2 AF/TTOC coordinates instructor pricing with AETC/A1MRT for all technical training
    courses.

*Table 19.13. 2 AF Responsibilities.
       Organization            Role/Responsibility (2 AF Responsibilities)
       Subgroup/category
1                              Coordinate all resourcing and scheduling actions with HQ
                               AETC/A3R for CEA pipelines to ensure that 19AF
                               schoolhouses can support changes and Courtesy Copy HQ
                               AETC/A3P.
2      CEA Pipelines           Assist HQ AETC/A3P.
3      Accession Plan          2 AF/CC approves the accession plan and releases it to
                               recruiting service.
4      Capacity                Provides directions to TMs under 2 AF in the use and
       Assessment              submission of capacity assessment worksheets as required
                               (Attachment 18).
5      Validates,               2 AF/TTOC validates and approves training capacity and
       Approves                programmed elimination rates under its purview, including
                               constraint worksheets, approved risk assumption, and constraint
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           129


        Organization           Role/Responsibility (2 AF Responsibilities)
        Subgroup/category
                               bullet background papers (BBPs), and AIRWs, following the
                               TFMC or OAC and after AF/A1P signs out the PGL.
5       Scheduling             Provide scheduling guidance to the TRGs and task them to build
                               course schedules.
6                              Validates technical training class schedules released from the
                               training groups to ensure programmed elimination rates are
                               applied, and OTA released class schedules will meet PTT entry
                               requirements.
7                              Prepares and releases class schedules for manpower pricing and
                               develop accession plan.
8                              Approves and releases course schedules to flow from TPS to
                               OTA for users to begin sub-allocating names to seats.
9                              Develops Holiday Exodus Guidance.
10      MRTP, EIS, OIS         Coordinates with HQ AETC/A1MRT to establish the specific
                               dates for annual instructor pricing .
11      Quota                  Processes Non-ADAF users’ requests for reallocation of
        Management             scheduled training quotas and processes out-of-cycle requests
        Authority              IAW Table 18.6.
12      MRTP                   Develops and approves annual MRTP execution report to HQ
                               USAF/A1P.
13      2 AF/Det 1             Once schedules are completed, uses schedules to produce an
                               accessions plan. The accessions plan identifies timeframes
                               (week groups) by which AFRS must have recruits enter active
                               duty to meet BMT and TT Class Start Dates (CSDs).
*14     Type 6 DL              Provides validated Type 6 DL requirements during the MRTP
        Training Program       validation process.
        (2 AF/TTOC-S)
*15     2 AF/TTOC-S            Maintains 2 AF distance learning (Type 6 DL) web site.

Table 19.14. Training Wings/Groups/Schoolhouses Responsibilities.
      Organization          Role/Responsibility
      Subgroup/category
1     All Schoolhouses –    Accomplish capacity assessment to determine which AFSCs or
      Pre TFMC/OAC          courses are unable to meet the AF training requirement.
2     2 AF Schoolhouses     Complete capacity worksheets as directed by 2 AF/TTOC. Detailed
                            instructions for the worksheet are available at Attachment 18.
3     All Schoolhouses –    Use approved programmed eliminations rates in developing class
      Pre TFMC/OAC          schedules. Apply procedures as in Attachment 22.
4     TDY-to-School         IAW AFI 34-246 para 3.2 and subs, Air Force Lodging Program,
      Student Lodging       students attending formal training courses funded with TDY-to-
 130                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


    Organization             Role/Responsibility
    Subgroup/category
    Requirement              School dollars have priority for on-base lodging over all other
                             personnel categories.
5                            Training Groups Course Training Managers will establish internal
                             procedures to ensure class schedules are provided to lodging
                             general managers quarterly.
6                            The lodging general manager will make group/block reservations in
                             the Lodging Automated System (LTS) for the projected classes (by
                             class name, class number, and number of students) IAW AFI 34-
                             246.
7                            Individual Course Training Managers will review class schedules
                             monthly for accurate forecasting for the next 3 months and provide
                             a list of student names NLT 2 weeks prior to CSD.
8                            Lodging staff will input names to the group bookings and cancel all
                             unused allocations. The course coordinator will schedule and
                             confirm all reservations, ensure students are aware that a lodging
                             reservation has been made (no personal reservations are necessary)
                             and that they are to report to lodging for a group reservation room.
    19.2. Related to Resources and Requirements Supporting Non-2 AF Courses/Pipelines.

Table 19.15. HQ AU/CFR Responsibilities.
1   HQ AU/CFR Only         Direct schools to schedule training requirements provided by HQ
                           AETC/A3P.

Table 19.16. ECPD/MSOT Responsibilities.
    Role/Responsibility
1   Accomplish capacity assessment to determine which schools/courses are unable to meet the
    AF training requirement.
2   Use AETC/A3PZ approved programmed eliminations rates in developing class schedules.
    Apply procedures as in Attachment 22.
3   Monitor student production trends/seat utilization and notify AETC/A3PZ regarding
    significant issues (i.e. excess quotas).

*Table 19.17. 2 AF/TTOC-P Responsibilities Related to Sister Services
1    Suballocate AF members into sister service registration systems for all technical training
     sister service courses with parallel AETC formal training courses when this is not
     accomplished by an automated system interface (Army Training Requirements and
     Resources System (ATRRS), enterprise Navy Training Reservation System (eNTRS), etc.).
2    Suballocate AF members into sister service registration systems (ATRRS, eNTRS, etc.) for
     sister service technical training courses when there is yet no current parallel AETC formal
     training course when contacted by a TRQI manager and provided the required student
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                131


    information via the Sister Service Course Worksheet (See attachment 27).
3   Army         1 Obtain an ATRRS account for each Program Manager (PM) that provides
    Procedures        quota management support for Army technical training courses.
                 2 PMs will receive Army-required student information for initial skills
                      courses from OTA Reports and for supplemental/advanced courses from
                      the TRQI via the Sister Service Course Worksheet (See attachment 27). If
                      required student information is not received within the timeframes listed
                      in para 18.10.5.2.2.1., the PM can cancel the quota out of OTA/MILPDS
                      to avoid student being returned to station due to AF student not having a
                      validated ATRRS seat.
                 3 For those allocations that will be used, but there is no current student
                      information to put in ATRRS, quotas will be put on "HOLD" status. This
                      will ensure allocations will not be taken automatically. As soon as the
                      required student information is available, a substitution will be made in
                      ATRRS.
                 4 If the PM is notified that quotas will definitely not be used or increases are
                      requested, forward the details to HQ AETC/A3PZ for action.
4   Navy          1 Obtain an eNTRS account for each Program Manager (PM) that provides
    Procedures        quota management support for Navy technical training courses.
                 2 PMs will receive Navy-required student information for Initial Skills
                      courses from OTA Reports and for supplemental/advanced courses from
                      the TRQI via the Sister Service Course Worksheet (See attachment 27).
                      If required student information is not received within the timeframes listed
                      in para 18.10.5.2.2.1., the PM can cancel the quota out of OTA/MILPDS
                      to avoid student being returned to station due to student not having a
                      validated eNTRS seat.
                 3 For those allocations that will be used, but there is no current student
                      information to put in eNTRS, quotas will be put on "NO NAME
                      RESERVATION" status. This will ensure allocations will not be taken
                      automatically. As soon as the student information is available, a
                      substitution will be made in eNTRS.
                 4 If the PM is notified that quotas will definitely not be used or increases are
                      requested, forward the details to HQ AETC/A3PZ for action.
                 5 Moving quotas to different classes will be requested by sending an e-mail
                      to the applicable Production Management Office Line Analyst co-located
                      with NETC at Millington TN.

Section E—Programming and Scheduling.

20. Purpose. This section establishes basic programming and scheduling guidance.
21. Requirements and Process.
    21.1. After the Training Flow Management Conference (TFMC), AF/A1P finalizes training
    requirements in the form of a PGL (the official requirements document) from which
    AETC/A3P completes the PTT and releases it to 2 AF/TTOC to accomplish annual
    programming and scheduling.
 132                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


   21.2. The PGL contains the aggregate scheduling baseline; however, the TMs are not to use
   those numbers for scheduling. AETC creates scheduling requirements documents
   (spreadsheets and PTT) which identify the number of requirements approved for scheduling
   for each user or training resource category. Requirements for initial skills should not exceed
   the PGL/PTT baseline established by Air Staff. AETC tasks 2 AF who, in turn, tasks the
   TMs through Training Wing/Group POCs to build class schedules in accordance with the
   number of requirements identified in the AETC scheduling requirements documents located
   on the AETC/A3P Enlisted Initial Skills Community of Practice on AF Knowledge Now.
   Note: For courses owned by sister services or other DoD agencies do not schedule more
   requirements than granted to the AF by sister services.
   *21.3. Based on the funded Baseline PGL, HQ AETC/A3P provides a PTT to 2 AF/TTOC
   and the schoolhouses falling outside 2 AF. The TM uses the PTT in conjunction with
   pipeline guidance in Table 21.1 to schedule classes.

Table 21.1. Validating the PTT.
    Pipeline         Calculation                                        Result
1   Single course    ADAF NPS requirements / (1- PER                    Entries required in COIE.
                     (expressed as a percent)).
2 Multiple           1. Calculate as above for the last course in       1. Entries required in the
    courses          the pipeline.                                      AFSC-awarding course.
                     2. Calculate for the next course (and then         2. Entries required in
                     any previous courses up through the COIE.) each/all previous courses.
Note: In a multiple course pipeline, the output of the first course is the required input for the
second course and so forth. Total entries required for the COIE are determined by adding the
PTT requirements for each student type.
   21.4. Scheduling Guidance.
       21.4.1. Review and validate requirements in TPS.
           21.4.1.1. TMs begin the scheduling process by performing a requirements review in
           TPS to ensure the users’ requested requirements in TPS are consistent with AETC’s
           scheduling requirements documents. Requested requirements may exceed funded
           requirements, but TMs validate only the number of requirements approved for
           scheduling. For Sister Service/Other Agencies, TMs will validate requirements to
           ensure consistency with requirements documents.
           21.4.1.2. If requested requirements in OTA are less than funded requirements, TMs
           will work with TRQI Managers to update OTA to be consistent with requirements
           identified in AETC’s scheduling requirements documents. Otherwise, course
           schedules will NOT flow properly from TPS to OTA. Communication can be by
           telephone, e-mail or both and should be as early in the scheduling process as possible.
           Only the TRQI Manager can change requested requirements in OTA.
       21.4.2. 2 AF/TTOC provides specific scheduling guidance to TRWs/TRGs for a given
       fiscal year and ensures that the academic calendar in TPS is up to date before each
       programming cycle.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           133


        21.4.2.1. TMs will finalize schedules in TPS based on the AETC scheduling
        requirements documents, place schedules in ―TM Lock‖ and then notify the Quality
        Review Council. TMs will provide copies of or access to the Proposed Distribution
        Report & Summary and the completed Multiple Course Pipeline Checklist, if
        applicable, to the Quality Review Council.
     21.4.3. The Quality Review Council is an essential part of the scheduling process. Each
     Training Group’s Director, Training and Education or equivalent will assemble a Quality
     Review Council to review all schedules and spreadsheets before TMs release schedules to
     the responsible PM. The Group’s Director, Training and Education determines the exact
     procedures for implementing the council.
        21.4.3.1. The Quality Review Council consists of personnel within the schoolhouse
        who are experienced in scheduling. Their purpose is to analyze schedules to ensure
        compliance with established criteria and to resolve conflicts with Training Managers
        before releasing schedules to the 2 AF Program Manager. The TRG Director,
        Training and Education will chair and appoint members to the Quality Review
        Council.
        21.4.3.2. The Quality Review Council verifies that the schedules and spreadsheets
        comply with scheduling guidance and are ready for release to the PM. TMs will
        provide e-mail notification to PM when schedule is in TM lock and ready for review.
        PMs review the schedules that TMs submit and return them to the Quality Review
        Council for correction if they find errors.
  21.5. Changes to Plans, Program Guidance, and Schedules
     21.5.1. Out-of-cycle Requests. Out-of-cycle transactions must conform to the Quota
     Management Adjustment process in this instruction See 18.10.5.
        21.5.1.1. Under Max Class Size. TRQIs may submit OOC to the PMs for all classes
        allocated under their maximum size starting in the execution year. (Exceptions:
        enlisted, officer initial skills courses)
     21.5.2. Course Anomalies. These anomalies include but are not necessarily limited to
     course conversions, mergers, Centers of Excellence moves, constraint removals, and class
     cancellations or additions.
        *21.5.2.1. Adding New Course. See AETCI 36-2203
        *21.5.2.2. Course Auto-Conversions. See AETCI 36-2203
        *21.5.2.3. Discontinued Courses. See AETCI 36-2203.
     21.5.3. Changes to Original Schedules. When changes to original schedules are
     required, TMs will accomplish the AETC Form 179A (Attachment 26) and submit it to 2
     AF/TTOC Det 1 (AJ10), AFPC Accessions (AJ1J, AJ1K) or Officer Accessions (AM10)
     prior to submission of 179A to PM.
        21.5.3.1. Delete Classes. TMs must notify all TRQIs if Class Start Date (CSD) is
        within 30 days. Annotate completion of notification task in block 16 of the 179A.
        Coordinate changes involving MX 20 (International Students) with the Foreign
        Military Training Office NLT 60 days prior to class start date.
134                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


         21.5.3.2. Add Classes. TMs will notify all appropriate TRQIs to build any
         additional requirements in OTA, as necessary, for added classes.
         21.5.3.3. Change Class Allocations. If the user requirements change (MRTP/TPR),
         TMs will coordinate with 2 AF/TTOC Det 1 (AJ10), AFPC Accessions (AJ1J/AJ1K)
         and/or Officer Accessions (AM10) as applicable, prior to submitting a 179A stating
         where they require additions/deletions.
      21.5.4. Miscellaneous Scheduling Guidance.
         21.5.4.1. Do not schedule classes of five academic days or less that have TDY
         students over the weekend. If possible, avoid scheduling classes to start on a Monday
         after a Holiday.
         21.5.4.2. Schedule classes of 10 academic days to start on Monday and grad on
         Friday.
         21.5.4.3. Minimize delays between courses in multiple course pipelines.
         21.5.4.4. Avoid graduating a class on a Friday following a Thursday holiday.
         Accelerate or start one day early for a Wednesday graduation.
         21.5.4.5. Give civilian students first priority for day shift classes. If a student is
         assigned to a shift between 1800 and 0600, give the student a copy of the academic
         schedule to send to his or her time and attendance officer. Also provide a revised
         training schedule if the schedule changes.
  *21.6. Contingency Plans. Follow your installation’s Comprehensive Emergency
  Management Plan (CEMP 10-2) as directed by AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency
  Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, and Reconstitution of Mission Plans
  (RoMP) if unforeseen events force training cancellation.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                             135


Table 21.2. Type 6 DL Scheduling and Distribution Guidance.
    Scheduling Area   Guidance (Type 6 DL Scheduling and Distribution Guidance)
1   Course            TMs publicize courses through the Education and Training Course
    Announcement.     Announcement (ETCA) website. The course announcement will
                      specify registration requirements, course delivery requirements, and
                      customer responsibilities at user sites. TMs will coordinate with 2
                      AF/TTOC prior to finalizing ETCA content. 2 AF/TTOC will also
                      assist with preparing Type 6 DL POC instructions on new courses. In
                      addition, the TM coordinates with 2 AF/TTOC, HQ AETC/A3T TPM,
                      and the AFCFM on a message to the field announcing course releases.
                      TMs will provide inputs (broadcast schedules, course announcements,
                      course revisions, etc.) for the 2 AF Live Guide.
2   Base Type 6 DL    Provide administrative support for Type 6 DL, screen for requirements,
    POCs              request out-of-cycle requirements, manage and control Type 6 DL
                      materials, control examination material, and schedule and conduct
                      broadcasts. (Note: Type 6 DL POCs may also serve as site coordinators
                      providing technical and administrative support for satellite broadcasts
                      and function as test control officers (TCO). The Type 6 DL POC role
                      is defined in AFI 36-2201.
3   Annual Screening. Air Staff initiates the Type 6 DL annual screening concurrently with
                      MRTP screening. See AFI 36-2201 for specific guidance on Type 6
                      DL annual screening requirements. Use requirements identified in the
                      annual screening to build annual broadcast schedules, and to plan and
                      position resources in support of other Type 6 DL courses.
4   Out-of-Cycle      All Type 6 DL training requests submitted after the annual screening
    Requests.         (out-of-cycle) are addressed based on availability of HQ AETC
                      resources. Type 6 DL out-of-cycle training requests are sent to the
                      appropriate TM. TMs determine whether the request can be met and
                      act accordingly, either scheduling the required resources or advising the
                      MAJCOM that the resources are not available to provide the requested
                      training.
5   Scheduling        The majority of Type 6 DL courses are designed to be self-paced,
    Training          asynchronous and do not require suballocations, but do require the TM
                      scheduling classes. However, some Type 6 DL courses such as
                      webcast and ITV are synchronous, designed to include interactivity
                      with an instructor or other students. For these courses, the AETC TM
                      validates and schedules requirements. Although allocations may be
                      limited by the facilities on site, normally the maximum number of
                      students in training at each base will determine the number of classes
                      needed to meet the training requirement. When no cost-effective
                      delivery is available, the TM will notify the requester.
6   Mandatory 7-Level TMs build required number of classes to support training requirements.
    Courses (Web-     AFPC enters student data for active duty students; AFRC and ANG
    Based)            DPs enter student data.
 136                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


    Scheduling Area      Guidance (Type 6 DL Scheduling and Distribution Guidance)
7   Asynchronous         TMs schedule regular classes throughout the FY (typically one or two
    Courses Passing on   classes per month).
    ADLS/TTMS
    interface
8   Web-Based        Technical training courses available via the Internet are available on the
    Training.        ADLS. Contact HQ AETC/A3IA or 2 AF/TTOC for web address.
                     Course descriptions are available in the ETCA. Students enroll via
                     ADLS, notify the Type 6 DL POC if they need additional materials and
                     when ready to test, if applicable. After the schoolhouse confirms the
                     student has successfully completed the test, AF Form 1256s are mailed
                     to the Type 6 DL POC for distribution to graduates.
9 Courses Requiring For courses requiring satellite time, the TM provides inputs such as
   Satellite Time.   uplink site requirements, downlink site locations, and broadcast
                     schedule to the satellite scheduling function for the local broadcast
                     facility. The satellite scheduling function will coordinate all requests
                     with 2 AF/TTOC to minimize scheduling conflicts. TMs will deliver
                     schedules to the satellite scheduling function for forwarding to 2
                     AF/TTOC for inclusion in an annual broadcast schedule and 2 AF Live
                     Guide.
10 ITV               For ITV courses, at least 40 calendar days prior to scheduled
                     broadcasts, the instructor or faculty member assigned to the course will
                     contact the Type 6 DL POCs who have not provided a preliminary
                     AETC Form 325.
11 CD-ROM and        CD-ROM and paper-based courses are shipped as directed by the TM.
   Paper-Based       In some cases, they are prepositioned with the appropriate base level
   Courses           Type 6 DL POC who maintains them in a library so they are available
                     to students on an as-needed basis. Additional CD-ROMs and paper-
                     based materials may be requested using an out-of-cycle request. TMs
                     build required number of classes to support training requirements.
12 Training Delivery The distribution function must dispatch training materials no later than
                     30 days prior to CSD. For out-of-cycle requirements, dispatch course
                     materials within 15 days of receipt of the request. Base Type 6 DL
                     POCs may establish a library for Type 6 DL materials for high-flow
                     courses. The delivery process must remain responsive to customer
                     needs. TMs should fill requests for additional materials and class seats
                     if resources and timing permit. TMs will work with course personnel to
                     ensure training materials are made available to the distribution function
                     for reproduction and distribution so the distribution function can
                     comply with established timelines.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 137


Section F—Metrics.

22. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish meaningful metrics that act as true
indicators of success in reaching organizational goals, to determine organizations responsible,
when or how often organizations will check metrics, and actions required as a result.
23. Definition. Metrics are measures of how well organizational goals are met through
processes and tasks in the past in order to accurately assess current progress and project future
outcomes. The goal of metrics is to provide commanders with simple and high visibility
indicators to diagnose where to adjust training processes and pipeline flows to satisfy both
quality learning outcomes and production objectives.
24. The Role of Systems.
   24.1. ADSS. ADSS is the Command’s system to report and analyze student accounting data
   in support of management decisions. The ADSS collects data from tech training
   management systems: TPS and TTMS. TTMS and TPS transmit data to ADSS on a weekly
   basis. ADSS provides AETC with the tools and capabilities to capture data from operational
   delivery systems and to organize, analyze, and present information for the purpose of
   supporting Command decision and mission objectives. ADSS produces a number of
   historical reports for Air Staff. It provides a single point of reference for planned and actual
   production metrics including a means to survey.
   24.2. TPS. TPS provides ADSS requirements, allocations and course and class scheduling
   information.
   24.3. TTMS. TTMS is the official system for entering, tracking, and reporting student
   accounting from Training Squadrons up their chains to TRGs/TRWs and from TRGs/TRWs
   on to 2 AF. In addition, TTMS is the official system for tracking and reporting student
   accounting training data from 2AF to HQ AETC when the data requirement must be more
   current than ADSS provides. TTMS provides ADSS actual production data along with a
   variety of other student accounting data including eliminations and washbacks.
 138                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 24.1. Standard ADSS Reports.
       Report               Description
1      Elimination rate     Report used to determine recent and future elimination rates used
       report               by the wings for programming out year classes and distributed
                            through the PTT. This report uses the formula of two years
                            production to determine out year production. ((Past year
                            production X 40% + Current Production X 60%) = Elimination
                            rate). This report will include all courses for Initial Skill Enlisted
                            and Officer.
2      Actual wash back     Report used to determine how well the classes are using
       report               washbacks as a tool for continuing recovery of student in a
                            specific resource category AFSC. This report will display the
                            washbacks by Resource Area as a percentage by all areas listed
                            on the PGL i.e., Active Duty (NPS, PS and Ret) Guard, Reserve,
                            Internationals and all others.
3      Annual forecast      Report used to project the predicted production of a resource
       report               category AFSC course. This report may be used to determine if
                            changes or future changes to an AFSC course are needed. The
                            forecast report is normally prepared for dissemination at the EOM
                            March to the NAF and Wings as well as forwarded to AF/A1PT.
4      Annual production    Prepared after 15 November for the previous year including
       report               Enlisted Initial Skills Courses and potentially Officer Initial Skills
                            courses.
5      Annual elimination   Shows how many students were eliminated from a specific AFSC
       report               with information on how many were reclassified back into a
                            different AFSC.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                139


25. Roles and Responsibilities.

Table 25.1. HQ AETC/A3P Metric Responsibilities.
   Role/Responsibility (HQ AETC/A3P Metric Responsibilities)
1 Publishes monthly TTPA-F forecast for Predicted-Production metrics monitoring initial skills
   formal training to stay on top of command strategic goals. Metrics will include, but are not
   limited to historical entry, elimination and graduation rates in conjunction with execution
   data with an emphasis on pipeline visibility of the entire Training Enterprise to include
   agencies/commands outside of AETC.
2 Reviews and determines Programmed Washback Rates (PWR) for the out years by analysis
   of prior and current actual washback rates.
3 Provides strategic oversight for all enlisted and officer initial skills training production and
   management.
4 Publishes monthly metrics monitoring initial skills formal training to stay on top of command
   strategic goals. Metrics will include forecast and execution information with an emphasis on
   pipeline visibility of the entire Training Enterprise including agencies/commands outside of
   AETC. Data trends, if applicable, that affect AETC’s strategic vision will be analyzed and
   compiled into a comprehensive report then provided to the appropriate agency/NAF for
   action.
5 Ensures data is available to provide periodic and end of fiscal year reports not later than 15
   November of each year. The standard reports are available from ADSS.
6 Conduct long term strategic analysis of eliminations and washbacks for out-year planning.
   If negative trends exist within the initial skills pipeline, create trend-analysis reports and
   distribute them to NAF or other outside agencies/commands for action.
7 Prepare Programmed Elimination Annual Report and coordinate with 2 AF and other
   agencies
8 Coordinate with other outside AETC agencies for data, develop and submit annul
   Institutional Training Readiness Report (ITRR) to Air Staff/OSD no later than 15 February
   of each year. Data collection will be extracted from several different Air Force computer
   systems.
9 Coordinate with other outside AETC agencies for data, develop and submit semi-annual
   Budget Justification Book (J-Books) Report to HAF/A1PT no later than 30 June and 31
   December of each year. Data collection will be extracted from several different computer
   systems.
10 Provide annual and requested BMT/Technical Training Data Reports for AF Airman
   Magazine, AETC staff agencies and other Air Force agencies requesting data from A3PS.
   Data collection will be extracted from AETC Decision Support System (ADSS).
11 Provides oversight of BMT/Technical Training Computer Systems data integrity issues; A3P
   will identify data inaccuracies within TTMS and OTA affecting student management and
   overall accountability. A3P will create a monthly data integrity report and distribute to
   appropriate NAF/agency for action.
 140                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 25.2. 2 AF Metric Responsibilities.
     Role/Responsibility
1    Provides oversight of each training group’s student management practices.
2    Submits Elimination Rates for out years to TRW/TRG TMs for validation. The check prior
     to TFMC covers 18 months (6 mo of current FY and 12 mo of previous FY) 2 AF approves
     the PERs and submits to A3PZ with rationale for adjusting the PER up or down.
3    Designates a representative at each training base to provide metric inputs on an as-
     requested basis.
4    Monitors course washback and elimination rate metrics quarterly.
5   Will extract data from several Air Force computer systems quarterly for the entire Initial
    Skills Training Enterprise to include 2AF, 19 AF (COIE), USAFSAM and other agencies
    outside of AETC to compile into the 2 AF Quarterly Production Briefing for AETC/CC.
6   Solicit TRGs written analysis and proposed action plans when washbacks exceed 20% and/or
    elimination rates are greater than 5% from programmed.

*Table 25.3. Training Manager Metric Responsibilities with TRW/TRG Accountability.
   Role/Responsibility with Respect to PERs (Training Manager Metric Responsibilities)
1 Validate programmed elimination rates resulting from 2 AF/TTOC tasker.
*2 Check/validate actual course elimination rates (IAW Attachment 21) for courses against
   existing programmed rates prior to the Training Flow Management Conference (TFMC).
3 If the actual course elimination rates exceed the existing PER by two or more percentage
   points or washback rates are over 20% or increase by 5% or more the prior year’s actual
   rate then perform a quality check on how instruction including instructional materials,
   techniques, strategies, PCs and tests may be contributing to the increased rate. Course
   owners conduct the quality check to analyze potential course changes to bring the
   elimination and or washback rates down. The TRG submits written analysis including a
   proposed action plan to 2 AF (if applicable) based on findings. The TRW/TRG implements
   an action plan (when applicable) based on analysis. If no action plan is included, submit
   the rationale for not including one as part of the written analysis. If a washback rate
   remains historically high resulting in pipeline flow issues and the TRG has implemented all
   known corrective steps, calculate the Expected Group Size Difference (EGSD) according to
   AETCI 38-202, Education And Technical Training Manpower to create a slight differential
   between the programmed group size and the max class size to create a class buffer for
   efficient pipeline flow. Submit an abbreviated training plan (ATP) to gain approval for the
   differential, if applicable.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              141


Table 25.4. 2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to Total Force Recruiting.
  Category Measure                                                          Period
           Note: Analyze all metrics based on their relative positive or
           negative impact to Balanced Scorecard organizational goals at
           every level. Set objectives and adjust them as necessary to meet
           organizational goals.
1 RS       The Total Force NPS week group shipment from RS against the Week
           Accession Plan by AFSC Guaranteed Training Enlistment
           Program (GTEP) and Open/Aptitude Index (AIs).
2 RS       AFSC overages and/or shortages in shipments; Number of           Week
           recruits over or under what was planned by AFSC based on the
           Accession Plan. The objectives are to identify the raw numbers
           over or under the planned number and to ensure the right mix of
           AFSCs arrives weekly.

Table 25.5. 2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to BMT.
    Category Measure (2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to               Period
             BMT)
             Note: Analyze all metrics based on their relative positive or
             negative impact to Balanced Scorecard organizational goals at
             every level. Set objectives and adjust them as necessary to meet
             organizational goals.
1   BMT      The Total Force students shipped by AFRS for each week group         Week
             that actually arrive against the quantity and aptitude mix of
             GTEPs and Open/AIs required in the Accession Plan (Aplan).
2   BMT      Number of Total Force recruits entered into BMT in TTMS.             Week
             Entry rates are calculated by the number of original requirements
             identified in the Accession Plan to the number in entry status.
3   BMT      The percentage of class seats filled by BMT Reclassification         Week
             only.
4   BMT      Number of ADAF/AFRC/ANG recruits entered into (Graduated             Week
             BMT) status code in TTMS. Graduate rates calculated by the
             number of original requirements identified in the Aplan to the
             number in actual graduation status who graduated with the same
             class entered.
5   BMT      Recycle rates by calculating the ratio of recycles to the original   Quarter
             entries. This measure is based on a recycle date occurring in the
             applicable FY. Calculate the rate both at the course level and for
             ADAF NPS students. Calculate the rate both at the course level
             and for ADAF NPS students.
6   BMT      Student delays. 2 AF will monitor excessive delays, track            Quarter
             trends, and seek actionable solutions to minimize student delays.
 142                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


  Category Measure (2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to             Period
           BMT)
           Note: Analyze all metrics based on their relative positive or
           negative impact to Balanced Scorecard organizational goals at
           every level. Set objectives and adjust them as necessary to meet
           organizational goals.
7 BMT      Total Force graduation rates by calculating the ratio of graduates Quarter
           to the adjusted baseline as reflected by the programmed
           graduates (net of programmed attrition) for the month and year to
           date.
8 BMT      ADAF elimination rates by calculating the ratio of eliminations Quarter
           to the original entries. For point of reference, the ADAF
           programmed elimination rate for BMT is 7.5%. This measure is
           based on an elimination date occurring in the applicable FY.

Table 25.6. 2 AF Metric Measures and Frequency related to TT (Initial Skills).
    Category Measure                                                                 Period
             Note: Analyze all metrics based on their relative positive or
             negative impact to Balanced Scorecard organizational goals at
             every level. Set objectives and adjust them as necessary to meet
             organizational goals.
1   TT       ZPs Filled: Number of TT Arrivals per Requirements (Reqs),              Week
             pulled from COGNOS (ZP).
2   TT       Number of TT Reclass students the 2 AF/TTOC Det 1                       Week
             suballocates into a class.
3   TT       (Beginning of FY-to-date) Entry Fill Rate based on Accession            Week
             Plan Reqs & Actual Entries in TTMS Course of Initial Entry
             (COIE) status code ET#.
4   TT       Pipeline Flow Utilization Rate per AFSC/shred: The actual time in       Month
             training days plus standard travel it takes for student to finish the
             pipeline to grad the AFSC awarding course / the ideal time in
             training days plus standard travel it takes for grads to flow through
             the pipeline (course length plus standard accepted travel time
             between courses). 2 AF analyzes the pipeline and works issues
             with impacted TRGs. Drill down issues may include adjustments
             in the management of SNIT time including SAT, SOT, and IIT.
             TRGs will recommend action plans and/or submit to 2 AF
             downward-directed action plans that result from analysis of
             unacceptable pipeline utilization rates.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              143


  Category Measure                                                            Period
           Note: Analyze all metrics based on their relative positive or
           negative impact to Balanced Scorecard organizational goals at
           every level. Set objectives and adjust them as necessary to meet
           organizational goals.
5 Training Washback rates by calculating the ratio of washbacks (W##) to the Quarter
           original entries (ET#, EE#) plus gains (EV#, EN#) minus losses
           (V##, T##) for completed classes. A transfer is defined as a
           student who transfers from one course to another or one shred to
           another. This measure is based on completed classes and a
           washback date occurring in the applicable FY. Calculate the rate
           both at the course level and for ADAF NPS students. If either rate
           increases from the prior FY rate by 5% or more or exceeds 20%, 2
           AF notifies the TRG and asks for a resolution proposal. In
           addition, 2 AF monitors washback rates on courses that appear
           inordinately high. In conjunction with the TFMC, 2 AF forwards
           a trend analysis report to AETC/A3PS.

              Actual Washbacks (W##) (For Completed Classes)
              Original entries + gains (EV#, EW#) – losses (V##, T##, W##,
              R##)

                 Original Entries    Actual Gains           Actual Losses
                 Entries from        Entries from           Actual Washbacks
                 Transfer (EN#)      Washback (EW#)         (W##)
                 Initial Entries     Entries from           Actual
                 into Training       Advancements           Advancements
                 (ET#)               (EV#)                  (V##)
                 Entries from                               Actual Transfers
                 Elimination                                (T##)
                 (EE#)
                                                            Actual Recalls
                                                            (R##)
6 Graduate    Initial skills enlisted and officer graduate rates by calculating the Month
              ratio of graduates to the adjusted baseline as reflected by the TPR
              adjusted programmed graduates (minus programmed elimination
              ) for the month and year to date for completed classes. Graduation
              rates are measured for time periods (months) at the course level by
              TRQI.
              Where AJB = the total Adjusted Baseline Trained Personnel
              Requirements to date
              Graduation Rate = Total G## events FY-to-date
                                     AJB – (PER *AJB)
 144                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Table 25.7. TRW/TRG Responsibilities.
  Responsibility
1 Monitor actual elimination rates, washback rates, and Students Awaiting Training (SAT),
  Students Out of Training – awaiting departure (SOT), and Ineffective in Training (IIT)
  accounting for all students in a specific category during the FY.
2 Stay proactive in adjusting processes, resource management and/or course material,
  whatever is applicable, to move students through the pipeline in the most efficient way.
3 Develops and maintains the Strength Report for all Training Wings/Groups by Base on a
   weekly basis. In the case of an emergency evacuation forwards this report to
   AETC/A2/A3 In Box. This report will determine student strength by funding type and
   progress made in the course to most recent grading score. List those students not yet
   entered into school as Awaiting Training within 24 hours of arrival. List those students
   that have completed training but have not yet left the base as Out of Training awaiting
   assignment.
    25.1. Reclassification Time. Keep the average elimination and/or reclassification time per
    student less than or equal to 12 duty days.

*Table 25.8. Goals for Processing Time For Initial Skills Reclassification Process.
       Processing       Begins With The                   Ends When                     Goal
       Time
1      Ineffective to   Student being placed              Commander approves the        3 duty
       Designated       ineffective and elimination is    elimination and signs the     days
       Level            considered.                       AETC Form 125A in
       Approval                                           section III.
       Signature
2      Designated       Commander approves the            The FSS receives the          3 duty
       Level            elimination and signs the         AETC Form 125A.               days
       Approval         AETC Form 125A in section
       Signature to     III.
       FSS
3      FSS              Receipt of the AETC Form          The FSS transmits the         3 duty
                        125A.                             reclassification message to   days
                                                          2 AF/TTOC Det 1.
4      2 AF/TTOC        Receipt of the reclassification   A new AFSC and CSD are        3 duty
       Det 1            message at the reclassification   assigned and MilPDS is        days
                        section.                          updated.




                                               JEFFREY B. KENDALL, Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                               Integration
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           145


                                          *Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
*AETCI 36-2216, Administration of Military Standards and Discipline Training, 6 December
2010
*AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning And Operations, 24
January 2007
*AFI 11-412, Aircrew Management, 10 December 2009
*AFI 33-328, Administrative Orders, 16 January 2007
*AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011
*AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 11 November 2007
*AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC), 22 April 2005
*AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 September 2009
*AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program Training Management, 26 August 2010
*AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 15 April 2005
*AFI 36-2616, Trained Personnel Requirements, 10 December 1993
*AFI 36-2626, Airman Retraining Program, 1 July 1999
*AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 26 October 2009
*AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
*AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 2004
*AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for Retention, Retirement, and Separation, 2 February 2006
*AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards, 24 September 2009
*AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers, 2 March 1994
*AFI (I) 16-105, Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training, 3 January 2011
*Officer Classification Directory (OCD)
*Enlisted Classification Directory (ECD)
*AFPAM 36-3210, Procedural Guide for Enlisted Administrative Discharge Boards, 1
November 1995
*DoDI 5210.42, Nuclear Weapon Personnel Reliability Program, 16 October 2006
*DoD 5210.42R_AFMAN 10-3902_AFGM1, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program
(PRP), 13 November 2006
*DoD 5210.42-R, Department of Defense Nuclear Weapon Personnel Reliability Program
(PRP) Regulation, 30 June 2006
 146                                                  AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Prescribed Forms.
*AETC Form 62, Absentee Report, 27 June 2008
*AETC Form 125, Record of Faculty Board Action, 3 July 2008
*AETC Form 125A, Record of Administrative Training Action, 1 December 2009
*AETC Form 156, Student Training Report, 3 Jul 2008
*AETC Form 173, Student Record of Academic/Nonacademic Counseling and Comments, 8
December 2010
*AETC Form 179A, Course Training Schedules for Allocations, 8 September 2010
*AETC Form 325, Student Accounting and Attendance Record, 18 April 2008
*AETC Form 498, AETC Commander’s Award, 1 January 1996
*AETC Form 499, Distinguished Graduate Certificate, 1 August 2006
*AETC Form 530, Nonprior Service Classification, 12 May 2010
*AETC Form 581, Student Status or Data Change Report, 3 July 2008
*Adopted Forms.
*AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling, 1 December 1986
*AF Form 475, Education/Training Report, 1 June 2000
*AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
*AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training (LRA), 1 November 1986
*Lackland AFB Form 205, Basic Military Training Student Performance Summary, 3 March
1999
*Abbreviations and Acronyms
*ADAF—Active Duty Air Force
*ADL—Advanced Distributed Learning
*ADSL—Average Daily Student Load
*ADLS—Advance Distributed Learning Service
*ADSS—AETC Decision Support System
*AETC—Air Education and Training Command
*AFA—Air Force Academy
*AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
*AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
*AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
*AFSAT—Air Force Security Assistance Training
*AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                   147


*AGR—Active Guard and Reserve
*AI—Aptitude Index
*AIRW—Additional Instructor Requirement Worksheet
*ANG—Air National Guard
*ARC—Air Reserve Component, includes both ANG and AFRC
*ARPAS—Air Reserve Pay and Allowance System
*ART—Air Reserve Technician (NOT Air Reserve Training Command)
*ASVAB—Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery
*ATP—Abbreviated Training Plan
*ATRRS—Army Training Requirements and Resources System
*AWOL—Absent Without Leave
*BER—Budget Execution Review
*BMT—Basic Military Training
*CC—Commander
*CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
*CCT—Combat Control
*CEA—Career enlisted aviator
*CEMP—Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
*CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
*CGC—Center-generated Class
*CGD—Class Graduation Date
*COB—Close of Business
*COIE—Course of Initial Entry
*CSD—Class Start Date
*CTF—collateral training folder
*CTP—Course Training Plan
*DG—Distinguished Graduate
*DGR—Designated Group Representative
*DHS—Department of Homeland Security
*DL—Distance Learning
*DoD—Department of Defense
*DoD IP—Department of Defense International Program
 148                                                  AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*DoE—Department of Energy
*DLI—Defense Language Institute
*DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
*ECD—Enlisted Classification Directory
*ECD—Estimated Completion Date
*EGSD—Expected Group Size Difference
*EIS—Enlisted Initial Skills
*eNTRS—enterprise Navy Training Reservation System
*EP—Electronic Principles
*ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcements
*FinPlan—Financial Plan
*FOA—Field Operating Unit
*FSS—Force Support Squadron
*FTD —Field Training Detachment
*FYDP—Future Years Defense Plan
*GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
*GTEP—Guaranteed Training Enlistment Program
*IAAFA—The Inter-American Air Force’s Academy
*IADT—Initial Active Duty Training (term used for ANG students in initial training)
*IIT—Ineffective in Training
*IITS—Ineffective in Training Status
*IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
*IMS—International Military Student
*IMSO—International Military Student Office
*IS—Instructor Supervisor
*IST—Initial Skills Training
*ITRR—Institutional Training Readiness Report
*JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulations
*JSAT—Joint Security Assistance Training
*LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
*LOC—Letter of Counseling
*LOR—Letter of Reprimand
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                          149


*LTS—Lodging Automated System
*MAJCOM—Major Command
*METC—Medical Education Training Campus
*MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
*MRTP—Mission Readiness Training Program
*MTF—Military Training Flight
*MTI—Military Training Instructor
*MTL—Military Training Leader
*MTT—Mobile Training Team
*NCS—National Call to Service
*NGB—National Guard Bureau
*NPS—Nonprior Service
*OAC—Officer Accession Conference
*OCD—Officer Classification Directory
*OIS—Officer Initial Skills
*OMC—Official Mail Center
*OPM—Office of Personnel Management
*OTA—Oracle Training Administration
*OTS—Officer Training School
*PA—Proficiency Advance
*PAS—Personnel Accounting System
*PBR—Program Budget Review
*PC—Probationary Continuation
*PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
*PCS—Permanent Change of Station
*PDS—Permanent Duty Station
*PDS Code—Personnel Data System Code
*PER—Programmed Elimination Rate
*PGL—Program Guidance Letter
*PJ—Pararescue
*POM—Program Objective Memorandum
*PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
 150                                            AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*PRD—Program Requirements Document
*PRP—Personnel Reliability Program
*PS—Prior Service
*PTT—Programmed Technical Training
*PTTS—Pre Technical Training Students
*RET—Retrainee
*RFP—Registrar Focal Point
*RIC—Record of Individual Counseling
*RoMP—Reconstitution of Mission Plan
*ROTC—Reserve Officer Training Corps
*SAT—Student Awaiting Training
*SATS—Student Awaiting Training Status
*SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
*SIA—Special Individual Assistance
*SIE—Self-initiated Elimination
*SIT—Student In-processing Training
*SITS—Student In-processing Training Status
*SMR—Structure Manning Requirements
*SNIT—Students Not in Training
*SOTS—Student Out of Training Status
*SSN—Social Security Number
*STO—Split Training Option
*STR—Student Training Requirement
*TDY—Temporary Duty
*TFMC—Training Flow Management Conference
*TG—Top Graduate
*TLN—Training Line Number
*TM—Training Manager
*TPM—Training Pipeline Manager
*TPR—Trained Personnel Requirement
*TPS—Training Planning System
*TRAP—Training Requirements Arbitration Panel
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                  151


*TRF—Training Flight
*TRQI—Training Requester Quota Identifier
*TRS—Training Squadron
*TT—Technical Training
*TTE—Technical Training Eliminee
*TTMS—Technical Training Management System
*UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
*USA—United States Army
*USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
*USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
*USCG—United States Coast Guard
*USMC—United States Marine Corps
*USN—United States Navy
*UTM—Unit Training Manager

Terms
*Absence—Missed class time that does not exceed eight hours; this does not necessitate a status
change in TTMS but is annotated via an Admin Act (Administrative Action). Absence time is
charged against a student when the student misses a training event or activity that takes place.
Down time is handled with training make-up time and appropriate comments in TTMS.
*Accelerated Training—Training that can be accomplished more quickly than programmed due
to reasons such as small class size, previous experience of students, etc.
*Accession—A new recruit coming on extended active duty from civilian life or from training
such as the Air Force Academy.
*Additional Instructor Requirements Worksheet (AIRW)—Tool providing an estimated
number of instructors required to support the PGL training requirements.
*AETC Decision Support System (ADSS)—The Command’s computer system to summarize
training data. The ADSS collects data from TPS and TTMS, analyzes the data, produces
historical metrics, and resource modeling and training forecasts. Data entered into TTMS is
transmitted to the ADSS to meet tracking and reporting requirements.
*Air Force Specialty (AFS)—A group of AFSCs arranged into career field ladders, career field
subdivisions, and career fields to provide for career development in different aspects of a career
field.
*Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)—This is the basic grouping of positions requiring similar
skills and qualifications, identified by a five digit code.
*Air Force Specialty (AFS) Shred—Alphabetical groupings of AFS subdivisions to identify
specialization in a specific type of equipment or function.
 152                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Air Reserve Component (ARC)—Includes both the Air National Guard and the Air Force
Reserve Command.
*Air Reserve Technician (ART)—A civilian with mandatory reserve affiliation, who may wear
the uniform while in ART/civilian status.
*AJ10, AJ1J, AJ1K, AJ30, AJ3J, AMD0, AJ50—Training requester quota identifier codes
indicating NPS students, retrainee students, and prior service students taking initial skills courses
of initial entry (AJ10, AJ11, AJ1J, AJ1K) and follow-on courses (AJ30, AJ3J).
*Allocation—A class seat reserved for a specific program user at their request.
*Arrival—Any student, regardless of travel type or source (Army, Navy, etc.), who reaches the
training site for the purpose of attending a formal course of instruction.
*Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB)—The pre-enlistment test given to
recruits to determine aptitudes in the administrative, electronics, general, and mechanical career
areas; each Air Force career field requires a specified minimum score in one or more of these
areas.
*Attrition—A student who is a loss to the Air Force; a discharge.
*Attrition Rate—The rate at which individuals are removed from the Air Force; also referred to
as discharge rate.
*Audit—A student permitted to sit through or observe a course or a portion of a course for the
knowledge. Neither measurement during training or credit for training is allowed. The student
may be new to the material or may be auditing to refresh skills. The student does not appear on
the class roster and receives no record of training.
*Average Daily Student Load—A calculated value to predict the average number of students
going through a training course on any given day—calculated by multiplying the number of
entries in the course by the course length (in training days) divided by the number of training
days in a year (246).
*Balanced Scorecard—Method combining traditional and nontraditional metrics tying
measurement of success directly to strategic organizational goals.
*Bullet Background Paper—Document identifying the reasons for the constraint worksheet
(equipment, facilities, funding, or manpower).
*Center Generated Class—An unprogrammed class containing no seat allocations and
therefore not impacting programmed numbers.
*Centrally Managed Type 6 DL Courses—Seven-level Type 6 DL courses for which TLNs
are generated and names are suballocated by AFPC who manages selection of students for
enrollment.
*Class Transfer—A transfer between individual classes in the same course.
*Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Instructor—An instructor who meets all
criteria to teach CCAF degree-applicable preparatory training and the technical training teaching
practicum, and has achieved full qualifications in his or her Air Force specialty, or has attained
the target civilian grade for the position; in addition, the individual is required to have an
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                153


associate’s or higher degree, and be assigned to an instructor or instructor supervisor
authorization.
*Course of Initial Entry (COIE)—The first course in an initial skills training pipeline. This
could be the AFSC-awarding course or a pre-requisite course.
*Course Transfer—A transfer from one course to another, frequently involving the change of
AFSC or shred.
*Crossflow—Current AF officer with an awarded AFSC retraining into a different AFSC.
*Counseling—A verbal, document process that informs students of their academic progress in
the course.
*Designated Group Representative (DGR)—The position the TRG designates to input TTMS
information at the parent unit.
*Discharge Rate—The rate at which individuals are removed from the Air Force; also referred
to as attrition rate.
*Disqualification—The status of an individual who is not yet entered into training because he or
she is not qualified for medical, prerequisite, or security reasons.
*Distinguished Graduate (DG)—A graduate of selected courses recognized for being in the
upper 10 percent of a graduating class and meeting specified standards.
*Effective Date—The actual date on which an event or a change occurs in a student’s status.
*Elimination—A student who does not complete a training course and does not graduate due to
academic or performance deficiencies or non academic reasons. (TTMS status code L##).
*Elimination Rate—The rate at which individuals are removed from an Air Force training
course.
*Eliminee—A student removed from training, whether by faculty board or by administrative
process (AETC Form 125A). Eliminees do not include transfers.
*End Assignment—Personnel accounting symbol (PAS) of a student’s gaining organization
after completing training; the PAS consists of eight alpha/numeric characters.
*Entry—A transaction indicating an individual started or restarted a formal course of
instruction. (TTMS status code E##).
*Execution rate—A percentage reflecting the number of allocations (class seats) actually used
compared to the number of allocations funded as reflected in the TT PGLs. Formula: entries
into school / PGL funded baseline.
*Faculty—Personnel whose primary duties are to instruct on a regular basis (instructional
faculty), supervisors (intermediate level and above), and managerial staff (noninstructional
faculty) whose primary duty is to develop, manage, and/or evaluate training programs.
*Formal Technical Training Course—An officially designated course conducted by or at the
request of AETC, and reflected on AETC technical training course charts.
*Force Gain—The process by which a student who arrives for training without student
information preloaded in TTMS or without a TLN is entered in TTMS and OTA.
 154                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*FTD CGC—Training where the scheduled classes are created using the Center Generated
Class Recorder and are unique to FTD unfunded type 4 training when the third character of the
class number is a "4" (09401). The class is created in TTMS but does not flow to TPS or OTA.
*Futured Students—Any BMT student suballocated during the job spin into a CSD beyond
their current week group’s projected TT start. BMT students arriving on Monday are in SITS
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and should have a CSD between the next day, Friday, and
Thursday of the next week. If the CSD is later than the second Thursday, they are considered in
a futured CSD.
*Graduate—A student who successfully completes a formal course of instruction.
*Guaranteed Training Enlistment Program (GTEP)—Recruiting program that guarantees the
AF recruit entrance into a specified AFSC with prescribed contractual benefits so long as the
recruit meets and holds to a set of contractual requirements. Either party, the AF or the recruit
are released from the contract if certain contractual specifications are broken.
Hanging History—The Hanging History report identifies students who have been in a particular
status for a time period the user may set and is a tool to identify potentially unresolved student
actions (e.g., non-terminal student status, SOT with no departure).
*Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)—Selected military reserve position assigned to
active units. They are approved in skills having wartime shortfalls and support the unit mission
during the period immediately following a declaration of war or national emergency.
*Ineffective Awaiting Training—A student who has not yet entered a course and has become
unavailable for training for any reason.
*Ineffective in Training (IIT)—A student who entered a course of instruction, has not yet
graduated, and is not in training for any reason. Ineffective status is implemented when a student
is absent at least 8 consecutive hours and is effective the first full day the student misses training.
(TTMS status code I##).
*Initial Skills Training (IST)—Training that leads to the award of an AFSC.
*Instructor—A faculty member whose primary duty is teaching students. The instructor has
completed the preparatory requirements established by the supervisor, to include the technical
training practicum.
*Instructor Supervisor—This title identifies an instructor whose primary duty is to supervise
and evaluate instructors. This instructor has been trained in instructional policies, principles and
procedures, and performs teaching functions as required.
*Type 6 DL—TT delivered to students at their base of assignment without a HQ AETC
instructor physically present. Also known as Type 6 formal technical training, exportable
training, and ADL.
*Type 6 DL POC—Organization or person at the receiving sites responsible for all aspects of
job site training administration.
*Max Groups Concurrent—The number of groups (i.e., classes) that can be taught at one time,
on all shifts; this is usually dependent on the number of available equipment and facilities.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                155


*Maximum Group Size—The maximum number of students that can be accommodated based
on peacetime use of facilities and equipment, considering safety and the application of effective
instructional methods.
*Metrics—A set of traditional and nontraditional business measurements indicating how well
*Military Status Codes—One character codes to indicate the student’s military branch and
category.
*Military Training Instructor—Military instructor that conducts basic military training for
nonprior service airmen, including those of the Air Reserve Forces, and initial military training
for cadets of the United States Air Force Academy.
*Military Training Leader—Military professional that counsels airmen attending technical
school on training or personal problems, military bearing, standards, and behavior; and schedules
and conducts military training functions for students.
*Minimum Entry Intervals—The number of training days between the start of one class and
the beginning of the next class in a sequence of classes on a single shift.
*Minimum Group Size—The least number of students who can be trained and still satisfy
course training objectives, such as: team instructional requirements, safety requirements, and/or
the cost-effective use of resources; the number is used to determine whether or not to cancel a
particular class.
*Misconduct—One reason for elimination from training. It occurs when a student was involved
in a test compromise, or a dishonest attempt/completion of a course measurement; or deliberately
failed a course measurement (formerly known as prejudicial conduct).
*Missed Class Seat—Term used when a programmed allocation goes empty.
*Mission Readiness Training Program (MRTP)—Formal training courses to aid mission
accomplishment. MRT provides supplemental technical training for courses of up to 99
academic days (less than 20 weeks), for officers, enlisted and civilian personnel when other types
of training (OJT, unit training, exportable and mobile training) will not satisfy the need.
*National Call to Service—Enlisted NPS students called to AD for a limited time; NCS seats
are programmed as ADAF NPS but are converted during the execution year.
*No Show—Programmed and suballocated seat where the scheduled or substituted student did
not report to class on the CSD. (subset of ―Missed Class Seat‖).
* Nonprior Service (NPS)—An enlistee who has no previous military service or who has not
completed initial training in any branch of the U.S. military, as evidenced by no specialty
recorded on the DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, Block 11,
Primary Specialty.
*On-the-Job Training (OJT) Student—Individuals who leave one AFSC and are assigned to
another through OJT, without technical training.
*Open AI (Aptitude Index)—An enlistee recruited into the administrative, electronics, general,
or mechanical aptitude area. Such enlistees are classified into a given AFSC at BMT.
*Oracle Training Administration—The training module of MilPDS (replaced the Air Force
Training Management System [AFTMS]).
 156                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Original Entries—First entry into class ET# and Reentry after Elimination EE# (Student needs
a TLN prior to being EE#.)
*Out of cycle requests—A new requirement or change to a funded PGL.
*Partial Training—Training completion interrupted due to unavailability of equipment or
personnel or mission requirements. Partial training that is resumed and completed is accounted
for like other Type 4 unfunded training.
*Permanent Change of Station (PCS)—The transfer of place of duty and assignment from one
permanent duty station to another.
*Personnel Data System (PDS) Code—The code used to record attendance at training courses.
It is an integral part of course identification information and must be included in special orders,
certificates of completion and other places in which course identification information is required.
*Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)—The standards of reliability to which personnel
including students are held to be allowed to perform duties involving nuclear weapons.
*Pre Technical Training Students (PTTS)—An NPS airman awaiting first entry into a basic
resident technical training course at a training wing. PTTS time includes in-processing, local
orientation (see SITS), and waiting time (see SATS).
*Prerequisite Waiver—A waiver of the training required to be accomplished before attending a
course. This waiver is granted when there is documentation of equivalent training. Approval
authority is outlined in AFI 36-2201.
*Prior Service—An enlistee who enters the military with previous military service that includes
completion of initial training in any branch of the U.S. military, as evidenced by a specialty
recorded on the DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, Block 11,
Primary Specialty.
*Probationary Continuation (PC)—Allows a student to progress with the current class when
additional work is required to bring the student's performance to an acceptable level. The
student is given SIA by a qualified instructor and then retested.
*Proficiency Advancement (PA)—Placing a student into another class in the same course that
graduates earlier than the previous class. This reduces training time for uniquely qualified
students who verify proficiency and have a class available to advance.
*Program Group Size—The number of students per group used to schedule (program) classes
serving as the basis for manpower computations and usually the same as the maximum group
size, except when adjustments are required due to experienced washback and elimination rates.
*Programmed Guidance Letter (PGL)—Document serving as the official tasking document
reflecting Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) acknowledgement of technical training
requirements and enabling AETC planners and programmers to acquire necessary resources to
accomplish the scheduling task.
*Programmed Requirements Document (PRD)—Document reflecting ―unconstrained‖ out-
year training requirements enabling planners and programmers to program for necessary
resources to support out-year Air Force (AF) requirements; a ―first look‖ at out year training.
Requirements.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                  157


*Programmed Technical Training (PTT)—Document reflecting PRD/PGL baseline
production requirements (graduates) converted into entries (seats) by AFSC/shred, course, and
student resource category (ADAF NPS, ADAF PS, ADAF RET, ANG, AFRC, Sister Service,
International, Civilian).


*Quality Review Council—Forum consisting of personnel within the training group who are
experienced in scheduling whose purpose is to analyze schedules to ensure compliance with
established criteria and to resolve conflicts with Training Managers before schedules are released
to the AETC Program Manager.
*Quota Status Codes—One character codes to indicate the status of the training quota in OTA.
*Quota Type—Two–character codes used to indicate the student’s active duty status and the
funding status.
*Recall—A student removed from training by higher headquarters, the student's parent
organization, or his or her home country. A recall may also be called a withdrawal.
*Record-keeping copy—The authenticated original or a copy that serves as an official copy.
*Reentry—The return of an in-training, ineffective student to class.
*Registrar Focal Point (RFP)—The position the course or TRS designates to flow student
information to the parent unit and/or report student status changes to the Registrar Section, either
manually or through TTMS.
*Retrainee—Current AF enlisted member authorized to retrain into a new AFSC.
*Reclassification (Reclass)—Current AF members (typically NPS), recently eliminated from a
TT IST course, being scheduled for a new AFSC training program. These students assume the
TRQI for their category of student (NPS, PS, and RET) and course.
*Self Initiated Elimination—Students in specified courses (e.g., combat control, pararescue,
SERE, air traffic control, explosive ordnance disposal) may elect to eliminate themselves from
this training by removing volunteer status.
*Shift Group Limit—The maximum number of classes that can be taught in one shift, usually
limited by facilities or equipment.
*Skill Categories—B – basic, and L – lateral training.
*Special Individual Assistance (SIA)—Personal remediation.
*Split Training Option (STO)—AFRC students who complete BMT, return to their home unit
and then ship to the TT location at a later date.
*Staff Assistance Visit (SAV)—Visits by Registrar Section personnel to assist training
personnel in implementing this instruction and entering into TTMS, documenting and managing
student actions.
*Student—An individual in training whether in a formal AF technical training course or in
Basic Military Training.
*Student Awaiting Training (SAT)—Student Awaiting Training Status (SATS)—The status of
a student awaiting entry into resident technical training. (TTMS status code A##)
 158                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Student Flow—The evenness or lack of evenness of the stream of students progressing from
BMT through TT. Flow bottlenecks could indicate scheduling problems or an excess or lack of
students from BMT.
*Student In-processing Training (SIT) Status—The status of an NPS airman for up to 3 days
after arriving at a training wing to attend an initial-skill basic-resident technical training course.
(TTMS status code is ZP)
*Student Instructor—This designation applies to assignees who have completed preparatory
requirements established by the supervisor, but have not completed the technical training
teaching practicum; the student instructor’s primary duty is teaching.
*Students not in Training (SNIT)—Collectively, student in TT not in training, to include
SATs, SOTs, and IITs.
*Student Out of Training (SOT)—The status of a student who either graduated or was
eliminated, but has not left the base. (TTMS status code S##)
*Student Status Code—A three-digit alphabetic code indicating temporary or permanent
student statuses.
*Student Training Action Codes—Special codes to indicate transfers, advancements, and
washbacks. They must be followed by a TTMS student status.
*Student Training Requirements (STR)—Other training users (excluding active AF users,
NPS, PS and retrainees) that attend enlisted initial skills training which include, but are not
limited to: Guard, Reserve, Army, Navy, Marines, internationals, and civilians.
*Sub-allocation—Allocation against which a program user has actually programmed a name.
The result of sub-allocation in the system is a training line number (TLN). TLNs (individual or
block) can be assigned to quotas without assigning a name (bulk sub-allocation).
*Temporary Duty (TDY)—Temporary duty at a school location other than the permanent duty
station to which assigned. Upon completion of temporary duty, the student returns to the same
permanent duty station from which he or she departed.

*Terminal Event—An action that results in the formal end of a course session for a student or
the end of a student's stay on base following a course session Terminal events that formally end
training related to a course include graduation, elimination, no show, disqualification, recall, and
transfer. A departure event is a terminal event after training has formally ended represented by a
final departure status code (H##) following a Student Out of Training Status (SOTS) code. The
situation occurs when something delays a student departure after graduation or elimination more
than 24 hours.



*Top Graduate (TG)—A graduate of selected courses recognized for being the highest
representative of the graduating class.


*Total Force Students—ANG and AFRC students enrolled in IST training.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                159


*Training Flow Management Conference (TFMC)—Annual conference focusing on the
finalization of user enlisted training requirements considering AF requirements while addressing
accounting for course capacity, constraints and shortfalls.
*Trained Personnel Requirement (TPR)—A statement by AFSC of projected training and
retraining required by fiscal year to keep the active airman force at manning levels supportive of
the Air Force mission. The ADAF TPR categories are non-prior service (NPS), prior service
(PS), retrainees (RET). It does not include Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, Sister
Service, International or Civilian personnel.
*Training Line Number (TLN)—An OTA-generated 10-character code that identifies a
particular class seat and its funding source.
*Training Manager (TM)—Person responsible for training development, implementation, and
management.
*Training Quota—An individual allocated seat in a specific class.
*Training Requester Quota Identifier (TRQI)—A four-character communication code within
MILPDS/OTA used to convey annual or supplemental training requirements, quota allocations,
quota confirmations, and student-tracking information between a training user and the training
provider (owner). TRQIs are assigned to MAJCOMS, FOAs, and DRUs to ensure training
accountability.
*Training Session—Training below the course level or where training is provided but no course
exists. Student accounting is not recorded for this training category.
*Transfer—Shifting a student from one course to another after class entry and before
graduation.
*Travel Status Codes—One digit codes to indicate the student’s funded travel status.
*TRQI Owner/Manager—Person(s) appointed to gather and report annual training
requirements and manage quotas. While only one TRQI code is assigned to a functional entity,
there can be multiple managers handling courses.
*Wash back—Placing a student in another class in the same course that will graduate later than
the initial class.
*Week group—A designator for the Accession Pipeline to aid in accessing, scheduling and
classifying Air Force students. Developed from the Technical Training class schedule (Allodoc),
the Week Group calendar’s function is to consolidate the requirements by Aptitude Index.
Students are accessed and assigned to a particular week group and remain in that week group
(unless recycled, put on medical hold, etc.) until the recruit ships out of BMT. The Week Group
concept is heavily utilized by both Air Force Recruiting Service and BMT to allow for a smooth
flow within the Accession Pipeline.
*Week group scheduling—The process of assigning students to a particular week group to meet
the tech training class schedule as close as possible.
*Withdrawal—See recall.
160                               AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                   Attachment 2
      TRAINING MANAGEMENT PROCESS OVERVIEW
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           161


                                        *Attachment 3
                         LIST OF COMMON TRQI MANAGERS

The OPR for creating/managing TRQIs is AFPC/DPPAT who coordinates with AF/A1PT

 Air Force Directed
AFPC
            TRQI's               War Fighters   TRQI Code
Contact
            Serviced
Center
                                   USAFE        A0D0         Air Force Directed TRQI Code
          A1L0/
          A0R0/
                                   PACAF        A0R0         Palace Acquire      A2C0
          A1S0
          A1CC/                                              AF Legal Srv        A2E0
                                   AFSOC        A0V0         NPS Training
          A1M0/
          A0V0                                               Init Skls-1st Crs   AJ10
          A0J0/                    ACC          A1CC         *NPS
                                                                                 AJ10
                                                             Reclassification
          A0D0/
                                   AMC          A1L0         NCS National Call
          AMT7                                                                   AJ11
                                                             to Service
                                                             Follow On           AJ30
                                   AFSPC        A1S0
                  TRQI                                       Retrng-1st Crs      AJ1J/
MAJCOM
                  Code                                       Retrng FollowOn     AJ3J
AFRC/A1KE    RR10                MAJCOM                      Lateral Tng         AMD0
                                                 TRQI Code
                                 EQUIV                       Retrng (Pr Srvc)    AJ1K
        AM12
                                 Nat'l Sec       HXD0        Recruiting          AJ50
              TRQI               Agency                      Ofc Accessions      AM10
NAF
              Code               AFSAT           MX20        Ofc Crossflow       AM11/
                                                             Advanced Trng       AM12/
2 AF/TTOC     H990
                                              TRQI           AFPC/MSC
                         Air Force Directed                  /NC
                                              Code                               AM20
                                                             /BSC
                         PME Assign.          AM91           Support Off.s       AT20
                         SAF/PA               AME0           Colonel's GP        AM70
                         General's GP         AMP0
                         7-Level Trng         AMT7
 162                                  AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010



Support   TRQI Code                                           TRQI
                                     TRQI      MAJCOM EQUIV
                      MAJCOM EQUIV                            Code
                                     Code
 AFMA     A010                                 USEUCOM        A3K0
AFOTEC    A030        USTRANSCOM     H3VT
                                               DISA/D113      A3V0
 AFAA     A060        NAT DEF        HAFS
                                               ARMY           DA00/
 AFOSI    A070        UNIV
                                                              DAAR/
                      HQ 11TH WING   H3V0
 AFPC     A090                                                DANG
 USAFA    A0B0                                 DFAS/ PSO/     DDF0
                      USSTRATCOM     H3Q0
 AETC     A0J0                                 HNCD
                      NORAD          H3S0
 AFRC     A0M0                                 DFAS/          DDFM
                      USNORTHCOM
HQ USAF   A0N0/                                DE/
                      ELECTRONIC     HESC
 11 WG    A2W0/                                APP
                      SYSTEMS
          A4W0                                 DEF            DH20
                      CENTER
 AIA      A0U0/                                THR RED
                      DOT/FAA        HGE0
 AFTAC    A2L0                                 AGNY
                      AMWC           A1L1
 AFWA     A0WX                                 USCENTCOM      DJ20
                      HQ AFMC        A1MM
 AFMC     A1M0                                 JCSE           DJ21
                      (SGCE)
AFCESA    A1W0                                 USSOCOM        DJ30
                      AFPC/          A09W
 AFCEE    A3W0                                 USPACOM        DJ40
                      DPFROM
                      Force                    USSOUTHCOM     DJ50
                      Operations               DISA           DK10
                      AFSOC          A0VM      DEFENSE        DL10
                      JSOC           A0VH      INTEL
                      NGB/A1DC                 AGENCY
                                     CC10
                                               MARINES        DM00
                      HQ ANGR        A340
                                               NAVY           DN00
                      (Civ)
                                               USCG           DP10
                                               NAT DEF        HAFS
                                               UNIV
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                   163


                                         *Attachment 4
   *TABLE A4.1. SOME KEY STUDENT MANAGEMENT REPORTS AND FORMS
                           SUMMARY TABLE

A4-Form serves when TTMS         Where TTMS Is Operational          Audience / Use
does not have a Report or as a
backup when TTMS is not
Operational
Absentee Report, AETC Form       Absences are recorded in the       Form for all types of training
62                               system, but no parallel form or    where attendance is measured at
                                 report is generated in TTMS.       a physical location: Tracks
                                                                    absence record where TTMS is
                                                                    not operational or where backup
                                                                    is needed.
Record of Faculty Board          Counselings and Eliminations are   Form used in relationship to
Action, AETC Form 125            recorded in the system, but no     elimination or pending
(original for records)           parallel form or report is         elimination when a faculty board
                                 generated in TTMS.                 action is used as a means of
                                                                    gaining information.
Record of Administrative         Counselings and Eliminations are   Form used in relationship to
Training Action, AETC Form       recorded in the system, but no     elimination from Tech Training
125A (original or digitally-     parallel form or report is         Courses (AETC Form 325 serves
signed copy for records)         generated in TTMS.                 as sufficient documentation for
                                                                    Type 6 DL non-centrally
                                                                    managed and Type 4 courses).
*Student Record of Training,     Student Training Report is a       Type 2 or Type 3 Initial Skills
AETC Form 156 (original or       parallel report generated in       Courses (Prerequisite and AFSC
properly signed copy [PDF,       TTMS and is used instead of the    Awarding) – Use the Form only
FAX] for records)                form where TTMS is available       where TTMS is not operational
                                 and operational.                   or where a user requires a backup
                                 (original, properly signed copy    form. Either the TTMS Student
                                 [PDF, FAX] or digitally signed     Training Report or the AETC
                                 copy for records.)                 Form 156 is always used for the
                                                                    international student’s course
                                                                    report. Long term storage of this
                                                                    report is not required when other
                                                                    service/agency leads, owns and
                                                                    conducts the training and the
                                                                    other service/agency storage of
                                                                    their service unique form or
                                                                    report meets or exceeds the AF
                                                                    Record Disposition Schedule.
Student Record of                Counselings and Eliminations are   Form used when a formal
Academic/Nonacademic             recorded in the system, but no     counseling takes place on any
Counseling and Comments,         parallel form or report is         student. Use the AETC Form
AETC Form 173 or AF Form         generated in TTMS. The Student     173 for academic counseling.
174, Record of Individual        Training Report generates the      Use the AF Form 174 when
Counseling (Original for         reason, date, and time of          counseling for misconduct or
 164                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A4-Form serves when TTMS         Where TTMS Is Operational          Audience / Use
does not have a Report or as a
backup when TTMS is not
Operational
schoolhouse record but copy      counseling along with any          disciplinary reasons.
may go into elimination          associated comments.
package exhibits)

*Student Accounting and          Student Accounting and              Used to communicate training
Attendance Record, AETC          Attendance Report (Original,       entry, grades, and course
Form 325 (Original, properly     properly signed copy [PDF,         completion from a course at a
signed copy [PDF, FAX]           FAX] or digitally signed copy      location where TTMS is not
                                 when digital signature becomes     available to responsible base and
                                 available).                        course personnel where TTMS is
                                                                    available - It serves as sufficient
                                                                    elimination documentation for
                                                                    non-centrally-managed Type 6
                                                                    DL and non-quota Type 4
                                                                    courses (that is Type 4 courses
                                                                    that do not obtain OTA TLNs).
                                                                    The TTMS Student Account and
                                                                    Attendance Report or AETC
                                                                    Form 325 with student’s name
                                                                    lined out and associated reason
                                                                    for elimination briefly recorded
                                                                    serves as the elimination
                                                                    documentation for storage. Use
                                                                    the AETC Form 325 only where
                                                                    TTMS is not operational or
                                                                    where a user requires a backup
                                                                    form. Long term storage of this
                                                                    report is not required when other
                                                                    service/agency leads, owns and
                                                                    conducts the training and the
                                                                    other service/agency storage for
                                                                    the corresponding service unique
                                                                    form or report meets or exceeds
                                                                    the AF Record Disposition
                                                                    Schedule.
AETC Commander’s Award,          Top Grads are recorded in the      Form used for rewarding Top
AETC Form 498                    system, but no parallel form or    Graduates.
                                 report is generated in TTMS
Distinguished Graduate           Distinguished Grads are recorded   Form used for rewarding
Certificate, AETC Form 499       in the system, but no parallel     Distinguished Graduates.
                                 form or report is generated in
                                 TTMS
Student Status or Data Change    Student Status Change Report       Use the TTMS Student Status
Report, AETC Form 581                                               Change Report where TTMS is
                                                                    available and operational. Use
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                     165


A4-Form serves when TTMS         Where TTMS Is Operational           Audience / Use
does not have a Report or as a
backup when TTMS is not
Operational
                                                                     AETC Form 581 only to
                                                                     communicate changes in student
                                                                     status from a location where
                                                                     TTMS is not operational or
                                                                     where backup is needed.
AF Form 475,                     N.A.                                Use the AF Form 475 to
Education/Training Report                                            document officer student
                                                                     performance for all training and
                                                                     education courses as detailed in
                                                                     AFI 36-2406. In addition, use it
                                                                     for enlisted student performance
                                                                     for each training course other
                                                                     than Initial Skills Training (IST)
                                                                     with a course length of 20 weeks
                                                                     (140 calendar days) or longer.
                                                                     Exception: retrainees and prior
                                                                     service airmen in each IST
                                                                     course with a course length of 20
                                                                     weeks or longer will receive a
                                                                     TR.
Certificate of Training, AF      Grads are recorded in the system,   Present AF Form 1256,
Form 1256                        but no parallel form or report is   Certificate of Training, to each
                                 generated in TTMS                   student for each course
                                                                     successfully completed. Include
                                                                     as a minimum: student’s name,
                                                                     course number and title, course
                                                                     length in hours, applicable CCAF
                                                                     credit, date of graduation, and
                                                                     signature or signature facsimile
                                                                     at the Course Manager level or
                                                                     above. List only one course on a
                                                                     certificate.
Lackland AFB Form 205            No parallel form or report is       Form used as a complete record
                                 generated in TTMS                   of the BMT student and
                                                                     accompanies the BMT graduate
                                                                     to Tech School.
 166                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 5
                    TABLE A5.1 OVERARCHING AETC/2 AF ROLES

Roles                                                    AETC         2 AF

Accessions PGL Insertion                                 P            C

Accessions Plan Development and Execution                C            P

PGLs/PRDs/Amendments Insertion and PTT                   P            C

Execution Year Adjustments                               P            C

Quota Management                                         C            P

Programmed Elimination Rates (PERs) Approval             C            P

Capacity Assessment Worksheet                            C            P

Constraint Worksheet/BBP Completion                      C            P

Final Constraint Course List                             C            P

Constraint Worksheet/BBP Results/Resourcing              P            C

Match Resources to Production Requirements               P            C

Instructor Requirement ID                                C            P

Additional Instructor Requirements Worksheets            P            C
Results/Resourcing

HAF Formal Coord/Tasking                                 P            C

TT Policy                                                P            C
(Waivers and Sups coordinated thru Chain of Command)

BMT Policy (Waivers and Sups coordinated thru Chain      P            C
of Command)

Functional Management of Centralized Training            P            C
Databases (TTMS, TPS, ADSS, ETCA & Interfaces)
Systems Management /Development/Policy

TTMS Database Data Entry/Integrity                       C            P

FY Student Production, Management and Administration     C            P

SIT/SAT/SOT Monitor/Administration                       C            P
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010           167


TT Data Analysis (Strategic)     P   C

TT Data Analysis (Operational)   C   P

BMT Content                      P   C

BMT Execution                    C   P

BMT Reclassification             C   P

TT Reclassification              C   P

ORM Assessment                   C   P
168                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                      *Attachment 6
                       *TABLE A6.1 BMT TRAINING CODES


A14-
CODE   DESCRIPTION OF STATUS                                      REMARKS
T01    Entry into 737 TRG                                         Entry
T03    Reentry into 737 TRG                                       Reentry
                                                                  Graduated and
T04    737 TRG Graduated and Departed                             Departed
                                                                  Graduated and On
T05    737 TRG Graduated and On Hold                              Hold
       GTEP Graduated but chose discharge because no assignment
T08    available                                                  Discharge GTEP/AFSC
T10    BAS (Behavioral Analysis Svc)                              Discharge
T28    Recycled Marginal Performance                              Recycle
T29    Recycled Academic Failure                                  Recycle
T30    Recycled Physical Conditioning Failure                     Recycle
T31    Recycled Emergency Leave                                   Recycle
T32    Recycled Hospital/Medical                                  Recycle
T34    Recycled Other                                             Recycle
T35    Administrative/Erroneous Discharge                         Discharge GTEP/AFSC
T44    Elimination Exceeding BFM                                  Discharge
T47    Other (Admin Hold/Processing Delay)                        Administrative/Sq Hold
T49    Marginal Performance                                       Discharge
T50    EPTE (Med Problems Existed Prior to Entry AFI 36-3208)     Discharge
T52    Drugs/Drug Fraud                                           Discharge
T53    Hardship                                                   Discharge
T54    Pregnancy (Prior to Service)                               Discharge
T55    Air National Guard/Reservist Returned to Home Unit         Discharge
T56    Enuresis                                                   Discharge
T57    Sleepwalker (AFI 36-3208)                                  Discharge
T58    Fraudulent Enlistment (AFI 36-3208)                        Discharge
       Medical Discharge (AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for
T59    Retention, Retirement, and Separation - PEB)               Discharge
                                                                  Under investigation on
T60    Investigation (Removed from Training)                      hold
T61    AWOL/Deserter                                              Hold
T62    Hospitalized                                               Hold
T63    Emergency Leave                                            Hold
T64    Confinement                                                Hold
T65    Medical /Dental Hold                                       Hold
T66    Death
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                            169


                                  *Attachment 7
              INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AETC FORM 156

*Figure A7.1 Front of AETC Form 156.
 170                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table A7.1. Completing the front side of AETC Form 156.

A7-Block Title              Instructions
Course Title                Enter the course title and AETC-approved number (as indicated in
                            TPS).
Training Squadron/Flt DSN   Enter the training squadron conducting the course and its DSN
No.                         number.
Current Class Number        Enter the current class number in pencil, upon graduation, change to
                            ink.
Block No., Title, Name of   Include the training block number, block title, and instructor’s name
Instructor                  and grade. If more than one instructor teaches in the block, enter all
                            names and subjects taught.
CC Trn Hours                Enter technical training hours as indicated on the course chart by block
                            or unit of instruction.
Stu Trn Hours               Enter (to the nearest quarter hour) all training conducted in a formal
                            training environment, including classroom/laboratory training, SIA,
                            supervised study, supplementary study for proficiency advancement,
                            and wash back time. Do not include military training time.
PC/Test Grade               Progress checks are not normally entered on the form because they are
                            part of the teaching or learning activity. However, if performance
                            progress check is the means of measurement, enter the grades in the
                            same manner as performance tests. Students cannot receive a grade
                            for a block until all progress checks are passed. Use the left-hand
                            space (optional) in block 8 to record performance grades. (This grade
                            may either be a summary S or U, or an average percentage grade.)
                            Use the right-hand space (optional) to record written test grades. (This
                            is an average grade when there is more than one written test in the
                            block.) Round off all percentage grades entered on the form to the
                            nearest whole number.
Block Grade                 Enter the block grade. This grade is the average of percentage grades
                            or may be an S or U when percentage grades are not used.
Graduation Date             Enter the year-month-day the student graduated from the course (for
                            example, 950316).
Elimination Date            Enter the year-month-day the student was removed from the course as
                            reported on AETC Form 125 or 125A.
Reason for Elimination      Put an X in the block that indicates the reason for elimination. This
(Disenrollment)             item should be consistent with information reported on AETC Form
                            125 or 125A.
Transferred to              TTMS ST Reports are e-mailed under normal circumstances and the
                            following mail provision is only used for AETC Form 156 as a hard
                            copy should TTMS not be functional: Using PCS orders, the instructor
                            staff will enter the complete mailing address of a student’s gaining
                            unit. Squadrons will mail AETC Forms 156 directly to the gaining
                            units.
Total CC Hours              Enter the total technical training hours as indicated on the course chart.
Total Student Hours         Enter the total number of classroom training hours the student is
                            required to complete (that is, the total of the column of numbers in
                            item 9).
DG/TG/N/A                   Indicate DG or TG as applicable.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                171


A7-Block Title            Instructions
Final Grade               Enter the final course grade. This grade is the average of block grades
                          (when they are percentages) or a summary grade (when S or U is
                          used).


*Figure A7.2. Back of AETC Form 156.
 172                                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010



*Table A7.2. Completing the back side of AETC Form 156.

A7-Block Title                  Instructions
Special Individual Assistance   Under Subject/Objective, enter paragraph numbers or subject from the
(SIA)                           POI. Under Hours, enter the hours to the nearest quarter hour.
Absence Record                  Enter the date the student was absent from class, number of hours of
                                instruction missed (to the nearest quarter hour), and block number.
Class Changes                   Enter the class number to which the student is assigned and the date
                                and reason of the class change.
Remarks                         The primary instructor will enter remarks and his or her grade and
                                name. As a minimum, the remarks will contain student academic
                                strengths and weaknesses. For additional space, use plain bond paper,
                                and attach it to the AETC Form 156. Standardize documentation for
                                an Articles 15, UCMJ. The instructor may note that a student received
                                an Article 15 UCMJ, but specific comments as to why, and
                                punishment received is prohibited. List RICs and LORs, including the
                                reason for them.
Academic Certification          When the student graduates or is eliminated (and retraining is
                                recommended), the instructor supervisor ensures blocks 1 through 22
                                are complete and correct; enters his or her name, grade, title, and
                                signature in block 14, and forwards the form to the MTF within 2
                                workdays.
Military Training Assessment    The responsible MTL completes blocks 23 and 24 (self-explanatory)
                                and enters comments in block 25. As a minimum, comments will
                                include military strengths and weaknesses. While it may be noted that
                                a student received punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, specific
                                comments are prohibited. Continue to list RICs and LORs, including
                                the reason for them. Forward the completed form to the flight
                                commander/chief within 2 workdays of receipt.
Commander’s Review              The flight commander/chief enters his or her name, grade, title, and
                                signature. The commander ensures the completed authenticated
                                original or an official copy of the form is delivered or electronically
                                forwarded to the registrar and a copy to the gaining unit within 3
                                workdays of receipt.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                    173


                                          *Attachment 8
 *TTMS STUDENT TRAINING REPORT AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR POPULATING
              TTMS STUDENT ADMINISTRATION FIELDS

*A8. 1. Procedures:
Training activity personnel complete

*A8.1.1. The TTMS Student Training Report for each student who enters a resident Type 2 or 3
course, except brief orientation, familiarization, or seminar courses.

*A8.1.2. A new report each time a student reenters the same course, or enters a different course
after graduation or removal.

*A8.1.3. The TTMS Student Training Report automatically includes course identification to
include block titles, measurement points, and other standard course information as well as
student background.

*A8.1.4. If a student fails a block of training but repeats it and passes; he or she will receive the
minimum-passing grade, and will under no circumstances be recognized as a DG. Enter a
minimum passing score in the block grade but precise scores for all test items (tests and retests).
The TTMS Student Training Report will show the exact test scores, but show the minimum
passing score for the block.

A8.1.5. When a student graduates or is removed from a course, maintain the TTMS Student
Training Report according to Air Force Records Disposition Schedule(RDS) on the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). For international students, send one copy
of report to the base IMSO according to AFI 16-105.
Do not use the TTMS Student Training Report to record basic military training, field or mobile
training, advanced courses, supplemental courses, and non-initial skills courses.

A8.2. Use the TTMS Student Training Report to

 A8.2.1.      Provide a record of individual student attendance and achievement.
 A8.2.2.      Provide instructors with the progress and background data of students.
 A8.2.3.      Provide data for developing and validating DG and TG selection criteria.
 A8.2.4.      Provide a source of information for studies or projects to improve training
              effectiveness.
 A8.2.5.      Serve as a means of verifying student qualifications or confirming faculty board
              recommendations for a student to enter into other training.
 A8.2.6.      Help identify individual differences of students and provide information for
              student evaluation.

Note: Flight commanders/chiefs and instructor supervisors are responsible for signing the TTMS
Student Training Report. Flight commanders/chiefs and instructor supervisors may designate
representatives to sign the report only in cases of TDY, leave, or emergency.
 174                                                        AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table A8.1. Student Entry Completion Instructions for populating TTMS Student
Administration Fields.

A8-Section            Auto   Instructions
Page 1
Student                      SSN, Last Name, First Name, Initial
Course Number
Class Id              Yes
Course Title          Yes
Course Chart          Yes
Hours
Total Student                The hours the student spends with the instructor.
Hours
Average Grade         Yes
Final Grade           Yes    Auto-populates the student reports. Instructions: The final course grade
                             automatically averages the percentage block grades or a summary grade
                             when S or U is used. Some courses require the instructor to manually
                             enter the final grade in the final event if the course does not
                             automatically average the block grades. Rationale: If the user follows the
                             instructions provided the grade will overwrite the previously calculated
                             average grade.
w/Honors              Yes    If applicable
Reason for Elim       Yes    If applicable
Elimination Date      Yes    If applicable
Original Class        Yes
Start
Current Class Start   Yes
Graduation Date       Yes
Sex                   Yes
Curr Gd               Yes
Travel Status         Yes
Command/OGA           Yes
Original Entry        Yes
Scty Clear            Yes
DOB                   Yes
Training Squadron     Yes
Current PAS           Yes
Projected PAS         Yes
Course DSN            Yes
Projected PAS         Yes
Guaranteed AFSC       Yes
Aptitude Scores       Yes
Admin                 Yes
Mech                  Yes
Gen                   Yes
Elect                 Yes
AFQT                  Yes
Education             Yes
ADP Apt               Yes
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                           175


A8-Section           Auto   Instructions
Academic                    Name, Grade, Title, and Signature – space reserved signature/electronic
Certification               signature block
Training             Yes
Squadron/Flt DSN
No.
Current Class        Yes
Number
Block No., Title,    Yes
Name of Instructor
CC Trn Hours         Yes
Stu Trn Hours        No     Enter (to the nearest quarter hour) all training conducted in a formal
                            environment, including classroom/laboratory training, SIA, supervised
                            study, supplementary study for proficiency advancement, and wash back
                            time. Do not include military training time.
PC/Test Grade        No     Progress checks are not normally entered into TTMS because they are
                            part of the teaching or learning activity. However, if performance
                            progress check is the means of measurement, enter the grades in the
                            same manner as performance tests. Students cannot receive a grade for a
                            block until all progress checks are passed. Record performance and
                            written test grades in TTMS. Performance grades may either be a
                            summary S or U or an average percentage grade. When there is more
                            than one written test in the block, the written grade is an average. TTMS
                            automatically rounds percentage grades. The instructor records each test
                            item in TTMS with scores representing exactly what the student
                            achieved including test passes, test fails, retest passes, and retest failures.
Block Grade          No     Enter the block grade. This grade is the average of percentage grades or
                            may be an S or U when percentage grades are not used. If the student
                            fails a test and retests, the block grade will be the minimum passing
                            score.
Graduation Date      No     Enter the year-month-day the student graduated from the course (for
                            example, 20050316).
Elimination Date     No     Enter the year-month-day the student was removed from the course as
                            reported on an AETC Form 125 or 125A.
Reason for           Yes
Elimination
(Disenrollment)
Transferred to       No     Using PCS orders, the instructor staff enters the complete mailing
                            address of a student’s gaining unit.
Total CC Hours       Yes
Total Student        Yes    These are the hours the student spends with the instructor.
Hours
DG/TG/N/A            No     Indicate DG or TG as applicable.
Final Grade          No     Enter the final course grade as an average of the percentage block grades
                            or a summary grade when S or U is used.
Special Individual   Yes
Assistance (SIA)
Absence Record       No     Enter the date the student was absent from class, time to the nearest
                            quarter hour of instruction missed, and block number.
Class Changes        No     Enter the class number to which the student is assigned and the date and
 176                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A8-Section      Auto   Instructions
                       reason of the class change.
*Remarks        No     The primary instructor enters remarks and his or her grade and name.
                       As a minimum, the remarks contain student academic strengths and
                       weaknesses. Standardize documentation for an Article 15, UCMJ. The
                       instructor may note that a student received an Article 15 UCMJ, but
                       specific comments as to why, and punishment received is prohibited.
                       List RICs and LORs, including the reason for them.
Academic        No     When the student graduates or is eliminated (and retraining is
Certification          recommended), the IS ensures data is entered in TTMS with his/her
                       name, grade, title, and signature and forwards the form to the MTF
                       within 2 workdays.
*Military       No     The responsible MTL completes in TTMS with comments. The first
Training               entry in the comments will be the current fitness assessment score and
Certification          whether any components were exempted or failed. If a formal fitness
                       assessment has not been administered at Tech School then record the
                       fitness assessment score from BMT. In addition, comments must
                       include military strengths and weaknesses. While it may be noted that a
                       student received punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, specific
                       comments are prohibited. List RICs and LORs, including the reason for
                       issuance. Forward the completed form to the flight commander/chief
                       within 2 workdays of receipt.
Primary         No
Instructor
Commander’s     No     The flight commander/chief enters his or her name, grade, title, and
Review                 signature. The commander ensures the completed authenticated original
                       or an official copy is hand carried or electronically forwarded to the
                       registrar and a copy to the gaining unit within 3 workdays of receipt.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                            177


                                  *Attachment 9
             *INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AETC FORM 325

Figure A9.1. Front of AETC Form 325
 178                                                        AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table A9.1. Instructions For Filling in the Front of AETC Form 325
 A9-Block Title                  Instructions
 Training Organization and       When used for contract training, list the company name and
 Location                        training address. Otherwise, list training organization and base.
 Contract No                     For contract training only, list full contract number. Multiple lines
                                 within the block are acceptable.
 Monitoring Training Wing        The training wing responsible for managing the training.
 Type of Report                  Self-explanatory.
 Start, Graduation, and Report   Self-explanatory.
 Dates
 Numbers 1 thru 24               Student tracking numbers for information on form (duplicated on
                                 the back of the form). Keep the same name with the same number
                                 throughout the form.
 Initials                        Place for the student to initial the form on the first class day to
                                 verify name, grade, and SSN.
 Name of Student                 Last, first, and middle initial (MI) in alphabetical order by last
                                 name.
 Grade                           Military or civilian grade.
 SSN                             For international students, use tracking number beginning with
                                 country code.
 Mil Status                      Military status (active duty, ANG, USA, etc.) as reflected on travel
                                 orders.
 Travel Status                   TDY, non-TDY, or PCS.
 TRQI                            (Training requester quota identifier) The training requester (AJ10,
                                 CC20, etc.) in OTA edits tables. Squadrons will ensure contract
                                 training and training conducted at other locations contain the
                                 appropriate TRQI.
 *Block Grades                   The grade the student receives for each block of instruction in a
                                 course. May be for written or practical measurements. If there is
                                 insufficient space on the front of the form, use blocks on the back,
                                 or an additional form. Note: When students fail block tests but
                                 pass retests, list the minimum passing score in the appropriate
                                 block. (Use S or U where percentage grades are not used.)
 Final Grade                     Student’s overall course grade. Average all prior course
                                 measurements and round to the nearest whole number. (Use S or U
                                 where percentage grades are not used.)
 Course Number                   Standard course number showing wing, training type, residence
                                 value, AFSC, and course series number.
 PDS Code                        A three-character alphanumeric code referenced in the PDS.
 Short Title                     Enter the full course title if it fits. Otherwise, enter an abbreviated
                                 title to identify the specific course. Multiple lines within the block
                                 are acceptable.
 *Program Crs Length             The course length (in academic days or hours) as found in ETCA,
                                 the course chart, or an authorized source listing.
 *Actual Length                  Actual number of training days or hours required to teach this
                                 particular class. For self-paced courses, enter the actual days or
                                 hours required to teach the student with the most class hours. Do
                                 not include SIA time.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                          179


 A9-Block Title                     Instructions
 Wing TM Code                       Training manager for the course which is a two-character
                                    alphanumeric value found in the OTA course area.
 Program Manager                    AETC program manager for the course. Available from OTA edit
                                    tables or from 2 AF/TTOC-P.
 Certified Accurate                 Printed name, grade, and title, signature, and date of the person who
                                    validates the report.
 Certified to OTA                   Printed name, grade, and title, signature, and date of the person who
                                    enters the data into OTA.

*Figure A9.2. Back of AETC Form 325




Note: Fill in the back of the form according to wing requirements.
Note: If using a prior completed form for a different class/course, please ensure all data is completed and
is current (make applicable date, course number, etc., changes).
 180                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                       *Attachment 10
              *FORCE GAIN INSTRUCTIONS FOR REGISTRAR OR TM

A10.1. Force Gain Completion Table (For Students Not Loaded in TTMS)

       A10.1.1. Staple a copy of student orders to this form.
       A10.1.2. Have the student verify Name, Rank and SSN from the orders for accuracy.
       A10.1.3. Have the student verify the UNIT (TDY) that sent them to training.
       A10.1.4. Forward orders and completed form to the Registrar.
       A10.1.5. Registrars complete the Force Gain action using the information provided here.

A10.2. Load the student into TTMS Student Management.
       A10.2.1. Carefully create a record in TTMS Student Management using the students SSN
       and Name (All CAPS). 100% accuracy is required.
       A10.2.2. Select the DOMAIN in TTMS Student Management for your training unit.
       A10.2.3. Using the Learning Event Recorder in TTMS Student Management:
       A10.2.3.1.NPS students need to be ZP. (MTF)
       A10.2.3.2.TDY students need to be entered into training ETE/ETF. (Schoolhouse)

*Table A10.1 Force Gain Completion Table: Registrar or TM and student work through the
following chart.
          Question / Response / Action (write down info on this form)
    1     Preliminary steps A10.1 and A10.2. may be done by MTL, I or IS, but the essential
          info in steps 2 – 7 will be done by the registrar or TM in the system.
    2     MILITARY STATUS: One letter code
          Select the appropriate status from the chart below.
    3     TRQI: Training Requestor Quota Identifier
          Active Duty AF (*Unit TRQI), ANG (CC10), AFR (RR10), *Sister Service
          * Unit TRQI can be found by using the TRQI List.
    4     CURRENT GRADE:
          Can only be selected for NON-Air Force service members.
    5     QUOTA TYPE: Two letter code
          Enlisted: AT=MRTP Funds (confirm with TM) AP                  AN (AJ30, Guard,
          Reserve)
          Officer: OT=MRTP Funds (confirm with TM) OP                   ON
          Civilian: CT=MRTP Funds (confirm with TM) CP                  CN
    6     ACTUAL TRAVEL STATUS: One number/letter code
          Select the appropriate travel status from the chart below.
          If you have questions call the Registrar.
    7     GENDER:
          Male (M) or Female (F)
          Registrar or TM completes Items 2 – 7.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                        181


      Figure A10.1. Force Gain Form in TTMS.




Military Status Codes

  A – Active AF Officer                I – Marine Civilian             R –AF Reserve Officer
  B – Active AF Enlisted               J – Army Officer                S – AF Reserve Enlisted
  C – Air Force Civilian               K – Army Enlisted               T – Foreign Civilian Student
  D – Navy Officer                     L – Army Civilian               U – Navy Civilian
  E – Navy Enlisted                    M – ANG Enlisted                Z - Other
  F – Foreign Military Student         N – ANG Officer
  G – Marine Officer                   O – Coast Guard Officer
  H – Marine Enlisted                  P – Coast Guard Enlisted

Travel Status Codes (Actual and Directed)

  0       Non USAF active duty military/civilian
  1       Temporary duty and return
  2       Permanent change of station without permanent change of assignment
  3       Permanent change of station with TDY enroute as declared
  4       Permanent change of station with permanent change of assignment
  5       Temporary duty pending further orders
  6       Permanent change of assignment without permanent change of station
  7       Permanent party attending course on base assigned
  8       TDY to consecutive training locations and return
  9       Unspecified according to AFR 35-28
  A       Temporary Duty – User funded
  B       Training in association with a PCS assignment
 182                                               AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                     Attachment 11
                        STUDENT TRAINING STATUS CODES

# Equipment (E) or Fundamentals (F) % Graduation (G) or Elimination (L) * Fundamentals
to Equipment (A) or Equipment to Fundamentals (W)
A11 - Category       Code        Explanation
SAT                  AA#         Unavailable for Entry Due to Excessive Absence (includes
                                 AWOL)
                     AC#         Unavailable for Entry Due to Confinement
                     AD#         Unavailable for Entry Due to Administrative Reasons
                     AE#         Awaiting Entry into Training
                     AL#         Unavailable for Entry Due to Leave (Ordinary/Emergency)
                     AM#         Unavailable for Entry Due to Medical Reasons
                     AS#         Unavailable for Entry Due to Awaiting Student Security
                                 Clearance
                     AX#         Unavailable for Entry Due to Other Reasons
Entry                EE#         Reentry after Elimination
                     EN#         Entry after a Transfer (System-Generated)
                     ER#         Reentry into the Same Course
                     ET#         First Entry into a Course
                     EV#         Entry from Advancement (System-Generated)
                     EW#         Entry from Wash back
Graduation           GE#         Graduated from Course
Departure Status     HA%         Departure Pending Port Call
(Final)
                     HB%         Departure Pending Joint Spouse Assignment Action
                     HC%         Departure Pending Assignment
                     HD%         Departure Pending Household Goods Shipment
                     HE%         Departure Awaiting Reclassification
                     HF%         Departure Pending Passport
                     HG%         Departure Pending Concurrent Travel
                     HH%         Departure Pending Weapons Qualification
                     HJ%         Departure After Confinement/AWOL/Deserter
                     HK%         Departure Individual Under Investigation
                     HL%         Departure Pending Security Clearance
                     HM%         Departure Pending Course/Class Start Determination n
                     HS%         Departure Pending Medical Hold
                     HT%         Departure Pending Administrative Hold
                     HU%         Departure Pending Other Actions
                     HV%         Departure Pending 39-10 Action
                     HW%         Departure Pending 39-12 Action
Departure (Final)    HX%         Departure Pending Orders
Ineffective In       IA#         Ineffective - Administrative Reasons
Training
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                    183


A11 - Category     Code   Explanation
                   IB#    Ineffective - Pending Board Action
                   IC#    Ineffective - Confinement
                   ID#    Ineffective - Awaiting Class Start (Same Course, Different
                          Class)
                   IE#    Ineffective - Awaiting Entry into Training
                   IF#    Ineffective – Academic Failure
                   IL#    Ineffective - Leave (Ordinary or Emergency)
                   IM#    Ineffective - Medical While in Training
                   IR#    Ineffective - Performance Failure (Removed Pending W/B or
                          Elim, Skill Application Reasons, Not Academic)
                   IS#    Ineffective - Security Reasons
                   IW#    Ineffective - Excessive Absences (Including AWOL)
                   IX#    Ineffective - Other While in Training
Elimination        LA#    Elimination - Academic Deficiency
                   LB#    Elimination - Manifestation of Apprehension
                   LC#    Elimination - Prejudicial Conduct
                   LD#    Elimination - Disciplinary Reasons
                   LE#    Elimination - Self-Initiated
                   LG#    Elimination – Separated
                   LI#    Elimination – Misconduct
                   LJ#    Elimination - Entry into Military Academy
                   LL#    Elimination - Training Related Death
                   LM#    Elimination - Medical Reasons
                   LP#    Elimination - Prerequisite Deficiency
                   LQ#    Elimination - Other Related Death
                   LR#    Elimination - Performance Deficiency
                   LS#    Elimination - Security Reasons
                   LT#    Elimination -Administrative Reasons (Includes Admin/Legal
                          Action, Discharge)
                   LV#    Elimination - Compassionate Reasons
                   LW#    Elimination - Excessive Absences including AWOL
                   LX#    Elimination - Other
                   LY#    Elimination – Fitness/Weight Standards
No Show            NA     Member Arrived at Location but Failed to Report for Training
                   NC     Member Arrived at Training Location, Attended a Different
                          Course, Transfer Not Allowed
Disqualification   NS     Member Reported as a No Show for Failure to Attend
                   QF#    Disqualified – Fitness/Weight Standards
                   QM#    Disqualified - Medical
                   QP#    Disqualified - Prerequisite Deficiency (General)
                   QR#    Disqualified – Returned to Unit Assigned
                   QS#    Disqualified - Security Clearance
                   QX#    Disqualified - Other
                   QZ#    Disqualified – Separation
 184                                         AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A11 - Category    Code   Explanation
Recall            RA#    Recalled By Parent Organization/Country
                  RC#    Recalled By Commander While in Training
                  RH#    Recalled By MAJCOM While in Training
                  RP#    Recalled By Parent Organization /Country While in Training
Out of Training   SA%    SOTS Pending Port Call
                  SB%    SOTS Pending Join Spouse Assignment
                  SC%    SOTS Pending Assignment
                  SD%    SOTS Pending Household Goods Shipment
                  SE%    SOTS Pending Reclassification Action
                  SF%    SOTS Pending Passport
                  SG%    SOTS Pending Concurrent Travel
                  SH%    SOTS Pending Weapons Qualification
                  SJ%    SOTS Pending Confinement/AWOL/Deserter
                  SK%    SOTS Pending Under Investigation
                  SL%    SOTS Pending Security Clearance
                  SM%    SOTS Pending Course/Class Start Determination
                  SS%    SOTS Pending Medical Hold
                  ST%    SOTS Pending Administrative Hold
                  SU%    SOTS – Other Reasons
                  SV%    SOTS Pending Involuntary Discharge Action (Enlisted)
                  SW%    SOTS Pending Involuntary Discharge Action (Officer)
                  SX%    SOTS Pending Orders
Transfer          TC#    Transfer Directed by Training Activity
                  TC*    Transfer Directed by Training Activity
                  TH#    Transfer Directed by Course Owner
                  TH*    Transfer Directed by Course Owner
Advancement       VA#    Advanced in Training Academic Reasons
                  VX#    Advanced in Training – Other Reasons
Washback          WA#    Washback – Academic Reasons
                  WA*    Washback – Academic Reasons
                  WM#    Washback - Medical Reasons
                  WM*    Washback - Medical Reasons
                  WR#    Washback – Performance Reasons

                  WT#    Washback - Admin (Excessive Absence, Admin/Legal
                         Actions, Discharge, Return from Lv)
                  WX#    Washback - Other Reasons
                  WX*    Washback - Other Reasons
In-processing     ZP     Pre-Course Entry Orientation (In-processing)
(SITS)
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                  185


                                       *Attachment 12
            *DISTRIBUTION AND EXHIBITS OF AETC FORMS 125 AND 125A

Table A12.1. Distribution of AETC Forms 125 and 125A.
Category            Action
Originals           The original is the form at the point of the authenticating signature.
                    A faxed copy of the original may serve as an official record-keeping
                    copy from geographically-separated units
                    Send the authenticated original or an official copy (GSU) to the
                    registrar.
*FSS                Send one copy to each applicable office in the FSS.
                    For RegAF officer eliminations (permanent party) send one copy along
                    with copies of all available exhibits in Table A12.2 to include a copy of
                    the AF Form 475 and AF Form 286(A) if applicable, to the appropriate
                    FSS office (within 3 duty days). The FSS in turn forwards the above
                    with the recoupment statement, Eliminee Message and any additional
                    pertinent documentation to AFPC/DPSIP as one package.
                    If the officer student is TDY or TDY enroute, send one copy along with
                    copies of all available exhibits in Table A12.2 including a copy of the
                    AF Form 475 and AF Form 286(A) if applicable directly to
                    AFPC/DPSIP.
ADAF Personnel      After a faculty board, send one copy (including a summary of the
Only                proceedings) without attachments to AFPC/DPMDOM1A, Randolph
                    AFB TX 78150.
Airmen              For airmen being withdrawn from training in AFSC 8B000, send one
Withdrawn From      copy to FSS Student Assignments.
Training
Flight Commander    Send one copy to the flight commander at the training location.
Squadron            Send one copy to the squadron commander at the student's duty
Commander           location.
ANG Students        Send one copy to: Appropriate liaison (with attachments); liaison will
                    forward to appropriate agencies representative
Reserve Students    Send one copy to:
                    HQ AFRC/A1KE, Robins AFB GA 31098.
                    Reserve liaison NCO at the training wing (with attachments).
Civilian Students   Send one copy to HQ 11 STTW/DPCPH, 1460 Air Force Pentagon,
(Federal            Washington DC 20330-5000.
Employees)
Additional Copies   Distribute to other organizations, as appropriate.
 186                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*Table A12.2. AETC Form 125 and 125A Exhibits.
Elimination       Documentation
Package
All               Original AETC Form 156 or TTMS ST Report or AETC Form 325 or
                  TTMS Student Accounting and Attendance Record.
                  Pertinent supporting documentation dependent on the reason for the
                  elimination, to include Type 6 DL recommendations if Type 6 DL
                  course.
Academic          Copy of AETC Form 173, Academic Counseling Record, discussion test
                  failures.
                  Memorandums for Record and/or letters from the student, if pertinent to
                  the reason for elimination.
Medical           As appropriate, in consultation with the legal office (copies are
                  acceptable):
                  AETC Form 582, Mental Health Evaluation of Active Duty AF
                  Personnel.
                  AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report.
                  SF Form 88, Record of Medical Examination.
                  SF Form 502, Medical Record – Narrative Summary (Clinical Resume)
                  (for medical removal from training)
                  A memo from the attending provider to the Commander including
                  prognosis.
*Disciplinary     Copy of AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling and copies of
                  other pertinent documentation supporting disciplinarian
                  initiatives/actions (e.g. LOR, Article 15, etc.).
Recall            Copy of the official recall message.
After Faculty     Copy of faculty board report
Board
Other             As directed by Registrar Section; please contact for direction.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                   187


Figure A12.1. AETC Form 125 and 125A Exhibits.
 188                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                       *Attachment 13
          *FORMAT – ELIMINATION OR RECLASSIFICATION MESSAGE

Note: AFI 36-2110 specifies the content of eliminee messages. Use this format to provide the
information and request reclassification.

MEMORANDUM FOR 2 AF/TTOC Det 1
               1550 Wurtsmith St Ste 1
                LACKLAND AFB, TX 78236-5203
FROM:

SUBJECT: Reclassification Action

1. Personal Information:
a. Grade/Name/SSAN:                              b. Joint Spouse: Yes
   AB Wright, Robert R. 000-00-0000              AFSC: 2A5X2
c. AQE test Scores:                              d. Depth Perception: Yes
M - 67 A - 34 G - 52 E - 48
e. Color Vision: Yes                             f. M-16 Score: 32
g. P 1 /U 1 /L 1 /H 2 /E 1 /S 1                  h. GTEP/AI: GTEP; 1N031
   X-Factor M/90 lbs
i. Civ. Driver Lic: Yes                          j. High School Grad (diploma/GED):
                                                 diploma
k. U.S. Citizen: Yes                             l. Speech Impediment: No
m. PRP Cert: Yes                                 n. Medical Waiver: No
o. Legal or Drug Waiver: No                      p. 398 Initiated: No
q. Fear of fires: No                             r. Fear of heights: No
s. Claustrophobia: No                            t. Fear of insects: No
u. Fear of water: No                             v. Fear of blood: No
w. Pole test: No                                 x. Fear of guns: No
y. Sec. Clearance Level: SECRET                  z. Flt Physical: No
aa. Special Processing underway for AFSC(s)?     bb. General Math: Yes
Yes; 1C4X1
cc. Algebra: Yes                                 dd. Geometry: Yes
ee. Trigonometry: No                             ff. Biology: Yes
gg. Chemistry: Yes                               hh. Physics: No
ii. Computer Operations: Yes                     jj. English Composition: Yes
2. Administrative Actions:
a. 125A Signed: _020423
b. Reclass Date: 020429
*c. Art 15: UIF: LOR: RIC:
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 189


3. Course Information:
a. Course No.: X3ABR1N031-005
b. Course Length: 110 days
c. Class Start Date: 020401
d. Elimination Date: 020422
e. First/Second Elimination (If second, state AFSC of previous):
f. Reason for Elimination: Academic Deficiency

4. Commander’s Recommendation: Approved. AB Wright struggled throughout the first block
of training; the course curriculum has proven to be too technical and difficult. However, I believe
his continued service in another career field would be most beneficial to the Air Force. He has
shown interest in the 1C4X1, and is currently being screened for the 1C4X1 career field. If he
meets the qualifications and screening for the 1C4X1 career field, recommend that he be
reclassified into this, or another related career field.

5. AFSC Preferences: 1C431, 3E032, 3E433, 2F031, 4A131, and 3E432
6. POC: SSgt Hava Goodday, DSN 555-1234, FAX Number
 190                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                          Attachment 14
FORMAT FOR MEMORANDUM TO STUDENT FACING FACULTY BOARD ACTION

MEMORANDUM FOR: (Student) (date)
SUBJECT: Faculty Board Action
FROM:
1. A faculty board will convene in (room, building number, hour, date) to evaluate all
circumstances relative to your academic deficiency and to make recommendations on your
retention or elimination, and any future training. (See Note.)

2. The following persons will be called as witnesses before the board:

3. You may call witnesses to testify on your behalf if their testimony can contribute to the
board's evaluation. If witnesses are desired, our office will notify them as to the time, date, and
place of the board.

4. Acknowledge receiving this notification by indorsement below not later than __________.
Include the grade, name, SSN, and organization of the witnesses you desire to have testify on
your behalf.

5. By signing this memorandum, you acknowledge you have been briefed, and understand your
rights in this action.




                                        (Signature of Recorder, School Secretary, or Commander)

1st Ind, (Student) (date)

TO:

1. Receipt acknowledged.

2. I desire the following witnesses to be notified on my behalf:

                                       (Signature of Student)

Note: This memorandum applies only to non-AFI 51-602 Boards.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               191


                                            Attachment 15
              SAMPLE DUTY @ PDS MEMORANDUM - INSTRUCTIONS

                                                                             ________________
                                                                                      Date

MEMORANDUM FOR                 ______________________________________________________
                               Student’s Home Unit Commander with Fax Number

FROM:          _________________________________________
                     Training Squadron Commander         FAX: (DSN) ___-____
                                                         Comm: (___) ___-____

SUBJECT: Duty at the Permanent Duty Station during the Formal School Holiday Closure

1. Your unit member in paragraph 2, below, has requested to return (at their own expense) to the
permanent duty station (PDS) to perform duty during the holiday period, ________ –_________.
If you concur, I will approve (or disapprove) the requested duty according to the information you
provide in your first indorsement below. When your member completes the duty as assigned,
please provide the second indorsement. . The PDS/CC may also provide the memorandum, with
first indorsement completed, for the TRS/CC approval. Note: Please print, stamp, or type your
Signature Block and Title beneath the signature lines. IAW AFI 36-3003, Para 6.1.3.and JFTR
U4175.

2. a. Name: _________________________________________________                _______________.

  b. Address While                                      Member’s Initials
Performing Duty @ PDS: ___________________________________________.

  c. Phone Number: ___________________________________________________________.

                                                       __________________________________
                                                       TRS Commander or Designated
                                                       Representative

1st Ind, ________________________________________                         __________________
                                                                                    Date
MEMORANDUM FOR ___________________________
                         Training Squadron Commander

1. I concur / do not concur.
 192                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010



2. Have the member report to: (if concur, otherwise leave blank)

  a. Supervisor’s Name:
_____________________________________________________________________.
  b. Duty Address:
__________________________________________________________________________.
  c. Duty Phone: ____________________. d. Report Time and Date: ________________.
                                          ____________________________________
                                          PDS Commander or Designated
                                          Representative

2nd Ind, ________________________________________                       __________________
                                                                                  Date
MEMORANDUM FOR ___________________________
                        Training Squadron Commander



Member performed duty as coordinated above.

                                                      ____________________________________
                                                      PDS Commander or Designated
                                                      Representative
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                        193


                                  Attachment 16
                    EIS COURSE CONSTRAINT WORKSHEET

Figure A16.1. Sample EIS Constraint Worksheet
 194                                                AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010




Table A16.1. EIS Instructions For Constraint Worksheet

A16.1. BLOCK TITLE         INSTRUCTIONS

AFSC                       Enter the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) as found in the
                           Enlisted Initial Skills (EIS) Program Guidance Letter (PGL) or
                           Program Requirements Document (PRD).
                           Example: Security Forces would be entered on the Constraint
                           Worksheet as "3P031."

GROUP                      Enter the training group responsible for the course.
                           Example: "37 TRG"

BASE                       Enter the training location/base responsible for the course.
                           Example: "Lackland AFB"

COURSE NUMBER              Enter the AETC-approved course number as indicated in the
                           Training Planning System (TPS).
                           Example: "L3ABR3P031 0S1B"

COURSE TITLE               Enter the AETC-approved course title as indicated in the
                           Training Planning System (TPS).
                           Example: "Security Forces Apprentice Course"

COURSE LENGTH -            Enter the number of training days.
DAYS                       Example: "72"

PROGRAMMED                 Enter the approved programmed course non-prior service (NPS)
ELIMINATION RATE           elimination rate as a decimal number.
                           Example: NPS elimination rate of eleven percent would be
                           entered as ".11" and elimination rate of zero percent would be
                           entered as ".00" on the Constraint Worksheet.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                        195


A16.1. BLOCK TITLE      INSTRUCTIONS

ADAF NPS (AJ10, AJ30,   Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the unconstrained Active
A1LP)                   Duty Air Force (ADAF) Non-prior Service (NPS) production
                        requirement for each year. If the course is the Course Of Initial
                        Entry (COIE) and not the skill-awarding course, enter the
                        number of NPS Entries required from the follow-on course on
                        the Constraint Worksheet.
                        Note: May use the Programmed Tech Training to calculate the
                        NPS Entries from skill-awarding course/production from Course
                        Of Initial Entry (COIE). Ensure that the NPS production
                        requirement is entered into the AFSC Lookup worksheet tab
                        (automatically updates on appropriate worksheet tab) and the
                        Approved Programmed Attrition Rate is entered into the
                        appropriate worksheet tab.

Elim Rate Factor        The worksheet will automatically calculate this number.

NPS Entries Required    The worksheet will automatically calculate this number.

ADAF PS(AJ1K)           Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Prior
                        Service (PS) requirement for each year.

ADAF RET (AJ1J)         Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained
                        Retrainee (RET) training requirement for each year.

Subtotal ADAF Grads     The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                        adding ADAF NPS (AJ10, AJ30, A1LP), ADAF PS, and ADAF
                        RET graduate requirements.

Subtotal ADAF Entries   The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                        adding NPS Entries Required, ADAF PS, and ADAF RET.

ANG NPS                 Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                        National Guard (ANG) Nonprior Service (NPS) requirements for
                        each year.

ANG PS                  Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                        National Guard (ANG) Prior Service (PS) requirements for each
                        year.

RES NPS                 Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                        Force Reserve (RES) Nonprior Service (NPS) requirements for
                        each year.
196                                          AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A16.1. BLOCK TITLE   INSTRUCTIONS

RES PS               Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                     Force Reserve (RES) Prior Service (PS) requirements for each
                     year.

RES IMA              Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                     Force Reserve (RES) Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)
                     requirements for each year.

RES ART              Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                     Force Reserve (RES) Air Reserve Technician (ART)
                     requirements for each year.

USA                  Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US
                     Army Active Duty (USA) requirements for each year.

AGD                  Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US
                     Army Guard (AGD) requirements for each year.

ARES                 Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US
                     Army Reserve (ARES) requirements for each year.

NAVY                 Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US
                     Navy requirements for each year.

MC                   Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US
                     Marine Corps (MC) requirements for each year.

CG                   Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained US
                     Coast Guard (CG) requirements for each year.

AFSAT (MX20)         Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained
                     International or MX20 (AFSAT) requirements for each year

OFCR                 Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Officer
                     (OFCR) requirements for each year. It is rare, but occasionally
                     we do have officer students who attend EIS pipeline training
                     courses.

AF PAQ               Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained AF
                     Palace Acquire Intern (AF PAQ) civilian training requirements
                     for each year
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              197


A16.1. BLOCK TITLE          INSTRUCTIONS

CIV                         Based on the EIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Civilian
                            (CIV) requirements for each year

Subtotal Other Entries      Worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding
                            the following:

                            Air National Guard Nonprior Service (ANG NPS)
                            Air National Guard Prior Service (ANG PS)
                            AF Reserve Nonprior Service (RES NPS)
                            AF Reserve Prior Service (RES PS)
                            AF Reserve Individual Mobilization Augmentee (RES IMA)
                            AF Reserve Air Reserve Technician (RES ART)
                            Active Duty Army (USA)
                            Army Guard (AGD)
                            Army Reserve (ARES)
                            Navy (NAVY)
                            Marine Corps (MC)
                            Coast Guard (CG)
                            Internationals (AFSAT)
                            Officers (OFCR)
                            Palace Acquire Interns (AF PAQ)
                            Civilian Employees (CIV)

(Adjusted) Subtotal Other   International (AFSAT - MX20) requirements are not
Entries                     constrained. The worksheet will automatically calculate this
                            number by subtracting International (AFSAT - MX20) from
                            Subtotal Other Entries, thereby adjusting the total to remove
                            Internationals from the constraint.
198                                                AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A16.1. BLOCK TITLE         INSTRUCTIONS

Total Entries              Worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding
                           the following entries:

                           Active Duty Air Force Nonprior Service (ADAF NPS)
                           Active Duty Air Force Prior Service (ADAF PS)
                           Active Duty Air Force Retrainees (ADAF RET)
                           Air National Guard Nonprior Service (ANG NPS)
                           Air National Guard Prior Service (ANG PS)
                           AF Reserve Nonprior Service (RES NPS)
                           AF Reserve Prior Service (RES PS)
                           AF Reserve Individual Mobilization Augmentee (RES IMA)
                           AF Reserve Air Reserve Technician (RES ART)
                           Active Duty Army (USA)
                           Army Guard (AGD)
                           Army Reserve (ARES)
                           Navy (NAVY)
                           Marine Corps (MC)
                           Coast Guard (CG)
                           Internationals (AFSAT)
                           Officers (OFCR)
                           Palace Acquire Interns (AF PAQ)
                           Civilian Employees (CIV)

(Adjusted) Total Entries   International (AFSAT - MX20) requirements are not
                           constrained. The worksheet will automatically calculate this
                           number by subtracting International (AFSAT - MX20) from
                           Total Entries, thereby adjusting the total to remove
                           Internationals from the constraint.

Max Capacity               Enter the maximum number of student entries for one FY.
                           Example: Single aircraft allows only 72 trainees to enter the
                           course each year. Enter "72" on the Constraint Worksheet.

Limiting Factors           Select "YES" or "NO" for each of the four limiting factors
(LIMFACs)                  [LIMFAC(s)] on the constraint worksheet as applicable.

Describe Constraint        Briefly describe the course constraint. Provide detailed
                           information in attached bullet background paper (BBP).
                           Address, as a minimum, each LIMFAC marked "YES."
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                 199


A16.1. BLOCK TITLE             INSTRUCTIONS

Proposed Resolution            Briefly list the steps required to remove the constraint. Provide
(Actions Required to Fix       detailed information in an attached BBP.
Constraint)

Get Well Date                  Based on actions already underway, enter the month and year
                               when the constraint will be resolved. If no resolution is in sight,
                               enter "TBD."

Remarks (Impact)               Briefly describe the impact of underproduction in this AFSC.
                               Provide detailed information in attached BBP. This information
                               will be used to justify resource requests.

Point of Contact               Enter the name, rank/grade, office symbol, and DSN phone
                               number of the Constraint Worksheet POC.

Date                           Enter the date the worksheet was last updated.

Sample BULLET BACKGROUND PAPER ON COMM-COMPUTER SYSTEMS
OPERATIONS APPRENTICE (3C0X1) CONSTRAINT
A16.1. Purpose: Explain the purpose of the BBP and identify upfront existing total capacity, as
well as the course’s constraining factor(s).
   A16.1.1. Example: The FY10 TPR is constrained at 1,769 due to lack of classroom space
   and instructors.
A16.2. Background:
   A16.2.1. Include the AFSC’s existing manning percentages, if possible. Identify if this is a
   new constraint or if it has existed for one year or more. If the constraint has existed for one
   year or more, explain what steps have been taken to unconstrain the course. If a projected
   get well date exists, include that date; if a get well date does not exist, explain why.
   A16.2.2. Example: The 3C0X1 manning is at a critical state AF wide. It is currently at
   82% of 8600 personnel required end strength. The current 3C0X1 manning level for the Air
   Force will increase to 8850 over the FYDP. With retention decreasing, the over percentage
   of 3C0X1s in the Air Force is expected to decrease. Also, the number of 3C0X1 personnel
   leaving the AF is at an all time high. To compensate for this increased turnover rate, the
   schoolhouse must increase its production of 3C0X1s over the FYDP. Currently the course is
   operating double shifts to meet the current production demands.
A16.3. INFRASTRUCTURE/FACILITIES:
   A16.3.1. Identify all issues impacting current facilities.     Additional buildings, or
   modifications to existing buildings, must be included. Include all classroom, dining hall,
   dormitory and other infrastructure issues, as needed.
 200                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


   A16.3.2. Example: To support the increased student load, an additional dormitory will be
   required. The existing dormitories are at capacity, with all rooms being double, and in some
   cases triple bunked. This dormitory will support the additional 500 NPS students projected
   through the FYDP.
A16.4. O&M/$$$$:
   A16.4.1. Identify, in detail (include number of items and associated costs), all equipment,
   furniture, contracts or other items that are required to unconstrain course. In addition, ensure
   that sufficient justification is provided for why the additional items are needed.
   A16.4.2. Example: Six additional classrooms and one instructor office have been reserved
   for 3C0X1 use by the 81 TRG. Classrooms and equipment will be available two months
   after funds are received. Breakout of equipment is as follows:

Table A16.2. Sample Breakout of Equipment
Description                   Amount          PEC      EEIC       Remarks

1 Instructor Office           $42,000.00      84731    619        Modular Furniture for 8
                                                                  Workstations
6 One-Gun Projectors          $31,800.00      84731    619
8 ESD Kits                    $2,400.00       84731    619        ESD floor mats, wrist straps
8 Tool Kits                   $640.00         84731    619        general purpose tools
1 Diagnostic Kit              $700.00         84731    619
3 1000-Ft rolls Cat 5 cable   $900.00         84731    619        Plenium Grade Cable Only
6 Projector Screens           $1,548.00       84731    619
6 4x8 Ft white boards         $3,000.00       84731    619
Description                   Amount          PEC      EEIC       Remarks
64 Classroom Tables           $29,056.00      84731    619
128 Keyboard Trays            $15,488.00      84731    619
80 Classroom Chairs           $18,400.00      84731    619
8 Work Benches                $8,000.00       84731    619
16 Work Bench Stools          $3,200.00       84731    619
6 Multimedia Podiums          $3,300.00       84731    619        Built by Trainer
                                                                  Development

619 Total                     $160,432.00

68 Pent Class PCs /software   $112,200.00     84731    637        60 Classroom/8-Instructor
40 Pentium Class PCs/no       $62,000.00      84731    637        Site license on hand for
software                                                          software
3 24-Port Cisco Switch        $7,500.00       84731    637
2 Server/software             $110,000.00     84731    637
60 NT Server licenses         $2,160.00       84731    637
1 Smart UPS                   $1,100.00       84731    637
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                201


637 Total                    $294,960.00

TOTAL                        $455,392.00
A16.5. Manpower/Personnel:
   A16.5.1. Explain the number of additional instructor(s) required to meet the training
   requirement (TPR + STR). Ensure that the timeframe of when the instructor(s) is/are
   required is included. If additional manpower (i.e. MTLS, overhead positions, etc.) is
   required, identify what type of manpower is required and why.
   A16.5.2. Example: Ten additional instructors with a RNLTD of 1 Jul 2009 are required to
   increase schoolhouse capacity and eliminate this constraint.
A16.6. ITRO Course/Other Us Government Agency Training:
   A16.6.1. Is the constrained course an ITRO course (yes/no)? If so, who is the host? If AF is
   the host, who are the ITRO participants (in MOU/MOA/ITRO agreement)?
   A16.6.2. Example: N/A to the 3C0X1 course (E3ABR3C0X1-005), as it is a basic course
   taught in residence at Keesler.
A16.7. Special Interest Items:
   A16.7.1. If there are other constraining factors or courses in the pipeline (e.g. Other US govt
   agency training course precedes or follows this course and have been unsuccessful in
   increasing the number of quotas above current requirements), state what they are. If the
   course has a high tech training elimination rate, state what it is and why it has and continues
   to be high.
   A16.7.2. Example: N/A. There are no courses preceding or following, as there is only one
   course in this pipeline. This course does not have a high elimination rate.
A16.8. Impact If Not Funded:
   A16.8.1. Must be strong, clear and concise. Explain what the impact is of not meeting the
   requested training requirements (TOT TECH) to the career field. Based on current capacity
   limitations, explain in detail total number of TPR (AD), STR (OTHERS) and TOTAL TECH
   (TPR+STR) that will be produced if constraint is not resolved (using constraint worksheet as
   guide).
   A16.8.2. Example: Unable to meet the AF requested TPR increase. Course will fall short
   of need by 198 graduates, 15 percent of production. This will drive career field manning
   levels below 80 percent. The resources identified will allow us to equip six additional
   classrooms and one instructor study. To meet the anticipated increase in students, the
   resources identified must be funded and available prior to 1 July 2009.
 202                                            AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                  Attachment 17
        OIS COURSE CONSTRAINT WORKSHEET WITH INSTRUCTIONS

Figure A17.1. Sample OIS Constraint Worksheet
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           203


Table A17.1. Instructions for Constraint Worksheet – OIS

A17.1. BLOCK TITLE        INSTRUCTIONS

AFSC                      Enter the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) as found in the Officer
                          Initial Skills (OIS) Program Guidance Letter (PGL) or Program
                          Requirements Document (PRD).
                          Example: Airfield Operations would be entered on the Constraint
                          Worksheet as "13M1."

TRAINING GROUP /          Enter the training group responsible for the course.
ORG                       Example: "37 TRG"

BASE                      Enter the training location/base responsible for the course.
                          Example: "Lackland AFB"

COURSE NUMBER             Enter the AETC-approved course number as indicated in the
                          Training Planning System (TPS).
                          Example: "E3OBR13M1 00MC"

COURSE TITLE              Enter the AETC-approved course title as indicated in the Training
                          Planning System (TPS).
                          Example: "Airfield Operations Officer"

COURSE LENGTH -           Enter the number of training days.
DAYS                      Example: "76"

ACCESSIONS                Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Active
                          Duty Air Force Total Accessions (AM10) to be trained for the fiscal
                          year via Initial Skills Training (IST). Represents commissioned
                          officers from ROTC, OTS, or USAFA attending IST; which is the
                          sum of AM10 Carryovers + OPEX + New AM10s from the PGL or
                          PRD.

CROSSFLOWS                Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Active
                          Duty Air Force Crossflow (AM11) training requirements for each
                          year (based on crossflow boards, represents officers retraining from
                          one AFSC into another).

Subtotal ADAF Grads       The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding
                          ADAF Accessions and Crossflows.
 204                                             AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A17.1. BLOCK TITLE      INSTRUCTIONS

Subtotal ADAF Entries   The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding
                        ADAF Accessions and Crossflows. For OIS, grads and entries are
                        equal, because we currently do not utilize programmed elimination
                        rates.

ANG NON-FLY             Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                        National Guard (ANG) Non-flying (CC10) AFSC training
                        requirements for each year.

ANG FLY                 Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air
                        National Guard (ANG) Flying (CNN0) AFSC training requirements
                        for each year.

RES                     Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                        Reserve Command (RES) requirements for each year.

RES IMA                 Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                        Reserve (RES) Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)
                        requirements for each year.

RES ART                 Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Air Force
                        Reserve (RES) Air Reserve Technician (ART) requirements for
                        each year.

AFSAT (MX20)            Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained
                        International or MX20 (AFSAT) requirements for each year

CRO / STO               Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained CRO / STO
                        requirements for each year. Combat Rescue Officers & Special
                        Tactics Officers are managed through their pipelines with A2LP.
                        Officers in AFSPC attend OIS courses. TRQIs used are A1S0 and
                        A2LP.

AF PAQ                  Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained AF Palace
                        Acquire Intern (AF PAQ) civilian training requirements for each
                        year

CIV                     Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the unconstrained Civilian
                        (CIV) requirements for each year
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              205


A17.1. BLOCK TITLE          INSTRUCTIONS

Subtotal Other Entries      Worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding the
                            following:

                            Air National Guard Non-Fly (ANG NON-FLY – CC10)
                            Air National Guard Fly (ANG FLY – CNN0)
                            AF Reserve Command (RES)
                            AF Reserve Individual Mobilization Augmentee (RES IMA)
                            AF Reserve Air Reserve Technician (RES ART)
                            Internationals (AFSAT)
                            Officers (OFCR)
                            Palace Acquire Interns (AF PAQ)
                            Civilian Employees (CIV)

(Adjusted) Subtotal Other   International (AFSAT - MX20) requirements are not constrained.
Entries                     The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                            subtracting International (AFSAT - MX20) from Subtotal Other
                            Entries, thereby adjusting the total to remove Internationals from
                            the constraint.

Total Entries               Worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding the
                            following entries:

                            Accessions (Total AM10)
                            Crossflows (AM11)
                            Air National Guard Non-Fly (ANG NON-FLY – CC10)
                            Air National Guard Fly (ANG FLY – CNN0)
                            AF Reserve Command (RES)
                            AF Reserve Individual Mobilization Augmentee (RES IMA)
                            AF Reserve Air Reserve Technician (RES ART)
                            Internationals (AFSAT)
                            Officers (OFCR)
                            Palace Acquire Interns (AF PAQ)
                            Civilian Employees (CIV)

(Adjusted) Total Entries    International (AFSAT - MX20) requirements are not constrained.
                            The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by
                            subtracting International (AFSAT - MX20) from Total Entries,
                            thereby adjusting the total to remove Internationals from the
                            constraint.

Max Capacity                Enter the maximum number of student entries for one FY.
                            Example: Single aircraft allows only 72 trainees to enter the
                            course each year. Enter "72" on the Constraint Worksheet.
 206                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A17.1. BLOCK TITLE         INSTRUCTIONS

Limiting Factors           Select "YES" or "NO" for each of the four limiting factors
(LIMFACs)                  [LIMFAC(s)] on the constraint worksheet as applicable.

Describe Constraint        Briefly describe the course constraint. Provide detailed information
                           in attached bullet background paper (BBP). Address, as a
                           minimum, each LIMFAC marked "YES."

Proposed Resolution        Briefly list the steps required to remove the constraint. Provide
(Actions Required to Fix   detailed information in an attached BBP.
Constraint)

Get Well Date              Based on actions already underway, enter the month and year when
                           the constraint will be resolved. If no resolution is in sight, enter
                           "TBD."

Remarks (Impact)           Briefly describe the impact of underproduction in this AFSC.
                           Provide detailed information in attached BBP. This information
                           will be used to justify resource requests.

Point of Contact           Enter the name, rank/grade, office symbol, and DSN phone number
                           of the Constraint Worksheet POC.

Date                       Enter the date the worksheet was last updated.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                             207


                                  Attachment 18
         CAPACITY ASSESSMENT WORKSHEET WITH INSTRUCTIONS

Figure A18.1. Sample Capacity Assessment Worksheet




Download spreadsheet template from 2 AF CoP
 208                                                   AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A18.1. Name file using the following format: CourseNumber_CAW_DDMmmYY.xls
Where CourseNumber is the 15 digit AETC course number. Include the date the assessment was
made and use underscores (not blanks) throughout the filename. For example, the filename
course E3ABR2E032 00AA capacity assessment performed on February 1, 2008 would be:
E3ABR2E032_00AA_CAW_01Feb08.xls

Table A18.1. Capacity Assessment Worksheet Instructions
 Block – A18.1.              Instructions                            Example / Notes
 Date                        Enter date of last update.              DD - MMM- YY
 Training Group              Enter the training group designation.   37 TRG
 Training Squadron           Enter the training squadron             344 TRS
                             designation.
 Training Location           Enter the location where the training   Lackland AFB
                             occurs as indicated in Education and
                             Training Course Announcements
                             (ETCA).
 Course Number               Enter the AETC-approved course          L3ABR1A231 048A
                             number as indicated in TPS.
 AFSC                        Enter the Air Force Specialty Code      1A231
                             (AFSC) as listed in the Air Force
                             classification directory.
 Title                       Enter the AETC-approved course          Aircraft Loadmaster
                             title as indicated in TPS.              Apprentice
 1. Total Course Length      Enter the total number of training      23
                             days required.
 2. Courses with           Enter the capacity of courses where       Entering a number in this
 Predetermined Capacity    the capacity does not need to be          block deactivates
                           calculated such as Type 5 courses or      calculations in blocks 3
                           constrained courses.                      through 7.
 3. Maximum Groups         List the maximum number of groups         Use the A, B, C, D row
 Concurrent for each shift that can be accommodated at one           or the R, S, T row but not
                           time on each shift. Limits are due to     both.
                           facilities and equipment ONLY,
                           NOT instructor shortages.
 4. Single-Shift LIMFAC Identify factors that limit the course       Equipment.
                           to utilize a single shift. Select         Classrooms.
                           Yes/No                                    Students require physical
                           Examples may include limited              conditioning as part of
                           equipment, facilities, or PT              the course – facilities are
                           requirements in the course that can       only available during
                           only be accomplished on certain           daylight hours.
                           shifts.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                209


5. Minimum Interval         Enter the minimum number of days         A 43-day course with a
                            between class starts on the same         shift limit of 5 could
                            shift. This is an optional entry to      enter classes every 9
                            address those courses where the          days. If equipment
                            interval between class starts cannot     constraints require a 10-
                            be accurately calculated by dividing     day minimum interval
                            the course length by the shift limit.    between classes (shift
                                                                     limit is still 5), use this
                                                                     block to communicate
                                                                     that limitation.
6. Maximum Number of        This value is automatically
Groups Entered per          calculated for each shift by dividing
Year for Each Shift         the number of training days per year
                            (246) by the minimum interval
                            (block 4) or the results of the shift
                            limit calculation whichever is more
                            restrictive. The value is rounded
                            down to the next whole number.
7. Program Class Size       List the Program, Maximum, and
                            Minimum class sizes. These figures
                            MUST be taken from the latest
                            approved training plan and MUST be
                            in the TPS database for the course.
8. Maximum Entries          The maximum number of students           If block 2 has an entry,
                            that can be entered into the course in   calculations are bypassed
                            a one year period (may not               and the entry in block 2
                            correspond to a fiscal year) is          is duplicated here.
                            automatically calculated by
                            multiplying the Total of Maximum
                            Number of Groups Per Year for each
                            shift by the Program Class Size
                            (block 7).
9. (A) Current Instructor   Enter the number of instructors
Authorizations              currently authorized for this course.
                            Obtain this information from the
                            local manpower office.
9. (B) Maximum Annual       Obtain this figure from the local
entries with Current        manpower office.
Instructor
Authorizations
10. TM / Rank / Office /    Enter the name, rank, office symbol
Phone                       and DSN phone number of the TM
                            responsible for the course.
210                                                     AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


11. Flight Chief / Rank /   Enter the name, rank, office symbol
Office / Phone              and DSN phone number of the Plans
                            Chief responsible for the course.
12. Squadron                Enter name of squadron commander
Commander                   responsible for the course.
13. Training Staff          Enter name and office symbol of the
Officer                     training staff officer responsible for
                            the course (AETC Representative).
                            If this course is part of a multi-course
                            pipeline, enter each course number
                            (in order) for the entire pipeline. It is
                            paramount that this entry is included
                            and up-to-date.
                            Also, if any course in the pipeline is
                            considered a ―bottleneck‖ please
Comments                    identify this in the comments as well.
                            If resources for this course are shared
                            with other courses, list those other
                            courses here.
                            Provide detailed explanation of any
                            circumstances that affect course
                            capacity, e.g., dormitory limitations,
                            sister service seats, etc.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                        211


                                   Attachment 19
         TRAINING QUOTA MOVEMENT WORKSHEET INSTRUCTIONS

Figure A19.1. Sample Quota Movement Worksheet




A19.1. Download actual worksheet from 2 AF’s Quota Management CoP.

A19.1. BLOCK TITLE           INSTRUCTIONS

REQUESTER                    Enter the requester’s name.
                             Example: SSgt Jane Doe or Mr. John Q. Smith

MAJCOM / USER                Enter the requester’s MAJCOM, MAJCOM equivalent, or
                             component branch if sister service.
                             Example: ACC, Air National Guard, or Army

DSN PHONE                    Enter the requester’s DSN telephone number.

TRQI                         Enter the Training Requester Quota Identifier (TRQI) needing
                             quota movement.

DATE OF REQUEST              Enter the date the request for quota movement is prepared and
                             sent.
212                                              AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A19.1. BLOCK TITLE         INSTRUCTIONS

PROGRAM                    In this block, depending on 3rd and 4th digit of course number,
                           mark type of course.

                           Examples:

                        1. Enlisted Initial Skills: ABR, AQR, ALR, ABP
                        2. Officer Initial Skills: OBR, OQR
                        3. MRTP: AZR, ACR, AZP, ACP, OZR, OAR

PLEASE MOVE THE            Everything in this section refers to the ―as is‖ requirements
QUOTA(S) FROM THE          distribution. Tell us in the blocks that follow about the
FOLLOWING CLASS(ES) /      course(s) / class(es) you want us to move requirements from.
COURSE(S)

COURSE NUMBER              Enter the 15-digit AETC course number for the course in
                           which quota(s) need to be changed from.
                           Example: J3ABR2A632 0A1A

CLASS ID                   Enter the 7-digit Class ID as it appears in Oracle Training
                           Administrator, where the first 4 digits represent the fiscal year
                           and the last 3 digits represent the numbers of classes in
                           sequence.
                           Example: 2008001.

CLASS START DATE           Enter the Class Start Date.

CLASS END DATE             Enter the Class End Date.

NUMBER OF QUOTAS           Enter the number of quotas that need to be changed.

QUOTA TYPE                 Enter the type of quota currently in the class.
                           Examples: AN, AP, AT, ON, OP, OT, CN, CP, CT
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                            213


A19.1. BLOCK TITLE           INSTRUCTIONS

TRAINING REQUIREMENT Enter the Training Requirement Line ID (TRLN) from Oracle
LINE ID              Training Administrator. This number links the request to the
                     requirements in OTA and indicates the priority of the training
                     seats.

PLACE THE QUOTA(S)           Everything in this section refers to the ―to be‖ requirements
FROM THE ABOVE               distribution. Tell us in the blocks that follow about the
CLASS(ES) / COURSE(S)        course(s) / class(es) you want us to move requirements into.
INTO THE FOLLOWING
CLASS(ES) / COURSE(S):

COURSE NUMBER                Enter the 15-digit AETC course number for the course in
                             which quota(s) will be changed to.
                             Example: J3ABR2A632 0A1A

CLASS ID                     Enter the 7-digit Class ID as it appears in Oracle Training
                             Administrator, where the first 4 digits represent the fiscal year
                             and the last 3 digits represent the numbers of classes in
                             sequence.
                             Example: 2008001.

CLASS START DATE             Enter the Class Start Date.

CLASS END DATE               Enter the Class End Date.

NUMBER OF QUOTAS             Enter the number of quotas that will be changed.

QUOTA TYPE                   Enter the type of quota needed.
                             Examples: AN, AP, AT, ON, OP, OT, CN, CP, CT

TRAINING REQUIREMENT Enter the Training Requirement Line ID (TRLN) from Oracle
LINE ID              Training Administrator. This number links the request to the
                     requirements in OTA and indicates the priority of the training
                     seats.

COMMENTS                     Enter any additional comments necessary to clarify the
                             request.

2 AF COORDINATION –          2 AF/TTOC-P and 2 AF/TTOC-O use this block.
APPROVED
214                                       AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A19.1. BLOCK TITLE    INSTRUCTIONS

2 AF COORDINATION –   2 AF/TTOC-P and 2 AF/TTOC-O use this block
ACTION COMPLETED

2 AF COORDINATION –   2 AF/TTOC-P uses this block.
PROGRAM MANAGER
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                            215


                                     Attachment 20
                 OUT-OF-CYCLE WORKSHEET INSTRUCTIONS

Figure A20.1. Sample Out-of-Cycle Worksheet




A20.1. Download actual worksheet from 2 AF’s Quota Management CoP

Table A20.1. Out-Of-Cycle Worksheet Instructions

A20.1. BLOCK TITLE         INSTRUCTIONS

REQUESTER                  Enter the requester’s name.
                           Example: SSgt Jane Doe or Mr. John Q. Smith

MAJCOM / USER              Enter the requester’s MAJCOM, MAJCOM equivalent, or
                           component branch if sister service.
                           Example: ACC, Air National Guard, or Army

DSN PHONE                  Enter the requester’s DSN telephone number.

TRQI                       Enter the Training Requester Quota Identifier (TRQI) needing
                           additional training quotas.

DATE OF REQUEST            Enter the date the request for quotas is prepared and sent.
216                                               AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A20.1. BLOCK TITLE      INSTRUCTIONS

PROGRAM                 In this block, depending on 3rd and 4th digit of course number,
                        mark type of course.

                        Examples:

                     1. Enlisted Initial Skills: ABR, AQR, ALR, ABP
                     2. Officer Initial Skills: OBR, OQR
                     3. MRTP: AZR, ACR, AZP, ACP, OZR, OAR

COURSE NUMBER           Enter the 15-digit AETC course number for the course in which
                        additional quotas are requested
                        Example: J3ABR2A632 0A1A

FY                      Enter the fiscal year in which additional quotas are needed.

CLASS ID                Enter the 7-digit Class ID as it appears in Oracle Training
                        Administrator, where the first 4 digits represent the fiscal year and
                        the last 3 digits represent the numbers of classes in sequence.
                        Example: 2008001.

CLASS START DATE        Enter the Class Start Date where additional training seats are
                        requested.

CLASS END DATE          Enter the Class End Date for the class session where additional
                        training seats are requested.

NUMBER OF QUOTAS        Enter the number of quotas or training seats that are needed in a
                        particular course and class.

QUOTA TYPE              Enter the type of quota needed.
                        Examples: AN, AP, AT, ON, OP, OT, CN, CP, CT
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           217


A20.1. BLOCK TITLE         INSTRUCTIONS

TRAINING            Enter the Training Requirement Line ID (TRLN) from Oracle
REQUIREMENT LINE ID Training Administrator. This number links the request to the
                    requirements in OTA and indicates the priority of the training
                    seats.

TRQI WITH UNUSED           Enter the Training Requester Quota Identifier (TRQI) that has
QUOTA                      unused quotas. The requester will have to log into Oracle Training
                           Administrator to see this information.

                           Example: The Air Force Reserve Non-prior Service (RR10)has
                           unused quotas and the Air National Guard (CC10) needs them; so
                           the ANG TRQI would review OTA for available seats and enter
                           the AFRES TRQI RR10on the worksheet.

SEATS AVAILABLE            Enter the number of seats available from the TRQI with unused
                           quotas.

COMMENTS                   Enter any additional comments necessary to clarify the request.

2 AF COORDINATION –        2 AF/TTOC-P and 2 AF/TTOC-O use this block.
APPROVED

2 AF COORDINATION –        2 AF/TTOC-P and 2 AF/TTOC-O use this block
ACTION COMPLETED

2 AF COORDINATION –        2 AF/TTOC-P uses this block.
PROGRAM MANAGER
 218                                                          AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                             Attachment 21
    CALCULATING, VALIDATING, AND APPROVING COURSE PROGRAMMED

ELIMINATION RATES
A21.1. Procedures:
   A21.1.1. AETC/A3P proposes programmed elimination rates (PERs) for the budget year and
   budget year +1 by analyzing prior and current actual elimination rates (AERs). Please note
   that PERs are only applied to Active Duty Air Force Non-prior Service (ADAF NPS)
   students in Enlisted Initial Skills courses. The analysis is based on execution year (weighted
   60%) and execution year -1 (weighted 40%) AER data from the AETC Decision Support
   System (ADSS) through 31 May of each year. For example, the proposed PERs for FY11-12
   were determined by analysis of FY08-9 PER Data through 31 May 09 and the application of
   a specific formula:
FY11-12 proposed PER = ((FY08 elim rate avg * 40%) + (FY09 to date elim rate avg * 60%)
Where courses are discontinued and replaced with new course numbers, the discontinued (or
former) course numbers' AER data are used to calculate proposed PERs where possible.
Elimination Rates are currently calculated by ADSS using the formula as follows:

                       Actual Eliminations + Disqualifications (For Completed Classes)
Elimination Rate =     ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Original Entries + (All Actual Gains) – (All Actual Losses)

Table A21.1. Elimination Rate Formula.
 Original Entries                     Actual Gains                 Actual Losses
 Initial Entries into Training        Entries from Washback        Actual Washbacks
 Entries from Elimination             Entries from Advancements    Actual Advancements
 Entries from Transfer                                             Actual Transfers
                                                                   Actual Recalls
Example: 30 Air Force NPS trainees enter Course ABR over a 12-month period with 4
eliminations. Also, during the 12-month period, Course ABR Gains 4 Air Force NPS trainees
and records 5 Air Force NPS losses. The Air Force NPS elimination rate for Course ABR is:

Air Force NPS Elimination Rate =         4       = .1379 or 13.79 percent
                                                       30+4-5

Note: Gains and losses are students that wash into (gain) or wash out of (loss) cited in the above
example.
A21.1.2. . HQ AETC/A3P will staff proposed elimination rates to 2 AF/TTOC, as well as
schoolhouses/agencies outside 2 AF (HQ AETC/A3Z/A3R, USAFSAM, Maxwell, etc.) for
validation each year.
   A21.1.3. 2 AF/TTOC will staff the proposed elimination rates to the appropriate training
   groups/schools that will validate the proposed elimination rates for completeness and
   accuracy.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                               219


    A21.1.4. Training groups/schools will review proposed programmed elimination rates, and
    may request adjustments. Requests to adjust proposed elimination rates will be accompanied
    with a justification describing the rationale behind each suggested change. They will
    electronically return the validated data to HQ AETC/A3P.
    A21.1.5. 2 AF is responsible for approving the elimination rates for schoolhouses under their
    purview, and forwarding them to HQ AETC/A3P for inclusion in the PTT. For schoolhouses
    outside 2 AF, HQ AETC/A3P is responsible for approving the elimination rates and
    forwarding them to schoolhouses each year.
    A21.1.6. HQ AETC/A3P will ensure the approved programmed elimination rates are
    updated in the PTT and TPS.

Table A21.2. Summary of PER Responsibilities.
     OPR                    Action
1    HQ AETC/A3PZ           Provides 2AF/Maxwell/HQ AETC A3F/A3R and the
                            United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
                            (USAFSAM) with recommended PERs
2    NAF/Wings/Schoolhouses Review historical elimination rates
3    Schoolhouses           Where PRP eliminations occur, ensure PERs account for
                            such eliminations
4    Schoolhouses           Consolidate PER recommendations/updates and forward to
                            2 AF/TTOC or directly to HQ AETC/A3PZ for non-2 AF
                            schoolhouses
5    2 AF/TTOC              For courses under 2 AF, reviews proposed PERs and
                            forwards approved PERs to HQ AETC/A3PZ
6    HQ AETC/A3P            Approves outyear PERs not under 2 AF purview.
7    HQ AETC/A3PZ           Applies approved rates to the PTT
8    HQ AETC/A3PZ           Updates TPS with approved PERs

Table A21.3. TM Responsibilities after PERs Approved and Posted.
    Action      Object
1   Validate    Consistent use of approved rates in the PTT and TPS
2   Notify      HQ AETC/A3P through 2 AF/TTOC of noted deviations
3   Apply       Approved PER for any revised course that supersedes an existing course
4   Request     New PER when adding a course, one that does not supersede an existing
                course. Forward the request through 2 AF/TTOC for approval. (Exception:
                CPD/Brooks forwards to HQ AETC/A3PZ.) Execution year approval is
                dependent on availability of resources to support the request
220                                                      AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


  Note: When AFSCs are merging or course(s) are being superseded, base PERs on historical
elimination data, to include relevant data from similar courses with like subject matter difficulty
                              and similar target population aptitudes.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                             221


                                       Attachment 22
USING PROGRAMMED ELIMINATION RATES TO DETERMINE THE NUMBER OF
          ENTRIES FOR EACH COURSE IN THE AFSC PIPELINE

A22.1. Procedures:
   A22.1.1. NPS Only. This process begins with the 3-level awarding course, and works back
   through the pipeline to BMT.
      A22.1.1.1. Take the TPR and calculate the number of entries for the 3-level awarding
      course using the following formula. Round up the result:
                         CE = NPSa/(1-PER)
       CE - Course Entries
       NPSa–Nonprior service TPR contributing to the overall AFSC TPR
       PER - Approved Course Programmed Elimination Rate for NPS student resource
       category
       Example: Given TPR for NPS 75 and elimination rate is 21%.
                CE = 75/(1-.21)
                CE = 75/.79
                CE = 94.936 or 95 after rounding up to next whole number

       So for the purposes of schedule planning and development and resource programming,
       95 NPS entries are required in order to achieve a 75 NPS graduates.
      A22.1.1.2. If there is a course preceding the 3-level awarding course, the number of NPS
      graduates is equal to the number of entries in the 3-level awarding course. Take the
      number of NPS 3-level course entries, and calculate the number of prerequisite course
      entries using the following formula. Round up the result:
                      CE = NPSb/(1-PER)
        CE - Course Entries
        NPSb – Non-Prior Service 3-level course entries
        PER - Approved Course Program Elimination Rate for NPS
        Example: Given your calculated NPS 3-level course entries is 95, and known
        elimination rate is 3%.
                  CE = 95/(1-.3)
                  CE = 95/97
                  CE = 97.938 or 98 after rounding up to next whole number
       So for the purposes of schedule planning and development, and resource programming,
       98 NPS entries are required in the prerequisite course to achieve a 95 NPS entries into
       the 3-level awarding course, enabling a production goal of 75 NPS 3-level graduates.
       See Figure A16.1.
 222                                                 AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


Figure A22.1. Flow Diagram.




       A22.1.1.3. If there are additional courses in the AFSC pipeline, continue the process
       until all course entries have been determined.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                      223


                             Attachment 23
              COURSE CONSTRAINT PROCESS FLOWCHART
 224                                          AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                  Attachment 24
   ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTOR REQUIREMENTS WORKSHEET (AIRW) WITH
                      INSTRUCTIONS FOR EIS

Figure A24.1. Sample AIRW (EIS)
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                225




Table A24.1. Instructions for Completing an Estimated AIRW

A24.1. BLOCK TITLE           INSTRUCTIONS

Course Name                  Enter the AETC-approved course title as indicated in the Training
                             Planning System (TPS).
                             Example: "Security Forces Apprentice Course"

Course Number                Enter the AETC-approved course number as indicated in TPS.
                             Example: "L3ABR3P031 0S1B"

AFSC                         Enter the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) as found in the Enlisted
                             Initial Skills (EIS) Program Guidance Letter (PGL) numbers.
                             Example: Security Forces Apprentice would be entered as
                             "3P031."

AFSC Title                   Enter the AFSC Title.

Tng Days                     Enter the total number of training days in the course number
                             identified.

Total Number of Courses in Enter the total number of courses in the AFSC pipeline.
Pipeline

Which Course in Pipeline     Select the number that course represents in the pipeline sequence.
(Sequence)?                  Example: Combat Control Apprentice is the sixth course in the
                             pipeline; therefore 6 would be selected.

ADAF NPS                     Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the Nonprior Service (NPS)
                             requirement. If the course is not the skill-awarding course, enter the
                             number of NPS entries required from the follow-on course.

Programmed Elimination       Enter the approved programmed course NPS elimination rate from
Rate                         the Programmed Tech Training (PTT) document as a decimal
                             number.
                             Example: NPS elimination rate of two percent would be entered as
                             ―.02‖ and elimination rate of zero percent would be entered as ―.00‖.

Total NPS Entries            The worksheet will automatically calculate this number.

ADAF RET                     Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the Retrainee (RET)
                             requirement.
  226                                               AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A24.1. BLOCK TITLE        INSTRUCTIONS

ADAF PS                   Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the Prior Service (PS)
                          requirement.

Total ADAF Entries        The worksheet will automatically calculate this number.

Other STR                 Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the sum of all Other Student
                          Training Requirements (i.e. ANG, AFRC, USA, AGD, ARES,
                          Navy, MC, OTH, MX20/Internationals). STR includes all other
                          categories of training users except for Active Duty AF (NPS, PS,
                          RET).

Total Tech Entries        The worksheet will automatically calculate this number.

ITRO Course?              Select Yes or No.

Army Entries              Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the Army entries.

Navy Entries              Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the Navy entries.

Marine Entries            Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the Marine entries.

Coast Guard Entries       Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the Coast Guard entries.

International Entries     Based on the EIS PGL document, enter the International (AFSAT-
                          MX20) entries.

TRG Representative        The TRG Representative will indorse the worksheet upon review of
Endorsement               the data and resulting calculations. Then, the TRG Representative
                          will provide the worksheet to the appropriate TPM to be hand
                          carried to AETC/A1MRT.

Estimated Number of       AETC/A1MRT calculates estimated number of instructors
Instructors Required      authorized for this course based on EIS PGL document numbers.

Less Number of Civilian   AETC/A1MRT determines number of civilian instructors currently
Instructors Currently     authorized for course.
Authorized

Less Number of Military   AETC/A1MRT determines number of military instructors currently
Instructors Currently     authorized for course.
Authorized
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                        227


A24.1. BLOCK TITLE     INSTRUCTIONS

Additional Number of   AETC/A1MRT calculates estimated number of military instructors
Military Instructors   required.
Required
                       Example:
                          Estimated number of instructors required
                       - Number of civilian instructors currently authorized
                       - Number of military instructors currently authorized
                       = Additional number of military instructors required.

Number of Additional   Based on the estimated number of additional military instructors
Instructors by Rank    required, AETC/A1MRT determines the number by rank.

HQ AETC/A1MRT          AETC/A1MRT will endorse/sign and date the worksheet upon
Endorsement            completion of calculations.

AETC/A3T TPM           The training pipeline manager (TPM) will endorse the worksheet
Endorsement            upon review of the data and resulting calculations. Then, the TPM
                       will hand carry the worksheet to AETC/A3PZ.
 228                                            AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                    Attachment 25
  ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTORS REQUIREMENTS WORKSHEET (AIRW) WITH
                     INSTRUCTIONS FOR OIS

Figure A25.1. Sample AIRW for OIS
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                              229


Table A25.1. Instructions for Estimated AIRW (OIS)

A25.1. BLOCK TITLE             INSTRUCTIONS

Course Name                    Enter the AETC-approved course title as indicated in the Training Planning
                               System (TPS).
                               Example: "Airfield Operations Officer"

Course Number                  Enter the AETC-approved course number as indicated in the Training Planning
                               System (TPS).
                               Example: "E3OBR13M1 00MC"

AFSC                           Enter the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) as found in the Officer Initial Skills
                               (OIS) Program Guidance Letter (PGL) or Program Requirements Document
                               (PRD).
                               Example: Airfield Operations would be entered on the Constraint Worksheet as
                               "13M1."

AFSC Title                     Enter the AFSC Title.

Tng Days                       Enter the total number of training days in the course number identified.

Total Number of Courses in     Enter the total number of courses in the AFSC pipeline.
Pipeline

Which Course in Pipeline       Select the number the course represents in the pipeline sequence.
(Sequence)?

ACCESSIONS                     Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter the Active Duty Air Force (ADAF) Total
                               Accessions (AM10) to be trained for the fiscal year via Initial Skills Training
                               (IST). Represents commissioned officers from ROTC, OTS, or USAFA attending
                               IST; which is the sum of AM10 Carryovers + OPEX + New AM10s from the PGL
                               or PRD.

Programmed Elimination Rate    Unlike Enlisted Initial Skills, we do not currently use programmed elimination
                               rates for OIS.
                               Example: An elimination rate of zero percent would be entered as ―.00‖.

Total NPS Entries              The worksheet will automatically calculate this number. For OIS, grads and
                               entries are equal, because we currently do not utilize programmed elimination
                               rates.

CROSSFLOWS                     Based on the OIS PGL or PRD, enter Active Duty Air Force Crossflow (AM11)
                               training requirement (based on crossflow boards, represents officers retraining
                               from one AFSC into another).

Total ADAF Entries             The worksheet will automatically calculate this number by adding Accessions and
                               Crossflows.
  230                                                            AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


A25.1. BLOCK TITLE                INSTRUCTIONS

Other STR                         Based on the OIS PGL document, enter the sum of all Other Student Training
                                  Requirements (i.e. ANG Fly, ANG Non-Fly, AFRC, RES ART, RES IMA,
                                  CRO/STO, AFSAT, CIV, AF PAQ). STR includes all other categories of
                                  training users except for Active Duty AF (Accessions and Crossflows).

Total Tech Entries                The worksheet will automatically calculate this number.

ITRO Course?                      Select Yes or No.

Army Entries                      Not used. Army students do not typically attend OIS pipeline courses.

Navy Entries                      Not used. Navy students do not typically attend OIS pipeline courses.

Marine Entries                    Not used. Marine students do not typically attend OIS pipeline courses.

Coast Guard Entries               Not used. Coast Guard students do not typically attend OIS pipeline courses.

International Entries             Based on the OIS PGL document, enter the International (AFSAT-MX20) entries.

TRG Representative                The TRG Representative will indorse the worksheet upon review of the data and
Endorsement                       resulting calculations. Then, the TRG Representative will provide the worksheet
                                  to the appropriate TPM to be hand carried to AETC/A1MRT.

Estimated Number of Instructors AETC/A1MRT calculates estimated number of instructors authorized for this
Required                        course based on OIS PGL document numbers.

Less Number of Civilian          AETC/A1MRT determines number of civilian instructors currently authorized for
Instructors Currently Authorized course.

Less Number of Military          AETC/A1MRT determines number of military instructors currently authorized for
Instructors Currently Authorized course.

Additional Number of Military     AETC/A1MRT calculates estimated number of military instructors required.
Instructors Required
                                  Example:
                                     Estimated number of instructors required
                                  - Number of civilian instructors currently authorized
                                  - Number of military instructors currently authorized
                                  = Additional number of military instructors required.

Number of Additional              Based on the estimated number of additional military instructors required,
Instructors by Rank               AETC/A1MRT determines the number by rank.

HQ AETC/A1MRT Endorsement AETC/A1MRT will endorse/sign and date the worksheet upon completion of
                          calculations.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                        231


A25.1. BLOCK TITLE         INSTRUCTIONS

AETC/A3T TPM Endorsement   The training pipeline manager (TPM) will endorse the worksheet upon review of
                           the data and resulting calculations. Then, the TPM will hand carry the worksheet
                           to AETC/A3PZ.
 232                                                  AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 26
               INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AETC FORM 179A

    Figure A26.1. Sample AETC Form 179A, Delete, Change, Add a class.




INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AETC FORM 179A

*A26.1. Course Conversion. When HQ AETC/A3T (HQ AETC/SGU for medical) certifies a
new or changed course, HQ AETC/A3T notifies TRW/MO, HQ AETC/A1MRT (activates the
course in TPS), the training manager, and 2 AF/TTOC-P. Once the Course Training Plan (CTP)
is certified and the course has been activated in TPS, TTMS Course Design and Development,
and TTMS Student Management, the TM will submit an AETC 179A to the PM to convert the
course.

*A26.2. Ensure Total TPR is Maintained. Addition of allocations scheduled in the new course
and the old course together must be total of what was scheduled in the old course prior to the
course conversion.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                              233


*A26.2.1. Coordinate initial skill courses with AJ10, AJ30, AJ1J, AJ3J, AJ1K, and others as
applicable. If the training manager has coordinated this change with them, ensure it is
documented on AETC Form 179A, block 16. Changes can be made if TPR is maintained (TPR
increases/decreases can only be authorized by Air Staff via a PGL change).

*A26.2.2. Coordinate officer initial skill with AM10/AM11 TRQI Managers (AFPC officer
accessions). If the training manager has already done this, make sure block 16, AETC Form
179A is annotated.

*A26.2.3. Coordinate 7-level courses through AFPC, ANG, and AFRC. If the training manager
has already done this, ensure AETC Form 179A, block 16, is annotated.

*A26.2.4. Coordinate supplemental courses with all TRQIs involved IAW Chapter 2 of this
instruction. Annotate coordination done by the training manager in block 16.

*Figure A26.2. Sample AETC Form 179A, Delete or Move a quota.
    234                                                    AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


*A26.3. Instructions for Completing AETC Form 179A. See Figure A26.1, A26.2 and Table
A26.1.

*Table A26.1. AETC Form 179A Instructions.
A26-Block No   Instructions
1              Training Manager: Type or print name of group TM completing the form. Include TM
               code and telephone number.
2              Date: Enter the date the form is prepared. (YYYYMMDD).
3              Wing Course Identification Number: Enter the course ID (e.g., L3ABR2S031 005). Use
               only one course ID per AETC Form 179A.
4              PDS Code: Enter PDS code of wing course identification number.
5              Course Title: Enter course title as stated in TPS or from approved AETC Form 179 as
               applicable.
6              Length (Academic Days): Enter the course length in academic days.
7              A-Add, C-Change, D-Delete: Indicate whether you want to add, change, or delete a class
               or quota. When adding or deleting a quota from an existing class, show the resulting
               TRQI total in the remarks block. (Block 16).
               Add: Use ―A‖ when adding a new class to the schedule. (Adding a quota allocation is
               not adding a class.)
               Change: Use ―C‖ when changing CSD/CGD. Use ―C‖ when adding/changing/deleting
               allocations in an existing class. Use ―C‖ when deleting currently scheduled quota
               allocations.
                Delete: Use ―D‖ when deleting a currently scheduled class.
8              Class Start Date: Enter the CSD for the class/allocations being added, changed, or
               deleted.
9              CGD: Enter the graduation date for class needed (for example, 950224) with graduation
               date for the class/allocations being added, changed or deleted (e.g., 001004).
10             Requester Quota ID and Line Number: Enter TRQI of allocations being added, changed,
               or deleted. Do not fill in line numbers. When changing allocations, add in parentheses
               an equation showing the current number of all allocations for the TRQI and quota type,
               the change requested, and the final total. For example, if TPS has 10 AJ1J and the goal
               is to add 3 AJ1J, the form should indicate, ―AJ1J (10 + 3 = 13).‖ If TPS has 5 AJ10 and
               the goal is to add 5 AJ10, the form should indicate ―AJ10 (5 + 5 = 10).‖
11             TDY – Off, Amn, Civ: For each TRQI, enter the final allocation to be stored in TPS by
               funded quota type. Note: TDY is defined as Air Force-funded through Mission
               Readiness Training Program (MRTP) or AETC/SG.
12             Non-TDY – Off, Amn, Civ: For each TRQI enter the final allocation to be stored in TPS
               by non-funded quota type. Note: Non-TDY is defined as funded by the PCS fund (most
               pipeline students), MAJCOM, or unfunded meaning no funds are expended to send the
               student to training.
13             Replaces class (if applicable): This block will be used when changing the CSD and/or
               CGD to another, or when changing the class location to another. For example, use block
               13 if original CSD was 02 Oct, and you need to change the CSD to 02 Nov, thus enter
               the old CSD of 02 Oct in block 13, and enter new CSD of 02 Nov in block 8, and
               appropriate grad date in block 9. Also use block 13 if original class starts at one base,
               but if changing location, enter the new location in block 14.
14             Location (base, post, station, city, hotel, contractor’s facility, etc.): This block is
               normally not used. EXEPTIONS: Use to document a changed training location, or in
               cases of MTT or FTD courses, always specify location. A MTT or FTD class may have
               several locations with the same CSD.
AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                      235


A26-Block No   Instructions
15             Reporting Instructions: Self-explanatory.
16             Special Reporting Instructions/Remarks: Enter special reporting instructions (limited to
               470 characters), if any, such as special security requirements for access to a facility or
               course material, prerequisite, or follow-on training courses. For Type 1 training, include
               detailed location (building and room), availability or nonavailability of government
               facilities, recommendation for rental car when required (one car for every five students),
               etc. Annotate any coordination completed by the training manager. If form is initiated
               within 30 days of CSD, the training manager must notify all TRQIs involved. Record
               the notification in this block.
17             Course Remarks: This block is normally not used. However, if used, limit course
               remarks to 300 characters. (For information only—does not flow to users.)
18             RFPP No/Cost Per Class Student: This block is normally not used. EXCEPTION: For a
               Type 1 course, enter the request for purchase package number, cost per class, and cost
               per student. When AETC provides tuition or training fee for a Type 5 course, enter the
               cost in this block.
19             Approval Signature, Grade, and Office Symbol: Approval by HQ AETC or wing
               (signature and office symbol). Individuals with an assigned TM code may approve
               AETC Form 179A. If form is to be faxed, sign block 19. If form is to be e-mailed, type
               appropriate information in Block 19 in lieu of signature. Forward a copy of the form to
               the registrars.
 236                                                                AETCI 36-2215 9 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                                 *Attachment 27

         SISTER SERVICE COURSE STUDENT ENROLLMENT INFORMATION

*Table A27.1. Sister Service Course Student Enrollment Information

                             Sister Service Course Student Enrollment Information

It is the responsibility of the sending MAJCOM TRQI Manager to ensure that the necessary
prerequisites are met; arriving students who do not meet such prerequisites will not be allowed to
participate in the course and will be returned to their home station.
AETC Course Number

AETC Course Title
Sister Service Course
Number
Sister Service Course Title

Class Start Date

Name

Rank/Grade

SSAN

Gender

TRQI

Student Mailing Address
(include street/city/state/zip
code)
Duty Title

Security Clearance

Series/Grade (if civilian)

Student E-mail Address
The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected under the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended. Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION may result
in criminal and/or civil penalties.
As of 20110914
