BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AETC INSTRUCTION 10-401
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                           13 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                 325 FW Plans

                                                                    PLANS AND PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the Air Force Base E-Publishing
               site located at https://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 325 FW/XPO                                                        Certified by: 325 FW/XP
                                                                              (Lt Col Campbell)
Supersedes:   TAFBI 10-401,                                                            Pages: 56
              01 November 2006


The purpose of this supplement is to establish policy and procedures unique for the 325FW
Tyndall Air Force Base. Many of our plans are designed to deal with contingencies such as war
or disaster. We hope these events do not occur, but we must be prepared and able to rely on our
contingency plans to guide us through necessary actions during these situations. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Management System (RDS) located in Air
Force Management System(AFRIMS) on the Air Force Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is new and must be completely reviewed.1. REFERENCES: AETCI 10-401
“Contingency Plans Management”
2.3.2.1. Group Commanders, Squadron Commanders, and Commanders of associate units and
Contractor Program Managers have overall responsibility for maintaining all required plans and
carrying out tasks outlined for their respective organizations.
           2.3.2.2. Review all locally written plans for the first draft and prior to final
           publication and distribution.
       2.3.3.1.     Coordinate and delegate responsibilities for preparation of functional area
       inputs with OPR for a plan. The OPR is determined by the source document requiring the
2                                    AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


    plan or by the Wing Commander if no other guidance indicates the OPR. Normally, the
    base OPR will be functionally aligned with the HQ AETC OPR.
       2.3.4.1. All Group Commanders, Squadron Commanders and Contractor Program
       Managers will appoint an officer, NCO, Airman or civilian equivalent that is
       thoroughly familiar with the unit's operations to serve as its functional area plans
       representative; a SECRET clearance is required. Commanders and Contractor
       Program Managers should consider 1 year retainability as a minimum when
       appointing new unit plans representatives. Within 10 days of appointment, forward a
       memorandum of appointment to 325 FW/XPO using the format in Atch 1.
       2.3.4.2. Newly assigned unit plans representatives will be trained within 30 days of
       appointment.
       2.3.5.1. Establish an effective biennial (or other in certain cases) base plans review
       program. Review dates are listed in the 325 FW Index and Summary of Plans.
    2.3.6. 1 Conduct staff assistance visits (SAVs) at least annually, or upon request from
    the units possessing contingency plans requirements. Provide a proposed SAV schedule
    for the entire calendar year to all appropriate agencies.
       2.3.7.1. Ensure plans self-inspections (Atch 28) are accomplished in May or
       November of each year during the semi-annual Wing self inspection program for 325
       FW assigned units. Tenant units will accomplish the self inspection 30 days prior to
       their scheduled SAV and forward results to 325 FW/XPO along with any problem
       areas.
       2.3.8.1. Establish a Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG) comprised of plans
       representatives from functional areas and associate units with plans support
       requirements. The WPWG will be formed as needed to complete or revise plans. As
       a minimum, the WPWG will:
           2.3.8.1.1. Integrate the efforts of all base-level planning representatives.
           2.3.8.1.2. Review and approve base contingency or wartime plans.
           2.3.8.1.3. Identify the primary base wartime missions and the available resources
           required to support the base’s wartime commitment.
           2.3.8.1.4. Determine reception tasks and responsibilities.
           2.3.8.1.5. Identify tenant involvement.
           2.3.8.1.6. Identify limiting factors (LIMFACs) and shortfalls on taskings.
           2.3.8.1.7. Ensure that functional areas with mobility positions are provided
           applicable information from the AETC War and Mobilization Plan (WMP) III and
           time-phased force deployment data (TPFDD) addendum.
       2.3.10.1. Review current listing of AETC War and Contingency Plans Listing to
       ensure base compliance with plans requirements.
       2.3.11.1. Ensure proper distribution of base plans to tasked organizations, AETC
       AOS/AOX and 19AF/DOR.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                    3


           2.3.12.1.1. Manage Wing key supervisor briefing program to include:
           2.3.12.2.1. Initial briefings for Wing key supervisors within 60 days of assuming
           their new position on all Higher Headquarters plans tasking the wing as well as
           base-level contingency plans.       The Wing Commander designates wing key
           supervisors. Refresher briefings on plans for designated key personnel will be
           conducted annually.
           2.3.12.2.2. Change and update briefings on plans as required.
           2.3.12.2.3. Document all briefings.
        2.3.13.1. Develop this plans program instruction, outlining specific information
        essential to the continuity of plans responsibilities IAW AFI 10-401 Air Force
        Operations Planning and AETCI 10-401 Contingency Plans Management.
        2.3.14.1. Prepare an index of all Wing plans on a semiannual or as needed basis and
        a summary on an annual basis and forward it to AETC AOS/AOX, 19AF/DOR and all
        affected Wing organizations.
     2.4.1. Group/Squadron/Contractor Plans Representatives Responsibilities
        2.4.1.1. Will have a Secret clearance and one year retainability as a minimum. Will
        be a member of the installation Plans Working Group (WPWG), when required.
        2.4.2.1. Forward names of new key supervisors within the group to the Wing Plans
        Office, 325 FW/XPO. Key supervisors at the group level will include the group and
        deputy group commanders.
        2.4.3.1. Develop plans, annexes, appendices, etc., for which your agency is
        designated OPR. Notify the Wing Plans Officer if you intend to produce or change a
        Wing Plan. The first draft and a fully coordinated final draft will be submitted to 325
        FW/XPO for review, coordination and approval prior to publication.
        2.4.4.1. Provide initial briefings to group key supervisors on all plans and changes
        that affect their specific functional area within 60 days of assignment. Give
        additional briefings as required to cover new plans or changes. Document all
        briefings.
        2.4.5.1. Ensure adequate instructions, checklists, etc., are developed to implement
        plans under which the unit is tasked. See paragraph 16 of this instruction concerning
        defense condition (DEFCON) checklist preparation.
        2.4.6.1. Notify the Wing Plans Officer when a Higher Headquarters directive or plan
        creates a requirement to develop, delete or change a Wing plan. Specify required
        Wing actions by memo to the Wing Plans Officer. Monitor and document all actions
        through appropriate suspense and follow-up actions. Participate in unit SAVs with
        the Wing Plans Officer. The primary plans representative should be present.
        2.4.7.1. The plans self-inspection (Atch 28) will be accomplished in May or
        November of each year during the semi-annual Wing self inspection program for 325
        FW assigned units. For Tenant units, accomplish the self inspection 30 days prior to
        their scheduled SAV and forward results to 325 FW/XPO along with any problem
        areas.
 4                                      AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


       2.4.8. Prepare a briefing outlining each plan you are OPR for and present it to the Wing
       key supervisors as needed. Briefing dates will be determined through coordination
       between the Wing Command Section, Wing Plans Officer and plan OPRs.
       2.4.9. When a unit plans representative within the group is replaced, ensure a new
       memorandum of appointment is forwarded to 325 FW/XPO within 10 days. A primary
       and an alternate with one year retainability must be appointed. Normally, only the
       primary representative will be trained by the Wing Plans Officer.
       2.4.10. Review all plans and group supplements to the checklists, maintained at the 325
       FW Crisis Action Team, Group Control Centers and Unit Control Centers for currency
       semiannually. Use dates on all checklists to reflect currency. Coordinate with group
       commanders to create or change group specific checklists.
       2.4.12. Conduct a biennial review (or other in certain cases) of all plans maintained by
       your unit IAW the specific plan.
       2.4.13. Develop and maintain a Group Plans Continuity Book IAW format in paragraph
       6.6.
       2.4.14. Ensure unit has appropriate Wing plans on file and that they are current IAW the
       325th Fighter Wing Index of Plans. Maintain plans IAW plans administration guidance
       in paragraph 6. All plans on hand that are not required will be returned to the appropriate
       OPR or, with the approval of the OPR, properly destroyed.
           2.4.14.1. Use DD Form 2861, Cross-Reference Sheet, or a blank sheet of paper with
           all pertinent information on it to show where additional copies of a particular plan are
           located. Ensure that the form is kept current with revisions or replacement of plans.
       2.4.15. Ensure "Required Plans Memorandum" is current, send inputs to 325 FW/XPO.
       XPO will coordinate on this to ensure currency and correct distribution and send any
       changes back to unit. See attachment 4.
       2.4.16. Newly appointed plans representatives will review all plans that task the unit
       within 30 days of appointment. Document the initial review in the plan. (Extra copies of
       a plan may have the statement "Review documentation of this plan is maintained in the
       master copy located in _________." (Regardless of where plan documentation is listed,
       the Group Plans Officer is responsible for the currency of plans in the unit.)
5. Plan Organization: All plans should include these elements in the order listed, unless
specified otherwise in higher headquarters directives. Supporting plans are written in the format
of the originating plan or as prescribed in Higher Headquarters directives. The number and/or
title of the wing plan should coincide with the number and/or title of the HQ USAF or AETC
plans they support or as specified by higher headquarters directive. When developing OPlans
and ConPlans, use the format in this instruction and AETCI 10-401. Use these references as
guides for all other plans if no other guidance is directed. Annex designations will be followed
to the maximum extent possible. However, annexes may be realigned as necessary to comply
with Air Force instructions and directives. If annexes deviate from the designation outlined in
this instruction, a statement will be added to the "Memorandum of Transmittal" identifying the
instruction or directive requiring the changed format (Atch 10 thru 21). All deviations will be
approved by 325 FW/XPO.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                      5


     5.3.1. Plan Covers. The cover must show the date of the plan, overall classification,
     issuing headquarters, short title, long title and OPR . All plan covers will be formatted as
     per examples in Atch 10. Unclassified plans will have a white cover and classified plans
     will have a red cover. Any deviation from this must be approved through325 FW/XPO.
     5.3.2. Letter of Transmittal. Identify the reason for preparing the plan. Identify plan
     content and any requirement to create supporting plans. List any instructions or directives
     requiring deviation from the annex designation and the OPR for the plan. Disposition
     instructions must be included when the plan supersedes a previous plan (Atch 11). The
     Letter of Transmittal is signed by the Wing Plans Officer.
        5.3.3.1. Security Instructions /Record of Changes/Record of Review
        Page. Security instructions must include the long and short titles of the plan and must
        be the first page following the memorandum of transmittal. State the classification of
        the plan and any reproduction limitations. A statement of OPSEC/COMSEC
        consideration and a determination of applicability or inapplicability will be annotated.
        (NOTE: If applicable, OPSEC requires an Annex L to be developed.) Record of
        changes for the plan should be included on the same page as the security instructions
        or may be a separate page published on the back of the security instructions (Atch
        13).
     5.3.4. Classification Guidance. The classification guidance page lists subjects requiring
     protection (e.g. operational code words, concept of operations, etc.), if any, and the time
     period during which the protection is required (e.g. planning phase, execution phase,
     poet-event phase.)
     5.3.5. Plan Summary. The plan summary is used for all plans. It provides a brief
     review of the mission, general situation, concept of operations and commander's appraisal
     of the logistics and transportation feasibility of the plan (Atch 14).
        5.3.6.1. The table of contents will include all elements of the plan to include those
        that are published separately (Atch 15).
     5.3.7. Basic Plan. The basic plan consists of five main paragraphs shown in Atch 16.
     Additional paragraphs may be included to fit particular requirements of the plan. List
     each task assigned to each element of the command in separate subparagraphs. The basic
     plan will be signed by the wing commander.
        5.3.8.1. Annexes. Annexes (Atch 17-19) contain detailed information for a specific
        organization or subject. Annexes used for the plan will be listed on the final page of
        the basic plan. Other attachments (appendices, tabs, etc.) are listed on the final page
        of any attachment which has further attachments. Annex designations (Atch 15) will
        be followed to the extent possible as outlined in the guide. However, annex
        designations may deviate IAW Air Force instructions or directives when necessary to
        fit specific needs. See Atch 19 for a classified annex example. Annexes will be
        signed by the commander with authority to task units in the annex. If the annex tasks
        personnel from more than one group, each group commander affected will sign the
        annex.
6                                   AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


       5.3.8.2. Appendices. Appendices are designed to provide additional or expanded
       information on one or more subjects addressed in the annex (Atch 20). Appendices
       used for the plan will be listed on the final page of the subject annex.
       5.3.8.3. Tabs. Tabs are a further detailed breakout of an appendix (Atch 21). Tabs
       used for the plan will be listed on the final page of the subject appendix.
       5.3.8.4. Exhibits. Exhibits are a more detailed breakout of a Tab. No example is
       provided; contact XPO for assistance.
       5.3.9.1. Execution Checklist.         The execution checklist summarizes actions
       required by the commander/contractor program manager preparing a plan to ensure
       coordinated operations. Include checklists when it is appropriate and useful. Contact
       the Wing Plans Office for assistance when formulating checklist.
    5.3.10. Distribution List. The distribution list accounts for all copies of the plan and
    informs users which agencies and headquarters maintain copies of the plan (Attach 22).
    Distribution of the plan will be held to the minimum essential for planning. The
    distribution list is designated Annex Z in a plan. Ensure that 325 FW/XPO, 19AF/DOR
    and Higher Headquarters functional managers for the plan are included on the
    distribution list. Plans will be distributed to 325 FW/XPO, 19AF/DOR and Higher
    Headquarters functional managers by the OPR for the plan. XPO will post plans on the
    TAFB Plans and Programs CoP.
       5.3.11.1. Distribution Changes. All plans must include a form memorandum that
       addressees may use to notify the plan OPR and the Wing Plans Officer of changes in
       distribution requirements. This procedure helps both agencies keep distribution lists
       current. The distribution change memorandum (Atch 12) follows the memorandum
       for distribution.
    5.4.1. When to Issue a Change. A plan will be changed, rather than rewritten, if total
    adjustments (any new or previously changed material) affect less than 40 percent of the
    plan.
       5.4.1.1. Coordination. Coordinate changes with all tasked organizations using the
       format at Atch 9. Use the checklist at Atch 23 and information in the following
       paragraphs to help develop your change.
       5.4.2.1. The date of the change, date of the basic plan and classification of the plan
       (if classified) must be included in paragraph 1 of the memorandum of transmittal. A
       transmittal memorandum is prepared for each change and the change is distributed to
       all addressees listed in Annex Z (Atch 25).
       5.4.2.2. A copy of the distribution list must be attached to the memorandum of
       transmittal. If a new Annex Z is included as part of the change, a distribution list is
       not required. The "To" element should read "See Distribution List" or "See Annex
       Z."
       5.4.3.1. Page Changes. This is the preferred change method. This method re-
       accomplishes all pages containing changes. When page changes are made, the
       change number and date of change must be placed in parenthesis below the page
       number (Atch 26).
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                     7


          5.4.3.2. Write-In Changes. Write-in changes (in ink) are permissible but will not be
          used to make lengthy changes. This procedure should be used only for minor
          corrections such as changes to numbers, dates, single words, short phrases, etc.
   5.6. Final Coordination. Squadron plans representatives will submit recommended
   changes to their group plans representative. The group representative will then coordinate
   proposed changes with the other group representatives to ensure there are no conflicts. Once
   accomplished, the group representative will get his/her group commander’s approval and
   signature on the proposed changes. Then he/she will send the signed changes to the plans
   OPR. If wing commander signature is required the OPR will submit changes to 325
   FW/XPO in final form. Once required signature is gained, XPO will return changes to the
   OPR for reproduction and distribution. Otherwise, the OPR of the plan will combine group
   inputs and get appropriate group or squadron commander signature, then reproduce and
   distribute to all those listed in Annex Z.
7. Plans Administration
   7.1. The Wing Plans Officer and plans representatives, in coordination with the commander
   of affected agencies, will administer the Plans Program.
   7.2. Use AETCI 10-401, and this instruction in all plans administration and maintenance.
   7.3. A quick reference summary of all Tyndall contingency plans is provided by 325
   FW/XPO under separate cover. (See 325 FW Summary of Plans)
   7.4. Each plans representative will maintain a current set of plans for which they have a
   requirement.
   7.5. Each plans representative will post changes IAW paragraph 10.
   7.6. To assist in plans management, each plans representative will prepare and maintain a
   Plans Continuity book. This book will be setup with the following sections:
      7.6.1. Section A - Table of Contents/Index
      7.6.2. Section B - Plans Representative Memorandum of Appointment and Training
      Memorandum
      7.6.3. Section C - Wing Plans Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) Reports (maintained IAW
      disposition instructions outlined in AFMAN 33-363 and AFRIMS), and reply (when
      required). Also include the SAV schedule.
      7.6.4. Section D - Tyndall AFB Supp 1 to AETCI 10-401.
      7.6.5. Section E - 325th Fighter Wing Index of Plans, 325th Fighter Wing Summary of
      Plans, and Required Plans Listing.
      7.6.6. Section F - Annual Review Documentation and Plans Review Schedule (Unit will
      create an Annual Review Checklist for the plans they maintain).
      7.6.7. Section G - Current Self-Inspection Checklist Results.
      7.6.8. Section H - Briefing Documentation.         Memo for Record or any logical
      documentation, i.e., key personnel briefings.
 8                                       AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


          7.6.9. Section I - Plans Program Correspondence (letters from 325 FW/XPO, trend
          analyses, etc.)
          7.6.10. Section J - Checklist, Instructions, etc. developed by the unit to
          support/implement plans under which the unit is tasked.
          7.6.11. Section K, L, etc. Optional sections which may be added to meet specific unit
          continuity requirements. Generally, plans will be located here (all in one tab) or DD
          Form 2861 stating where plans are located.
     7.7. Plans will be filed together in a central location and be readily accessible by primary
     users and key personnel. Electronic copies of plans may suffice. If only electronic copies
     are maintained then the Plan manager must have a removable electronic plan library
     available in the event an emergency situation requires relocation. Extra copies of plans
     should be held to a minimum. "Reference Only" copies of plans will NOT be kept with
     current plans.
8. Plan Preparation Procedures. (See Atch 23.) If your organization is designated OPR for a
plan:
     8.1. Initial Step. Notify the Wing Plans Office, 3-3405. Keep in touch with the Wing Plans
     Office during all phases of plan development and do not hesitate to ask for guidance.
     8.2. Plans Guidance. Guidance on plan content will normally be contained in:
      Higher Headquarters plan you are supporting
      Air Force instructions and directives or
      Higher Headquarters correspondence.
     8.3. Plan OPR Responsibilities.
          8.3.1. Tasked organizations are required to prepare their annexes in correct format and
          submit them to you. As project officer for the plan, you are responsible for developing
          the following:
      Plan Cover
      Memorandum for Distribution
      Distribution Changes
      Security Instructions /Record of Changes/Record of Review Page
      Plan Summary
      Table of Contents
      Basic Plan
      Attachments
         Annexes
         Appendices
         Tabs
      Distribution list
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                     9


   Ensure all new and any updated ICC Checklists associated with your plan are forwarded
     to 325 FW/XP
     8.3.2. If you represent a large organization, you may not have an in-depth knowledge of
     all facets of your organization. Contact people with expertise in each area and request
     inputs.
     8.3.3. As the OPR, you are responsible for ensuring plans are marked IAW DoD
     Regulation 5200.1R and AFI 31-401.
  8.4. Coordination. The key to effective planning is thorough coordination with all affected
  organizations.
     8.4.1. Coordinate your draft with all tasked organizations. If you are supporting a
     Higher Headquarters plan, provide each tasked organization with a copy of the
     appropriate Higher Headquarters annex, plus a copy of the basic plan. This can be
     accomplished by:
         8.4.1.1. A coordination meeting of all tasked organizations. In this event, make
         enough copies of your draft and send to appropriate agencies ahead of time to allow
         them enough time to review it before the meeting.
         8.4.1.2. Route the draft, by mail, through email, or hand carry to tasked
         organizations. Be sure you suspense them for return of the draft with their comments.
         Hand carrying or email is preferable if time is short. For unclassified, non-FOUO
         plans only, you may send them out through electronic means when doing the review.
         Use Microsoft Word 2003 and attach an electronic Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) to the
         plan. Save your email responses as proof of coordination.
     8.4.2. The format at Atch 9 will be used to coordinate plans. Coordination with each
     tasked organization in a plan must be shown to ensure these agencies are aware of and
     can accomplish assigned tasks. 325 FW/XPO will be sent a copy of this review notice
     whether or not they are tasked.
  8.5. First Draft.
     8.5.1. Review your inputs and prepare a first draft. For new plans, the first draft will be
     printed on plain paper in the format shown in attachments to this instruction. For
     unclassified, non-FOUO plans, you may send out electronically with an electronic staff
     summary sheet attached. Save document in Microsoft Word 2003.
     8.5.2. Critique your draft and ensure you can answer "yes" to all questions contained in
     the checklist at Atch 23.
     8.5.3. Send a copy of the draft to 325 FW/XPO for review using a Staff Summary Sheet
     to document reviews.
  8.6. Review. Plan OPRs should review their plan to determine if it falls under the purview
  of the Air Force Freedom of Information Act Program. Marking, handling and disposition of
  plans determined to be "For Official Use Only" and classified plans will be IAW current AF
  directives and paragraphs 15 and 16.
  8.7. Final Draft. After coordinating the draft with the tasked organizations and adding any
  of their changes that apply, send a “final” copy to XPO. Include a Staff Summary Sheet
 10                                     AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


   (Atch 24). XPO will then forward Staff Summary Sheet and a copy of the plan to the
   appropriate group plans representatives in order for them to obtain group commanders’
   signatures. Once all group commanders have signed the Staff Summary Sheet, group plan
   representatives will return it, along with any other coordination sheets, to XPO.
   8.8. Approval and Signature. Once the final draft and group commanders' signatures are
   received by XPO, the Wing Plans Officer will sign the plan's memorandum for distribution
   and then secure 325 FW/CC approval and signature on the basic plan.
   8.9. Reproduction
       8.9.1. The Wing Plans Officer will return the plan to the OPR who will have the plan
       distributed IAW Annex Z of the plan. NOTE: Only organizations identified in Annex Z
       will be given a copy of the plan. All plans will be requested and distributed through each
       unit’s plans representative. Plan OPRs will keep Annex Z current and issue a change
       when the listing changes. A pen and ink change is acceptable only for minor one office
       changes - multiple office changes will require a page change.
   8.10. Plan Suspenses. Plans OPRs and representatives will make every effort to ensure
   suspenses to 325 FW/XPO are met. Requests for extensions will be submitted, in writing,
   NLT 10 days before established suspense date. Please include adequate justification in your
   request .
   8.11. Master Copy. Plans OPRs will retain the original (master copy) of their plans on file,
   together with all coordination. If coordinated on electronically, save a paper copy of email to
   use as proof of coordination.
   8.12. Disk Copy. A copy of all unclassified, non-FOUO plans will be either emailed to or
   saved to a CD R/RW computer disk in Microsoft Word 2003 format and provided to 325
   FW/XPO for placement on the base Web page. Continue to process classified and FOUO
   plans in hard copy.
9. Posting A Plan Change. The following procedures will be used to standardize posting of
changes to plans:
   9.1. All write-in changes will be posted in pen-and-ink. As you post your changes, enter the
   change number, e.g., C1, C2, etc., in the margin adjacent to the change. Page changes will be
   inserted as applicable. After all changes have been posted, file the change memorandum
   immediately behind the front cover of the basic plan with the latest change on top. Post the
   Record of Change page (see Atch 13) with the following information:
       9.1.1. Change number and date of change.
       9.1.2. Date change was posted to the plan.
       9.1.3. Grade and name of person who posted the change.
NOTE: Don’t forget to brief key personnel and document the briefings on the changes. Any
documentation format is acceptable, “memo-for-record” is suggested.
   9.2. Use AF Form 310, Document Receipt and Destruction Certificate or AF Form 1565,
   Entry, Receipt and Destruction Certificate, to distribute classified changes. When AF Forms
   310 or 1565 accompany a classified change, retain a copy with the plan and file it
   immediately after the change transmittal/instruction memorandum for the change. The other
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                             11


   copy should be retained with the removed pages until the pages are destroyed. It should be
   completed and retained as the certificate of destruction.
10. Plan Distribution. Distribution of Wing plans will be kept to a minimum and limited to
those agencies with taskings. If requests for additions/deletions to Wing plans distribution lists
are received by plan OPRs, evaluate the need and provide the Wing Plans Officer your
recommendation. This is important, since the Wing Plans Officer is charged with ensuring the
number of plans distributed is kept to a minimum. An office must justify a need for a copy of
the plan by sending a distribution change or a request for a copy through their unit or group.
Once the request is approved by their commander and Wing Plans, their office will be added to
the Distribution List (Annex Z.) OPRs of plans will send all plans to the group plans
representative, instead of to the group commander, for control and further dissemination. The
planner is responsible for all plans in a unit.
11. Biennial (or other in certain cases) Plan Review. If your organization is the OPR for one
or more plans, a biennial review is required IAW the established due date in the plan. During the
biennial review, contact all tasked organizations and 325 FW/XPO to request inputs. A sample
plan review memorandum is provided as Atch 9. Advise 325 FW/XPO, in writing, of the results
of your review and forward your coordinated revisions/changes to 325 FW/XPO by the
established suspense date.
12. Plans Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs)
   12.1. The Wing Plans Officer conducts annual (as a minimum) SAVs to agencies/units using
   the checklist at Atch 7. During the visit, the Wing Plans Officer will, as a minimum:
       12.1.1. Brief plans representatives on their responsibilities as listed in this instruction.
       12.1.2. Outline plans preparation procedures, when appropriate.
       12.1.3. Check to ensure all required plans and changes are on hand and properly
       maintained.
       12.1.4. Review base plans to ensure supervisors are aware of, and can support, specific
       functional area taskings.
       12.1.5. Review checklists/operating instructions in support of taskings for adequacy and
       currency. This includes Installation Control Center classified and unclassified checklists
       when applicable.
       12.1.6. For those agencies maintaining classified plans and plans-related materials,
       review material to ensure it is current, needed and properly marked.
       12.1.7. Provide on-the-spot assistance and guidance on plans matters.
       12.1.8. Out-brief division chief, contractor program manager or unit commander after the
       visit, if requested.
       12.1.9. Obtain feedback from the plans representative.
   12.2. The Wing Plans Officer provides the unit a written report of the SAV and a suspense
   for a report of corrective action(s), if required. The unit commander/contractor program
   manager will respond through the Group commander in writing to 325 FW/XPO. Open
   items will be reported to the Wing Plans Office every 30 days in writing until corrective
 12                                    AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


   actions are completed. The SAV report will identify date of visit, individual conducting the
   visit, personnel contacted, program support, findings and recommendations, other comments
   and suspense date for reply. Atchs 5 and 6 contain a sample SAV Report and Reply
   memorandum.
13. Plans Self-Inspection. A plans self-inspection will be conducted in May or November of
each year during the semi-annual Wing self-inspection. A self-inspection guide is provided in
Atch 3 of this instruction. Add unit-specific items to the guide as needed. Forward a brief
memorandum summarizing your findings to 325 FW/XPO after your self inspection.
14. Operations Security (OPSEC). Protection of classified/unclassified plans, checklists and
plans correspondence is vital to security of operations. Unit plans representatives must remain
aware at all times of the need to safeguard information.

15. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate




                                           JAMES S. BROWNE, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                13


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 April 2009
AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998
AFI 10-402, Volume 1, Mobilization Planning, and Personnel Readiness, 9 August 2007
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 January 2008
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 18 October 2007
AFI 90-201/AETC Sup 1, Inspector General Activities, 28 June 2010
AETCPAM 33-301, Employee Responsibilities under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
and the Privacy Act (PA), 10 November 2005
DoD 5400-7/AFSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 11 April 2006
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
DoD Pamphlet 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents, 1 April 1997

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CoP—Community of Practice
DoD—Department of Defense
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibilities
WPWG—Wing Plans Working Group
SIPRNet—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan
 14                                     AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


PLANS REPRESENTATIVE APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM FORMAT
                                                                                          (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR 325 FW/XPO

FROM: (Office Symbol and Address)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Plans Representative

1. The following individuals are appointed plans representatives for this organization:

       Primary

               Rank/Grade:

               Name:

               Office Symbol/Duty Phone:

               Clearance (minimum SECRET):

       Alternate

               Rank/Grade:

               Name:

               Office Symbol/Duty Phone:

               Clearance (minimum SECRET):

2. This memorandum supersedes all previous memorandums of appointment to this position.




                                                      Signature Block of
                                                      Commander/Contractor Manager

NOTE: This memorandum must be reaccomplished each time a change in plans representative
occurs.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                    15


DESIGNATION OF WING KEY PERSONNEL FORMAT

                                                                                         (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR 325 FW/XPO

FROM: 325 FW/CC

SUBJECT: Designation of Key Personnel (TAILOR THIS TO FIT YOUR UNIT’S NEEDS)

1. In accordance with AETCI 10-401, incumbents of these positions are designated
Wing/Group/Squadron key personnel and require key personnel plans briefings.

       325 FIGHTER WING                            325 MAINTENANCE GROUP

       CC                                          CC
       CV                                          CD
       IG                                          Sqdn CCs
       XP
       XPO
       Staff Agency Chiefs

       325 MISSION SUPPORT GROUP                   325 MEDICAL GROUP

       CC                                          CC
       CD                                          CD
       Sqdn CCs                                    Sqdn CCs

       325 OPERATIONS GROUP

       CC
       CD
       Sqdn CCs

2. Group/Squadron/Contractor Key Personnel will be briefed by their unit plans officers. Plans
officers brief key supervisors upon assignment to that position, upon receiving a new/revised
plan, change to a plan and give refresher briefings annually. Document the briefings with who
attended and when briefed, forward a copy to 325 FW/XPO.




                                                     (Signature of Commander)
                                                     Commander
 16                                 AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


Operations Plans Inspection Checklist

        ITEM                                             REFERENCE ACTION
1.      Does XPO have a current copy of the AETC
        War and Contingency Plans Listing?
2.      Has XPO published a base plans summary? Is
        it reviewed annually and updated as necessary?
3.      Does the wing/XPO possess the applicable
        plans designated by the AETC and base plans
        listing?
4.      Has a wing planners working group (WPWG)
        been established?
5.      Does the WPWG represent the functional areas
        and tenants with wartime support
        requirements?
6.      Does the WPWG, as a minimum, carry out the
        following basic functions:
        Integrate the efforts of all base-level planning
    a
        representatives?
        Review and approve base contingency or
    b
        wartime plans?
        Identify the primary base wartime missions
    c   and the available resources required to support
        the base’s wartime commitment?
    d   Determine reception tasks and responsibilities?
    e   Identify tenant involvement?
        Identify Limiting Factors (LIMFACs) and
    f
        shortfalls?
7       Are all functional areas having deployments
        commitments being provided applicable
        information from the AETC WMP III and
        addendum (TPFDD)?
8.      Are newly assigned wing and tenant unit plans
        representatives being briefed on their
        responsibilities within 30 days of appointment
        and do they have a Secret clearance?
9.      Do Wing Plan Officers possess a Secret
        clearance?
10.     If necessary, do Wing Plans officers have
        access to SIPRnet?
11.     Are base plans being distributed to tasked
        organizations and the appropriate HQ AETC
        functional OPR in accordance with the HQ
        AETC War/Contingency Plans Listing?
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                  17


Operations Plans Inspection Checklist

      ITEM                                              REFERENCE ACTION
      Has XPO established a biennial base plans
12.   review program?
13.   Are plans being reviewed and annotated?
14.   Have initial briefings on all base war and
      contingency plans been given to wing
      commander designated by supervisors within
      60 days of assuming the key supervisor
      position?
15.   Is refresher training conducted annually?
16.   Is a current list of wing commander designated
      key supervisors on file?
17.   Has XPO published a supplement to AETCI
      10-401?
18.   Are wing and tenant unit plans representatives
      supporting XPO through the following:
      Identifying newly assigned wing key
 a
      supervisors for initial training?
      Developing plans, annexes, appendices, etc.,
 b
      for which their agency is designated OPR?
      Notify XPO when higher headquarters
 c    directives or plans create a requirement to
      develop or change a wing plan?
      Brief new base and tenant unit key personnel
      within 60 days of their assignment to the unit
 d
      on all plans and changes that affect their
      specific functional area?
      Ensuring adequate instructions, checklists, etc.,
 e    are developed to implement plans under which
      their agency is tasked?
      Participation in staff assistance visits within
 f
      their agency?
19.   Is a SAV schedule published for the entire
      year?
20.   Are staff assistance visits being conducted at
      least annually?
21.   Are responses to SAV corrective actions on
      open items being sent to XPO?
22.   Are visited agencies providing follow-up
      reporting every 30 days on open items until
      corrective actions have been completed?
 18                                     AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011



Operations Plans Inspection Checklist

      ITEM                                              REFERENCE ACTION
23.   Do results of SAVS accurately reflect and
      document items discussed, discrepancies
      noted, actions taken and corrected on the spot,
      in addition to highlighting recurring
      discrepancies?


24.   Are SAV results documented and kept on file
      for two years?
25.   Are SAV results formally replied to the Chief
      of the Wing Office?
26.   Are Open items in SAVs updated every 30
      days until closed?
27.   Are self-inspections conducted at least once
      per year?
28.   Are plans properly identified? (The number
      and/or title to base war and contingency plans
      should coincide with the number and/or title of
      the HQ USAF or AETC plans they support or
      as specified by higher headquarters directive.)
29.   Are wing supporting plans written in the
      format of the plan supported or as prescribed
      in a higher headquarters directive? (Note:
      When developing plans that have no
      prescribed format, AFMAN 10-401 should be
      used as a guide).

30.   Are plans organized in the following order or
      as otherwise specified in higher headquarters
      directive:
 a.   Plan Cover?
 b.   Letter of Transmittal?
 c.   Security Instructions and Record of Changes?
      Classification Guidance (if necessary)?
 d.   Plan Summary?
 e.   Table of Contents?
 f.   Basic Plan?
      Attachments (annexes, appendices, tabs,
 g.
      exhibits, or maps)?
 h.   Execution Checklist?
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011               19


      Distribution List?
 i.
Operations Plans Inspection Checklist

      Distribution Change Memorandum?
 j.
      Does the plan summary give a brief review of
      the mission, general situation, concept of
31.
      operations, and commander’s appraisal of the
      logistics and transportation feasibility?
      Is the basic plan signed by the wing
32.
      commander or designated representative?
      Are annexes to the base plans being signed by
      the functional area chief charged with overall
33.
      responsibility for the annex?

      For page changes, is the change number and
34.   the date of the change being placed in
      parenthesis below the page number?
      Are write-in changes in ink and not too
35.
      lengthy?
      Are classified plans marked in accordance with
36.
      DoD Regulation 5200.1-R/AFI 31-401?
      Are plans reviewed for determination of falling
37.   under the purview of the Air Force Freedom of
      Information Act?
      Are plans marked/handled in accordance with
38.
      AFI 31-401?
      Is a continuity book maintained with a
      minimum of, a copy of AETCI 10-401 and
      TAFB Supp 10-401, a copy of the plans,
39.
      messages outlining status of planning
      documents, planning documents, inspections
      reports, and any conferences?
 20                                       AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


SAMPLE PLANS REQUIRED MEMORANDUM

                                                                                  (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR (Unit)

FROM: 325 FW/XPO

SUBJECT: Plans Required

The following is a list of plans required by your unit.

1. LOCAL

       a.   XXXXXXXXX
       b.   XXXXXXXXX
       c.   XXXXXXXXX
       d.   XXXXXXXXX
       e.   XXXXXXXXX

2. HIGHER HEADQUARTERS

  HQ AETC/ACC, ETC

       a. XXXXXXXXX
       b. XXXXXXXXX




                                              FIRST, MIDDLE INITIAL, LAST, Rank, USAF
                                              Chief, Operations Plans


NOTE: THIS IS A MEMORANDUM GENERATED BY EACH ORGANIZATION BASED
ON UNIT INPUT. IF UNIT NEEDS CHANGES, FORWARD A MEMORANDUM VIA UNIT
COMMANDER/CONTRACTOR PROGRAM MANAGER THROUGH GROUP REP TO
XPO. IF AN ORGANIZATION NEEDS A COPY OF A PLAN, IT IS THAT UNIT’S
RESPONSIBILITY TO NOTIFY THE OPR OF THE PLAN, IN WRITING, OF THE NEED.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                          21




STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT REPORT FORMAT

                                                                                              (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR (Unit)

FROM: 325 FW/XPO

SUBJECT: Report of Staff Assistance Visit (SAV), (UNIT) Plans Function

1. Identifies purpose, scope, and date SAV conducted.

2. Authority: TAFB Plans Program Instruction

3. Personnel conducting visit:

4. Personnel contacted: Identifies primary and alternate unit plans representatives present during
the SAV.

5. Observations: Identifies the overall shape of the plans program. Identifies if all plans were on
hand with checklists/OIs in support of plans, etc.

6. Processing Instructions: States if action is required by the plans function and to retain the
SAV as directed by this instruction.

7. Feedback from unit.




                                                FIRST, MIDDLE INITIAL, LAST, Rank, USAF
                                                Chief, Operations Plans
 22                                      AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




FORMAT FOR PREPARATION OF REPLIES TO PLANS

SAV REPORTS
                                                                                            (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR 325 FW/XPO

FROM: (Office symbol)

SUBJECT: Reply to Plans Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) Report (Date of report)

The following corrective actions have been taken on discrepancies identified in subject report:

   a. Reference para             . Corrective Action: Discuss in detail the corrective action(s)
taken. Address the recommendation(s) provided. Corrective action(s) should be directed at root
causes, not symptoms of problem. If all corrective actions for a discrepancy have been
completed, end this paragraph with CLOSED. If some part of this corrective action is closed and
other parts are still open, indicate which actions are open/closed and provide an estimated
completion date (ECD) for those still open. For example: "Training of all key supervisors on
plans tasking is in progress. (OPEN, ECD: 21 Sep 96)."

   b. Reference para . Corrective Action: follow same format as in paragraph "a" above for
each discrepancy identified in the report.




                                   (Signature of Unit Commander/Contractor Program Manager)


NOTES:

1. Send follow-up notification letters to 325 FW/XPO when each discrepancy is CLOSED.
Include date each action was completed.

2. It should normally take no more than 30 days from the date of this report to close all open
items. However, should it take over 30 days, provide a status report each 30 days until all items
are closed. Include slipped dates (if any) and reasons.

3. All discrepancies and comments identified in a SAV Report must be addressed in the reply
except those clearly identified as having been fixed on the spot.

4. Replies will be prepared/forwarded within suspenses set in the SAV Report. Extensions may
be requested when required.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                         23




PLANS STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT CHECKLIST (UNIT):__________

1. Before actually visiting the unit, check the following:

   a. Is there a current memorandum of appointment on file for the unit plans representative?

   b. Did the unit plans representative receive initial training? Is it documented?

   c. Are current copies of self-inspection documentation on file?

   d. Have all requirements of the previous SAV been accomplished?

2. Does the unit plans representative have a current memorandum of appointment on file in the
Unit Plans
   Continuity Book?

3. Is the Unit Plans Continuity Book organized IAW this instruction?

4. Does the unit plans representative maintain documentation on unit key supervisor
appointments and briefings?

5. Are all unit key supervisors briefed within the allotted time after assumption of their duties?

6. Are additional briefings given to all unit key supervisors upon implementation of a new plan
or change? Is it
   documented?

7. Is the unit plans library centrally located? Do people know where to find the plans library?
Are all plans and
   copies of plans in the unit accounted for?

8. Are self-assessments and self-inspections properly documented and reports maintained?

9. Is the unit plans representative familiar with the unit's tasking under the various plans?

10. Can the unit comply with specific plans taskings?

11. Has the unit developed checklists to support taskings in plans?

12. Are checklists dated and reviewed for currency?

13. Are units conducting biennial (or other in certain cases) reviews and documenting the
reviews of all plans they maintain?
 24                                      AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


14. Are changes/revisions to plans properly incorporated into the plan?

15. Are plans that task the unit current and on file? Are additional copies of each plan
accurately cross-referenced to indicate their location?

16. Is the Record of Changes in each plan properly completed?

   PERSON(S) CONTACTED:

   REMARKS:



   UNIT FEEDBACK:
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                       25


BIENNIAL (or other) PLAN REVIEW REMINDER MEMORANDUM

                                                                                          (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR (Unit)

FROM: 325 FW/XP

SUBJECT: Plan Name and Number Review

1. An biennial (or other) review of all Tyndall AFB contingency plans is required IAW AETCI
10-401 and TAFB Supp. As OPR for the subject plan, you are required to complete this review
IAW the review date published in the plan. A biennial (or other) review must be coordinated
with all tasked organizations in the plan. Use Atch 9 of this instruction for coordination with
tasked organizations and retain all coordination with the OPR.

2. Subject plan is due a review during                       .

   Please complete review by          .

3. If subject plan must be changed, contact the Wing Plans Office, 3-3405, for administrative
guidance before you begin revision of your plan. Revisions must be routed through the Wing
Plans Officer before finalization.

4. Complete the endorsement below and return a copy of this memorandum to the Wing Plans
Office, 325 FW/XPO, by             .


1st Ind, (Office Symbol)                    (Date)

TO: 325 FW/XPO

Subject plan has been reviewed on (Date) and: (Circle a, b or c).

   a. Is current.

   b. (POC) ________________________ will be responsible for rewriting this plan and will
contact 325 FW/XPO by (DATE) for administrative guidance.

  c. Change number will be written. (POC) ________________ will contact 325 FW/XPO by
(DATE) for administrative guidance.



                                     (Signature Unit Commander/Contractor Program Manager)
 26                                   AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




BIENNIAL (or other) PLAN REVIEW COORDINATION MEMORANDUM

                                                                                     (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR (Tasked organizations and others as appropriate)

FROM: (Office Symbol and Address)

SUBJECT: Biennial Plans Review

This office is conducting an annual review of Plan Name And Number (Short title) during
(Month). Please review subject plan and provide any recommended changes, deletions and/or
additions to this office NLT ( Date) .




                                                   (Signature of Plan OPR)

lst Ind, (Tasked organization)                                                       (Date)

TO: (OPR requesting review)

(Check one)

   Plan approved as written.

   Plan requires change(s). Recommended change(s) are attached.




                                   (Commander/Contractor Program Manager Signature)


NOTE: Remember to send an annual review notice to 325 FW/XPO even if they are not
specifically tasked in your plan.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                         27


325 FW PLANS COVER FORMAT EXAMPLES FRONT




NOTE: UNCLASSIFIED COVERS WILL BE WHITE; CLASSIFIED COVERS WILL
BE RED.
28                        AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


325 FW PLANS COVER FORMAT SAMPLE BACK
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                          29



TRANSMITTAL MEMORANDUM FORMAT


(Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION (See Annex Z)

FROM: 325 FIGHTER WING
     445 SUWANNEE ROAD, Suite 101
     Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5426

SUBJECT: TAFB Plan (Number)

1. Attached is 325 FW Plan Name and Number. This OPlan (or ExPlan, SuPlan) replaces 325
FW Plan Name and Number, Dated          .

2. This plan is the 325 FW (OR INDICATE APPROPRIATE UNIT) supporting plan required
by the appropriate instruction or directive. (Plans written IAW directives/instructions or other
than this instruction will state here, i.e., "This plan has been written IAW AFMAN 37-126."

3. This plan is effective for planning purposes upon receipt, and for implementation when
directed by proper authority.

4. Elements of this plan were coordinated with tasked associate units.

*5. Supporting plans are (are not) required. Biennial review of this plan will be conducted in the
month of              OR "This plan will be reviewed biennially."

6. All changes must include the date of the basic plan.



                                             //SIGNED//
                                             DAVID J. WARNICK, GS-11, DAF
                                             Chief, Operations Plans


1 Attachment
325 FW OPlan XXX
 30                                      AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




DISTRIBUTION CHANGE MEMORANDUM FORMAT

                                                           325 FIGHTER WING
                                                           TYNDALL AFB FL (ZIP CODE)
                                                           (Date)


325 FW PLAN XXXX
DISTRIBUTION CHANGES



MEMORANDUM FOR (Plan OPR)

FROM:

SUBJECT: Distribution of TAFB Plan (Number)

1. Change distribution for subject document as follows:

        Discontinue distribution.

        Change number of copies to               .

        Change office symbol and address to:

2. The listed changes apply to this Plan only.

3. The listed changes apply to all Wing Plans distributed by (Plan OPR).

4. REMARKS:




                                                     (Signature of Commander)


NOTE: Complete and return to designated OPR and 325 FW/XPO, if there are any distribution
changes and/or comments.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                       31




SECURITY INSTRUCTIONS AND RECORD OF CHANGES FORMAT

                                                              325 FIGHTER WING
                                                              TYNDALL AFB FL (ZIP CODE)
                                                              (Date)

325 FW PLAN XXXX
SECURITY INSTRUCTIONS

1. The long title of this plan is   (Title). The short title is 325 FW OPlan (ExPlan, SuPlan,
etc.).

2. This document is UNCLASSIFIED (or FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY, SECRET, as
applicable).

3. Reproduction of this document in whole or in part to assist tasked organizations in
development of supporting OIs/checklists is authorized.

4. The provisions of AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC) program were considered
during the formation of this OPlan (ExPlan, SuPlan, etc.) and determined to be inapplicable (OR
applicable, an Annex L must be included.)

NOTE: If the document is FOUO, paragraph 5 will be added stating: "This document will be
disposed of IAW current AF directives."

RECORD OF CHANGES

Change No. and Date                   Date Entered                 Posted By




RECORD OF ANNUAL REVIEW

REVIEWED BY                         DATE REVIEWED                REMARKS




                                                iii
 32                                    AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




PLAN SUMMARY FORMAT

                                                          325 FIGHTER WING
                                                          TYNDALL AFB FL (ZIP CODE)
                                                          (Date)

325 FW PLAN (Number)
PLAN SUMMARY

1. PURPOSE. Briefly tells what purpose is to be achieved by implementing the plan. If this is a
supporting plan, the supported plan is identified here.

2. CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATON. Summarize the situation in which the plan should
be considered for implementation.

3. OPERATIONS TO BE CONDUCTED. Summarize operations to be conducted upon plan
implementation, including subparagraphs on deployment, employment, forces assigned and
supporting plans, if applicable.

4. KEY ASSUMPTIONS. List key assumptions that are absolutely essential to the logic of the
plan.

5. OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS. List any significant operational constraints that must be
worked around when carrying out this plan.

6. TIME TO COMMENCE EFFECTIVE OPERATIONS. Summarize when the plan would be
utilized/placed in effect.

7. COMMAND RELATIONSHIPS. If other than normal, summarize the 325 FW arrangements
to be employed in executing plan. Usually, Command relationships will be "Normal."

8. LOGISTIC APPRAISAL. Provide an estimate of logistic feasibility.

9. PERSONNEL APPRAISAL. Provide an estimate of feasibility based on personnel
requirements.

10. CONSOLIDATED LISTING AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF SHORTFALL AND
LIMITING FACTORS. List any shortfalls here or state that there are none.

                                              iv
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                         33




TABLE OF CONTENTS FORMAT

                                                 325 FIGHTER WING
                                                 TYNDALL AFB FL (ZIP CODE)
                                                 (Date)

325 FW PLAN (NUMBER)
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Contents                                                                        Page
No.

Security Instructions and Record of Changes/Review                       ____     _i
Memorandum for
Distribution______________________________________________________                ii

Plan Summary                                                                      iii

Table of Contents                                                           v thru vi

Basic Plan                                                            BP-1 thru BP-8

  ANNEX A - TASK ORGANIZATION                                                   A-1

  ANNEX B - INTELLIGENCE                                                         B-1

  ANNEX C - OPERATIONS                                                           C-1

  ANNEX D - LOGISTICS                                                            D-1

  ANNEX E - PERSONNEL                                                   E-1 thru E-5

  Appendix 1 - Processing Instructions                               E-1-1 thru E-1-2

     Tab A - Schedule of Appointments                                       E-1-A-1

     Tab B - Processing Checklist                                           E-1-B-1

  ANNEX F - PUBLIC AFFAIRS                                                       F-1

  ANNEX G - CIVIL AFFAIRS                                                       G-1

  ANNEX H -METEORLOGICAL AND OCEANOGRAPHIC SERVICES                             H-1
 34                                     AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


   ANNEX J - COMMAND RELATIONSHIPS                                                           J-1

   ANNEX K - COMMAND,CONTROL AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS                                   K-1

   ANNEX L - OPERATIONS SECURITY                                                          L-1

   ANNEX M - MAPPING, CHARTING, AND GEODESY                                     M-1 thru M-2

   ANNEX N -SPACE OPERATIONS                                                              N-1

   ANNEX O -                                                                        Not Used

   ANNEX P -WARTIME HOST NATION SUPPORT                                                   P-1

   ANNEX Q -MEDICAL SERVICES                                                              Q-1

   ANNEX R -CHAPLAIN ACTIVITIES                                              R-1 or Not Used

   ANNEX S - TO BE PROVIDED UNDER SEPARATE COVER                                          S-1

   ANNEX T - FORCE PROTECTION                                                       Not Used

   ANNEX U -INFORMATION MANAGEMENT                                                        U-1

   ANNEX V -SAFETY                                                                        V- 1

   ANNEX W - CIVIL ENGINEERING                                                            W-1

   ANNEX X - EXECUTION CHECKLIST                                                          X-1

   ANNEX Y -REPORTS                                                                       Y -1

   ANNEX Z - DISTRIBUTION                                                                 Z-1


                                               vi


NOTES:

1. Annex designations will be complied with; however, they may be redesignated as necessary
to fit specific needs. DO NOT use the letters "I" or "O" as annex designators. Indicate authority
to deviate from established designators in the "Memorandum of Transmittal."

2. When any annex designator (A thru Z) is not used, it will be indicated by entering "Not Used"
in Page Number column.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                        35




BASIC PLAN FORMAT
                                                             325 FIGHTER WING
                                                             TYNDALL AFB FL (ZIP CODE)
                                                             (Date)

325 FW PLAN (Number)
BASIC PLAN

REFERENCES: List references by publication number and title. Cite references required for
complete understanding of the plan. Use references that are readily available to users of the plan.
Higher Headquarters plans that this plan supports must be listed. List references as follows in
this example:

   a. AFM 10-401, Operations Planning

   b. XXXXXXXXXXXXXX

   c. XXXXXXXXXXXXXX

TASK ORGANIZATION: See Annex A for tasked forces.

1. SITUATION:

  a. General. Describe the general environment that would establish probable preconditions for
implementation of this plan.

   b. Assumptions. List assumptions on which the plan is based. List either conditions most
likely to exist, or other conditions that are likely to have a significant impact on this plan as a
whole. (Additionally, assumptions about specific aspects of the operation should be included in
appropriate annexes.)

2. MISSION: State concisely the task and purpose to be carried out by executing this plan.

3. EXECUTION:

   a. Concept of Operations: This explains the operations to be conducted. It should describe
the general nature and purpose of the operations to be conducted, and coordination and
cooperation necessary to execute actions required by the plan.

   b. Tasks: In separate subparagraphs, list each task assigned to each applicable commander.

NOTE: Detailed tasking information for units is normally not covered in the basic plan. They
are developed and refined in individual annexes. Only basic tasks are stated here.
 36                                         AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011



4. ADMINISTRATION AND LOGISTICS:

   a. Concept of Administrative Support. State any administrative requirements if other than
"normal”. Any requirement for operating instructions/checklists in support of the plan may be
addressed here.

   b. Concept of Logistics Support. Provide broad guidance on how support will be furnished.
For detailed guidance on major aspects of support required, refer reader to appropriate annexes.

5. COMMAND AND CONTROL:

  a. Command Relationships: Refer to Annex J. Indicate any changes to major command and
control organizations and the time of the expected shift. Identify all Command Arrangement
Agreements and Memorandums of Understanding used and those that require development.

  b. Command Posts: List the designation and locations of each major headquarters involved in
execution.

  c. Succession to Command: Designate in order of succession the positions responsible for
assuming command of the operation in specific circumstances.

   d. Command, Control and Communications Systems: Provide a general statement on the
scope of C3 systems and procedures required to support the operation. Highlight any C3 systems
or procedures requiring special emphasis.




                                               (CC Signs)
                                               FIRST, MIDDLE INITIAL, LAST, Rank, USAF
                                               Commander


ANNEXES:
A - (Title of Annex)
B - (Title of Annex)
D - (Title of Annex)
M - (Title of Annex)


NOTES:

1. List all annexes included in the plan.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                     37


2. Detailed information on tasking for lower echelons of command is normally not covered in
the basic plan. Details should be covered in the appropriate annexes, appendices, etc.

3. The five major paragraph headings shown in this sample will be used in all plans. Additional
paragraph headings may be used to fit the particular needs of the plan.

4. Page numbers of the basic plan are BP-1, BP-2, BP-3, etc.

5. General information is presented in the basic plan while individual functional areas use
annexes for specific content.

6. The Wing Commander’s signature is required for WING plans.

7. Group Commander’s signature is required for plans that ONLY task their Group, Squadrons,
or Contractors in their Group.
 38                                    AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




TASKED ORGANIZATION ANNEX FORMAT

                                                         325 FIGHTER WING
                                                         TYNDALL AFB FL (ZIP CODE)
                                                         (Date)

ANNEX A TO 325 FW PLAN (NUMBER)
TASK ORGANIZATION

325 FW

Commander
Chief, Judge Advocate
Chief, Public Affairs
Chief, Safety Division

325 OG

Commander
Commander, 1st Fighter Squadron
XXXXXXXXXX

325 MXG

Commander

325 MSG

Commander
Commander, Mission Support Squadron
XXXXXXXXXXX

ASSOCIATE/OTHER UNITS

Commander, 53 WEG


NOTE: This is an example only and should not be considered an exclusive list of Tasked
Organizations for your plan. Tasked organizations may be abbreviated, i.e., 1 FS/CC, 2 FS/CC,
etc.

NOTE: This Annex need not be signed if the Basic Plan is signed by the wing commander. If
the Basic Plan is signed by a Group or Squadron Commander and the plan tasks other than that
Group’s personnel, then Annex A must be signed by the Wing CC.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                           39




ANNEX FORMAT

                                                              325 FIGHTER WING
                                                              TYNDALL AFB FL (ZIP CODE)
                                                              (Date)

ANNEX (Annex Designator) TO 325 FW PLAN (Number)
(Title of Annex, Example: OPERATIONS)

REFERENCES:

  a. (List referenced regulations, plans, etc., but do not duplicate those listed in basic plan).

1. SITUATION:

  a. ENEMY

  b. FRIENDLY

  c. ASSUMPTIONS

     (1) XXXXXX

2. MISSION:

  a. XXXXXX (do not duplicate assumptions in the basic plan).

3. EXECUTION:

  a. XXXXXXXX

  b. XXXXXXXX

4. ADMINISTRATION AND LOGISTICS:

  a. XXXXXXXXX

  b. XXXXXXXXX

5. COMMAND AND CONTROL


                                              FIRST, MIDDLE INITIAL, LAST, Rank, USAF
                                              Commander
 40                         AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




APPENDICES :
1 - (Title of Appendix)
2 - (Title of Appendix)

OFFICIAL

FIRST I. LAST, Rank, USAF
Commander, XXX XXXXXXXX Group
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                           41




ANNEX (Designator) to 325 FW PLAN (Number)
(Annex Title)

1. The header and the annex identification lines are not included on second and subsequent
pages of an annex. This is also true for all other parts of a plan; these items are only included on
the first page of each part of the plan except for the Memorandum of Transmittal which does not
have these entries.

2. If there is no specific material for a titled paragraph, do not include that paragraph. If you
have additional paragraphs, put them after those shown.

3. Limit annexes to essential information not covered in other regulations. This does not
preclude referencing those other publications, as appropriate.

4. Page numbering is the annex designator, plus number connected by a dash (-). Example:
Page 1 of Annex F is F-1; Page 2 of Annex F is F-2.
 42                                     AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


CLASSIFIED ANNEX FORMAT

(CLASSIFICATION)*

                                                           325 FIGHTER WING
                                                           TYNDALL AFB, FL, (ZIP CODE)
                                                           (Date)

ANNEX (Annex Designator) TO 325 FW PLAN (Number) (U)
Title of Annex (U)

(U) REFERENCES:

   a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
   b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

1. (U) SITUATION:

   a. (U) General. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

   b. (C) Assumptions. xxxxxxxxxxxxxx

2. (U) MISSION: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

3. (U) EXECUTION:

   a. (S) Concept of Operations. xxxxxxxxxx xxx xx xxxxxx

   b. (U) Tasks:

      (1) (U) xxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx

      (2) (S) xxxxx xx xxx xx xxxxx xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx

NOTE: Each paragraph and subparagraph must be classified according to content. This
format applies throughout a classified plan. An Annex may be entirely unclassified, but as part
of a classified plan, page and paragraph markings must be affixed.

*Stamp to show highest classification contained on this page. In this example, the page would
be marked "Secret" since paragraphs 3a and 3b(2) are marked "(S)." See AFI 31-401 for more
information.

NOTE: THIS IS A SAMPLE PAGE ONLY AND IS NOT CLASSIFIED


CLASSIFICATION*
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                   43




APPENDIX FORMAT

                                                         325 FIGHTER WING
                                                         TYNDALL AFB, FL, (ZIP CODE)
                                                         (Date)

APPENDIX (Number) TO ANNEX (Designator) TO 325 FW PLAN (Number)
(Title of Appendix, Example: DISPERSAL OPERATIONS)

REFERENCES: (List any applicable references specific to material covered in the appendix)

Paragraph headings will vary depending on the purpose of the appendix. Use the best paragraph
headings for communicating your specific material. AFM 10-401 can provide you with some
good ideas for how to present your material.

NO SIGNATURE ELEMENT REQUIRED




TABS:
A - (Title of Tab)
B - (Title of Tab)


OPR: LISTED AT BOTTOM OF PAGE


NOTE: Page numbering is annex designator plus number indicating the appendix number, plus
a second number each connected by a dash (-). Example: Page 1 of Appendix 1 to Annex X is X-
1-1; Page 2 of Appendix 3 to Annex W is W-3-2.
NOTE: Headings can be anything as needed.
 44                                      AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




TAB FORMAT

                                                              325 FIGHTER WING
                                                              TYNDALL AFB, FL, (ZIP CODE)
                                                              (Date)

TAB (Alpha Designator) TO APPENDIX (Numerical Designator) TO ANNEX D TO 325 FW
ExPLAN 501
(Title of Tab, Example: AMBER WARNING/FLUSH PROCEDURES)

REFERENCES:

  a. (List referenced regulations, plans, etc., but do not duplicate those listed in basic plan).

  b. AFR XX-XXX

1. GENERAL:
   a. XXXXXXXX

  b. XXXXXXXX

      (1) XXXXXX

2. PROCEDURES:

  a. XXXXXX (do not duplicate assumptions in the basic plan).

  b. XXXXXX

3. RESPONSIBILITIES:

  a. XXXXXXXX

  b. XXXXXXXX

4. LIMITING FACTORS:

  a. XXXXXXXXX

  b. XXXXXXXXX

NOTE: Tabs may also be used for maps, drawings and other information that would not fit into
the basic plan elsewhere.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                      45




DISTRIBUTION FORMAT

                                             325 FIGHTER WING
                                             TYNDALL AFB, FL, (ZIP CODE)
                                             (Date)

ANNEX Z TO 325 FW OPLAN/EXPLAN/SUPLAN (PLAN NUMBER)
DISTRIBUTION

325 FW                                Others (The two listed below are required)

CC/XPO          1               Headquarters, Functional Manager
CP              2               for the Plan OPR.

325 MXG                         19 AF/DOR
                                73 Main Circle, Ste 1
CC/LGQ          1               Randolph AFB TX 78150-4359
MXS             1

325 OG

OSS/INA         1
1 FS/DO         1
2 FS/DO         1
95 FS/DO        1

325 MSG

CC/CEX          1
CS              1

53 WEG

CC/DOX          1


THIS IS AN SAMPLE ONLY. DO NOT FORGET TO ADD HIGHER
HEADQUARTERS OFFICES THAT REQUIRE A COPY OF YOUR PLAN.

A COPY OF PLAN WILL BE SENT TO RESPECTIVE PLANS REPRESENTATIVE
FOR ORGANIZATION REQUIRING COPY OF PLAN.
 46                                     AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




NEW PLANS AND COMPLETE REVISIONS OF PLANS CHECKLIST

1. Was the Wing Plans Officer (XPO), 3-3405, notified of requirement to prepare or revise the
plan?

2. Was a meeting with the Wing Plans Officer (XPO) scheduled and conducted before starting
work on the plan?

   a. Was the appropriate format determined?

   b. Was a schedule with milestones prepared to ensure publication suspense’s could be met?

   c. Did the Wing Plans Officer discuss preparation considerations?

               (1) AFI 10-401 and formats in the TAFBI 10-401?
               (2) Plan Working Group?
               (3) Preparation of drafts, coordination procedures and requirements before
printing?

3. Is the CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS clearly understood, defined and realistic in your draft?
Can we do the things we say we are going to do in the manner we say we are going to do them?

4. Does the plan fully support Higher Headquarters plans or other directives governing the plan?

5. Is the format IAW this instruction and/or HHQ plan/directives that it supports?

6. Were all requirements for annexes/appendices/tabs determined? Did OPRs furnish them?

7. Was a draft provided to 325 FW/XPO for initial review?

8. Were all corrections/changes suggested by 325 FW/XPO made?

9. Except when otherwise directed, are all this instruction’s key elements included in the plan?
ALL plans will contain the following key elements unless approved by 325 FW/XPO:

   a. Cover
   b. Letter of Transmittal
   c. Security Instructions and Record of Changes
   d. Classification Guidance
   e. Plan Summary
   f. Table of Contents
   g. Basic Plan
   h. Attachments to the Plan
   i. Execution Checklist (when appropriate and useful)
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                          47


   k. Distribution List
   l. Distribution Change Memorandum
10. Do plan elements follow standard AFI 10-401 formats provided in this instruction? (Review
each example in this instruction; pay particular attention to notes)

11. Is the plan properly marked? Refer to current directives for instructions on marking FOUO
and classified plans.

12. Were plans coordinated with all tasked organizations (as a minimum) using Atch 24?
(NOTE: Final plans must reflect coordination with all tasked Group commanders.) Was this
Staff Summary Sheet then sent to 325 FW/XPO?

13. Does TABLE Of CONTENTS accurately reflect actual contents? Are annex/appendix/tab
titles and page numbers correct?

14. Was the plan proofread by OPR? Were all errors corrected? Has your Group plans
representative reviewed the plan?

15. Does the distribution list include all tasked organizations and others who require the plan?
Are all HQ AETC agencies who require the plan included? Was 325 FW/XPO included?
Should the Installation Control Center be included?

16. Was final plan provided to 325 FW/XPO for final review? Was coordination included with
the final plan?

NOTE: OPR will be responsible for printing the plan, if necessary and distributing it IAW
Annex Z.

17. Before distribution, was plan checked to ensure no errors occurred during reproduction?

18. Was distribution of plan made by the OPR to all agencies listed in Annex Z distribution?
Was 325 FW/XPO notified when plan distribution was complete?

19. Are plan originals and completed coordination letters maintained on file by the OPR for
future use and/or reference?
 48                                       AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




STAFF SUMMARY SHEET

1. A Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) is used to route a document through the various staff agencies
to the commander.

2. Paragraph 1. Should state the purpose of the SSS.

3. Paragraph 2. State the facts that need to be discussed.

4. Paragraph 3. Identify general and specific changes to the plan. Do NOT write a book. Limit
this area to the major changes.

5. Paragraph 4. State that all tasked units/agencies have coordinated on the plan.

Next comes the RECOMMENDATION.

6. Paragraph 5 and so forth, list the action required.

NOTE: The above is appropriate for final products that will be signed by the wing commander.
See Tongue and Quill on how to do a SSS.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                        49




EXAMPLE STAFF SUMMARY SHEET THAT WILL ACCOMPANY THE FINAL
DRAFT TO XPO

(THIS SSS WILL THEN BE DISTRIBUTED TO GROUP PLANS REPS IN ORDER TO
OBTAIN THE NECESSARY GROUP COMMANDERS’ SIGNATURES)
 50                                       AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011



CHANGE TRANSMITTAL MEMORANDUM FORMAT


                                                                                         (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION (See Annex Z or as an alternate "See Distribution
Page")

FROM: (Plan OPR Office Symbol and Address)

SUBJECT: Change 1 to 325 FW Plan (Number), (Date of basic plan)

1. Attached is Change 1, dated (Date of Change) to 325 FW Plan XXX, (Long Title).

2. Please make the following changes to subject plan:

   a. Pen and ink changes:

   Page    Paragraph Line Change

   M-1     6b         3        At the end of first sentence, add "as directed
                               by Security Police."

   R-1-1    8c        6        Delete sentence beginning with "The augmentees
                               will...."

NOTE: PEN AND INK CHANGES WILL BE LIMITED TO MINOR CHANGES ONLY.

   b. Page changes:

   Remove             Insert

   C-1 thru C-4       C-1 thru C-4

   L-1-1              L-1-1

                      F-1, F-2 (DENOTES A NEW PAGE IS BEING ADDED)

3. After the above changes have been posted, annotate the Record of Changes page and file this
memorandum immediately behind the front cover of the plan.



                               SIGNATURE ELEMENT OF THE OPR's
                               Division Chief/Unit Commander/Contractor Program Manager
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                               51




2 Attachments
1. Distribution List
2. Page Changes

NOTES:
1. If a new Annex Z is accomplished, a distribution list is not required.
2. The "Date of Change" in paragraph 1 will be the same as the date of the memorandum
(indicated in upper right corner).

Change 1, 1 March 94
 52                                   AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




PAGE CHANGE FORMAT

                                                         325 FIGHTER WING
                                                         TYNDALL AFB, FL, (ZIP CODE)
                                                         (Date)

ANNEX M TO 325 FW PLAN (Number)
SECURITY

REFERENCE:

  a. XXXX

  b. XXXX

1. GENERAL:

  a. XXXX

  b. XXXX

2. ASSUMPTIONS:

  a. XXXX

3. RESPONSIBILITIES:

  a. XXXX

  b. XXXX

  c. XXXX

4. LIMITING FACTORS:

  a. XXXX
                                                 M-1
                                           (Change 1, Date of Change)

NOTE: Include the change number and date in parenthesis at the bottom of each page change.
Place this information immediately beneath the page number as indicated in the format above.
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                         53




PLAN CHANGE DEVELOPMENT CHECKLIST

1. Was the Wing Plans Officer (XPO), 3-3405, notified of the plan change?

2. Were tasked organizations offered an opportunity to provide inputs and was the plan reviewed
to ensure changes include all required corrections/additions/deletions?

3. Will the change make total changed/added/deleted material in plan equal to, or greater than,
40 percent of plan? If so, a complete revision (rewrite) will be initiated instead of a change.

4. Did all tasked organizations, whose tasking is affected by the change, coordinate on it? (Use
form at Atch 9.)

5. Was the draft submitted to 325 FW/XPO for initial review?

6. In final draft change package:

    a. Is there a change transmittal memorandum containing minimum information IAW Atch 11
of this instruction?

  b. Is each page marked appropriately, including security markings and vertical lines in the
margin adjacent to changed material?

   c. Is the change number and date of change included on each page beneath the page number?

   d. Is the TABLE Of CONTENTS adjusted to include changes, additions and/ or deletions
called for in the amendment?

   e. Is there a distribution list or updated Annex Z?

   f. Are pen and ink changes held to a minimum?

   g. Are page changes, rather than pen and ink changes, used for lengthy or complex changes?

7. Was the final camera-ready copy of change provided to 325 FW/XPO for review before
reproduction and/or distribution?

NOTE: The Wing Plans Officer will return the final change to OPR for printing. The OPR will
distribute the change IAW Annex Z.

8. Are plan change originals and coordination copies maintained on file by the OPR for future
use and/or reference?
 54                                       AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011




UNIT PLANS REPRESENTATIVES CHECKLIST

1. Plans Administration:

       a. Has the unit plans representative been appointed in writing (see attach 1)?

       b. Does the unit plans representative possess at least a SECRET security clearance?

       c. Was the original Memorandum of Appointment forwarded to the Wing Plans Office
and a copy maintained in the Unit Plans Continuity Book?

       d. Is a Plans Continuity Book being maintained and does it contain, as a minimum,
tabbed sections identified in this instruction?

        e. Is the Unit Plans Self Assessment accomplished during the semiannual Wing self-
inspection in May or November of each year. A copy of the results will be forwarded to the
Wing Plans Officer along with a cover memorandum indicating whether or not there are any
problem areas? Date of last assessment _____.

2. Plans Currency:

       a. Are all Wing War/Contingency plans current and posted with latest changes?

        b. Are change notices filed in most recent order immediately behind the front cover of
the plan?

       c. Is the Record of Changes page in each plan properly completed?

        d. Is DD Form 2861, Cross-Reference sheet, being used to account for additional copies
of plans when the unit is on distribution for more than one copy?

        e. Are unclassified copies of plans, checklists, regulations etc., being kept current at the
Installation Control Center position in the Command Post if required?

      f. Are classified checklists (Group commanders supplemental checklists) maintained in
the Command Post current?

        g. Is the unit plans representative performing biennial (or other in certain cases) reviews
of unit contingency checklists, or as changes in unit capabilities occur? Are reviews
documented?

       h. Is a Tyndall 325 FW Index of Plans and Plans Summary maintained in the Unit Plans
Continuity Book?
AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011                                                        55


       i. Is a current version of this instruction maintained in the Plans Continuity Book?


3. Unit Plans Implementation:

       a. Does the unit have OIs or checklists to implement their taskings in a plan?

     b. Has the unit developed expanded DEFCON checklists for taskings outlined in the
TAFB WMP?

4. Personnel Preparedness, Briefings, Training:

        a. Is unit manning sufficient to meet all tasked requirements? Review HQ AETC WMP
III (available at LGRR or XP.)

       b. Are personnel aware of their taskings when a plan is implemented?

       c. Are names of new Wing key personnel being forwarded to the Wing Plans Office, so
supervisors can be scheduled for a plans briefing within 60 days of assignment/appointment?

        d. Are new unit key personnel being briefed by the units plans representative on the
unit's plans responsibilities within 60 days of arrival?

       e. Are additional briefings given to cover new plans or changes?

       f. Are all briefings being documented?

5. Plans Development:

        a. Does the plans representative initiate an annual review of each plan for which the unit
is OPR according to established schedule? Are these annual reviews documented and a copy
sent to the Wing Plans Office?

       b. Is the Wing Plans Office notified before a plan is revised or changed?

        c. Have all tasked organizations of a plan (Annex A) coordinated on plan changes or
revisions?

       d. Is Atch 9 of this instruction being used for coordination on plan changes or revisions?

       e. Is the Wing Plans Office the final point of coordination before a plan is published?

       f. Is the OPR maintaining the master copy used for reproduction of their plan?
 56                                  AETCI10-401_TYNDALLAFBSUP 13 October 2011


DISTRIBUTION LIST

ORGANIZATIONS STOP#             # COPIES    ORGANIZATIONS STOP#       # COPIES

325th Fighter Wing                          325th Operations
                                            Group
IG                      67      1           OSA                 14    1
XPO                             1           OSW                       1
SE                      24      1           325 ACS/CCR               1
CP                      14      1
FM                              1
PA                              1
JA                              1

325th Maintenance                           325th Mission
Group                                       Support Group
                                            CS                  10    1
AMXS                    09      1
MXS                             1           CES/CEV             82    1
MOS                             1           CES/CEX             42    2
Maintenance                     1           SFS/SFOX            35    1
Contractor
                                            FSS                 26    2
325th MED GP                                Del-Jen Logistics   70    1
                                            (Trans)
MDG                     46      1           Del-Jen Logistics   58    2
                                            (Sups)
                                            LGRR                59    1
Associate Units                             CONS                28    1
53 WEG
53TSS/OPF               86      1

HQ AETC
AOS/AOX                         1
100 H St, Ste 2
Randolph AFB TX
78150-4329

19AF/DOR                        1
73 Main Circle, Ste 1
Randolph AFB TX
78150-4359

                        TOTAL   30
