BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 90-801
COMMAND
                                                                                19 APRIL 2012
                                                                  VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                           23 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                          Special Management

                                                        PREVENTION OF HEAT DISTRESS
                                                                         DISORDERS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/SGPB                                                  Certified by: HQ AETC/SGP
                                                                            (Col Cesario Ferrer)
Supersedes:   AETCI48-101, 4 October                                                  Pages: 18
              2000
                                        (VANCEAFB)
OPR: 71 MDOS/SGOQB                                                   Certified by: 71 MDG/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Douglas B. Curry)
Supersedes:   AETCI48-                                                                  Pages:
              101_VANCEAFBSUP, 11
              Dec 09


This instruction implements AFPD 90-8, Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health
Program. It augments existing Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force policy for
preventing the adverse effects of heat stress to AETC personnel. This instruction applies to all
permanent party government employees (military and civilian) assigned to AETC installations,
all personnel attending training administered by AETC, and AETC units located at non-AETC
installations. It also applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) personnel during AETC administered training. It does not apply to training conducted in
water or during flight. It also does not apply to contractor personnel. Local AETC units will
adjudicate the impact of adjusting AETC civilian employee work hours due to work and rest
cycles through local labor management procedures.
 2                                                 AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


Refer recommended changes and questions concerning this instruction to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR), HQ AETC/SGPB, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication at 63 Main Circle, Suite 3, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4549, or E-mail to
AETC.SGWorkflow@us.af.mil . Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)   located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.          Attachment 1 is a glossary of
references and supporting information used in this publication.

(VANCEAFB) This supplement implements and extends the guidance within Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011, Air Force Pamphlet
48-151 AFGM 3, Thermal Injury, 24 April 2012 and Air Education and Training Command
Instruction (AETCI) 90-801, Prevention of Heat Stress Disorders, 19 April 2012. It applies to all
Air Force military and civilian personnel assigned to Vance Air Force Base (Vance AFB).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)       Air    Force     Records     Disposition   Schedule     (RDS)      located      at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
Vance AFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215,
USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the
form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

During mission-essential training, contingency, or emergency operations, squadron commanders
may waive the provisions of this instruction using established AF risk management processes.
However, when commanders waive procedures they must ensure all supervisors exercise
caution, make certain all supervisors and subordinate personnel are aware of heat stress disorder
signs and symptoms, and take actions to protect the health of their personnel. Military operations
and training are inherently risky. This instruction aims to reduce the risk of heat stress disorders
during AETC operations and directs the use of AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury, for compliance
with this instruction.

(VANCEAFB) The AETCI 48-101 was changed to AETCI 90-801. The AFPAM 48-151 was
added as part of guidance reference.

       1.      Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................   3
Figure 1.1.    Heat Strain Decision Process .................................................................................            5
       2.      Assessing Environmental Conditions for Heat Stress: ..........................................                            7
       3.      General Requirements to Prevent Heat Stress Disorders. ......................................                             7
AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012                                                                                                  3


       4.     Provisions for AETC Trainees: ..............................................................................                  7
       5.     Preventing Heat Stress Disorders During Physical Conditioning (PC) Activities.                                                8
       6.     Preventing Heat Stress Disorders in Occupational Work Environments
              (Nontraining--Includes emergency response to real-world and contingency
              exercises): ..............................................................................................................    8
       7.     Recognition, First-Aid Treatment, and Investigation of Heat Stress Disorders: ...                                             9
Figure 1.2.   Heat Stress and Water Intoxication Warning Signs and Symptoms. .....................                                          9
       8.     Local AFI Supplements. ........................................................................................              10
       9.     Applying Risk Management Process: ....................................................................                       10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             11

Attachment 2—WORK REST CYCLES AND WORKLOAD EXAMPLES                                                                                        15

Attachment 3—ACCLIMATIZATION                                                                                                               18


1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. HQ AETC Directorates:
       1.1.1. HQ AETC/SGPB: OPR for this instruction. Provides consultation with AETC
       MTFs, as requested, regarding requirements within this instruction.
       1.1.2. HQ AETC/A3TH: Provides consultation on AETC Force Fitness as it applies to
       this instruction.
   1.2. Numbered Air Force Commanders: Ensure procedures are established at AETC
   wings to comply with this instruction.
   1.3. Wing Commanders: Establish procedures to implement this instruction.
   1.3. (VANCEAFB) Supervisors will maintain a copy of AETCI 90-801 for use when
   developing work/rest cycles for personnel who may be occupationally exposed to heat stress.
   1.4. Group and Squadron Commanders:
       1.4.1. Implement activity levels and fluid replacement requirements for personnel in
       training status.
       1.4.2. Ensure supervisors brief personnel annually on the requirements of this
       instruction, the local supplement (if any), and unit-specific procedures to minimize the
       risk of heat stress disorders.
       1.4.3. Ensure the application of AF risk management process and operational
       considerations are followed when waiving provisions of this instruction to meet
       operational mission or training requirements. Figure 1 provides a ―Heat Strain Decision
       Process‖.
   1.5. Supervisors (in organizations where work/training processes may involve potential heat
   stress exposures):
4                                 AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


    1.5.1. Brief workers and AETC military training instructors/leaders annually on the
    requirements of this instruction, any local supplement, and unit-specific procedures to
    minimize the risk of heat stress disorders. Document training in accordance with AFI 91-
    301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
    (AFOSH) Program.
    1.5.2. Plan activities to meet the requirements of this instruction, as applicable, and
    educate personnel and trainees on proper water intake, work/training restrictions, and rest
    requirements.
    1.5.3. Disseminate the heat category and flag color conditions to workers and trainees
    when informed through established notification procedures.
    1.5.4. Identify workers or trainees displaying signs and symptoms of heat stress and
    implement appropriate actions.
    1.5.5. Consult with representatives of the aerospace medicine squadron or flight, as
    needed, to verify acclimatization levels and appropriate curtailment recommendations
    unique to specific work or training requirements.
    1.5.6. Consider principles of acclimatization when planning outdoor activities in hot
    environments.
    1.5.7. Consult with Squadron Commanders to waive provisions of this instruction using
    risk management processes and operational considerations (Figure 1).
AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012                                                       5


Figure 1.1. Heat Strain Decision Process




   1.6. Medical Service. Aerospace medicine squadrons/flights contain a unique collection of
   expertise to assist unit commanders and supervisors. Commanders may wish to use this
   expertise to educate installation, tenant, and remotely located units on the medical aspects of
   this instruction. Specific functional area responsibilities are assigned below:
      1.6.1. Flight Medicine:
          1.6.1.1. Advise unit commanders and supervisors on prevention of heat stress.
          1.6.1.2. Provide consultation, with MTF Chief of Medical Staff (SGH), to clinical
          providers regarding duty limitations and profiles related to heat stress in accordance
          with AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions.
      1.6.2. Public Health:
          1.6.2.1. Assist supervisors in developing appropriate training materials for
          supervisors, workers, and trainees.
          1.6.2.2. Ensures heat stress related occupational illness data is collected and reported
          in accordance with AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program.
6                                  AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


       1.6.2.3. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 MDOS/SGOAM (Public Health) assists in
       investigating heat illness incidents.
    1.6.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE):
       1.6.3.1. Determines the appropriate procedures to measure and report the WBGT
       index in accordance with AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury.
       1.6.3.2. Incorporates heat stress evaluations into the routine and special surveillance
       programs established by AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program.
       1.6.3.2. (VANCEAFB) 71 MDOS/SGOQB (Bioenvironmental Engineering) will
       notify the Vance Command Post by telephone when measured Wet Bulb Globe
       Temperature (WBGT) levels exceed 81.9 degrees Fahrenheit (°F). WBGT will be
       reported on days with a forecast or observed high temperature >85 °F, with a
       minimum of four measurements during the hottest part of the day. A log of these
       readings will be maintained by 71 MDOS/SGOQB. The Command Post will
       disseminate this information to military commanders of all affected areas.
       1.6.3.3. Annually certifies the competency of other installation functional areas
       assessing environmental conditions for heat stress. NOTE: This does NOT apply to
       Weather Squadrons/Flights or trained medical personnel (such as IDMTs) attached to
       AETC Training units.
       1.6.3.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) Bioenvironmental Engineering will notify the Vance
       Command Post by telephone of the WBGT stage. These stages are as follows:
               Stages    Temperature Range          Flag Color
               1         <81.9 °F WBGT              No Flag Required
               2         82 – 84.9 °F WBGT          Green
               3         85 – 87.9 °F WBGT          Yellow
               4         88 – 89.9 °F WBGT          Red
               5         >90 °F WBGT                Black


           1.6.3.4.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) The Command Post will disseminate this
           information via the Networked Alerting System (alerts all personnel through
           computer updates of current heat stress categories) and the base pager system.
    1.6.4. Aerospace Physiology:
       1.6.4.1. Assists operational leadership and other subject matter experts in identifying
       and recommending countermeasures to human performance and safety threats related
       to heat stress disorders.
       1.6.4.2. Assists other Aerospace Medicine subject matter experts in human
       performance enhancement (HPE) training for all appropriate military personnel to
       reduce occupational/training injuries/illnesses due to heat stress.
    1.6.5. Clinical Providers:
AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012                                                      7


           1.6.5.1. Must implement procedures to notify the public health flight of any heat
           stress disorder associated with work or training activities as required by paragraph
           8.3.
           1.6.5.2. Must be educated at least annually on this instruction and any local
           supplement, emphasizing their role in establishing recommendations or other
           restrictions during the hot season for workers and trainees who have been ill.
       1.6.6. (Added-VANCEAFB) The dry bulb and dew point temperatures for the Index of
       Thermal Stress (ITS) will be calculated by 71 OSS/OSW and included in the observation
       for the Supervisor of Flying (SOF). The SOF will determine the appropriate zone and
       notify each flying squadron and base operations.
2. Assessing Environmental Conditions for Heat Stress:
   2.1. Measuring deep body temperature is impractical for monitoring heat load; therefore,
   environmental factors must be measured. Detailed analysis of the influence of the
   environment on thermal stress requires a knowledge of the following 4 basic parameters; air
   temperature; mean radiant temperature, air speed and absolute humidity. The Wet-Bulb
   Globe Temperature (WBGT) index is the simplest and most suitable technique to measure
   environmental factors that most nearly correlate with deep body temperatures and other
   physiological responses to heat. Refer to the AFPAM 48-151, Chapter 3, for more
   information.
   2.2. Training squadrons and flights may perform WBGT measurements to determine the
   WBGT index during specific operational activities. Use the portable hand-held WBGT kit
   (NSN 6665-00-159-2218), or a suitable commercially available instrument. Measurements
   shall represent the conditions that most closely relate to the training or working conditions.
   BE must annually certify the competency of any other functional area in taking and reporting
   these measurements, except as defined in paragraph 1.6.3.3. of this instruction.
3. General Requirements to Prevent Heat Stress Disorders. Personnel working and/or
training in hot environments must be educated on the causes, signs and symptoms, first-aid
treatment, and prevention of heat disorders. Supervisors and training instructors will follow the
guidelines in AFPAM 48-151, Chapter 4, unless specific heat stress prevention topics are
included as part of a standard course curriculum.
4. Provisions for AETC Trainees:
   4.1. Personnel Attending Training Administered By AETC.
       4.1.1. Personnel attending training administered by AETC are subject to the
       requirements of this instruction. Detachments and operating locations (OL) on other than
       an AETC base will coordinate with the host base bioenvironmental engineer or other
       preventive medicine personnel to determine the method used to locally determine the
       WBGT index and disseminate its value.
       4.1.2. Supervisors and instructors will follow work/rest cycle guidelines in Attachment 2
       (and AFPAM 48-151, Attachment 5), unless specifically waived per paragraphs 1.4.3 and
       1.5.7. ,of this instruction. NOTE: The Army, Navy, and Marine Corps have similar
       guidelines for heat stress based on the WBGT index. Additionally, most Air Force
 8                                    AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


        installations have local procedures in place to determine WBGT during periods of hot
        weather.
     4.2. AETC Personnel Attending Training Not Administered By AETC. AETC
     personnel attending training not administered by AETC (for example, training administered
     by the Army, Navy) will follow the guidelines established by that unit, at that installation,
     instead of the guidance contained in this instruction.
     4.3. Heat Injury Prevention for the Battlefield Airman (BA) and Security Forces (SF)
     trainees.
        4.3.1. Heat injury prevention is a high priority in the preparation and training of BA and
        SF. In order to overcome the inherent training restrictions created by exclusively
        following the work/rest cycles in Attachment 2, Training Wings/Training Groups (TRG)
        will work in partnership with Safety and Preventive Medicine physicians to produce a
        strategic, comprehensive set of heat injury prevention countermeasures. This approach
        provides a level of heat injury prevention that far exceeds the work/rest cycles in
        Attachment 2, while assuring training standards and mission goals are accomplished.
        4.3.2. Heat injury prevention will be targeted to the unique needs of each training
        objective/course, and will be taught and integrated into the risk management aspects of
        each course. A defined risk management matrix will be developed for each high risk
        training event.
        4.3.3. Heat injury prevention elements of the TRG’s risk management process matrix
        will be reviewed and approved by local preventive medicine physicians upon initial
        development and re-reviewed in the event of any heat injuries.
5. Preventing Heat Stress Disorders During Physical Conditioning (PC) Activities. AF
fitness testing and unit fitness training programs will follow the requirements in AFI 36-2905,
Fitness Program.
6. Preventing Heat Stress Disorders in Occupational Work Environments (Nontraining--
Includes emergency response to real-world and contingency exercises):
     6.1. Personnel who routinely perform work while exposed to hot environments are
     occupationally exposed to heat stress. Wearing personal protective equipment and/or combat
     gear will significantly increase heat stress during strenuous activity.
     6.2. Supervisors of occupationally exposed personnel should use AFPAM 48-151,
     Attachment 6, to plan work and rest cycles for individuals under their control.
     6.3. Exposures above 90 oF WBGT should be allowed only when performing mission-
     essential duties, and then only with caution. If possible, two or more details should be
     arranged to work in sequence to ensure each crew receives the proper work and rest cycle.
     Waiver authority, per paragraph 1.4.3., extends to Incident Commanders (IC) of emergency
     responses/exercises and Troop Commanders (TC) of contingency/readiness
     exercises/responses.
     6.4. During Compliance Inspections (CI), AETC/IG shall be briefed on wing/unit heat
     prevention procedures and evaluate the risk management program to ensure all steps are
     adequately addressed.
AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012                                                        9


7. Recognition, First-Aid Treatment, and Investigation of Heat Stress Disorders:
   7.1. There are several recognized heat stress disorders described in Attachment 1, Terms.
   Individuals must be trained to recognize when they or their fellow trainees or workers are
   experiencing the signs and symptoms of any of these disorders. Early signs and symptoms
   and actions are identified in Figure 2, along with the later signs and symptoms and immediate
   actions to respond to such individuals.
   7.2. For any medical intervention due to potential heat illness for military or civilian
   employees, the healthcare provider will contact public health to initiate an Occupational
   Illness/Injury Investigation Report. Occupational illness and injuries will be determined and
   reported according to AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
   7.3. For personnel who become ill and are returned to duty during the hot season, a clinical
   provider will recommend whether or not additional restrictions are required to prevent heat
   stress disorders. The clinical provider will annotate these recommendations and any other
   restrictions or modifications to the individual's physical training and outdoor activities on AF
   Form 469, or locally developed equivalent for trainees.
   7.3. (VANCEAFB) Health care providers will investigate heat illness incidents. Personnel
   who "fall out" (i.e., exhibit signs of heat stress) must be reported to 71 MDOS/SGOAM
   within one duty day by the supervisor in charge of the detail.

Figure 1.2. Heat Stress and Water Intoxication Warning Signs and Symptoms.

 EARLY SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS                     ACTIONS
  Dizziness                                  Remove from training
  Headache                                   Allow casualty to rest in shade
  Dry mouth                                  Take sips of water
  Unsteady walk                              If signs or symptoms do not improve in 15 to 30
  Weakness                                     minutes, transport to medical facility
  Muscle cramps                              If signs or symptoms worsen, call ambulance

 LATER SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS                     IMMEDIATE ACTIONS
  Hot body, high temperature                 Call ambulance for immediate transport to hospital
  Confusion, unresponsiveness, coma          Lay person down in shade with feet elevated until
  Vomiting                                     ambulance arrives
  Involuntary bowel movement                 Give sips of water while waiting for ambulance
  Convulsions                                Begin active cooling, if skin is hot to touch
  Weak or rapid pulse                        Undress as much as possible
                                               Pour cool water over person and fan

   7.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) Military personnel and government civilians who "fall out"
   must report to the 71 MDG for evaluation, and if necessary, receive treatment at the time of
   the event.
 10                                   AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


8. Local AFI Supplements. Each AETC installation should consider developing a supplement
to this instruction. As a minimum, the local supplement should:
   8.1. Identify who measures the WBGT index, where the measurements will be performed,
   and when and how often they will be taken.
   8.2. Establish procedures to document WBGT measurements for later retrieval.
   8.3. Establish notification procedures to ensure all base units (such as training squadrons,
   base gym, etc.) know when the WBGT heat conditions are reached or change. The preferred
   method should include flag posting; however, any other method may be used at the discretion
   of the wing commander. For bases where WBGT stage flags are used, the local supplement
   to this instruction will establish flag-posting locations and procedures.
   8.4. Establish local policy on training activities that may and may not be conducted during
   each heat condition. Consider risk management procedures when developing local
   supplements to establish unit policies.
   8.5. Identify unique training situations that warrant direct medical support and the details of
   the required support.
   8.6. Establish procedures to evaluate trends in heat-related illnesses.
   8.7. Describe procedures for medical notification of course supervisors of any trainees at
   increased risk of heat stress disorder due to illness or medication.
9. Applying Risk Management Process: Units presently conducting training and exercises
exceeding the work limitations contained AFPAM 48-151, must apply and document deliberate
risk management procedures as defined in AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational
Health Management and Risk Management.




                                             MARY ARMOUR, Colonel, USAF, NC
                                             Deputy Command Surgeon

                                             (VANCEAFB)

                                             DARREN V. JAMES, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012                                                   11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 4715.1E, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health, 19 Mar 05
DODI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health, 11 Nov 08
DODI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 Aug 98
(Added-VANCEAFB) AETCI 90-801, Prevention of Heat Stress Disorders, 19 April 2012
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFPAM 48-151 AFGM 3, Thermal Injury, 24 April 2012
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 23 Aug 11
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, 1
Sep 04
AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions, 25 Jun 10
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 24 Sep 09
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program, 15 Sep 11
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 08
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFMAN 48-153, Health Risk Assessment, 28 Mar 07
AFPAM 10-100, Airman’s Manual, 1 Mar 09
AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury, 18 Nov 02
AFPAM 48-152(I)/TB MED 507, Heat Stress Control and Heat Casualty Management, 7 Mar
03
AFTTP(I) 3-2.34, Risk Management, (Multiservice Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures), Feb 01
MIL STD 882-D, Standard Practice for System Safety, 10 Feb 00
HQ AFMOA/SG3P policy ltr, Transitioning to the New Air Force Safety Automated System
(AFSAS) Occupational (Occ) Illness Module, 22 Aug 08
Epidemiology of Hospitalizations and Deaths from Heat Illness in Solders, Carter, R.,
Cheuvront, S., Williams, J.O., Kolka, M.A., Stephenson, L.A., Sawka, M.N., Amoroso, P.J.,
Med.Sci.Sports Exerc., Vol 37, No. 8, pp 1338-1344, 2005.
Heat Related Illnesses, Carter, R., Cheuvront, S.N., Swaka, M.N., Sports Science Exchange, Vol
19, No. 3. pp 1-6, 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
(Added-VANCEAFB) AETCI—Air Education and Training Instruction
 12                                  AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


(Added-VANCEAFB) AFGM—Air Force Guidance Memorandum
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFRDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(Added-VANCEAFB) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BA—Battlefield Airman
BE—bioenvironmental engineering
BG—black globe
DB—dry bulb
(Added-VANCEAFB) °F—Degrees Fahrenheit
IC—Incident Commander
IDMT—-Independent Duty Medical Technician
(Added-VANCEAFB) ITS—Index of Thermal Stress
(Added-VANCEAFB) MDG—Medical Group
(Added-VANCEAFB) MDOS—Medical Operations Squadron
OL—operating location
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-VANCEAFB) OSS—Operations Support Squadron
PC—physical conditioning
RM—Risk Management
SF—Security Forces
(Added-VANCEAFB) SOF—Supervisor of Flying
TC—Troop Commander
WBGT—wet bulb, globe temperature

Terms
Acclimatization—A period of adjustment an individual's body requires to become accustomed
to working in hot environments. Full acclimatization occurs through progressive degrees of heat
exposure and physical exertion. Personnel may need 2 weeks of increasing exposures to become
substantially acclimated and may retain most of their adaptation for about 1 week after leaving a
hot climate. Workers in good physical condition acclimate more quickly.
Heat Stress—Heat stress is the combination of environment and physical work factors that
constitute the total heat load imposed on the body. The environmental heat stress factors are air
temperature, radiant heat exchange (example, sunlight), air movement, and relative humidity.
Physical work contributes to total heat stress through the body's production of heat (metabolic
heat) as it burns energy to sustain the work. This production of metabolic heat depends on the
AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012                                                        13


intensity of the physical effort that is affected, in turn, by body size, muscular development,
physical fitness, and age.
Heat Stress Disorders—Heat stress disorders or heat disorders are general terms used to
indicate any type of adverse health problem related to heat. Heat syncope, cramps, exhaustion,
and stroke are all forms of heat stress disorders. Heat disorders may be recognized by one or
more of the following symptoms: nausea, vomiting, fever, dizziness, headache, faintness,
abnormal sweating, convulsions, lack of coordination, mental confusion, and abdominal or leg
cramps. The personnel most likely to be affected by the heat are those who have just arrived
from cooler regions of the country, are obese, or are in poor condition. A list of heat stress
disorders follows:
Heat Cramps—Painful intermittent spasms of the muscles used during work (arms, legs, or
abdominal) may occur during or after work hours. Cramps may result from exposure to high
temperature for a relatively long time, particularly if accompanied by hard physical work.
Cramps usually occur in unacclimatized personnel after heavy sweating and are the result of
excessive loss of salt from the body. Even if the moisture is replaced by drinking water, the loss
of salt by sweating may provoke heat cramps.
Heat Exhaustion—The signs of heat exhaustion are profuse sweating, weakness, rapid pulse,
dizziness, nausea, and headache. The body temperature is elevated with heat exhaustion,
although not to the same degree as with heat stroke. Heat exhaustion is caused by a deficiency of
water and/or salt intake and circulatory strain from competing demands for blood flow to the
skin and to active muscles. Can progress to heat stroke rapidly if not treated immediately.
Heat Stroke—Heat stroke is a medical emergency and is caused by exposure to a hot
environment in which the body is unable to cool itself sufficiently. This results in the body
temperature rising rapidly. With classic heat stroke, hot dry skin may be present. This should be
anticipated in older or debilitated individuals. With exertional heat stroke, sweating continues. It
is often preceded by nausea or vomiting, abnormal shivering, and/or confused mental status with
slurred speech. In highly motivated individuals, the only sign before collapse and
unconsciousness may be heavy sweating. Increased body temperature, if uncontrolled, may lead
to delirium, convulsions, coma, and even death. Heat stroke is a much more serious condition
than either heat cramps or heat exhaustion.
Heat Syncope—Fainting that occurs immediately after exertion without proper cool down or
while standing erect and immobile in heat. Caused by pooling of the blood in dilated vessels and
the lower parts of the body.
Hyponatremia (Acute Water Intoxication)—Condition in which the level of sodium in the
blood is markedly lowered as a result of sodium lost in sweat, coupled with fluid replacement
using only large volumes of plain water (greater than 1 1/2 quarts per hour). This is a medical
emergency. Hyponatremia is a life-threatening condition that may result in confusion, fatigue,
muscle cramps, and nausea early on, followed later by vomiting, unconsciousness, seizures, and
death if not recognized and treated promptly. This condition is difficult to distinguish from heat
exhaustion and heat stroke, and if suspected should be treated immediately in a medical facility.
Wet Bulb, Globe Temperature (WBGT) Index—The WBGT index is a combination of
temperature measurements that factor dry air temperature, air movement, relative humidity, and
 14                                AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


radiant heating. The equation for the WBGT index uses dry bulb (DB), natural wet bulb (NWB),
and black globe (BG) temperatures.
AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012                                                   15


                                        Attachment 2
                WORK REST CYCLES AND WORKLOAD EXAMPLES

Figure A2.1. Tables 1 & 2. Work Rest Cycles and Fluid Replacement (copied from
AFPAM 48-151, Atch 5)




NOTES:
1. These values will sustain performance and hydration for at least 4 hours of work in the
specified heat category. (Values are based on US Army Research Institute for Environmental
Medicine recommendations; US Army policy.)
2. This table is based on studies of personnel wearing military BDU clothing. When performing
activities with ground crew ensemble, fire-fighting gear, or other restrictive or impermeable
clothing, make arrangements for remote site measurement of the WBGT and add 10 oF to the
measurement (add 15 oF if also wearing body armor). When wearing typical athletic training
gear (shorts & t-shirt), commanders and supervisors may adjustment or waive requirements of
this table, based on consultation with local medical subject matter experts.
3. Rest means minimal physical activity (sitting or standing) accomplished in the shade if
possible (but not necessary).
4. Individual water needs will vary +/- 1/4 quart per hour.
    CAUTION: Hourly fluid intake should not exceed 1 1/2 quarts; daily fluid intake should
    not exceed 12 quarts. Rapid ingestion of large amounts of water (greater than 1 1/2 quarts
    per hour) may lead to hyponatremia (acute water intoxication), which is a life-threatening
 16                                    AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


   condition that may lead to weakness, convulsions, loss of consciousness, and death if not
   recognized and treated promptly.




Figure A2.2. Work Load Examples. [From AFPAM 48-151 Table A6.2; TB Med 507 Table 3-1]

Easy Work
   1. Walking hard surface at 2.5 miles per hour (mph), < 30 pound (lb) load
   2. Weapon maintenance
   3. Marksmanship training
   4. Drill and ceremony
   5. Repair, airplane or automobile
   6. Repair, wiring, plumbing
   7. Occupation, carpentry, general
   8. Occupation, walking 3.0 mph, moderately and carrying light objects < 25 lbs
   9. Occupation, walking on job, < 2.0 mph, very slow
   10. Occupation, police, directing traffic (standing)

Moderate Work
  1. Walking hard surface at 3.5 mph, < 40 lb load
  2. Walking loose sand at 2.5 mph, no load
AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012                                                      17


   3.    Walking, carrying 1 - 15 lb load, upstairs
   4.    Individual movement techniques, such as low crawl, high crawl
   5.    Calisthenics
   6.    Defensive position construction
   7.    Cleaning, heavy or major (for example, wash car, wash windows, mop)—vigorous effort
   8.    Conditioning exercise, calisthenics light or moderate effort
   9.    Lawn and garden, mowing lawn, walk, power mower
   10.   Repair, painting, papering, plastering, scraping

Hard Work
   1. Walking hard surface at 3.5 mph, > 40 lb load
   2. Walking loose sand at 2.5 mph with load
   3. Walking, carrying 16 - 49 lb load, upstairs
   4. Running, 5 mph (12 minutes per mile)
   5. Lawn and garden, mowing lawn, hand mower
   6. Occupation, truck driving, loading and unloading truck (standing)
   7. Occupation, moving, pushing heavy objects, 75 lbs or more (desks, moving van work)
   8. Conditioning exercise, calisthenics (push-ups, pullups, situps)—heavy, vigorous effort
   9. Occupation, carrying heavy loads (such as bricks)
   10. Occupation, carrying moderate loads upstairs, moving boxes (16 - 40 lbs)
 18                                   AETCI90-801_VANCEAFBSUP_I 23 OCTOBER 2012


                                          Attachment 3
                                     ACCLIMATIZATION

A3.1. Acclimatization is defined as the adaptive changes that occur when an individual
undergoes repeated or prolonged heat exposure and the concomitant reduction in physiological
strain produced by the hot environment. Acclimatization is achieved by repeated exposures to a
heat stress sufficient to raise internal body temperature to levels that provoke moderate to
profuse sweating; this is most effectively accomplished by exercising or working in the heat.
Acclimatization to heat begins with the first exposure; at least 7 to 14 days of exposure are
required to reach approximately 95 percent of maximal physiological response.
A3.2. Higher levels of aerobic conditioning from exercise in thermoneutral or cool
environments provide a partial degree of acclimatization, but not complete acclimatization. Also,
acclimatization is specific to the environmental vapor pressure; that is, adaptations to hot-humid
conditions are different than those to hot-dry conditions. Individuals who will exercise or work
in the heat should increase their state of acclimatization by gradually increasing exercise or work
exposure during the approximately 2-week period before the scheduled activity. Supervisors
must note that several factors, including inter-individual differences, affect the rate and
magnitude of acclimatization.
A3.3. When an unacclimatized worker is exposed to heat, he or she may experience some
discomfort and signs of heat strain, such as high body temperature, increased heart rate, and
fatigue on the first day. On each succeeding day, the worker's ability to perform at the same level
of heat stress improves as signs of discomfort and strain diminish. During the approximately 2
weeks it takes to acclimatize, the worker should be especially aware of the signs and symptoms
of heat stress disorders and should drink an adequate quantity of water as indicated in Table 2.
After a period of approximately 2 weeks, a worker should be able to perform all tasks without
difficulty.
A3.4. Individuals who are seasonally exposed to strenuous duties or heavy work undergo
acclimatization each year. This may occur during regular duty or work as outside temperatures
increase during the spring and summer.
A3.5. Supervisors of personnel in training status will use the activity level restrictions in Tables
1 and 2 to plan and conduct outdoor training and troop movements for individuals under their
control. Paragraph 6 addresses recommendations for single training events conducted solely for
the purpose of physical conditioning (PC). All trainees will be considered unacclimatized unless
exposed to increasing levels of exertion in WBGT heat conditions. The actual number of days to
acclimate will depend on many factors and will be determined for each course based on the
training schedule and prior heat category levels during the acclimatization process.
A3.6. Although trainees may eventually become acclimated, the body's tolerance to heat may be
reduced based on pre-existing health conditions. Trainees must be educated to inform instructors
of these conditions so that proper adjustments in training activities can be made. Depending upon
the seriousness of the condition, these adjustments can include more closely observing the
affected personnel, reducing the activity rate and/or time, or referring the trainee to a clinical
provider for an evaluation.
