BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   AETC INSTRUCTION 90-105
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                           11 SEPTEMBER 2007
COMMAND
                                                                                           Command Policy

                                                       MANAGEMENT OF CONTRACTOR VISITS TO
                                                          HEADQUARTERS AIR EDUCATION AND
                                                              TRAINING COMMAND (HQ AETC)



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to
                        www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link).
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A5TT                                     Certified by: HQ AETC/A5T (Mr. James Patterson)
Supersedes AETCI90-105, 4 December 2003                                                     Pages: 8

This instruction implements AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 8 August 2003. It sets forth procedures
and responsibilities for arranging and monitoring official visits of contractors to general officers and other
personnel in AETC. This instruction applies to contractor visits to all AETC personnel. This publication
does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command or Air National Guard units. Ensure that all records cre-
ated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary
of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision changes office symbols throughout; modifies guidance on contractor visits to all AETC per-
sonnel vice headquarters only (paragraphs 1.1. and 1.2.); updates offices of primary responsibility (OPR)
information for various requirements within the instruction (paragraphs 2.); adds information describing
mandatory and regulatory standards of ethical conduct relevant to the conduct of contractor visits (para-
graph 4.); and adds information regarding timeframe for completion of package for contractor visits with
general officers. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous version.

Section A—Responsibilities

1. Overview:
   1.1. AETC considers visits of contractors to AETC personnel to be a matter of command interest.
   Every consideration will be made to ensure visit requirements are appropriate and managed courte-
   ously and professionally. All AETC personnel who interact with contractors have an ethical responsi-
   bility when facilitating or arranging contractor visits. The AETC mission can be positively impacted
2                                                                  AETCI90-105 11 SEPTEMBER 2007


    through AETC’s interaction with industry, but there are specific rules for such encounters. AETC per-
    sonnel must be aware of these rules to avoid ethics or procurement integrity violations.
    1.2. The requirements in this instruction govern contractor visits with AETC personnel. All AETC
    organizations will comply with these rules and policy when responding to requests for contractor vis-
    its.

2. Specific Responsibilities:
    2.1. HQ AETC/A5TT is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the AETC Contractor Visit
    Program.
    2.2. HQ AETC/A5TT will schedule contractor visits to the AETC command section, HQ AETC/A2/
    3, and the HQ AETC/A5/8. All other AETC organizations will handle contractor visits to their person-
    nel and use the AETC Form 27, Contractor Visit Questionnaire, and AETC Form 28, Demonstration
    Agreement - Statement of Understanding, to manage these visits.
    2.3. HQ AETC/A5TT will provide additional guidance or assistance to all AETC organizations, if
    requested.
    2.4. HQ AETC/A4/7 will keep the AETC commander’s staff apprised of current source selections
    (large-dollar value) or other high profile contracting issues within AETC as part of regular status
    briefings.
    2.5. HQ AETC/A7KB will provide recommendations on procurement issues which should not be dis-
    cussed during contractor visits.
    2.6. HQ AETC/JA will provide legal advice on procurement integrity and ethics matters.

Section B—Rules for Contractor Visits

3. General Information. Many times, former Department of Defense (DoD) employees (either retired
or separated, military or civilian) will secure jobs with contractors who seek to do business with the Air
Force. Typically, these former employees will request an audience with directors or headquarters staff to
establish relationships or facilitate an exchange of information. When a visit request is received, AETC
personnel will follow guidance set forth in paragraph 4. through paragraph 17. of this instruction.

4. Standards of Conduct. Government officers and employees will conduct government business in a
manner above reproach--with complete impartiality and preferential treatment for none—as dictated by
mandatory and regulatory standards of ethical conduct. The general rule requires all government officers
and employees to strictly avoid any conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest in govern-
ment-contractor relationships. See Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 3.101, Standards of Conduct,
and Executive Order 11222 of May 8, 1965, Prescribing Standards of Ethical Conduct for Government
Officers and Employees.

5. Visits by Retired General Officers and Senior Executive Service (SES) Personnel:
    5.1. Verification. The OPR responsible for responding to the request of a retired general officer or a
    retired SES to visit AETC on behalf of a contractor will verify the retirement date and agency from
    which the general officer or SES retired. If the retirement date is 1 year or less, and the individual has
    retired from the Air Force, the OPR will ensure the purpose of the visit does not violate Title 18
AETCI90-105 11 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                              3


   United States Code (U.S.C.) 207(c), known as the one-year no-contact rule. This rule prohibits senior
   officials from contacting any employee of their former agency on behalf of a third party within 1 year
   in connection with any matter on which the third party seeks official action by the agency.
   5.2. One-Year Ban Regarding Foreign Entities (18 U.S.C. 207[f]). Air Force general officers and
   SES members who are ES-6 or ES-5 may not, for 1 year after leaving the government:
       5.2.1. Represent a foreign government or foreign political party before any US government
       agency with intent to influence a decision by a US government agency.
       5.2.2. Aid or advise a foreign government or foreign political party with intent to influence a deci-
       sion by a US government agency.
   5.3. Violations. The OPR should refer contractor visits by personnel who may be in violation of these
   rules to HQ AETC/JA for a legal recommendation regarding the propriety of the visit.

6. Contractor Visits Involving a Potential Violation of the Procurement Integrity Act. To e n s u r e
compliance with Title 41 U.S.C., Section 423, of the Procurement Integrity Act:
   6.1. During the conduct of any federal agency procurement of property or services and prior to the
   award of a contract, competing contractors are prohibited from knowingly soliciting or obtaining
   (directly or indirectly) any proprietary or source selection information regarding such procurement
   action from any officer or employee of an agency.
   6.2. The OPR will notify the appropriate contracting squadron when a request for a contractor visit is
   received. The contracting squadron will research ongoing source selections and other procurement
   actions to determine whether the contractor visit might have a negative impact on the procurement
   action. In particular, postpone any request from a participating contractor in a source selection to visit
   or brief the source selection authority (SSA) or technical advisors until after the award of the contract.
   6.3. Refer any request for a contractor visit involving a potential violation of the Procurement Integ-
   rity Act to HQ AETC/JA for a legal recommendation.

7. Contractor Visits Involving Other Potential Violations of Post-Government Employment
Restrictions. The Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), DoD 5500.7-R (paragraph 9-900), states that current
DoD employees shall not knowingly deal, on behalf of the government, with former DoD employees, if
the employee’s participation in the transaction would violate any statute, or DoD directive, regulation, or
policy. Thus, Federal employees should not deal with a former employee if they believe that doing so
would cause that person to violate any of the following rules:
   7.1. Lifetime Representation Ban (18 U.S.C. 207[a][1]). Military officers and Federal civilian
   employees who participate personally and substantially in a government contract or other particular
   matter are prohibited for life from representing the contractor (or any other third party) before the Air
   Force or any other Federal agency, in connection with that contract or matter. The ban does not apply
   to enlisted personnel.
   7.2. Two-year Representation Ban (18 U.S.C. 207[a][2]). Military officers and Federal civilian
   employees who have a contract or other particular matter under their official responsibility during
   their last year in the government may not, for 2 years, represent the contractor (or any other third
   party) before the Air Force or any Federal agency, in connection with that contract or matter. The ban
   does not apply to enlisted personnel.
4                                                                 AETCI90-105 11 SEPTEMBER 2007


    7.3. Ban on Representation during Terminal Leave (18 U.S.C. 203 and 205). Military officers
    and Federal civilian employees are prohibited from representing any person, company, or organization
    (other than the United States) before the Air Force or any other Federal agency. This ban applies to
    officers who are on terminal leave, but does not apply to enlisted personnel.

Section C—Rules on and Prohibitions Against Disclosure of Government Information

8. Prohibition Against Giving Preferential Treatment (5 CFR 2635.101[b][8]). Federal employees
are prohibited from giving preferential treatment to any private individual or company. When disseminat-
ing information to interested contractors, give them all the same information at the same time. This is the
preferred method (and legally the most prudent).

9. Prohibition Against Disclosure of Nonpublic Information (5 CFR 2635.703[a]). Employees will
not disclose non-public information to further the private interests of any individual, company, or organi-
zation. Non-public information means information the employee gains by reason of federal employment,
and he or she knows (or reasonably should know) has not been made available to the general public.

10. Prohibition Against Disclosure of Information Related to a Source Selection. Employees will
not disclose contractor bid or proposal information, or source selection information. See 41 U.S.C.
423(a), (f)(1), (f)(2), and FAR 3.104-4(a). Note: This is information related to a specific source selection.

11. Prohibition Against Disclosure of Advance Procurement Information. According to the FAR, a
high level of business security must be maintained in order to preserve the integrity of the acquisition pro-
cess (FAR 5.401[a]). According to FAR 5.401(b) and (c), employees participating in the acquisition pro-
cess may not disclose information:
    11.1. On plans that would provide undue or discriminatory advantage to private or personal interests.
    11.2. Received in confidence from an offeror.
    11.3. Otherwise requiring protection under DoD 5400.7-R/AF Supplement, DoD Freedom of Infor-
    mation Act Program, or AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
    11.4. Pertaining to internal agency communications; for example, technical reviews, contracting
    authority or other reasons, or recommendations referring thereto.

12. Prohibition Against Release of Information About a Procurement Before Solicitation is Issued.
Do not release information concerning proposed acquisitions outside the government before solicitation
except for presolicitation notices in accordance with FAR 14.205 or 36.213-2, long-range acquisition esti-
mates in accordance with FAR 5.404, or synopses in accordance with FAR 5.201. Within the government,
restrict the release of such information to those having a legitimate interest in the information. Release
information to all prospective bidders as nearly as possible at the same time, so one prospective bidder is
not given unfair advantage over another (FAR 14.211[a]).

13. Trade Secrets Act. The Trade Secrets Act states that, unless authorized by law, an employee may not
publish or disclose any information that comes to him (or her) in the course of employment or official
duties and that concerns or relates to the trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, or apparatus,
AETCI90-105 11 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                                 5


or to the identity, confidential statistical data, amount or source of any income, profits, losses, or expendi-
tures of any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association (18 U.S.C. 1905).

14. Intelligence. Comply with AFI 14-303, Release of Intelligence to US Contractors, when releasing
intelligence to contractors.

15. Classified Material. If a visiting contractor proposes discussion of any classified material, the host-
ing office will obtain and process a visit authorization letter (VAL) from the contractor’s security office in
accordance with DoD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual Supplement.
Direct any questions concerning this requirement to 12 SFS/S5P.

Section D—Procedures for Contractor Visits

16. General Information. All AETC organizations will process contractor visits according to the guid-
ance in this instruction. Procedures for contractor visits should adhere to the rules for contractor visits to
AETC/CC, AETC/CV, A2/3, and A5/8 which are described below. AETC organizations should contact
HQ AETC/A5TT if additional guidance or assistance is needed.

17. Contractor Visits to AETC/CC, CV, and HQ AETC/A2/3 and A5/8:
   17.1. Requests for contractor visits to AETC/CC, CV, and HQ AETC/A2/3 and A5/8 are generally
   received by either the administrative staff of the general officer or by HQ AETC/A5TT. The adminis-
   trative staff will refer routine contractor visit requests to HQ AETC/A5TT, and establish a tasker for
   HQ AETC/A5TT with the name, telephone number, and point of contact of the company requesting
   the visit. (If the administrative staff elects to grant a tentative date and time for the visit, include this
   information in the tasker.) In the event of a short-notice visit, the command section will call HQ
   AETC/A5TT direct with the pertinent information. Generally, the OPR should be allowed a minimum
   of two weeks to coordinate a package (with relevant talking papers) for contractor visits with general
   officers.
   17.2. Refer requests for strictly personal visits to AETC/CC, CV, and HQ AETC/A2/3 and A5/8 to
   their respective administrative staff for approval. Visits by consultants and/or retired military seeking
   to introduce contractor personnel to senior leaders in the HQ AETC command section, A2/3, and A5/
   8 will not be considered personal visits. Coordinate such visits pursuant to this instruction.
   17.3. On receipt of a contractor visit request, HQ AETC/A5TT will forward a copy of AETC Form 27
   to the requester. The requester should complete the form and return it to HQ AETC/A5TT.
   17.4. HQ AETC/A5TT will schedule the contractor visit with the appropriate administrative staff.
   Note: Schedules are considered tentative and, therefore, not binding by the command staff until an AF
   Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, has been approved. (AF Form 1768 is prescribed by AFMAN
   33-326, Preparing Official Communications. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the
   form.)
   17.5. If the visiting party includes retired general officer or SES personnel, HQ AETC/A5TT will
   screen the information provided in the contractor visit questionnaire and biographies for the retire-
   ment date to ensure the visit does not infringe upon the one-year no-contact rule. Biographies of
   retired general officers are available at http://www.af.mil/ (select biographies). If a potential violation
   of the one-year no-contact rule is noted, the OPR will refer the matter to HQ AETC/JA.
6                                                                AETCI90-105 11 SEPTEMBER 2007


    17.6. HQ AETC/A5TT will query HQ AETC/A7KB to determine if the visiting contractor is
    involved in any ongoing AETC source selection, or other contracting matter that could present the
    appearance of a conflict of interest. HQ AETC/A7KB will coordinate any issue with HQ AETC/JA
    and provide recommendations to HQ AETC/A5TT concerning the proposed visit.
    17.7. HQ AETC/A5TT will prepare an AF Form 1768 in support of the contractor visit for the
    approval of the general officer being visited. The form will include the following information:
       17.7.1. Date, time, and place of the visit.
       17.7.2. Names, titles, and biographies of visiting party members.
       17.7.3. Brief company overview or annual report.
       17.7.4. Proposed topics the company wishes to discuss.
       17.7.5. Names of the functional OPRs who will participate in the courtesy call.
       17.7.6. Name of the escort officer who will accompany the visitors.
       17.7.7. Bullet background papers deemed necessary in support of the visit.
    17.8. If the visiting team includes individuals from foreign countries, HQ AETC/A5TT will contact
    AETC International Affairs (IA). In general, an approved visitor’s pass processed through the
    embassy is required before such a visit can be scheduled.
    17.9. If the visiting team includes distinguished visitors (as defined in AETCI 90-401, Notification of
    Distinguished Visitors to AETC Installations), HQ AETC/A5TT will contact the protocol office (HQ
    AETC/CCP) to coordinate.
    17.10. For any contractor visit scheduled for AETC/CC/CV, prepare and distribute an AETC Form
    20, Request for Briefing, to HQ AETC CSS/SCMSD and all AETC attendees. (AETC Form 20 is pre-
    scribed by AETCI 90-102, Conferences, Workshops, Briefings, and Video Teleconferences. Refer to
    that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)
    17.11. If necessary, prior to contractor visits to HQ AETC, HQ AETC/A2/3, and HQ AETC/A5/8,
    HQ AETC/A5TT will provide the Randolph AFB Visitor Reception Center with information about
    the visiting team to facilitate entry into Randolph AFB.
    17.12. The OPR will refer significant conflicts regarding these procedures to the Director of Staff
    (HQ AETC/DS) for resolution.

18. Prescribed Forms:
AETC Form 27, Contractor Visit Questionnaire
AETC Form 28, Demonstration Agreement Statement of Understanding
AETCI90-105 11 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                        7


19. Adopted Forms:
AETC Form 20, Request for Briefing
AF IMT 1768, Staff Summary Sheet



                                     ERWIN F. LESSEL III, Major General, USAF
                                     Director of Plans, Requirements, and Programs
8                                                              AETCI90-105 11 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 11222, Prescribing Standards of Ethical Conduct for Government Officers and Employ-
ees, May 8, 1965
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), March 2005
Title 18 U.S.C., Section 203, Compensation to Members of Congress, Officers, and Others in Matters
Affecting the Government
Title 18 U.S.C., Section 205, Activities of Officers and Employees in Claims Against and Other Matters
Affecting the Government
Title 18 U.S.C., Section 207, Restrictions on Former Officers, Employees, and Elected Officials of the
Executive and Legislative Branches
Title 18 U.S.C., Section 1905, Disclosure of Confidential Information Generally
Title 41 U.S.C., Section 423, Restrictions on Disclosing and Obtaining Contractor Bid or Proposal Infor-
mation or Source Section Information
5 CFR 2635, Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch
DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), 30 August 1993
DoD 5400.7-R/AF Supplement, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 24 June 2002
DoD 5220.22-M-Sup 1, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual Supplement, February
1995
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 8 August 2003
AFI 14-303, Release of Intelligence to US Contractors, 1 April 1999
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 1 November 1999
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994
AETCI 90-102, Conferences, Workshops, Briefings, and Video Teleconferences, 28 June 1996
AETCI 90-401, Notification of Distinguished Visitors to AETC Installations, 7 February 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DoD—Department of Defense
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
OPR—office of primary responsibility
SES—Senior Executive Service
U.S.C.—United States Code
