BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AETC INSTRUCTION 36-2207
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                             2 OCTOBER 2000
COMMAND                                                                Certified Current 24 February 2010
                                                                                                Personnel

                                                          SURVIVAL, EVASION, RESISTANCE, AND
                                                             ESCAPE (SERE) TRAINING SYSTEMS
                                                                                 EVALUATION



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AETC/DOFA (MSgt R. Zipperer)                       Certified by: HQ AETC/DOF (Col T. Gilbert)
Supersedes AETCI36-2207, 25 July 1996                                                       Pages: 6
                                                                                     Distribution: Fc

This instruction implements AFPD 36-22, Military Training. It establishes requirements for standardizing
and evaluating SERE training systems and includes responsibilities for student training system evaluation
and SERE training standardization/evaluation (stan/eval) program. It applies to HQ AETC/DOF and the
336th Training Group (336 TRG); it does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Com-
mand units. Further details will be published locally in a supplement to this instruction. Send one copy of
each supplement to HQ AETC/DOF. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting infor-
mation.
Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication according to
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Deletes sections on the
training review process and student administration procedures which will be integrated into AETCI
36-2205, Flying Training Administration and Management. Combines sections on the student training
assessment program and training evaluation and analysis program into the section on training system
evaluation and analysis program. Transfers all procedures performed by 19 AF/DOOS to HQ AETC/DOF
due to reorganization. Establishes a no-notice instructor evaluation program at the 336TRG.

Section A—Training System Evaluation and Analysis Program

1. Overview:
   1.1. This section designates responsibilities for conducting training systems evaluation and analysis
   in order to identify notable strengths and improvement opportunities. It applies to all SERE training
   courses conducted by New
                          the Text
                              336 TRG. ertified Current 9 May 2008
2                                                                   AETCI36-2207 2 OCTOBER 2000


    1.2. A continuing evaluation and analysis program is required for improving and maintaining cur-
    rency of SERE training systems. The program will include applicable internal and external evaluation
    processes, which implement AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and Conducting Training, and
    instructional systems development requirements. (See the AFH 36-2235 series, Volumes 1 through 11,
    Information for Designers of Instructional Systems.) Specific evaluation criteria and methods for anal-
    ysis will be determined locally.

2. Responsibilities of HQ AETC/DOF. HQ AETC/DOF will:
    2.1. Provide program policy and guidance.
    2.2. Collect and analyze data for the external evaluation process by maintaining a liaison with the Air
    Force Inspector General for Safety (AFISC/SEL), MAJCOM life support offices, the DoD Executive
    Agent for Code of Conduct Training (Joint Personnel Recovery Agency [JPRA]), sister Services, res-
    cue coordination centers, and other agencies that impact DoD SERE training. HQ AETC/DOF will
    ensure information and data relative to actual SERE experiences critical to the currency and effective-
    ness of SERE courses are forwarded to the 336 TRG.

3. Responsibilities of the 336 TRG Commander. The 336 TRG Commander will:
    3.1. Ensure procedures exist to collect and analyze data for the internal evaluation process to improve
    the effectiveness and quality of training.
    3.2. Ensure evaluation data is collected and analyzed. This information may be extracted from items
    such as student questionnaires, instructor comments, test monitor program, training observation
    reports (TOR), annual course review, course managers feedback, and the like.
    3.3. Ensure students are allowed to provide subjective written course critique comments throughout
    all formal courses.
    3.4. Track improvement efforts to ensure effectiveness of improvement actions.
    3.5. Develop and conduct S-V81-A postgraduate evaluations within 6 months of graduation. Forward
    a semiannual report of findings to HQ AETC/DOF by 31 January and 31 July.

Section B—SERE Training Standardization/Evaluation (Stan/Eval) Program

4. Overview. The major objectives of the SERE Training Stan/Eval Program are to identify strengths and
improvement opportunities for all formal SERE training programs, improve individual training and
instructor proficiency, and enhance operational safety.

5. HQ AETC/DOF Responsibilities. HQ AETC/DOF will:
    5.1. Administer the HQ AETC Stan/Eval Program for all SERE training activities.
    5.2. Formulate and approve stan/eval directives, develop requirements, provide guidance, and evalu-
    ate training systems.
    5.3. Develop stan/eval schedules and conduct stan/eval visits according to this instruction and special
    instructions from the AETC Commander.
    5.4. Solicit recommendations for improving stan/eval programs from the AETC Commander.
AETCI36-2207 2 OCTOBER 2000                                                                               3


6. Responsibilities of the 336 TRG Commander. The 336 TRG Commander will formulate and imple-
ment requirements and procedures supporting the stan/eval program according to this instruction. He or
she will ensure evaluators assigned at group staff level are experienced SERE instructors with supervisory
experience.

7. Responsibilities of the 336 TRG Stan/Eval Office (336 TRG/CCV). Office personnel will:
   7.1. Administer the group stan/eval program.
   7.2. Evaluate all formal courses attached to the 336TRG for compliance with approved courseware.
   Office personnel will also evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the courses as related to stan-
   dardization, professionalism, safety, and logistical support.
   7.3. Establish a formal no-notice instructor evaluation program that evaluates a percentage of instruc-
   tors teaching in all courses assigned to the 336 TRG.
   7.4. Record no-notice evaluations on the appropriate AETC Form 610; that is, AETC Form 610O,
   Instructor Evaluation Record – Operational Training; AETC Form 610R, Instructor Evaluation
   Record – Resistance Training; or AETC Form 610S, Instructor Evaluation Record – Academic
   Training. No-notice evaluation results will be maintained in the instructor's stan/eval folder kept at
   the squadron level.
   7.5. Establish a stan/eval review board (SRB) which will convene quarterly. The SRB will provide
   feedback on the effectiveness of the group's formal training courses, provide crossfeed between units
   on improvement opportunities, recommend changes to publications, evaluate the effectiveness of the
   stan/eval programs, and prescribe corrective action.
   7.6. Ensure instructor evaluations are conducted according to this instruction.

8. Responsibilities of the Squadron or Detachment Commander. The commander will:
   8.1. Actively support the squadron or detachment, group, and command SERE stan/eval programs.
   8.2. Ensure each instructor receives an instructor evaluation by a certified supervisor or stan/eval per-
   sonnel on an annual basis. This evaluation will be conducted within a 120-day window starting on the
   first day of the ninth month after the month of the instructor's most recent evaluation. When circum-
   stances prevent the evaluation of an instructor during the 120-day window, the instructor will be
   decertified to instruct until he or she successfully completes an instructor evaluation.
   8.3. Ensure significant findings of the instructor evaluation are documented on the appropriate AETC
   Form 610 (610O, 610R, or 610S).
   8.4. Ensure action is taken to correct discrepancies.

9. Unit Evaluations and Visits by HQ AETC/DOF. HQ AETC/DOF personnel will perform periodic
staff assistance visits (SAV) to the 336 TRG and subordinate units to maintain currency and effectiveness
of the training system. During formal headquarters evaluations, the Chief, HQ AETC/DOF, will augment
the AETC Inspector General (IG) team.

10. Instructor Evaluation and Grading System:
4                                                                    AETCI36-2207 2 OCTOBER 2000


    10.1. Grading Scale. The grading system consists of a Q1 (qualified), Q2 (qualified), and Q3
    (unqualified) grading scale (with a four-level subareas) as follows:
       10.1.1. Q1 (Qualified). The instructor's performance met the desired standards for subject mas-
       tery and instructional techniques. An adjective phrase of exceptionally qualified (EQ) may be
       included in the remarks section of the AETC Form 610 for individuals whose overall performance
       far exceeds the standards.
       10.1.2. Q2 (Qualified). The instructor's performance met minimum standards for subject mastery
       and instructional techniques. Although this rating does not require decertification, additional train-
       ing is required.
       10.1.3. Q3 (Unqualified). The instructor did not meet the minimum standards for subject mas-
       tery or instructional techniques. The instructor will be decertified in the evaluated units of train-
       ing. Recertification in the specified units of training by the immediate supervisor is required prior
       to resumption of instructor duties.
    10.2. Subarea Grades:
       10.2.1. E (Excellent). The individual's instruction is above standards. No deviations occurred.
       10.2.2. S (Satisfactory). The individual instructs correctly, efficiently, and skillfully. Minor devi-
       ations may occur, but are recognized and corrected in a timely manner and do not significantly
       detract from the overall performance.
       10.2.3. M (Marginal). The individual instructs safely, but has limited knowledge or skill. Devia-
       tions occur that distract from his or her overall performance.
       10.2.4. U (Unsatisfactory). The individual is unsafe or lacks sufficient knowledge or skill to
       instruct.

11. Grading Instructions. Use the following grading instructions to evaluate an instructor:
    11.1. If the instructor takes appropriate corrective action within a reasonable time, do not allow
    momentary deviations to adversely affect the overall rating level.
    11.2. Consider overall performance when assigning the overall rating level, to include any serious
    breach of directives or compromise of safety. If an evaluator must place restrictions on the member
    being evaluated to ensure safety is not compromised, the evaluation will be rated unqualified.
    11.3. Regardless of other scoring factors, any evaluation may be rated unqualified because of cumu-
    lative deviations from desired performance that reduce mission effectiveness to an unacceptable level.
    11.4. On the appropriate evaluation form, the evaluator will enter comments that may include, but are
    not limited to, significant factors observed during the evaluation.

12. Forms Prescribed. AETC Forms 610O, 610R, and 610S.



                                                WILLIAM WELSER III, Major General, USAF
                                                Director of Operations
AETCI36-2207 2 OCTOBER 2000                                                                              5


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-22, Military Training
AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and Conducting Training
AFM 36-2234, Instructional Systems Development
AFH 36-2235 (series), Information for Designers of Instructional Systems

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ETCA—education and training course announcements
EQ—exceptionally qualified
IG—Inspector General
JPRA—Joint Personnel Recovery Agency
SAV—staff assistance visit
SERE—survival, evasion, resistance, and escape
SRB—stan/eval review board
stan/eval—standardization/evaluation
TOR—training observation report
TRG—training group

Terms
Evaluation—A systematic process of judging how well individuals, procedures, or programs meet
educational objectives. Evaluation of formal training courses includes internal and external evaluations.
External evaluation—The acquisition of feedback and management data (for example, survivor
interview program, graduate evaluation, aircraft mishap reports, prisoner of war debriefs, and DoD
exercises) from outside the formal training environment to assess the effectiveness of the training system.
Formal training courses—Training courses listed in the education and training course announcements
(ETCA) database and the appropriate programmed flying training documents. (For a listing of ETCAs,
see http://hq2af.keesler.af.mil/etca.htm.)
Instructor evaluation—An evaluation conducted by a certified supervisor or a squadron or group
standardization evaluator to determine an individual's knowledge and proficiency in his or her
instructional specialty.
Internal evaluation—The acquisition of internal feedback and management data (for example, student
assessment, written tests, validation data, pretests, student questionnaires, personnel observations,
training observation reports, local, and SAVs) from within the formal training environment to assess the
effectiveness of the training system.
6                                                                AETCI36-2207 2 OCTOBER 2000


No-notice evaluation—An instructor evaluation conducted with no prior notice to the instructor or duty
section.
