BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 48-102
COMMAND
                                                                           5 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                          MEDICAL MANAGEMENT OF
                                                    UNDERGRADUATE FLYING TRAINING
                                                                        STUDENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AETC/SGPS                                         Certified by: AETC/SGP (Col H. Ortega)
                                                                                    Pages: 10
Supersedes:   AETCI 48-102, 16 November
              2009


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise. It establishes
procedures and assigns responsibility for the medical management of US and foreign personnel
entered into undergraduate flying training (UFT) programs, including personnel undergoing the
medical flight screening (MFS) program and the Security Assistance Training Program (SATP).
It applies to all AETC units conducting undergraduate aircrew training for both officer and
enlisted aircrew members. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command, Air National
Guard, or medical units of other US Armed Services.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA).
Authority to collect and maintain records prescribed in this AFI are outlined in Title 10, United
States Code, Section 8013. Privacy Act System Notices F044 AFSG G, Aeromedical
Information and Waiver Tracking System (AIMWTS), and F044 AF SG D, Automated
Medical/Dental Record System, apply and are available at http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. The use of the name or mark of any
 2                                                          AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013


specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a major revision and must be reviewed. The entire AETCI has been reorganized and
edited for continuity. References to 19 AF have been removed. The section on airsickness
management has been completely overhauled; medical hold is now referred to as training
delay—medical, IAW AFI 41-210; administrative hold requirements have been streamlined.

Section A—Medical Standards and Certification Authorities

1. Air Force Instruction 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards (AFI 48-123)
establishes the medical standards for all USAF undergraduate flying training programs.
     1.1. All student aviators will be managed under the same administrative medical
     requirements for USAF student aviators (for example physiological training, airsickness
     management, sick-call procedures, and administrative hold procedures), except as noted in
     this AETCI. AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendation for Flying or Special Operational
     Duty will document medical grounding and clearance to fly recommendations.
2. Other US Armed Forces (or Joint Aviator Training).
     2.1. All student aviators must meet the physical standards of their parent service, regardless
     of where training is conducted. Initial waivers of physical standards required prior to the
     start of training must be granted by the parent service. Students must arrive to AETC UFT
     locations with a certified physical examination, current by parent-service directives.
     2.2. An initial clearance to fly, AF FORM 1042, will be issued following review of
     history/medical records and based on the parent service’s physical examination and
     certification.
     2.3. Physical examinations performed during the student tour of duty will be conducted in
     accordance with the administrative procedures of the USAF. The medical standards of the
     parent service will apply.
     2.4. Any new or permanent disqualifying condition or defect discovered during the tour of
     duty will be submitted through AETC/SGP, to the parent-service waiver authority, and, if
     necessary, to AFMSA/SG3P for waiver determination.
3. Non-US Pilot Training Program Students.
     3.1. Students will have evidence of a parent-nation medical exam and clearance in their
     health record, such as a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) medical statement. The
     USAF will accept preexisting conditions waived by the parent nation unless there is serious
     concern about health or safety.
     3.2. An initial clearance to fly, AF FORM 1042 will be issued following review of
     history/medical records and based on the parent nation’s physical examination and
     certification. Routine temporary medical groundings will be processed in the same manner as
     for USAF students and as noted in this AETCI (see 3.4).
AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                  3


   3.3. Physical examinations performed during the tour of duty will be conducted in
   accordance with the administrative procedures of the USAF. The medical standards of the
   parent nation shall apply.
   3.4. For non-US students, the local flight surgeon will coordinate medical disqualifications
   from flying training and groundings exceeding 30 days through AETC/SGP, who will
   coordinate with AFMSA/SG3PF and the appropriate parent-nation liaison at
   AETC/IA/AFSAT.
4. Security Assistance Training Program (SATP) Students.
   4.1. Unless the student has been previously medically certified for FC I, IA or III, the 559
   MDG/SGPF (DLI), JBSA Lackland AFB TX, will accomplish a FC I, IA or III medical
   examinations on each SATP student scheduled for UFT.
   4.2. These examinations should be accomplished early in the language training period to
   permit review and certification by AETC/SGPS before the student goes to flying training.
   These examinations are valid for 48 months from the date they are certified.

Section B—Arrival to Flying Training and Initial Clearance

5. Clearance Authority. The base flight surgeon issues an initial clearance to fly AF FORM
1042 following normal findings, including non-US students with valid physicals and waivers
from their home country.
6. Clearance Requirements. Students will arrive to AETC UFT locations with a current
physical examination certified by the USAF (see AFI 48-123), the student’s parent-service
medical authority or the parent nation’s medical authority. Local flight surgeons should
coordinate any discrepancies with AETC/SGPS.
   6.1. Each individual reporting to Medical Flight Screening (MFS) should possess a current
   FC I/II medical examination. Exception will be those students scheduled to obtain their FC
   I/II examination at United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM) in
   conjunction with MFS.
   6.2. USAF students inprocessing for UFT will have a current FC I, IA, II and/or III (as
   appropriate) medical examination on record. The examination must be current within 48
   months prior to starting UFT. The student must have a current Preventive Health
   Assessment (PHA) in addition to the certified Initial Flying Class exam. An initial
   certification examination does not exempt active duty applicants from accomplishing their
   required PHA while awaiting training.
      6.2.1. Those students attending Initial Flight Screening (IFS) must possess a valid
      Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Third-Class medical certificate.
   6.3. Specialized undergraduate pilot training (SUPT) and U.S. ENJJPT students must have a
   current, certified FC I examination on record, meet FC I standards for entry into SUPT or
   ENJJPT at inprocessing, and pass the MFS examination at USAFSAM.
      6.3.1. Each student will obtain a PHA FC I physical examination prior to beginning
      active flying in SUPT.
 4                                                         AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013


     6.4. Undergraduate Combat System Officer Training (UCT) students must have a current,
     certified FC I or IA examination on record and meet FC IA medical standards prior to
     beginning active flying in UCT.
     6.5. Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) pilot students must have a current, certified FC II
     examination on record and meet FC II medical standards prior to beginning active flying in
     RPA training. RPA students must pass the appropriate MFS examination at USAFSAM.
     6.6. Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA) students must have a current, certified FC III
     examination on record and meet FC III medical standards prior to beginning active flying
     training.
7. Operational Medication Ground Testing Program. All USAF UFT students will undergo
approved medication ground testing per USAF/SG. For protocols and documentation
requirements, reference AFI 48-149, Flight and Operational Medicine program, and Official Air
Force Aerospace Medicine Approved Medications Guide.
8. PHA. All USAF and non-US active duty members will have an annual PHA accomplished
IAW AFI 44-170, Preventive Health Assessment and AFI 48-123.

Section C—Grounding Management of Flying Training Students

9. Grounding Management. All joint and non-US student aviators will be managed under the
same administrative medical requirements for USAF student aviators. AF FORM 1042 will
document medical grounding (duty not including flying or DNIF) and clearance to fly
recommendations.
     9.1. The local flight surgeon will manage all short-term medical groundings up to 30 days
     via standard AF programmatic guidance.
     9.2. All student groundings should be promptly and carefully coordinated with the instructor
     cadre and squadron leadership.
10. Training Delay—Medical.
     10.1. Students will be placed in Training Delay—Medical (TDM) status only when their
     medical condition does not resolve after 30 days. TDM status in such cases is effective on
     the 31st day of DNIF. Coordination between local SGP and line leadership is critical.
     10.2. Students with remedial or temporarily medically disqualifying conditions may be kept
     in TDM status up to 3 months. Refer to AETCI 36-2205, Vol 1, Formal Flying Training
     Administration and Management, for administrative procedures for delays greater than 3
     months.
     10.3. Students who must remain in TDM status for periods greater than 6 months up to 12
     months must be approved IAW AETCI 36-2205, Vol 1. Use AIMWTS to disqualify students
     who are permanently removed from training for medical reasons, or to request a waiver if
     needed prior to returning to UFT.
11. Medical Requirements before Graduating from UFT. Local Base SGP will establish
procedures to ensure students complete all medical requirements for currency before they depart
the UFT base. Graduated students should not depart a UFT base in a medically disqualified
status unless there has been coordination with receiving base SGP and AETC/SGP.
AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                      5


Section D—Special Considerations

12. Visual Acuity Problems. Rule out progressive ocular pathology on students whose visual
acuity and refraction is significantly changed from the previous examination or found to exceed
flying class standards.
   12.1. If a student’s vision and refraction are confirmed to be within flying class standards
   without progressive ocular pathology, qualify the student locally for flying duty and
   continuation of training.
   12.2. Submit students whose vision and refraction exceed flying class standards, or who
   have an aeromedically significant vision problem, to AETC/SGP for medical review and
   disposition.
   12.3. Vision screening information will not invalidate prior vision waivers or exceptions to
   policy, but will be used to provide students with appropriate corrective lenses before
   initiation of the flying phase of training, unless a new vision condition is noted.
   12.4. Order aviator lenses for students with substandard visual acuity needing correction
   under the “downed pilot” priority category using the Department of Defense (DoD) optical
   fabrication laboratory’s Spectacle Request and Transmission System (SRTS). The SRTS can
   provide same-day processing and ship back to the requesting location in 24-48 hours. At the
   discretion of the medical treatment facility (MTF) commander, one pair of lenses may be
   purchased locally to reduce the DNIF time. Use local civilian procurement as the last
   alternative. MTFs must ensure these lenses meet current Air Force safety standards.
   Individuals who have had substantial deterioration of their visual acuity since their Flying
   Class I examination will be fully re-evaluated to rule out underlying pathology.
13. Contact Lens Use. UFT students are authorized to use soft contact lenses in accordance
with AFI 48-123, if the following criteria are met:
   13.1. Students must be experienced with approved lenses in order to qualify for use of soft
   contact lenses. An “experienced” user is defined as someone who has worn approved contact
   lenses problem-free for at least 6 months. Use of soft contact lenses in UFT will be
   voluntary.
   13.2. Pilot candidates are not authorized to wear contact lenses within 30 days prior to
   reporting to the MFS.
14. Pregnancy. Aerospace medicine physicians must brief each incoming female student on the
consequences pregnancy would have on her flying training.
15. Airsickness (Does not apply to IFS/RFS).
   15.1. Airsickness is an active (vomiting) or significant passive (disabling or disruptive
   nausea) maladaptive coping response to specific environmental conditions that can differ
   from individual to individual. In most cases, airsickness is of brief duration and is related to
   multi-axial accelerations, pulling Gs, and unfamiliar factors (looking for new landmarks, new
   flight patterns, new flight profiles, spatial disorientation, etc.). Airsickness is a common
   problem for student fliers, and it often interferes with progression through UFT. Most
   students adjust to the flying environment quickly, but others require help to overcome
   airsickness. Recommendations to help students prevent and manage airsickness include early
6                                                           AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013


    intervention with education, training, and, if necessary, pharmacological and physiologic
    therapy.
    15.2. The Airsickness Management Program (AMP) provides Team Aerospace with the
    necessary tools to aggressively manage airsickness in UFT students. Timely, coordinated
    efforts between the flight surgeon, aerospace physiologist, and flying supervisors are vital to
    the success of this program. The goal is to restore the student’s confidence and thereby
    his/her ability to continue training, using any or all methods at the team’s disposal.
    Additional administrative guidance pertinent to the management of airsickness is found in the
    appropriate volume of AETCI 36-2205, Vol 1. The airsickness management program will be
    reviewed in the weekly Flight Medicine Working Group, or other appropriate forum. Send a
    copy of your AMP worksheet to AETC/SGP monthly.
       15.2.1. During the academic phase of training, a flight surgeon, aerospace physiologist,
       or an aerospace physiology technician (under the supervision of a flight surgeon or
       aerospace physiologist), will brief UFT students on airsickness before they participate in
       flight or simulator training. This briefing will cover the provisions of AETCI 36-
       2205,Vol 1, as well as the causes of airsickness, and provide details on strategies to
       prevent, manage, and treat airsickness.
       15.2.2. At the first episode of airsickness, the flight surgeon should perform a thorough
       medical evaluation. If no underlying medical cause is found, determine if the proper
       preventive measures learned in the academic phase were followed. Review all academic
       phase resources, if necessary. Consider early pharmacological intervention in situations
       where a student’s prior history of air or motion sickness is identified, or where he or she
       manifests unusually high anxiety levels not believed to be associated with manifestation
       of apprehension (MOA). Refer to the most recent Official Air Force Aerospace Medicine
       Approved Medications guide for approved treatment options. Pharmacological therapy is
       given 1 to 2 hours prior to flight for three consecutive flights. Refer to the appropriate
       volume of AETCI 36-2205, Vol 1 for guidance on which flights medical therapy is
       authorized.
       15.2.3. UFT students who continue to be airsick will receive progressive relaxation
       training and may continue or begin pharmacologic therapy at the discretion of the flight
       surgeon. If a student gets airsick while on medication, ground-test the student with the
       medication prior to the next flight to rule out the potential for medication-induced nausea.
       At each base, available qualified personnel will teach relaxation training by
       demonstrating breathing techniques, providing biofeedback, and using imagery skills.
       Personnel may use personal instruction and/or audiovisual media to accomplish this
       training.
       15.2.4. After three or more airsickness episodes, students should receive physiologic
       adaptation with the Barany chair IAW AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiologyical Training
       Program, and any local OIs. A refresher spin in the Barany chair is recommended with
       any additional airsickness episode. If for any reason a student has missed several days of
       flying, a refresher spin should be given prior to flying. Concurrently, flight surgeons
       should begin to examine the student's motivation to continue training. This may require
       frank discussions with instructors and squadron leadership. Individuals who maintain
       safe aircraft control during active or passive episodes of airsickness without the need for
AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                      7


       IP intervention should be assessed as having high motivation and generally encouraged to
       continue in training. Consider involving mental health to evaluate for MOA as indicated.
       15.2.5. For UPT students, the use of medication to treat airsickness is prohibited
       beginning five sorties prior to their initial T-6A solo sortie and remains so until
       graduation. Treatment is limited to psychological and physiologic interventions. For
       other UFT students, close collaboration between the flight surgeon and the student’s
       instructors/supervisors will determine a course of action and what constitutes a
       reasonable trial of interventions and failure of the program.
       15.2.6. Student aviators who relapse after successful adaptation due to a period away
       from flying (DNIF, emergency leave, etc.), should continue in training with the
       expectation that re-adaptation will occur more rapidly the second time.
       15.2.7. Students with refractory airsickness should be eliminated from flying training
       administratively for lack of adaptability (See Paragraph 20). Student aviators with
       persistent airsickness need not be eliminated for airsickness alone unless it prevents the
       aviator from satisfactorily accomplishing his or her duties, or is associated with an MOA
       or some organic or psychiatric cause.
16. G-Intolerance. Students experiencing recurring difficulties meeting training objectives due
to the effects of G forces will be evaluated jointly by the flight surgeon, aerospace physiologist,
and flying squadron supervisors. The student will be placed in DNIF status during the
evaluation. If a medical condition is suspected of diminishing the student’s G-tolerance or
G-endurance, a medical waiver will be required for continued flying duties. A healthy student
unable to perform satisfactorily under G forces despite appropriate physical strength training and
repeat centrifuge training will be handled administratively.
17. Ejection Seats. A student whose weight is not within ejection seat weight standards will be
placed on DNIF status and evaluated to rule out underlying medical conditions. Unless the
condition is secondary to a medical problem, refer students to their squadron commander for
appropriate administrative action until their weight is corrected.

Section E—Elimination From UFT Programs

18. Overview. Categories under which students may be withdrawn from UFT programs are
listed in AETCI 36-2205, Vol 1. Medical disenrollment takes precedence over the other
categories. Paragraphs 19 through 22 provide further information about student elimination.
19. Medical Deficiency (Does not apply to IFS/RFS).
   19.1. Thoroughly evaluate any medical condition that renders a student incapable of meeting
   training requirements and standards. Prepare a current Aeromedical summary via the
   Aeromedical Information Management Waiver Tracking System (AIMWTS) that addresses
   the medical condition and recommends waiver or disqualification.
19.2. Withhold disenrollment action for medical deficiency until AETC/SGP certifies the
medical disqualification. Additionally, AETC/SGP will determine medical qualification for other
flying classes.
   19.3. Following receipt of the certified Aeromedical summary, complete an AF Form 422,
   Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status. Record the student’s status,
 8                                                           AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013


     whether he or she is qualified for further aircrew training, and note any other medical
     restrictions. Send the AF Form 422 and a copy of the certified AF Form 1042 to the
     student’s squadron for completion of the disenrollment action.
     19.4. Do not medically eliminate non-US students without decertification from their parent
     country. Send AETC/SGP a copy of all pertinent information for coordination. Discuss
     questionable cases with the parent country’s flying liaison officer and AETC/SGP. When a
     question arises regarding a non-US student’s capability to fly safely, the student may be
     temporarily grounded pending medical evaluation.
20. Lack of Adaptability.
     20.1. Persistent airsickness. A UFT student who does not exhibit an ability to adapt to the
     aviation environment due to active airsickness prior to initial flight solo (SUPT and ENJJPT),
     prior to the student’s eleventh T-6A sortie (UCT), or initial checkride (CEA) should be
     eliminated administratively for lack of adaptability unless an organic or psychiatric etiology
     requires medical disqualification.
     20.2. Fear of flying. UFT students with a stated fear of flying must meet DSM criteria for
     phobia to be medically disqualified. Fear of flying is considered a lack of adaptability unless
     an organic or psychiatric etiology requires a medical disqualification action.
21. Manifestations of Apprehension (Does not apply to IFS).
     21.1. MOA is defined as a state of psychological anxiety, apprehension, and/or physical
     impairment. A student may exhibit MOA through tension, anxiety, loss of appetite,
     sleeplessness, vague medical complaints, or airsickness.
     21.2. The flight surgeon will interview a student with suspected MOA. In the absence of an
     underlying medical or psychiatric condition, the student’s suitability for flying duty becomes
     an operational decision made by the line commander.
22. Procedures for Other Flying Training Disenrollments.
     22.1. A flight surgeon will evaluate each student recommended for non-medical flying
     training disenrollment to ensure there are no medical contraindications for continued flying
     training. A student must be medically qualified for flying duty at the time of any nonmedical
     disenrollment.
     22.2. If the student under review is on a medical waiver or is a member of an Aeromedical
     Consultation Service study group, the reviewing flight surgeon will notify AETC/SGP by
     memorandum after the student is disenrolled.




                                              ROBERT I. MILLER, Col, USAF, MC, SFS
                                              Command Surgeon, Air Education & Training
                                              Command
AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013                                                        9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards, 19 July 2012
AFI 48-149, Flight and Operational Medicine Program, 29 August 2012
AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 30 November 2012
AETCI 36-2205, Vol 1, Flying Training Administration and Management, 29 May 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
Standard Form 600, Medical Record – Chronological Record of Medical Care
DD Form 2807-1, Report of Medical History
DD Form 2808, Report of Medical Examination
AF Form 422, Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status
AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendation for Flying or Special Operational Duty

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC/SGP—Chief, Aerospace Medicine
AETC/SGPS—Chief, Medical Standards Branch
AIMWTS—Aeromedical Information Management Waiver Tracking System
AMP—Airsickness Management Program
CEA—Career Enlisted Aviator
CSO—Combat Systems Operator
DNIF—duty not including flying
DSM—Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
ENJJPT—Euro-NATO joint jet pilot training program
FMWG—Flight Medicine Working Group
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
IP—instructor pilot
IFS—Initial Flight Screening
MFS—Medical Flight Screening
 10                                                 AETCI48-102 5 NOVEMBER 2013


MOA—manifestation of apprehension
PHA—preventive health assessment
RFS—RPA initial Flight Screening
SATP—Security Assistance Training Program
SUPT—Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
TDM—Training Delay—Medical
UCT—Undergraduate Combat Systems Officer Training
UFT—Undergraduate Flying Training
