BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                AETC INSTRUCTION 36-2225
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                     22 AUGUST 2002
COMMAND
                                                         CERTIFIED CURRENT 17 NOVEMBER 2006

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                      PROCEDURES FOR OVERWATER PARASAIL
                                                                         TRAINING (OWPT)


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/DOFA                                       Certified by: HQ AETC/DOF (Col M. J. Maffei)
                                                                                           Pages: 6

This instruction implements AFPD 36-22, Military Training. It establishes procedures and responsibilities
for safe and realistic overwater post-egress parachute training for AETC units conducting this training and
for AETC Course S-V86-A, Water Survival Training, Parachuting. This training, designated OWPT, is
designed to help personnel (1) Develop confidence in their ability to survive an overwater parachute
descent, (2) control the parachute during descent, and (3) correctly execute a parachute water entry, a
parachute high-wind drag or canopy release, and/or a canopy disentanglement in the water.
This instruction applies to all AETC units conducting OWPT, specifically the 336 Training Group, Fair-
child AFB WA, and its Detachment 2, 66th Training Squadron, NAS Pensacola FL. It applies to all stu-
dents (active duty, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve Command) who are enrolled in OWPT.
NOTE: The use of any specific commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the US Air Force.
Submit suggested changes to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publi-
cation, to HQ AETC/DOFA, approval authority for changes. The 19AF/DO, waiver authority for this
instruction, will forward copies of approved waivers to HQ AETC/DOF. Field units below MAJCOM
level will supplement this instruction. They will coordinate supplements to this instruction with HQ
AETC/DOFA before publication and send one copy to HQ AETC/DOFA after publication.
See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. Maintain and dispose of
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with AFMAN 37-139,
Records Disposition Schedule (will become AFMAN 33-322, Volume 4).

Section A—OWPT Program

1. Objective. The objective of OWPT is to allow aircrew members who rely on the parachute as their pri-
mary means of aircraft egress to become proficient at performing overwater post-egress checklist proce-
dures, steering a parachute, preparing to land in the water, and releasing the parachute to avoid being
2                                                                     AETCI36-2225 22 AUGUST 2002


dragged in high-wind conditions. OWPT is the vital link between an overwater in-flight emergency bail-
out or ejection and an aircrew’s effort to survive at sea and get safely recovered.

2. Overview of OWPT:
    2.1. The parasail (also referred to as an ascending trainer) is a parachute specially designed to incor-
    porate airfoil-lifting capabilities. Forward speed is obtained by a series of ports or slots that exhaust
    air aft. The parasail is constructed of low porosity nylon to permit a high percentage of escaping air to
    be diverted out of the parasail, providing forward thrust.
    2.2. The parasail is towed aloft by a boat fitted with a specially designed tow winch equipped with
    enough tow line to permit a safe margin of operation for the altitude of intended flight.
    2.3. The student is outfitted with the parachute harness, protective equipment, and a life preserver unit
    (LPU) used on his or her assigned aircraft.
    2.4. Following a safety check by OWPT staff, the student is attached to a tow line fitted with a stu-
    dent-operated release system.
    2.5. Using the parasail, the student is towed to approximately 400 feet (a height that allows the aver-
    age student a 16- to 22-second descent). The student releases the tow line in order to start a free para-
    chute descent and then performs overwater post-egress checklist procedures.

3. Prerequisite Training:
    3.1. The following prior training meets prerequisite training requirements to parasail:
        3.1.1. Individuals who have completed a military OWPT course within the previous 5 years, or
        3.1.2. Individuals who are performing parachutists duties and who have had OWPT, or
        3.1.3. Survival, evasion, resistance, and escape (SERE) specialists who are attending course
        J3ACP1T071000 (7-level).
    3.2. Prior to the first parasail flight, each student will:
        3.2.1. Receive training on overwater post-egress parachuting to include practice clearing common
        parachute malfunctions and performing the overwater post-egress checklist procedures in the sus-
        pended harness ring trainer.
        3.2.2. Practice overwater post-egress checklist procedures in the parachute descent trainer. If the
        parachute descent trainer is not available, the student will practice descent checklist procedures on
        land or in the suspended harness ring trainer.
        3.2.3. Practice parachute disentanglement procedures in the water.
        3.2.4. Practice high-wind parachute drag procedures, as a minimum, one front and one back drag
        while underway in the water.

4. Responsibilities. Overwater parasail operations require specialized watercraft. These operations also
require specially modified and maintained life support and operational equipment. Due to the uniqueness
of the AETC OWPT mission, the following responsibilities apply:
    4.1. HQ AETC/DOFA will oversee AETC OWPT operations, procedures, and equipment. In addi-
    tion, HQ AETC/DOFA will provide HQ AETC staff coordination as necessary to ensure continuity of
AETCI36-2225 22 AUGUST 2002                                                                               3


  operations in this unique training mission. AETC units (other than Det 2, 66 TRS) wishing to conduct
  a form of OWPT must consult HQ AETC/DOFA about equipment specifications, watercraft proce-
  dures, and safety guidelines.
  4.2. HQ AETC/LGC will execute procuring contracting office (PCO) authority and accomplish
  resulting watercraft and parasail acquisitions.
  4.3. HQ AETC/LGT will:
     4.3.1. Oversee AETC owned, operated, and/or leased watercraft exceeding 32 feet in length.
     4.3.2. Approve or disapprove new authorization requests for watercraft.
     4.3.3. Direct the reassignment of excess operational watercraft. Coordinate with other MAJCOMs
     before deciding to transfer watercraft to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service or a sim-
     ilar organization.
     4.3.4. Review and validate watercraft requirements and authorizations at least every 3 years.
     4.3.5. Establish and maintain a current inventory of managed watercraft. Inventory documenta-
     tion will include, but is not limited to, a copy of the custodian authorization/custody receipt listing
     (CA/CRL) and a copy of AF Form 615, Unit Watercraft and Operations Cost Summary
     Report, OMB Control No. 0704-0188.
  4.4. HQ AETC/LGCM will provide business advice and assistance on acquisition-related issues.
  4.5. HQ AETC/XPRF will acquire new watercraft, including cost modeling and analysis of alterna-
  tives when new watercraft are required. Requirements determinations will be made by HQ AETC/
  DOFA (driven by mission issues) and validated by HQ AETC/LGT.
  4.6. The 336 TRG/CC will ensure procedures are developed and implemented in a local supplement
  to outline a well-defined and documented program. Procedures will include safety and emergency
  procedures. The 336 TRG/CC is also responsible for mission certification of the OWPT program.
  NOTE: Certification is defined as the authority to approve for “live” use in the OWPT program after
  an operational evaluation is completed by Det 2, 66 TRS.
  4.7. Det 2, 66 TRS, is responsible for:
     4.7.1. Providing HQ AETC with practical technical expertise on OWPT watercraft, equipment,
     and procedures.
     4.7.2. Conducting market research of commercial parasail watercraft and equipment.
     4.7.3. Evaluating the operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness of commercial watercraft
     and equipment being considered for purchase by HQ AETC in accordance with AFI 63-1201,
     Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness.
     4.7.4. Operational evaluations, in accordance with AFI 63-1201, leading to mission certification
     of commercial watercraft and equipment for use in OWPT.
     4.7.5. Modification and fabrication of OWPT unique equipment (standard government issue or
     commercially procured) for safety and/or functionality. Individuals authorized to modify and fab-
     ricate such equipment include survival equipment specialists (Air Force specialty code [AFSC]
     2A754 or 2A774) and the commercial vendor of the equipment. Ensure life support equipment is
     inspected and packed according to the local supplement to this instruction.
4                                                                    AETCI36-2225 22 AUGUST 2002


       4.7.6. Development and documentation (supplemental guidance) of:
           4.7.6.1. Inspection procedures and cycles to ensure mission safety for the OWPT equipment.
           4.7.6.2. Safe and effective procedures for all OWPT operations.
           4.7.6.3. All military and civilian crew positions and certification procedures for OWPT oper-
           ations.
    4.8. The unit commander is responsible for:
       4.8.1. The overall quality and safety of OWPT training and compliance with this and local supple-
       ments.
       4.8.2. Appointing a unit representative as the equipment custodian for all managed watercraft
       maintained in the supply system.
       4.8.3. Annually providing HQ AETC/LGTV with a signed copy of the CA/CRL, showing
       assigned watercraft.
       4.8.4. Submitting an AF Form 601, Equipment Action Request, for new authorizations or
       changes to existing watercraft authorizations in accordance with AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
       4.8.5. Submitting a completed AF Form 615, to HQ AETC/LGTV by the 15th day of the first
       month of each quarter.
       4.8.6. Submitting a request for disposition instructions for excess or uneconomically repairable
       watercraft within 45 calendar days from the date the asset becomes excess.

Section B—OWPT Requirements

5. Training Area. The OWPT training area must be large enough to simultaneously sail two students. It
must have distinguishable boundaries so “notice to mariners” may be broadcast on local marine band
channels.

6. Watercraft. OWPT requires enough watercraft based on the programmed flying training to safely
launch, monitor, and recover students engaged in training.

7. Medical Support:
    7.1. Each OWPT package will be supported by a rescue swimmer and an emergency medical techni-
    cian-paramedic (EMT-P). NOTE: One person may not perform both of these duties.
    7.2. The rescue swimmer must be a graduate of Navy Course A-050-0500, Surface Rescue Swimmer.
    7.3. The EMT-P must be nationally certified and maintain currency.

8. Student Equipment:
    8.1. Harness. Use a harness equipped with specific aircraft releases; that is, J1, Koch, or Frost.
    8.2. Helmet. Use an impact resistant helmet designed for extreme wet conditions with a foot-
    ball-style face guard.
AETCI36-2225 22 AUGUST 2002                                                                                5


   8.3. LPUs. LPUs may be locally modified to a training version. Use an aircraft-specific LPU (that is,
   LPU-9/P or LPU-2/P). NOTE: For training use only, removal of the breakaway zipper from the
   LPU-9/P and replacement with 2-inch hook and pile Velcro on either side of container opening is
   authorized.
   8.4. Gloves. Students will wear nomex flight gloves during OWPT. During cold weather operations,
   neoprene dive gloves may be substituted for flight gloves.
   8.5. Clothing. A flight suit will be used during OWPT. Wet suits and/or antiexposure suits will be
   worn with the flight suit when the wind chill is 50 degrees Fahrenheit or less or water temperature is
   60 degrees Fahrenheit or less. The actual layering of clothing should be determined by the unit com-
   mander based on actual environmental conditions, training regime, and projected exposure time.

9. Instructor Equipment. Instructors will wear, or have immediate access to, approved personal flota-
tion device during the wet phases of instruction.

Section C—OWPT Weather Constraints

10. Wind. Parasail launches will not be accomplished when steady-state winds are in excess of 20 miles
per hour (mph) or when wind gusts exceed 23 mph.

11. Lightning. OWPT staff will monitor available equipment, maintain communication with the local
weather office, and make every effort to determine the location and direction a storm is heading. When
lightning is within 5 nautical miles of operations, all parasail operations will be suspended until lightning
is outside the 5 nautical mile range.

12. Reduced Ceiling and Visibility. Students must be visible to all boats at all times. Training will be
suspended when inclement weather reduces the ceiling to 600 feet and visibility to 1/2 mile or otherwise
prevents OWPT staff from seeing all training. Training will also be suspended if safe boating operations
are jeopardized. Training may resume once conditions permit.

13. Forms Adopted. AF Forms 601, 615, and 847.



                                                THOMAS A. O'RIORDAN, Major General, USAF
                                                Director of Operations
6                                                                  AETCI36-2225 22 AUGUST 2002


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-22, Military Training
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule (will become AFMAN 33-322, Volume 4)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CA/CRL—custodian authorization/custody receipt listing
EMT-P—emergency medical technician-paramedic
LPU—life preserver unit
