BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                            COMMAND 32-7065
COMMAND
                                                                             7 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                               AETC FOREST AND TREE CONSERVATION
                                                                        PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:           HQ AETC/A7CAN                                        Certified by: HQ AETC/A4/7
                                                                       (Col David F. DeMartino)
                                                                                       Pages: 8


This instruction implements DoDI 4715.3, Environmental Conservation Program, 3 May 96;
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 Sept 04; AFPD 32-70,
Environmental Quality, 20 July 94; and installation Integrated Natural Resources Management
Plan (INRMP). It applies to AETC installations and other AETC installation tenant
organizations. This Instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Command units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

Attachment 1 lists references and supporting information used in this instruction. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil’gcss-af16a/afrims/afrims/.
Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in
accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

1. Background: Trees and the forests of which they are a component are important parts of the
environment in both the developed and undeveloped portions of AETC installations. In addition
to being aesthetically pleasing, trees provide a source of lumber, serve a vital role in the
environment as wildlife habitat, mitigate storm water run-off, reduce soil erosion, provide shade
and act as filters to reduce air pollution. The goal of the HQ AETC forest and tree conservation
 2                                                          AETCI32-7065 7 FEBRUARY 2011


program is to conserve and maintain trees to the maximum extent possible in support of Air
Force and base mission requirements. Forest management is divided into three categories:
commercial, natural area, and urban, with each having different objectives.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. HQ AETC/CC provides overall direction for forest management within the command.
     2.2. Wing Commanders are responsible for ensuring that proper forest management program
     is implemented on their installations.
     2.3. Base Civil Engineers are responsible for implementing forest management practices
     either in-house or by contract.
     2.4. Contract Civil Engineers are responsible for implementing forest management practices
     on the installation, IAW this instruction.
     2.5. The Environmental Section (CEAN) natural resources staff is responsible for
     developing management practices and overseeing implementation. Goals, objectives, and
     management practices shall be incorporated into the Integrated Natural Resources
     Management Plan (INRMP).
3. Commercial Forestry: In order to be considered commercial forest lands, tree stands must
be capable of a minimum annual growth rate of 20 cubic feet/acre/year. In addition to providing
a revenue source for installation forestry programs, commercial forests are important habitat for
wildlife species, and must be managed as an INRMP identified ecosystem.
     3.1. Each base with commercial forest lands will accomplish a commercial forest
     management plan within the INRMP. The plan will be based on a current commercial forest
     inventory, as required by AFI 32-7064. In addition, the following requirements will apply to
     AETC installations with commercial forest lands: a nonproprietary data management system
     compliant with the Spatial Data Standards for Facilities, Infrastructure, and Environment (or
     equivalent) will be used to record and manage timber stand data; commercial timber harvests,
     sale of forest products, and removal of storm damaged trees will be managed for sustained
     yield, watershed protection, wildlife habitat, enhancement of biodiversity, and other uses
     consistent with the requirements of the military mission and INRMP; conversion of
     commercial forest lands to other uses will require approval from HQ AETC/A7C.
     3.2. Base Civil Engineers shall make a reasonable effort to sell forest products generated
     during site preparation to local forest product industries. Forestry products will not be given
     away, abandoned, carelessly destroyed, used to offset costs of contracts, or traded for
     products, supplies, or services.         Commercial forest management efforts will be
     commensurate with the anticipated financial returns. Funding for marking and sale of
     forestry products from a construction site will come from the construction project.
     Marketable forest products requiring removal, including those on lands designated for
     privatization must be disposed of by the Air Force, or the value of the forest products must be
     deposited into the forestry account. All receipts will be deposited in the Air Force Deposit
     Fund Account 57F3875, in accordance with AFI 32-7064.
     3.3. Bases engaged in commercial forestry should have a professional forester on staff,
     services of a contracted professional forester, or a memorandum of understanding for forest
     management with state forestry agencies or the USDA Forest Service. Commercial forestry
AETCI32-7065 7 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    3


   operating funds will be budgeted by preparing a Forest Management Program Financial Plan
   as directed by MAJCOM. See AFPD 32-70, DoDI 4715.3, and DoDI 7310.5.
   3.4. Harvested forestlands and storm-damaged areas will be reforested. Clear cutting will be
   used only to meet specific forest management plan objectives as defined in the INRMP, and
   approved by the installation professional forester or natural resource manager. Prescribed
   burns or herbicide applications will be planned and executed as recommended in the forest
   management chapter of the INRMP. Forest product sales contract specifications will be
   reviewed by a professional forester or natural resource manager during contract development.
   Prior to award of a sale contract, an Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) must be
   completed in accordance with 32 CFR, Part 989.
4. Woodlands: Forest lands that do not meet the annual growth requirement to be considered
commercial forest lands will be managed as woodlands to support the ecosystem management
goals. Management objectives for these areas shall focus on outdoor recreation and wildlife
habitat improvement. These objectives and maps delineating these woodlands will be
incorporated into the INRMP. As the needs of the areas change based on the local ecosystems
and/or environmental conditions, specific management policies for these areas will be identified
by the installation natural resources staff. Tree removals in these areas will not require
replacement, except as outlined in the INRMP.
5. Urban Forestry: Trees are an important component of landscaping in the urban, developed
portions of the installation, providing both aesthetic and economic benefits. In addition to being
pleasing to the eye, trees provide shade to buildings and facilities that assist in keeping them
cool, thereby, reducing air conditioning costs.
   5.1. Each base will prepare an urban forest management component plan, as required in AFI
   32-7064, para 11.5, and should designate an urban forestry point of contact (e.g., urban
   forester or natural resource manager). The plan will be developed from a base urban forestry
   survey and incorporated into the INRMP. This component plan will govern the treatment of
   all landscape trees and ornamentals, and will make management recommendations, such as
   removal of hazard and volunteer trees. The plan will include a list of recommended trees and
   shrubs based on life expectancy and physical attributes. Priority will be given to planting
   species that are indigenous to the area, or that have been proven suitable to the local region.
   In accordance with the National Arborist Association Standards and the Tree City USA
   bulletins, the management plan will identify tree planting and maintenance
   recommendations. High maintenance trees, planting during drought conditions, extreme
   pruning practices (i.e., topping, pollarding, topiary, etc.) are discouraged. Arbor Day
   observances and participation in the Tree City USA program will be incorporated into the
   urban forest management program. Funding Arbor Day activities will be through base level
   resources.
   5.2. An urban forestry inventory will be completed once for each installation and maintained
   regularly as trees are removed or planted. This survey will include species, size, condition,
   global positioning system (GPS) location, value of each tree in the installation's cantonment
   and housing areas. The survey will be prepared in a nonproprietary format compatible with
   the Tri-Service Geospatial mapping standard (or equivalent). The survey should be
   revalidated every 5 years. Trees recommended for removal in the approved urban forestry
   plan (such as hazard trees and volunteer trees near foundations, sidewalks and streets) may
 4                                                           AETCI32-7065 7 FEBRUARY 2011


     be considered routine maintenance. All tree removals will be coordinated with the urban
     forester or natural resource manager.
6. Project Siting:
     6.1. Each base will establish controls to closely review any activity that could damage or
     lead to the removal of existing trees. The customer, construction manager, and base urban
     forester (or natural resource manager) will visit and assess trees on any proposed
     construction site before forwarding the requirements document for MILCON Projects (DD
     1391). All trees larger than
4 inches diameter breast height (DBH) located within the project footprint or the immediate
construction site will be shown on the construction drawing. The project definition
documentation for each military construction project will include a requirement to effectively
manage desirable and undesirable tree removal, relocation, or replacement.
Contractors and base personnel shall use necessary effective means, including fences or
barricades to prevent injury to plants from construction or related activity within or near project
sites, or those plants shall be replaced. Vehicles or equipment shall never be driven or parked
within the drip line of any tree. No plants shall be removed or pruned without prior written
approval from the installation Natural Resources Manager (NRM) or approved Quality
Assurance Professional (QAP). Plants damaged during construction or related activity shall be
replaced between 1 November and 1 April with a one year warranty at no expense to the
government. Smaller plants including shrubs, hedges or trees up to 5" DBH, damaged during
construction activity, shall be replaced with plants of equal or greater size, type, and value
(include historic value). Larger trees damaged during construction shall be recompensed by a
number of smaller trees with an aggregate area of noon shade equal to the noon shade area of the
larger tree.
     6.2. The assessment will include all options regarding tree disposition, facility siting, and
     work to be performed. Trees located on or near the construction site will be considered for
     saving, replacement, or relocation. Priority will be given to trees in good condition that
     appear on the INRMP list of recommended trees and shrubs. Consideration should be given
     to the species, size, location, historic value, the season, estimated moving cost, and long-term
     maintenance cost. Trees with a DBH less than six inches can usually be economically
     relocated with a high probability of survival. Trees that are not on the list of recommended
     trees or that are larger than six inches should be removed and replaced. At minimum,
     removed trees less than ten inches will be replaced on a two-for-one basis, using trees greater
     than 2.5" DBH, while trees greater than ten inches will be replaced on a three-for-one basis.
     The cost to relocate, replace or remove trees located where the facility or its corresponding
     parking areas are constructed will be funded as part of the supporting utilities and is not a
     MILCON option.
7. Design and Construction. The HQ AETC Tree Conservation Policy is to conserve and
maintain trees requiring siting decisions for new construction, additions to existing buildings,
and to incorporate existing trees into landscape design to the maximum extent possible. Design
drawings will be reviewed by the urban forester or natural resource manager to ensure the design
agent has incorporated project siting requirements. Any landscape or arboriculture contractor
conducting urban tree work will have a certified arborist certify the work.
AETCI32-7065 7 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                5


8. Tree Removal Exceptions: Replacement is not required for tree removals conducted to
implement airfield waiver or Clear Zone requirements. Also, trees being removed to comply
with safety regulations or other issues do not have to be replaced or relocated.




                                         Garry B. Richey, SES
                                         Director of Logistics, Installations and Mission
                                         Support
 6                                                     AETCI32-7065 7 FEBRUARY 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
32 CFR, Part 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP), 15 Jul 89
DoDI 4715.3, Environmental Conservation Program, 3 May 96
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 Jul 94
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 Sep 04

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC— Air Education and Training Command
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
DODD— Department of Defense Directive
DODI— Department of Defense Instruction
HQ— Headquarters
INRMP— Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan
AETCI32-7065 7 FEBRUARY 2011                               7


                                        Attachment 2
      SUGGESTED OUTLINECOMMERCIAL FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN

A2.1. Management History
A2.2. Forest Inventory
   A2.2.1. Compartment Identification
   A2.2.2. Compartment Inventories
   A2.2.3. Estimated Allowable Cut
A2.3. Management Practices
   A2.3.1. Forest Management System
   A2.3.2. Stand Regeneration Practices
   A2.3.3. Prescribed Fire
   A2.3.4. Thinning Practices
   A2.3.5. Harvest Practices
A2.4. Forest Management Issues
   A2.4.1. Invasion Species
   A2.4.2. Insect Problems
A2.5. Staffing Requirements
 8                                                       AETCI32-7065 7 FEBRUARY 2011


                                          Attachment 3
            SUGGESTED OUTLINEURBAN FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN

A3.1. Management Objectives
     A3.1.1. Responsibilities
     A3.1.2. Staffing
A3.2. Tree Inventory
     A3.2.1. Location, species, age, size, condition, maintenance and removal requirements
     (pruning, mulching, disease treatment, removal, and fertilizing)
     A3.2.2. GIS Map
A3.3. Maintenance Procedures
     A3.3.1. Recommended Tree Listing
     A3.3.2. Pruning Procedures
     A3.3.3. Watering/Fertilization Procedures
     A3.3.4. Tree Replacement Standards
A3.4. Management Issues
     A3.4.1. New Construction Landscaping
     A3.4.2. Housing Contractor Compliance
