BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AETC INSTRUCTION 33-303
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                   28 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                 COMMAND ENTERPRISE INFORMATION
                                                        MANAGEMENT SHAREPOINT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A6OK                                                  Certified by: HQ AETC/A6O
                                                                          (Lt Col John M. Gerst)
                                                                                       Pages: 18


This instruction implements AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006 and TO 00-
33D-3001, AF Enterprise Information Management (EIM) Procedures for Site Owners and End
Users, 15 September 2009. It outlines procedures for the command enterprise information
management SharePoint process in AETC. It applies to all personnel (military, civilian and
contractors) at AETC installations. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command and
Air National Guard (ANG) if the units are utilizing AETC provided EIM-SharePoint
environment. Submit suggested changes to this instruction to the office of primary responsibility
(OPR) on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Attachment 1 contains a
glossary of the references and supporting information used in this publication. The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012


        1.      Purpose and Description: .......................................................................................    2
        2.      Roles and Responsibilities: ....................................................................................    3
        3.      EIM SharePoint Environment. ...............................................................................         5
        4.      Personally Identifiable Information (PII). ..............................................................           7
        5.      Records Management. ...........................................................................................     7
        6.      Notice and Consent Banner. ..................................................................................       7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      8

Attachment 2—SAMPLE SITE OWNER APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM                                                                              11

Attachment 3—SAMPLE SITE MANAGER APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM                                                                            12

Attachment 4—PERMISSION LEVELS                                                                                                     13

Attachment 5—BLOCK FILE EXTENSIONS                                                                                                 15

Attachment 6—AETC EIM SUPPORT WORKFLOW                                                                                             18


1. Purpose and Description:
     1.1. AETC/A6 is responsible for establishing policy for AETC Enterprise Information
     Management (EIM)-SharePoint program. This document sets forth guidance and procedures
     for the AETC EIM-SharePoint environment and applies to all AETC installations and
     mission partners. The purpose of this environment is to create a standardized electronic
     collaborative workplace. EIM-SharePoint is a common global environment for Airmen to
     share and acquire information and knowledge. The mission of EIM is to provide the right
     information to the right individuals to support combat and mission operations through a
     single common platform and standardized business processes. EIM-SharePoint will be the
     primary tool for management of calendars, announcements, events, document libraries,
     document workspaces and workflows. The EIM-SharePoint environment is not to be used
     for storage purposes, such as file shares or shared drives. This instruction covers Roles and
     Responsibilities, EIM-SharePoint Environment, Personally Identifiable Information, Records
     Management, and Notice and Consent Banners.
     1.2. Scope:
        1.2.1. SharePoint Capabilities. AETC provides SharePoint Standard Edition to provide
        a command-wide capability for creating, searching, displaying, and storing information in
        a collaborative environment.
        1.2.2. Customer Base. The customer base includes the bases, units, and tenants
        supported by the bases on the AETC Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
        (NIPRNet) and Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet). Organizational
        SharePoint sites are available for each headquarters directorate, division, and branch;
        numbered Air Force; wing; group; and squadron; as well as major tenant organizations.
        Base site owners and unit site managers can create sub-sites in SharePoint to support
AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                    3


       operational needs. Each unit site is allocated space to store content in the EIM-SharePoint
       environment.
       1.2.3. Classification. The AETC NIPRNet SharePoint environment is only authorized to
       handle up to classification level UNCLASSIFIED. The AETC SIPRNet SharePoint
       environment is only authorized to handle up to the classification level SECRET.
2. Roles and Responsibilities:
   2.1. AETC Director of Communications (AETC/A6). Oversees the AETC EIM-SharePoint
   program.
   2.2. Command Knowledge Operations ( AETC/A6OK):
       2.2.1. Responsible for policy and provides guidance.
       2.2.2. Manage the AETC EIM-SharePoint Site: https://eis.aetc.af.mil/default.aspx
       2.2.3. Represents AETC at AF Enterprise Information Services (EIS) conference/policy
       governance meetings.
       2.2.4. Maintains awareness of AF initiatives for organizational site best practices and
       standards.
       2.2.5. Approve new top level site requests.
       2.2.6. Direct deployment and execution of AF Enterprise Information Services (EIS)
       training curriculum. Maintain course updates as required.
       2.2.7. Will manage the AETC EIM-SharePoint Change Control Board.
   2.3. AETC Computer Systems Squadron will:
       2.3.1. Provide customer support for all AETC EIM Site Owners in the form of training,
       consulting services on tool usage, day-to-day assistance and troubleshooting.
       2.3.2. Provide and manage service request tracker for Site Owners.
       2.3.3. Manage Site Owner permissions.
       2.3.4. Ensure all base site owners are properly trained to maintain the EIM environment
       IAW with T.O. 00-33D-3001, EIM Procedures for Site Owners and End Users.
       2.3.5. Maintain an organized network of base site owners along with appointment
       memorandums and training certificates.
       2.3.6. Ensure base site owners are trained on the AF EIS curriculum within 90 days of
       assignment and grant permissions after training is complete
       2.3.7. Provide support for maintaining and administering SharePoint features, including
       daily monitoring, troubleshooting, and performance analysis of the system specifically
       supporting AETC capabilities.
       2.3.8. Continuously monitor and analyze the AETC EIM environment for performance
       issues and employ enhancements when required.
       2.3.9. Perform regular system checks ensuring AF security and system compliance.
4                                                          AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012


       2.3.10. Conduct and maintain backups, patches, other system maintenance services as
       required. See para 3.1.1 for backup schedule.
       2.3.11. Provide ad hoc reports to program office as needed for trend analysis.
       2.3.12. Update and maintain contingency plan, architecture designs, and configuration
       documentation for AETC collaborative environment.
       2.3.13. Create top site collections using the AF site templates
    2.4. Base Communications Squadron Commanders:
       2.4.1. Each Base Communications Squadron Commander will appoint (in writing) a
       primary and alternate base site owner for EIM-SharePoint and forward memorandum to
       AETC CSS/CC.                 (See Attachment 2 for a sample site owner appointment
       memorandum.)
       2.4.2. Establish local EIM-SharePoint policy and training requirements to provide
       oversight and management for the EIM-SharePoint framework (i.e. site managers, end
       users).
    2.5. Base Site Owners:
       2.5.1. Maintain top-level site collections, such as https://basename.eis.aetc.af.mil.
       2.5.2. Create sites, assign permissions, and request Active Directory (AD) security
       groups IAW T.O. 00-33D-3001, AF EIM Procedures for Site Owners and End Users.
       2.5.3. Complete AF EIS training curriculum administered by the AETC Knowledge
       Operations Center.
       2.5.4. Establish local training sessions using AF EIS training curriculum as provided the
       AETC Knowledge Operations Center. Training may include local operating procedures
       or requirements. Train unit site managers within 90 days of notification of assignment.
       2.5.5. Maintain an organized network of site managers along with appointment
       memorandum.
    2.5.6. Site Owners will notify Site Managers to review and move any stagnant information
    before increasing site storage. Follow TO-33D-3001, para 6.5.1 File Deletion Policy.
    2.6. Unit Site Manager:
       2.6.1. Each base-level unit, principal staff office within an organization, AETC
       Directorate and Staff Agencies will appoint a site manager in writing and submit to the
       base/HQs site owner. (See Attachment 3 for a sample site manager appointment
       memorandum.)
       2.6.2. Must complete EIM-SharePoint training provided by the Base/HQs Site Owner.
       2.6.3. Will conduct day-to-day administration and support for assigned SharePoint site,
       to include managing site permissions and information
       2.6.4. Will assist users on how to use SharePoint functionality IAW T.O. 00-33D-3001,
       AF EIM Procedures for Site Owners and End Users.
       2.6.5. Will identify content managers for workspaces and sites as required.
AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                     5


       2.6.6. Will provide end user training.
3. EIM SharePoint Environment. The AETC EIM-SharePoint environment is accessible at
https://eis.aetc.af.mil and base-level sites at https://basename.eis.aetc.af.mil. AETC provides a
standardized electronic collaborative workplace, using the following business
procedures/practices:
   3.1. EIM SharePoint Administration:
       3.1.1. Backups. Full backups are done on a weekly basis (Sunday) and differential
       backups are done daily. Full backup data is retained for 7 days and is deleted only after a
       more recent backup is verified
       3.1.2. Recycle Bin. Use the SharePoint built-in recycle bin to restore an accidentally
       deleted file. The data will remain in the recycle bin for 7 days..
       3.1.3. Blocked File Types. Files that may cause system vulnerabilities or security risks
       are blocked and cannot be uploaded to the system. Upload of a blocked file will result in
       a Warning Notice. By default, several standard file extensions are blocked, including any
       file extensions that are treated as executable files by Windows Explorer. See attachment
       5 for list of blocked file types.
       3.1.4. Default Maximum Upload Size. The default maximum upload size of a file is 50
       MB. The Microsoft SQL Server maximum upload limit is 2 GB. Site Owners can submit
       requests to the AETC Knowledge Operations Center to increase the upload size. Default
       maximum upload size is restored back to default of 50 MB within 24 hours of the
       approved change request.
       3.1.5. Storage. Initially each top site is set with 50 MB of storage space. Automatic
       notices are sent to the EIM-SharePoint Administrators and Site Owners at the 50 MB,
       500 MB, and 1GB thresholds requesting more storage. Site managers will ensure a
       current content review is conducted and documented per para 3.3.3 of this instruction.
       Thereafter, storage space is increased at 2GB increments. Site Collections may not
       exceed 100GB due to performance issues. My Site storage space is 25 MB.
   3.2. Search Configuration:
       3.2.1. Sites, lists, and libraries are not hidden from search for security considerations.
       Use SharePoint permissions to control visibility of content.
       3.2.2. All content is automatically set for search crawl, however site managers have the
       ability to prevent site objects from being crawled by adjusting Search visibility setting at
       the site level, or modifying Advanced settings at the library or list level. Note:
       Information will not appear in the search results immediately. Information is made
       available to search engine once it has been indexed. Information indexing occurs once a
       day, thus information will not be available until next day.
       3.2.3. Site search visibility will be managed by base site owner using the Search
       Visibility settings under the List Settings.
   3.3. SharePoint Development.
       3.3.1. Adding client side scripting to out of the box web parts is authorized. For example
       adding JavaScript to the content editor web part is allowed.
6                                                         AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012


       3.3.2. Server side development encompasses any functionality added to the AETC EIM
       SharePoint environment that cannot be accomplished by a user within the SharePoint
       interface. Development includes custom code, products produced or modified within
       SharePoint Designer, branding, Master Pages, custom templates, custom site definitions,
       and custom workflows. All SharePoint software programs, applications, source code,
       object code, documentation and data shall be guarded and protected as property of the
       United States Air Force. No modifications will be made to the environment without
       proper Change Control Board (CCB) approval, development, testing, and Certification
       and Accreditation (C&A) procedures.
    3.4. AETC CSS will host AF and AETC-wide applications, i.e. the Air Force Evaluation
    Management System (EMS). These applications are not authorized to be hosted at base-
    level.
    3.5. Branding.
       3.5.1. Master page editing is not authorized. AETC uses the AF EIM site templates
       which restrict the ability to edit master pages. The branding elements provided by AF are
       generic enough to accommodate both AETC and tenant organizations.
       3.5.2. Themes. Site Owners are not authorized to change portal themes, styles,
       background colors, borders, or other page elements.
    3.6. SharePoint Designer. Microsoft SharePoint Designer is not authorized by Site Owners,
    Site Managers or End users; improper use of designer can cause system malfunctions.
    3.7. SharePoint Web Parts. Third party web parts are not authorized. Third party web parts
    can have hidden malicious codes and contents and pose a security threat to our network.
    3.8. Deleting Sites and Workspaces.
       3.8.1. To avoid the stagnation of information within the environment, organizations must
       ensure the accuracy and relevance of information within the sites.
       3.8.2. The automatic site deletion feature will be disabled. This will require site owners
       and site managers to monitor the activity on sites and workspaces. Unused sites and
       workspaces should be deleted by the site manager if there was inactivity for 90 days.
    3.9. Site Management & Support:
       3.9.1. Permissions Levels. See attachment 4.
       3.9.2. Site Contact Information.      All organizational sites will have site contact
       information displayed.
       3.9.3. Content Review. Site Managers will conduct content review and clean up of their
       respective sites and workspaces once every 180 days. Ensure the sites and workspaces
       follow the guidelines established in this guide. A “Content Review” link is located at the
       bottom of each organizational site and should be annotated upon completion. Most
       importantly, duplicate files and unnecessary working documents need to be managed
       based on the Records Management lifecycle. Site Owners and Records Professionals
       should team up in this effort to maintain document integrity and records management.
       Documents within the completed or finished project site must be managed in accordance
       with the records management disposition.
AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                7


       3.9.4. See attachment 5 for AETC EIM Support Workflow diagram.
   3.10. AETC Site Taxonomy. The site taxonomy is per Chapter 2, Sites, in the AF TO 00-
   33D-3001, AF Enterprise Information Management (EIM) Procedures for Site Owners and
   End Users.
4. Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
   4.1. Site owners and site managers need to have a heightened awareness of high impact PII
   (Social Security Number (SSN) stored and accessed through SharePoint. Access to
   documents containing PII should never be given to groups of individuals unless each person
   has an official need to know the information to perform their job. The AETC C-E has an
   approved Privacy Impact Assessment. See AFI 33-332, para 1.1.4.10 and 6.1.2. on storing
   PII.
   4.2. Site managers should limit the number of people with administrative privileges in
   SharePoint to ensure access and control is not compromised.
5. Records Management. Records play a vital role in managing and operating Air Force
activities. EIM-SharePoint is not authorized to store official records and is not an official
records repository. Manage official records in the EIM-SharePoint environment according to the
Air Force Electronic Records Management (ERM) Solution. Contact your local record
professional for specific office filing procedures.
6. Notice and Consent Banner. As the AETC EIM-SharePoint enclave is a web-enabled
application and not a web site, notice and consent banners will not be displayed.




                                           MONA LISA D. TUCKER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director of Communications
 8                                                     AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 Sep 11
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
TO 00-33D-3001, AF Enterprise Information Management (EIM) Procedures for Site Owners
and End Users, 15 Sep 09
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Directory
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ERM—Electronic Records Management
EIM—Enterprise Information Management
GB— Gigabyte
MAJCOM—Major Command
MB—Megabyte
MOSS—Microsoft Office SharePoint Server
NIPRNet—Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
POC — Point of Contact
PII— - Personally Identifiable Information
RDS— - Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Announcements— The announcements area is the area that you will use to let the users in your
SharePoint site know what is going on. The announcements area is visible from the Home page
and used for posting general messages for site users.
Branding— The customizing of the standard portal site "look and feel.” using Microsoft
SharePoint Designer or Visual Studio.
Calendar— Use a calendar to post important dates/schedules for your group. Examples include
maintenance schedules, duty rotations, etc.
AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                    9


Collaboration— Collaborative tools facilitate the interaction among two or more individuals
and encompass a variety of behaviors, including communication, information sharing,
coordination, cooperation, problem solving, and negotiation.
Content Manager— Has the ability to view, add, and modify content and documents .
Documents— After documents have been added to a document library you can edit the
documents, use the Check In/Check Out feature and view all versions of a document. If you
cannot perform any of these processes you may not have permission and should contact your site
owner.
Documents Library— Document libraries are the most general form of libraries, being able to
store virtually any type of Microsoft Office document.
Library— An area where a collection of files is stored. The two types of libraries available are
document libraries and picture libraries.
List— A list is a collection of information items displayed in an area or on a site. List types
include: announcements, links, contacts, events, tasks and issues. Custom lists can be created to
store many other kinds of information.
Master Page—- Master Pages are a template that other pages can inherit from to keep consistent
functionality. The pages that inherit from Master Pages are referred to as content pages. Master
Pages allow the developer to keep consistent, reusable, in one high level place, so the content
pages can concentrate on their specific web-based code. This allows for easily manageable web-
based applications.
Recycle Bin— The SharePoint Recycle Bin is the storage location where deleted files go. When
you delete items on your SharePoint site, go to the Recycle Bin and can be restored for up to 7
days by users. Note: Documents will be restored back to their original location. Site owners
also have the ability to view the recycle bins of other users.
Searching— SharePoint sites have a search feature that allows you to search the whole site or a
particular list. These searches find results within Office documents and PDFs.
SharePoint— Automation tool selected to provide the user interface and document collaboration
piece of EIM.
SharePoint Server Farm— Multiple machines running services for SharePoint.
Site Collection— A group of sites that exists under a top-level site and have the same owner.
Site Owner— Has full control of a top-level site and all of its sub-sites.
Site Manager— A user who can create lists and libraries, contribute to lists and libraries, and
assign user permissions.
Subsite— A separate site, with individual permissions and content, stored within a main site
(top-level site).
Themes— SharePoint themes represent a collection of graphics and cascading style sheets that
can modify how a Web site looks. The SharePoint site settings interface provides the ability for
both site administrators and site owners to customize the look and feel of their site by selecting
from a pre-defined list of available site themes.
 10                                                      AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012


Third Party Software— Software developed by vendors
Types of Site Content— There are two basic types of content in a SharePoint site: lists and
libraries.
Web Part— A customizable web page element that is typically used to display data from lists
and libraries on site pages.
Workflow— A workflow is a natural way to organize and run a set of work units, or activities,
to form an executable representation of a work process. This process can control almost any
aspect of a work unit to include the life cycle. The workflow is flexible enough to model both
the system functions and the human actions necessary for the workflow to complete.
AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012                          11


                               Attachment 2
           SAMPLE SITE OWNER APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM
12                                  AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012


                     Attachment 3
     SAMPLE SITE MANAGER APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM
AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                      13


                                            Attachment 4
                                      PERMISSION LEVELS

A4.1. Permission Levels
      A4.1.1. Each customized permission level will require a detailed description depicting the
      level of authority being provided by the level. The base-line levels for the AETC SharePoint
      environment will use the following verbiage. Reference TO 00-33D-3001 for step by step
      instructions on how to permission sites, lists, document libraries and other SharePoint
      objects.

Figure A4.1. Permission Level Descriptions
                                       Will provide access to specific list, document library or an item or a
                                       document in a list or document library without providing access to
                    Limited Access     the entire site.
                    Reader             Can view items, versions, create alerts, and view pages
                                       Can view pages and documents, but cannot view historical versions
                    Restricted Readers or review user rights information.
                    Visitors           Can view only
                                       Has the ability to view, add, and modify content and documents to
                    Member             existing lists and libraries.
 Permission Level




                                       Has the ability to view, add, and modify content and documents to
   Descriptions




                                       existing lists and libraries as well as add and customize pages, lists
                                       and libraries. Has all List & Personal Rights and can add and
                    Content Manager customize pages.
                                       This group has access permissions similar to those of site owners.
                                       Designers can change the performance, alter the look and feel of the
                                       site, and code to the master page gallery. Designer level access is
                                       generally restricted to small set of Web Developers, Web
                    Designers          Designers, or both.
                                       Has all content manager rights as well as the right to add, modify
                    Site Manager       and delete sites and subsites
                    Site Owner         Has full administrative control of the SharePoint site
      A4.1.2. The AETC SharePoint environment will utilize the below permission sets as a base
      line for ALL sites, sub-sites and workspaces.
 14                                                                      AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012




                                                                                                                   Site Manager


                                                                                                                                  Site Owner
                                                          Restricted




                                                                                                       Designers
                                                                                            Managers
                                                                                  Members
                                       Limited




                                                           Readers




                                                                                            Content
                                                                       Visitors
                                       Access

                                                 Reader
  Figure A4.2. Permission Level
                                  Out-of-Box Permission Level
Full Control                                                                                                                      X
Design                                                                                                 X
Manage Hierarchy                                                                                                   X
Approve                                                                                       X
Contribute                                                                        X
Read                                                                   X
Restricted Read                                             X
Limited Access                          X
View Only                                         X
                                            List Rights
Manage Lists                                                                                  X        X           X              X
Override Check Out                                                                            X        X           X              X
Add Items                                                                         X           X        X           X              X
Edit Items                                                                        X           X        X           X              X
Delete Items                                                                      X           X        X           X              X
View Items                                        X         X          X          X           X        X           X              X
Approve Items                                                                     X           X        X           X              X
Open Items                                        X         X          X          X           X        X           X              X
View Versions                                                          X          X           X        X           X              X
Delete Versions                                                                   X           X        X           X              X

Create Alerts                                                          X          X           X        X           X              X
View Application Pages                                                 X          X           X        X           X              X
                                       Site Permissions
Manage Site Groups                                                                                                 X              X
View Usage Data                                                                                                    X              X
Create Subsites                                                                                                    X              X
Manage Web Site                                                                                                    X              X
Add and Customize Pages                                                                       X        X           X              X
Apply Themes and Borders                                                                               X                          X
Apply Style Sheets                                                                                     X                          X
Create Groups                                                                                                                     X
Browse Directories                                                                X           X        X           X              X
View Pages                                        X         X          X          X           X        X           X              X
Enumerate Permissions                                                                                              X              X
Browse User Information                                                X          X           X        X           X              X
Manage Alerts                                                                                                      X              X
Use Remote Interface                                                   X          X                    X           X              X
Use Client Integration Features                                        X          X                    X           X              X
Open                                              X         X          X          X           X        X           X              X
Edit Personal User Information                                                    X           X        X           X              X
                                     Personal Permissions
Manage Personal Views                                                             X           X        X           X              X
Add/Remove Private Web Parts                                                      X           X        X           X              X
Update Personal Web Parts                                                         X           X        X           X              X
AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012                   15


                               Attachment 5
                       BLOCK FILE EXTENSIONS

ade
adp
app
asa
ashx
asmx
asp
bas
bat
cdx
cer
chm
class
cmd
cnt
com
config
cpl
crt
csh
der
dll
exe
fxp
gadget
hlp
hpj
hta
htr
htw
ida
idc
idq
ins
isp
its
jse
ksh
lnk
mad
maf
mag
mam
16        AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012


maq
mar
mas
mat
mau
mav
maw
mda
mdb
mde
mdt
mdw
mdz
msc
msh
msh1
msh1xml
msh2
msh2xml
mshxml
msi
msp
mst
ops
pcd
pif
prf
prg
printer
pst
reg
rem
scf
scr
sct
shb
shs
shtm
shtml
soap
stm
url
vb
vbe
vbs
ws
AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012   17


wsc
wsf
wsh
18                                             AETCI33-303 28 FEBRUARY 2012


                                Attachment 6
                      AETC EIM SUPPORT WORKFLOW

Figure A6.1. AETC EIM Support Workflow
