BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AETC INSTRUCTION 33-103
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                           19 OCTOBER 2004
COMMAND                                                                Certified Current 22 January 2010
                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                           DATA INTERFACE MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                            REQUIREMENTS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AETC/SC                                                             Certified by: AETC CSS/CC
     (Project Office: AETC CSS/SCIPA                                         (Lt Col William Thompson)
     [Mrs Deborah Mauck])                                                                        Pages: 6
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements Public Law, Title VIII, Information Technology Management Reform Act
(ITMRA) of 1996, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communications,
and Computer (C4) Systems. It identifies responsibilities for management of all Air Education and Train-
ing Command (AETC) data interfaces and AETC defects or requirements for the Military Personnel Data
System (MilPDS) or the Defense Information Management Human Resource System (DIMHRS). This
publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Send
recommended changes or comments to AETC Computer Systems Squadron Software Services Flight
(AETC CSS/SCIPA), 61 Main Circle, Suite 3, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4546, through appropriate chan-
nels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accor-
dance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) (available at https://webrims.amc.af.mil).


1. Purpose. This publication provides guidance, procedures, and responsibilities to AETC personnel for
all AETC data interfaces, and establishes procedures for defects or new requirements submitted for Air
Force personnel systems.

2. Scope. This publication applies to all AIS functional managers, program managers, and AETC users
of personnel systems. It specifically addresses:
   2.1. Data interfaces that push or pull data to any AETC-owned unique system.
   2.2. AETC software defect corrections or new requirements for Air Force personnel systems to
   include, but not limited to MilPDS, DIMHRS, or any other personnel system that affects the AETC
   mission (education, training, and/or recruiting).
2                                                                  AETCI33-103 19 OCTOBER 2004


3. Objectives. This publication ensures that:
    3.1. All AETC systems requiring a data interface are protected through a signed interface require-
    ments agreement (IRA) which commits both the sender and the receiver to the terms outlined in the
    IRA.
    3.2. AETC data interface issues are effectively managed to minimize impact to the interfacing sys-
    tems.
    3.3. The AETC Automated Information System (AIS) Interface Model (AAIM) is accurately
    depicted to provide a corporate interface picture (https://www.aetc.af.mil/css/SCI/s03t0016.htm).
    3.4. The AETC interface program has one focal point to represent the corporate view of all AETC
    interfaces.
    3.5. Defects or requirements with all Air Force personnel systems are centrally managed, prioritized,
    and represented.

4. Responsibilities:
    4.1. AETC CSS/SCIPA. This office will:
       4.1.1. Manage the AETC data interface program.
       4.1.2. Facilitate all AETC interface issues.
       4.1.3. Ensure corporate view of AETC interface modifications/baselines are synchronized with
       organizations responsible for architecture in AETC and Air Force.
       4.1.4. Establish guidance for developing of the AETC IRAs.
       4.1.5. Process IRAs through the affected organizations internally and externally to AETC.
       4.1.6. Maintain the original AETC IRA. If the original is not available, a copy of the AETC IRA
       is acceptable.
       4.1.7. Chair the AETC interface working group (IWG) and co-chair the AETC/AFPC IWG.
       4.1.8. Manage all AETC defects/requirements, interface related or not, for Air Force personnel
       systems.
       4.1.9. Represent AETC at the requirements review board (RRB) for personnel system defects or
       requirements.
       4.1.10. Establish and oversee policy guidelines for AETC interfaces and AETC defects/require-
       ments for personnel systems.
    4.2. AETC AIS Functional and/or Program Managers. These individuals will:
       4.2.1. Report all current and future AETC data interfaces to the AETC CSS/SCIPA.
       4.2.2. Validate and coordinate all data requirements through the data and/or process owner.
       4.2.3. Create an IRA according to the standard AETC template at the AETC interface web site,
       https://www.aetc.af.mil/css/SCI/s03t0016.htm.
       4.2.4. Provide IRAs and amendments to AETC CSS/SCIPA.
       4.2.5. Develop technical solutions to support interface requirements.
AETCI33-103 19 OCTOBER 2004                                                                            3


       4.2.6. Inform AETC CSS/SCIPA of all issues related to AETC interfaces.
       4.2.7. Provide prioritization criteria established by AFPC for each defect or requirement for per-
       sonnel systems.
   4.3. AETC Users of Personnel Data Systems. Users will:
       4.3.1. Report all defects or requirements to change MilPDS, DIMHRS, or any other personnel
       system affecting AETC mission activities to AETC CSS/SCIPA.
       4.3.2. Provide approved prioritization criteria established by AFPC for each defect or require-
       ment.

5. Interface Definition:
   5.1. Interfaces include any exchange of data between an AETC system and any other system within
   the command or outside the command, to include civilian industry systems. Data retrieved from
   another system and entered into an AETC system is an interface. Data sent to another system from an
   AETC system is also an interface. If a system depends on another system's data, then a data interface
   exists.
   5.2. Examples of data interfaces include, but are not limited to, the following:
       5.2.1. Spreadsheets.
       5.2.2. Scripts.
       5.2.3. Programs.
       5.2.4. Databases.
       5.2.5. Physical and logical connections between systems.

6. Interface Working Group (IWG). The IWG mission will consist of affected individuals with the
purpose of analyzing issues, finding solutions, and formally documenting agreements. Filter all issues
related to AETC data interfaces through AETC CSS/SCIPA.
   6.1. If a resolution cannot be obtained informally an IWG will be convened. The AETC CSS/SCIPA
   will schedule, preside over, track action items, provide updates, and publish minutes and/or docu-
   ments for AETC IWG meetings.
   6.2. The functional or program manager for each interface system must attend an IWG when
   requested by AETC CSS/SCIPA.

7. IRA Procedure:
   7.1. An IRA is required for every AETC data interface. All IRAs with the personnel systems are
   defended at the AFPC RRB. An example of the most current IRA template can be obtained from the
   AETC Interface Web site at https://www.aetc.af.mil/css/SCI/s03t0016.htm.
   7.2. The functional or program manager of each system must:
       7.2.1. Understand the functional requirements and business rules of his or her respective system
       by validating and coordinating through the data and process owners.
       7.2.2. Be able to define the functional description of the system.
4                                                                     AETCI33-103 19 OCTOBER 2004


       7.2.3. Contact the functional or program manager of the interfacing systems, and informally dis-
       cuss the interface.
       7.2.4. After verbal agreement is reached, jointly create an IRA capturing the requirements of all
       systems.
       7.2.5. Begin analyzing potential technical solutions to support the required interfaces upon receipt
       of the signed IRA. To ensure effective use of resources, the technical solutions should not begin
       until all signatures are obtained.
    7.3. AETC CSS/SCIPA will:
       7.3.1. If necessary, schedule and chair an IWG to resolve any interface-related stalemates.
       7.3.2. Coordinate the requirement through the affected organizations.
       7.3.3. Maintain the original IRA or a copy if the original IRA is not available. Provide copies of
       the IRA to all involved with the interfaces in question. IRAs will not be shared with outside parties
       without written permission from the functional or program managers of both interfacing systems.
    7.4. Repeat this process for any requested amendment (change) to approved IRAs.

8. Software Defects or Requirements and Interfaces for AFPC Systems. This encompasses all soft-
ware requests for AFPC systems. All of these are prioritized within AETC and then defended at the AFPC
RRB.
    8.1. Each new software requirement must be entered into the AFPC Requirement Management Sys-
    tem (RMS) by the AETC RRB representative (AETC CSS/SCIPA). AFPC will not accept AETC
    requirements originating from any other source. Failure to follow this process will result in the possi-
    ble loss or delay in meeting of requirements. Anyone in AETC with a new requirement for AFPC per-
    sonnel systems must provide the following to the AETC RRB representative for processing through
    RMS:
       8.1.1. Clear, descriptive title for tracking purposes (try to keep it under 10 words).
       8.1.2. Brief, precise description of the new requirement that the personnel system needs to accom-
       plish.
       8.1.3. Justification and expected results of each requirement.
       8.1.4. Specific policy, law, etc., that mandates the requirement and its effective date.
       8.1.5. Prioritization criteria for each requirement.
    8.2. Report every AFPC software defect to the AFPC help desk at DSN 565-3995. Failure to follow
    this process will result in the possible loss or delay in correcting the defects. Prior to calling, ensure
    the following information is gathered to provide to the help desk technician:
       8.2.1. Clear, descriptive title for tracking purposes (try to keep it under 10 words).
       8.2.2. Brief, precise description of the problem being experienced with the personnel system.
       8.2.3. If possible, the screen name, report name, and the interface table and/or file name, etc., that
       is not working.
AETCI33-103 19 OCTOBER 2004                                                                            5


   8.3. Obtain the defect number from the help desk. This number is required in order to track status and
   to defend at the RRB.
   8.4. Provide all of the defect information to the AETC RRB representative to defend at the RRB.
   8.5. Provide prioritization criteria to the AETC RRB representative for each defect.

9. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847.



                                                    DAVID C. SCHRECK, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Director of Communications and Information
6                                                            AETCI33-103 19 OCTOBER 2004


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law, Title VIII, Information Technology Management Reform Act (ITMRA) of 1996
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AIS—automated information system
AAIM—Automated Information System Interface Model
ANG—Air National Guard
DIMHRS—Defense Information Management Human Resource System
IRA—interface requirements agreement
IWG—interface working group
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
RMS—Requirement Management System
RRB—requirements review board
