BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR EDUCTATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCTATION AND TRAINING                               COMMAND INSTRUCTION 48-101
COMMAND
                                                                              4 OCTOBER 2000
                                                                    VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                             2 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                            PREVENTION OF HEAT STRESS
                                                                           DISORDERS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/SGPB                                                   Certified by: HQ AETC/SGP
(Maj Kevin Gabos)                                                            (Col Geoffery Rake)
Supersedes: AETCI48-101, 17 October                                                    Pages: 20
             1994
                              (VANCEAFB)
OPR: 71 MDOS/SGOB                                                     Certified by: 71 MDG/CC
Supersedes: AETCI48-                                              (Colonel Otha L. Solomon, Jr.)
            101_VANCEAFBSUP, 30                                                         Pages:3
            Nov 05


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program. It establishes the Air
Education and Training Command (AETC) policy for preventing the adverse effects of heat
stress during ground activities. This instruction applies to all permanent party government
employees (military and civilian) assigned to AETC installations, all personnel attending training
administered by AETC, and AETC units located at non-AETC installations for training
administered by AETC. It also applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) personnel when they receive training administered by AETC. It does not
apply to training conducted in water or during flight. It also does not apply to contractor
personnel. The impact of adjusting AETC civilian employee work hours due to work and rest
cycles must be processed through local labor management. Each AETC installation will
supplement this instruction to specify local procedures. During mission-essential, contingency,
or emergency operations, squadron commanders may waive the provisions of this instruction.
However, when commanders waive procedures they must ensure all supervisors exercise
2                                                 AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


caution, make certain all supervisors and subordinate personnel are aware of heat stress disorder
signs and symptoms, and take actions to protect the health of their personnel. Military operations
and training are inherently risky. The requirements of this instruction are aimed at reducing the
risk of heat stress disorders among our people. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information used in this publication.

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

(VANCEAFB) This supplement implements and extends the guidance within Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005, and Air Education and
Training Command Instruction (AETCI) 48-101, Prevention of Heat Stress Disorders, 4 October
2000. It applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel assigned to Vance Air Force
Base (Vance AFB). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rds_series.cfm.         Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the Vance AFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF
Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that
publication for guidance on filling out the form.)

(VANCEAFB) AETC Instruction 48-101, 4 Oct 00, is supplemented as follows:

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(VANCEAFB) Updated 1.6.3.2. to remove hourly readings. Added minimum temperature
requirement of >85 F and minimum measurements.

       1.       Responsibilities: ...................................................................................................    3
Figure 1.       Heat Stress and Water Intoxication Warning Signs and Symptoms. ...................                                       3
Table 1.        Training Requirements for Hot Environments. (note 1) ......................................                              4
Figure 2.      Work Load Examples. ...........................................................................................           6
       2.       Assessing Environmental Conditions for Heat Stress: ........................................                            10
       3.       General Requirements to Prevent Heat Stress Disorders. ....................................                             11
       4.       Preventing Heat Stress Disorders in Training Environments: .............................                                13
       5.       Preventing Heat Stress Disorders During Physical Conditioning (PC) Activities.                                          13
       6.       Preventing Heat Stress Disorders in Occupational Work Environments (Nontraining): 13
Table 2.        Permissible Heat Exposure Limits. (note) ...........................................................                    14
       7.       Recognition, First-Aid Treatment, and Investigation of Heat Stress Disorders: .                                         15
       8.       Local Supplements. ..............................................................................................       15
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                                                   3


        9.       Waivers. ...............................................................................................................   16

ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              18


1.   Responsibilities:
     1.1. Wing Commanders:
        1.1.1.   Establish procedures to implement this instruction.
        1.1.2.   Supplement this instruction as required by paragraph 8.
     1.2. Group and Squadron Commanders:
        1.2.1. Implement activity levels and fluid replacement requirements for personnel in
        training status.
        1.2.2. Brief supervisors annually on the requirements of this instruction, the local
        supplement, and unit-specific procedures to minimize the risk of heat stress disorders.
        1.2.3. Brief supervisors and workers on the signs and symptoms of heat stress disorders
        (see Figure 1) and how to minimize the effects of heat stress during training exercises
        when personnel wear the ground crew chemical defense ensemble or other similarly
        impermeable clothing. Make adjustments to the wet bulb, globe temperature (WBGT)
        index as indicated in the notes to Table 1. Figure 2 provides various work load examples.
        Consult with aerospace physiology or bioenvironmental engineering for assistance in
        work classification.
4                                  AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


Figure 1.   Heat Stress and Water Intoxication Warning Signs and Symptoms.

EARLY SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS                    ACTIONS

    •         Dizziness                      •              Remove from training
    •         Headache                       •              Allow casualty to rest in shade
    •         Drymouth                       •              Take sips of water
    •         Unsteady walk                  •     If signs or symptoms do not improve in 15 to 30
    •         Weakness                           minutes, transport to medical facility
    •         Muscle cramps                  •            If signs or      symptoms    worsen,   call
                                                          ambulance



LATER SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS                    IMMEDIATE ACTIONS
    •   Hot body, high temperature           •     Call ambulance for immediate transport to hospital
    •   Confusion, unresponsiveness, coma    •     Lay person down in shade with feet elevated until
    •   Vomiting                                 ambulance arrives
    •   Involuntary bowel movement           •     Give sips of water while waiting for ambulance
    •   Convulsions                          •     Begin active cooling, if skin is hot to touch
    •   Weak or rapid pulse                  •     Undress as much as possible
                                             •     Pour cool water over person and fan
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                           5


Table 1. Training Requirements for Hot Environments. (note 1)

                A                  B                    C                  D                    E

                                                  Easy Work         Moderate Work          Hard Work

                                               (100 - 335 Watts) (335 - 500 Watts) (500 - 700 Watts)

 L       Heat Category      Temperature                  Water             Water             Water
 I        (Flag Color)      Range WBGT          Work/ Intake Work/ Intake Work/ Intake
 N                         (oF) (notes 2, 3)     Rest    Qt/hr     Rest    Qt/hr     Rest    Qt/hr
 E                                             (note 4) (note 5) (note 4) (note 5) (note 4) (note 5)

  1            1               78 - 81.9       No limit     1/2    No limit     3/4    40/20 min        3/4
             (White)

  2             2              82 - 84.9       No limit     1/2    50/10 min    3/4    30/30 min        1
             (Green)

  3            3               85 - 87.9       No limit     3/4    40/20 min    3/4    30/30 min        1
            (Yellow)

  4             4              88 - 89.9       No limit     3/4    30/30 min    3/4    20/40 min        1
              (Red)

  5             5                 > 90          50/10        1     20/40 min     1     10/50 min        1
             (Black)                             min

                 1. These values will sustain performance and hydration for at least 4 hours of work in
                 the specified heat category. (Values are based on US Army Research Institute for
                 Environmental Medicine recommendations; US Army policy.)
                 2. Wearing body armor adds 5 oF to measured WBGT.
                 3. When performing activities with ground crew ensemble, fire-fighting gear, or other
                 restrictive or impermeable clothing, make arrangements for remote site measurement of
                 the WBGT and add 10 oF to the measurement (add 15 oF if also wearing body armor).
                 These adjustments account for the clothing and equipment effects on evaporative
                 cooling (increased barrier) and any increase in work due to the additional load.
                 4. Rest means minimal physical activity (sitting or standing) accomplished in the shade
                 if possible (but not necessary).
                 5. Individual water need will vary +/- 1/4 quart per hour.
                                                 CAUTION
      Hourly fluid intake should not exceed 1 1/2 quarts; daily fluid intake should not exceed 12 quarts.
         Rapid ingestion of large amounts of water (greater than 1 1/2 quarts per hour) may lead to
       hyponatremia (acute water intoxication), which is a life-threatening condition that may lead to
       weakness, convulsions, loss of consciousness, and death if not recognized and treated promptly.
6                                 AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


Figure 2. Work Load Examples.

Easy Work
         •         Walking hard surface at 2.5 miles per hour (mph), < 30 pound (lb) load
         •         Weapon maintenance
         •         Manual of Arms
         •         Marksmanship training
         •         Drill and ceremony
         •         Repair, airplane or automobile
         •         Repair, wiring, plumbing
         •         Occupation, carpentry, general
         •         Occupation, walking 3.0 mph, moderately and carrying light objects < 25 lbs
         •         Occupation, walking on job, < 2.0 mph, very slow
         •         Occupation, police, directing traffic (standing)



Moderate Work
         •         Walking hard surface at 3.5 mph, < 40 lb load
         •         Walking loose sand at 2.5 mph, no load
         •         Walking, carrying 1 - 15 lb load, upstairs
         •          Patrolling
         •          Individual movement techniques, such as low crawl, high crawl
         •          Defensive position construction
         •          Field assaults
         •          Cleaning, heavy or major (for example, wash car, wash windows, mop)—
             vigorous effort
         •         Conditioning exercise, calisthenics light or moderate effort
         •         Lawn and garden, mowing lawn, walk, power mower
         •         Repair, painting, papering, plastering, scraping



Hard Work
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                    7


         •            Walking hard surface at 3.5 mph, > 40 lb load
         •            Walking loose sand at 2.5 mph with load
         •            Walking, carrying 16 - 49 lb load, upstairs
         •            Running, 5 mph (12 minutes per mile)

         •            Walking hard surface at 3.5 mph, > 40 lb load
         •            Walking loose sand at 2.5 mph with load
         •            Walking, carrying 16 - 49 lb load, upstairs
         •            Running, 5 mph (12 minutes per mile)
         •            Lawn and garden, mowing lawn, hand mower
         •            Occupation, truck driving, loading and unloading truck (standing)
         •            Occupation, moving, pushing heavy objects, 75 lbs or more (desks, moving van
             work)
         •            Conditioning exercise, calisthenics (push-ups, pullups, situps)—heavy, vigorous
             effort
         •            Occupation, carrying heavy loads (such as bricks)
         •            Occupation, carrying moderate loads upstairs, moving boxes (16 - 40 lbs)
  1.3. Supervisors:
  1.3. (VANCEAFB) Supervisors will maintain a copy of AETCI 48-101 for use when
  developing work/rest cycles for personnel who may be occupationally exposed to heat stress.
     1.3.1. Brief workers annually on the requirements of this instruction, the local
     supplement, and unit-specific procedures to minimize the risk of heat stress disorders.
     Document training in accordance with AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
     Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program.
     1.3.2. Plan activities to meet the requirements of this instruction, as applicable, and
     educate personnel on proper water intake, work restrictions, and rest restrictions.
     1.3.3. Disseminate the heat category and flag color conditions (Table 1) to workers and
     trainees when informed through established notification procedures.
     1.3.4. Identify workers or trainees displaying signs and symptoms of heat stress and
     implement appropriate actions as identified in Figure 1.
     1.3.5. Consult with representatives of the aerospace medicine squadron or flight, as
     needed, to verify acclimatization levels and appropriate curtailment recommendations
     unique to specific work or training requirements.
     1.3.6. Consider principles of acclimatization when planning outdoor activities in hot
     environments.
  1.4. Personnel Attending Training Administered By AETC. Personnel attending
  training administered by AETC are subject to the requirements of this instruction.
  Detachments and operating locations (OL) on other than an AETC base will:
8                                     AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


       1.4.1. Coordinate with the host base bioenvironmental engineer or other preventive
       medicine personnel to determine the method used to locally determine the WBGT index
       and disseminate its value.
       1.4.2. Specify in writing, (for example, an operating instruction) how they will
       determine WBGT from the host installation in order to implement the work and rest
       recommendations and water intake requirements of Table 1 and Figure 2. Operating
       instructions should provide procedures for medically notifying course supervisors of any
       trainees at increased risk of heat stress disorder due to illness or medication and for
       documenting WBGT measurements for later retrieval. Provide a copy to HQ
       AETC/SGPB.
NOTE: The Army, Navy, and Marine Corps have similar guidelines for heat stress based on the
WBGT index. Additionally, most Air Force installations have local procedures in place to
determine WBGT during periods of hot weather.
    1.5. AETC Personnel Attending Training Not Administered By AETC. AETC
    personnel attending training not administered by AETC (for example, training administered
    by the Army, Navy) will follow the guidelines established by that unit, at that installation,
    instead of the guidance contained in this instruction.
    1.6. Medical Service. Aerospace medicine contains a unique collection of expertise to
    assist unit commanders and supervisors. Commanders may wish to use this expertise to
    educate installation, tenant, and remotely located units on the medical aspects of this
    instruction. Specific functional area responsibilities are assigned below:
       1.6.1.   Flight Medicine:
           1.6.1.1.   Advise unit commanders and supervisors on prevention of heat stress.
           1.6.1.2. Establish procedures for processing AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial
           Report, according to paragraph 7.3 and AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
           Standards.
           1.6.1.3. Assist bioenvironmental engineering (BE) in writing the supplement to this
           instruction.
       1.6.2.   Public Health:
           1.6.2.1. Assist supervisors in developing appropriate training materials for
           supervisors, workers, and trainees.
           1.6.2.2. Analyze occupational illness data to determine adverse trends and report
           according to paragraph 7.2.
           1.6.2.3.   Assist BE in writing the supplement to this instruction.
           1.6.2.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) 71 MDOS/SGOAM (Public Health) assists in
           investigating heat illness incidents.
       1.6.3.   Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE):
           1.6.3.1.   Write the installation supplement to this instruction required by paragraph
           8.
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                    9


         1.6.3.2.   Determine the appropriate procedures to measure and report the WBGT
         index.
         1.6.3.2. (VANCEAFB) 71 MDOS/SGOQB (Bioenvironmental Engineering) will
         notify the Vance Command Post by telephone when measured Wet Bulb Globe
         Temperature (WBGT) levels exceed 81.9 degrees Fahrenheit. WBGT will be
         reported on days with a forecast or observed high temperature >85 F, with a
         minimum of four measurements during the hottest part of the day. A log of these
         readings will be maintained by 71 MDOS/SGOQB. The Command Post will
         disseminate this information to military commanders of all affected areas.
         1.6.3.3. Incorporate heat stress evaluations into the routine and special surveillance
         programs established by AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program. Surveillance
         must include an annual review of the training plan or curriculum of training courses
         that exposes trainees to hard work under heat category 1 (white flag) or above, as
         defined in Table 1 and Figure 2.
         1.6.3.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) Bioenvironmental Engineering will notify the Vance
         Command Post by telephone of the WBGT stage. These stages are as follows:
              (VANCEAFB)
                  Stages            Temperature                Flag Color
                                    Range
                     1          <81.9 F WBGT            No Flag Required
                     2         82 – 84.9 F WBGT              Green
                     3         85 – 87.9 F WBGT             Yellow
                     4         88 – 89.9 F WBGT               Red
                     5           >90 F WBGT                  Black

              1.6.3.4.1. (Added-VANCEAFB) The Command Post will disseminate this
              information via the Networked Alerting System (alerts all personnel through
              computer updates of current heat stress categories) and the base pager system.
     1.6.4. Aerospace Physiologist. In consult with the USAF School of Aerospace
     Medicine Performance Enhancement Division, aerospace physiologists will:
         1.6.4.1.   Assist supervisors in determining work rate and preventive measures.
         1.6.4.2.   Assist BE in writing the supplement to this instruction.
     1.6.5.   Clinical Providers:
         1.6.5.1. Must implement procedures to notify the public health flight of any heat
         stress disorder associated with work or training activities as required by paragraph
         7.3.
         1.6.5.2. Must be educated at least annually on this instruction and the local
         supplement, emphasizing their role in establishing recommendations or other
         restrictions during the hot season for workers and trainees who have been ill.
     1.6.6. (Added-VANCEAFB) The dry bulb and dew point temperatures for the Index of
     Thermal Stress (ITS) will be calculated by 71 OSS/OSW and included in the observation
10                                    AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


        for the Supervisor of Flying (SOF). The SOF will determine the appropriate zone and
        notify each flying squadron and base operations.
2.   Assessing Environmental Conditions for Heat Stress:
     2.1. Measuring deep body temperature is impractical for monitoring heat load; therefore,
     environmental factors must be measured. The WBGT index is the simplest and most suitable
     technique to measure environmental factors that most nearly correlate with deep body
     temperatures and other physiological responses to heat. Refer to the American Conference of
     Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) and
     Biological Exposure Indices (BEIs) (published annually) for more information. The formula
     to determine the WBGT index is:


     Outdoors with Solar Load:                     WBGT = 0.7 NWB + 0.2 BG + 0.1 DB

     Indoors or Outdoors with No Solar Load:       WBGT = 0.7 NWB + 0.3 BG

     (DB = Dry Bulb; BG = Black Globe; and NWB = Natural Wet Bulb)


     2.2. To determine the WBGT index, use either the field apparatus described in the ACGIH
     TLV booklet, the portable hand-held WBGT kit (NSN 6665-00-159-2218), or a suitable
     commercially available instrument. BE must specify in the local supplement where WBGT
     measurements are taken on the installation. Measurements shall represent the conditions that
     most closely relate to the training or working conditions. For example, the WBGT inside an
     open hangar will be different than if measured outdoors with solar load. If WBGT
     measurements are taken at remote locations, the local supplement must specify who is
     responsible for taking the remote site measurements and how this information is recorded
     and reported. BE must certify the competency of any other functional area in taking and
     reporting these measurements.
     2.3. When the predicted or actual outside temperatures reach 85 oF as a daily high, measure
     WBGT at least four times, evenly spaced, during the hottest part of the day. For example,
     measurements might be at 1000, 1200, 1400, and 1600 or 0900, 1100, 1300, and 1500. It
     may be wise to perform more WBGT measurements during particularly hot days.
     2.4. When the WBGT index reaches 85 oF, measure WBGT at least hourly during normal
     duty hours. At technical training wings with scheduled weekend or after-hour outdoor
     activities for trainees, develop procedures for measuring the WBGT index during these times.
     2.5. BE may perform baseline heat stress evaluations to establish the normal average and
     range of WBGT index temperatures for indoor hot environments where personnel are
     occupationally exposed to hot environments. Validate the baseline data during routine
     surveys at frequencies established by AFI 48-145. Examples of such environments are steam
     pits and tunnels, confined spaces heated by radiant exposure to the sun, and boiler rooms.
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                         11


3. General Requirements to Prevent Heat Stress Disorders. The following topics discuss
actions to help prevent heat stress disorders:
   3.1. Education. Personnel working and/or training in hot environments must be educated
   on the causes, signs and symptoms, first-aid treatment, and prevention of heat disorders.
   Instruct workers and trainees to inform supervisors if they are experiencing any of the
   following conditions that may contribute to heat injury:
      3.1.1.    Acute or chronic infection or fever.
      3.1.2.    Sickle cell trait.
      3.1.3.    Reaction to an immunization.
      3.1.4.    Vascular disease.
      3.1.5.    Inability to sweat.
      3.1.6.    Heat rash or acute sunburn.
      3.1.7.    Previous heatstroke.
      3.1.8.    Recent use of alcohol.
      3.1.9.    Dehydration.
      3.1.10.    The lack of sleep or fatigue.
      3.1.11.    Being overweight or overfat.
      3.1.12.    Taking medications and drugs.
      3.1.13.    Using certain herbal and nutritional supplements (particularly the ephedra
      class).
      3.1.14.    Pregnancy.
   3.2. Water. Adequate water intake is essential to replace water lost through sweating,
   respiration, and elimination. Encourage personnel to begin hydrating several days before a
   lengthy and/or high performance exposure to hot conditions to ensure adequate hydration
   beforehand. Advise personnel to begin water consumption at the recommended rate up to 2
   hours before starting the activity when possible. Table 1 provides guidelines for fluid
   replacement based on the WBGT and activity level. It is better to drink small amounts of
   water frequently (for example, one-fourth of a canteen every 15 to 30 minutes) than to drink
   larger amounts less frequently. Make cool water available, when possible, for personnel to
   refresh their canteens. When the activity is complete, fluid replacement at the rate specified
   in Table 1 should continue for approximately 2 hours. Alcoholic and caffeinated beverages
   do not make up for water loss. Carbonated beverages are not as effective as noncarbonated
   beverages in keeping the body hydrated because of delayed absorption. Inform personnel not
   to exceed an hourly fluid intake of 1 1/2 quarts or total daily fluid intake of 12 quarts.
   Educate personnel on the importance of remaining hydrated during strenuous activity
   conducted at temperatures below the established heat categories and flags in Table 1.
   3.3. Electrolyte Replacement. The preferred method of electrolyte replacement after
   exposure to hot conditions is a solid meal, as part of a balanced diet. Salt food to taste, but do
   not add additional salt to the diet. Do not use salt tablets except under special operating
12                                    AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


     environments when ordered by a competent medical authority. Sports drinks with high
     electrolyte content are acceptable as interim measures, but should not substitute for meals.
     3.4. Clothing. Wear loose-fitting clothing if possible, especially at the neck and wrist, to
     allow air circulation. When exposed to the sun's rays, cover yourself and apply a sunblocking
     lotion to prevent sunburn. When not exposed to the sun or other radiant heat source, consider
     wearing the least allowable amount of clothing.
     3.5. Work Schedules. Modify work schedules to perform the heaviest work in the coolest
     parts of the day. Establish work and rest cycles as required by this instruction when working
     in hot environments. Rest means minimal physical activity, sitting or standing, accomplished
     in the shade if possible, but not necessary.
     3.6. Acclimatization:
        3.6.1. Acclimatization is defined as the adaptive changes that occur when an individual
        undergoes repeated or prolonged heat exposure and the concomitant reduction in
        physiological strain produced by the hot environment. Acclimatization is achieved by
        repeated exposures to a heat stress sufficient to raise internal body temperature to levels
        that provoke moderate to profuse sweating; this is most effectively accomplished by
        exercising or working in the heat. Acclimatization to heat begins with the first exposure;
        at least 7 to 14 days of exposure are required to reach approximately 95 percent of
        maximal physiological response.
        3.6.2. Higher levels of aerobic conditioning from exercise in thermoneutral or cool
        environments provide a partial degree of acclimatization, but not complete
        acclimatization. Also, acclimatization is specific to the environmental vapor pressure;
        that is, adaptations to hot-humid conditions are different than those to hot-dry conditions.
        Individuals who will exercise or work in the heat should increase their state of
        acclimatization by gradually increasing exercise or work exposure during the
        approximately 2-week period before the scheduled activity. Supervisors must note that
        several factors, including inter-individual differences, affect the rate and magnitude of
        acclimatization. NOTE: Acclimatization is not necessary to implement the requirements
        of Table 1. The work and rest restrictions are sufficiently conservative to minimize the
        risk of heat stress disorders, even among unacclimatized individuals.
        3.6.3. When an unacclimatized worker is exposed to heat, he or she may experience
        some discomfort and signs of heat strain, such as high body temperature, increased heart
        rate, and fatigue on the first day. On each succeeding day, the worker's ability to perform
        at the same level of heat stress improves as signs of discomfort and strain diminish.
        During the approximately 2 weeks it takes to acclimatize, the worker should be especially
        aware of the signs and symptoms of heat stress disorders and should drink an adequate
        quantity of water as indicated in Table 1. After a period of approximately 2 weeks, a
        worker should be able to perform all tasks without difficulty.
        3.6.4. Individuals who are seasonally exposed to strenuous duties or heavy work
        undergo acclimatization each year. This may occur during regular duty or work as outside
        temperatures increase during the spring and summer.
     3.7. Heat Syncope. Heat syncope is the term used to describe fainting immediately after
     exertion without proper cool down, or while standing erect and immobile in heat due to
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                        13


     pooling of the blood in dilated vessels and in the lower parts of the body. Heat syncope
     following exertion may be prevented by ensuring proper cool down, such as continuous
     walking and flexing the muscles in the arms and legs for at least 5 to 10 minutes or until the
     heart rate has dropped below 120 beats per minute. To help prevent heat syncope during
     parades conducted in hot environments, select acclimatized personnel to participate and have
     them drink 1 quart or canteen of water over the hour preceding parades. Also instruct
     participants to intermittently move their arms and legs to assist the return of blood to the
     heart.
4.   Preventing Heat Stress Disorders in Training Environments:
     4.1. Supervisors of personnel in training status will use the activity level restrictions in
     Table 1 to plan and conduct outdoor training and troop movements for individuals under their
     control. Paragraph 5 addresses recommendations for single training events conducted solely
     for the purpose of physical conditioning (PC). All trainees will be considered unacclimatized
     unless exposed to increasing levels of exertion in WBGT heat conditions. The actual number
     of days to acclimate will depend on many factors and will be determined for each course
     based on the training schedule and prior heat category levels during the acclimatization
     process.
     4.2. Although trainees may eventually become acclimated, the body's tolerance to heat may
     be reduced based on the conditions listed in paragraph 3.1. Trainees must be educated to
     inform instructors of these conditions so that proper adjustments in training activities can be
     made. Depending upon the seriousness of the condition, these adjustments can include more
     closely observing the affected personnel, reducing the activity rate and/or time, or referring
     the trainee to a clinical provider for an evaluation.
5. Preventing Heat Stress Disorders During Physical Conditioning (PC) Activities. PC
activities conducted for the sole purpose of fitness improvement should be conducted before the
onset of heat categories when possible. Physical conditioning conducted in PC uniform (shorts
and t-shirt) may be performed continuously up to 1 hour in all but black flag heat condition.
Limit PC in black flag heat conditions to 40 minutes of continuous activity. These guidelines are
based on a single isolated training event. Use Table 1 to determine fluid intake guidelines based
on the intensity of the PC activity.
6.   Preventing Heat Stress Disorders in Occupational Work Environments (Nontraining):
     6.1. Personnel who routinely perform their jobs while exposed to hot environments (such as
     aircraft maintenance, grounds maintenance, and repair work in steam pits and tunnels) are
     occupationally exposed.
     6.2. Supervisors of occupationally exposed personnel should use Table 2 to plan work and
     rest cycles for individuals under their control. The WBGT values listed in the table are
     screening values for the particular work rate indicated. These values are extracted from the
     ACGIH TLV booklet. Refer to the ACGIH TLV booklet and Documentation of Threshold
     Limit Values (TLVs) and Biological Exposure Indices (BEIs) for more detailed information
     on the application of these screening values. NOTE: The heat category and flag color from
     Table 1 do not apply to occupationally exposed workers.
14                                            AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


Table 2. Permissible Heat Exposure Limits. (note)

  L              A             B          C           D        E        F          G          H        I

     I                                    Acclimatized                           Unacclimatized

 N         Work                                           Very                                    Very
 E         Demands         Light   Moderate       Heavy   Heavy    Light    Moderate      Heavy   Heavy

  1        100% work      85       81.5          79                81.5     77           72.5

  2        75% work; 87            83.5          81.5              84       79           76
           25% rest

  3        50% work; 89            85            83.5     81.5     86       82.5         80       77
           50% rest

  4 25% work; 90          88                     86       85       88       84           82.5     80
    75% rest
NOTE: Values given in oF WBGT.
            6.2.1. Exposure limits are based on personnel working in normal summer work
            clothing. Add 3.5 oF to the measured WBGT for personnel working in cloth coveralls and
            7 oF for personnel working in double-cloth overalls.
            6.2.2. Exposures above 90 oF WBGT should be allowed only when performing
            mission-essential duties, and only then with caution. When necessary to accomplish a
            task, two or more details should be arranged to work in sequence to ensure each crew
            receives the proper work and rest cycle. The amount of inter-individual variability in
            response to heat strain cannot be emphasized enough—hence, extreme caution is needed.
         6.3. Rank each job into light, medium, heavy, or very heavy categories on the basis of type
         of operation to determine the workload category.
            6.3.1. Light work would correspond to sitting with moderate arm and leg movements,
            standing with light work at machine or bench, using a table saw, or standing with light or
            moderate work at machine or bench and some walking about.
            6.3.2. Moderate work would correspond to scrubbing in a standing position, walking
            about with moderate lifting and pushing, or walking on a level surface at approximately 3
            miles per hour carrying a 7-pound load.
            6.3.3. Heavy work would correspond to carpenter sawing by hand, shoveling dry sand,
            heavy assembly work, or intermittent heavy lifting with pushing or pulling (pick and
            shovel work).
            6.3.4. Very heavy work corresponds to shoveling wet sand. Because of the
            physiological strain associated with very heavy work among less fit workers regardless of
            the WBGT, criteria values are not provided for continuous work and for up to 25 percent
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                         15


        rest in an hour. Consider a more detailed analysis and/or physiological monitoring for
        these conditions.
7.   Recognition, First-Aid Treatment, and Investigation of Heat Stress Disorders:
     7.1. There are several recognized heat stress disorders described in Attachment 1, Terms.
     Individuals must be trained to recognize when they or their fellow trainees or workers are
     experiencing the signs and symptoms of any of these disorders. Early signs and symptoms
     and actions are identified in Figure 1, along with the later signs and symptoms and immediate
     actions to respond to such individuals.
     7.2. For any medical intervention due to potential heat illness for military or civilian
     employees, the healthcare provider will contact public health to initiate AF Form 190,
     Occupational Illness/Injury Investigation Report. Occupational illness and injuries will be
     determined and reported according to AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports; HQ
     AFMOA/SGOP Memo, Air Force Reportable Surveillance System Reporting, 25 January
     1997 (available at http://wwwsam.brooks.af.mil/eh/files/policy/afress.doc); and the Tri-
     Service Reportable Events Guidelines and Case Definitions. Summary information from all
     AF Forms 190 will be reported to HQ AETC/SGPB quarterly as part of the occupational
     health program metrics. For AETC units, all heat illnesses requiring medical intervention
     will be reported.
     7.3. For personnel who become ill and are returned to duty during the hot season, a clinical
     provider will recommend whether or not additional restrictions are required to prevent heat
     stress disorders. The clinical provider will annotate these recommendations and any other
     restrictions or modifications to the individual's physical training and outdoor activities on AF
     Form 422.
     7.3. (VANCEAFB) Health care providers will investigate heat illness incidents. Personnel
     who "fall out" (i.e., exhibit signs of heat stress) must be reported to 71 MDOS/SGOAM
     within one duty day by the supervisor in charge of the detail.
     7.4. (Added-VANCEAFB) Military personnel and government civilians who "fall out"
     must report to the 71 MDG for evaluation, and if necessary, receive treatment at the time of
     the event.
8. Local Supplements. Each AETC installation will develop a supplement to this instruction
and provide a copy to HQ AETC/SGPB. At a minimum, the local supplement must:
     8.1. Identify who measures the WBGT index, where the measurements will be performed,
     and when and how often they will be taken.
     8.2. Establish procedures to document WBGT measurements for later retrieval.
     8.3. Establish notification procedures to ensure all base units (such as training squadrons,
     base gym, etc.) know when the WBGT heat conditions are reached or change. The preferred
     method should include flag posting; however, any other method may be used at the discretion
     of the wing commander. For bases where WBGT stage flags are used, the local supplement
     to this instruction will establish flag-posting locations and procedures.
     8.4. Establish local policy on training activities that may and may not be conducted during
     each heat condition. Consider operational risk management (ORM) when developing local
     supplements to establish unit policies.
16                                     AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


     8.5. Identify unique training situations that warrant direct medical support and the details of
     the required support.
     8.6. Establish procedures to evaluate trends in heat-related illnesses.
     8.7. Describe procedures for medical notification of course supervisors of any trainees at
     increased risk of heat stress disorder due to illness or medication.
9. Waivers. Any increase in activity above the requirements of Table 1 will increase the risk
of heat stress disorders. Waivers will be considered when the additional risk is determined to be
acceptable based on the reality of the training mission needs. The authority to grant a waiver to
the work and rest cycles for training environments is the AETC Director of Operations (HQ
AETC/DO) in consult with the AETC Command Surgeon (HQ AETC/SG).
     9.1. Initial Waivers for Current Training Activities. Units presently conducting training
     exceeding the work limitations contained in Table 1 must submit a waiver request within 1
     month of the publication of this instruction. Until a decision regarding their waiver is
     provided, these units may continue to operate under the previous version of this instruction
     and any existing, locally developed guidance for curtailment and termination of training in
     hot environments. Submit waiver request through the appropriate wing commander to HQ
     AETC/DO.
     9.2. Waivers for Future Training Activities. Submit waiver requests as part of the course
     development process. Do not begin training before receiving an approved waiver from HQ
     AETC/DO.
     9.3. Content of Waiver Requests. Each waiver request must contain the following
     minimum information:
        9.3.1. Training Objective. Identify the required training elements from the appropriate
        plan of instruction.
        9.3.2. Activity Description. Completely describe the trainee activities to include pace,
        load, duration, and required intensity over time.
        9.3.3. Impact to Training. Explain the resulting training deficiency if held to Table 1
        limitations.
        9.3.4. Anticipated Training Environment. Explain the WBGT conditions in which
        the activity may be performed.
        9.3.5. Alternatives Considered. Describe other options considered and reasons why
        training cannot occur. For example, explain why course activities cannot be moved to an
        earlier time of day to lessen the heat category.
        9.3.6. Historical Heat Disorder Data. Provide all available historical data related to
        heat stress disorders experienced by trainees in specific activities and/or courses.
        9.3.7. Additional Precautionary Measures. Describe all additional methods
        employed for the activity or course to mitigate the effects of heat illness or respond to the
        range of heat stress disorders.
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                   17


  9.4. Term of Validity of Waivers:
     9.4.1. HQ AETC/DO will establish (in writing) the term of validity of waivers. At a
     minimum, requesters must renew waivers when this publication is revised.
     9.4.2. Units conducting training under a waiver will annually submit to HQ AETC/DO
     the type and number of heat stress disorders resulting from activities conducted under the
     authority of a waiver to this instruction.
  9.5. (Added-VANCEAFB) Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed by this publication.
  9.6. (Added-VANCEAFB) Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
  of Publication.




                                          DANIEL DEGRACIA, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                          Deputy Command Surgeon

                                          (VANCEAFB)

                                          MARK C. NOWLAND, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
18                                  AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 32-4005, Personnel Protection and Attack Action
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program
AETCI 11-405, Flying Training Supervision
Documentation of Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) and Biological Exposure Indices (BEIs)
Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) and Biological Exposure Indices (BEIs)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACGIH—American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
BE—bioenvironmental engineering
BG—black globe
DB—dry bulb
FITS—Fighter Index of Thermal Stress
lb—pound
mph—miles per hour
NWB—natural wet bulb
OL—operating location
ORM—operational risk management
PC—physical conditioning
TLV—threshold limit values
WBGT—wet bulb, globe temperature

Terms
Acclimatization—A period of adjustment an individual's body requires to become accustomed
to working in hot environments. Full acclimatization occurs through progressive degrees of heat
exposure and physical exertion. Personnel may need 2 weeks of increasing exposures to become
AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010                                                        19


substantially acclimated and may retain most of their adaptation for about 1 week after leaving a
hot climate. Workers in good physical condition acclimate more quickly.
Fighter Index of Thermal Stress (FITS)—A guideline to predict cockpit environmental
conditions during low-level missions which may jeopardize aircrew performance. The FITS is
based on the dry air and the dew point temperatures. The FITS is primarily applicable to aircrew
members wearing the lightweight flight suit in older fighter aircraft, both single and dual seats,
with high-visibility bubble canopies.
Heat Stress—Heat stress is the combination of environment and physical work factors that
constitute the total heat load imposed on the body. The environmental heat stress factors are air
temperature, radiant heat exchange (example, sunlight), air movement, and relative humidity.
Physical work contributes to total heat stress through the body's production of heat (metabolic
heat) as it burns energy to sustain the work. This production of metabolic heat depends on the
intensity of the physical effort that is affected, in turn, by body size, muscular development,
physical fitness, and age.
Heat Stress Disorders—Heat stress disorders or heat disorders are general terms used to
indicate any type of adverse health problem related to heat. Heat syncope, cramps, exhaustion,
and stroke are all forms of heat stress disorders. Heat disorders may be recognized by one or
more of the following symptoms: nausea, vomiting, fever, dizziness, headache, faintness,
abnormal sweating, convulsions, lack of coordination, mental confusion, and abdominal or leg
cramps. The personnel most likely to be affected by the heat are those who have just arrived
from cooler regions of the country, are obese, or are in poor condition. A list of heat stress
disorders follows:
Heat Cramps—Painful intermittent spasms of the muscles used during work (arms, legs, or
abdominal) may occur during or after work hours. Cramps may result from exposure to high
temperature for a relatively long time, particularly if accompanied by hard physical work.
Cramps usually occur in unacclimatized personnel after heavy sweating and are the result of
excessive loss of salt from the body. Even if the moisture is replaced by drinking water, the loss
of salt by sweating may provoke heat cramps.
Heat Exhaustion—The signs of heat exhaustion are profuse sweating, weakness, rapid pulse,
dizziness, nausea, and headache. The body temperature is elevated with heat exhaustion,
although not to the same degree as with heat stroke. Heat exhaustion is caused by a deficiency of
water and/or salt intake and circulatory strain from competing demands for blood flow to the
skin and to active muscles. Can progress to heat stroke rapidly if not treated immediately.
Heat Stroke—Heat stroke is a medical emergency and is caused by exposure to a hot
environment in which the body is unable to cool itself sufficiently. This results in the body
temperature rising rapidly. With classic heat stroke, hot dry skin may be present. This should be
anticipated in older or debilitated individuals. With exertional heat stroke, sweating continues. It
is often preceded by nausea or vomiting, abnormal shivering, and/or confused mental status with
slurred speech. In highly motivated individuals, the only sign before collapse and
unconsciousness may be heavy sweating. Increased body temperature, if uncontrolled, may lead
to delirium, convulsions, coma, and even death. Heat stroke is a much more serious condition
than either heat cramps or heat exhaustion.
20                                   AETCI48-101_VANCEAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2010


Heat Syncope—Fainting that occurs immediately after exertion without proper cool down or
while standing erect and immobile in heat. Caused by pooling of the blood in dilated vessels and
the lower parts of the body.
Hyponatremia (Acute Water Intoxication)—Condition in which the level of sodium in the
blood is markedly lowered as a result of sodium lost in sweat, coupled with fluid replacement
using only large volumes of plain water (greater than 1 1/2 quarts per hour). This is a medical
emergency. Hyponatremia is a life-threatening condition that may result in confusion, fatigue,
muscle cramps, and nausea early on, followed later by vomiting, unconsciousness, seizures, and
death if not recognized and treated promptly. This condition is difficult to distinguish from heat
exhaustion and heat stroke, and if suspected should be treated immediately in a medical facility.
Wet Bulb, Globe Temperature (WBGT) Index—The WBGT index is a combination of
temperature measurements that factor dry air temperature, air movement, relative humidity, and
radiant heating. The equation for the WBGT index uses dry bulb (DB), natural wet bulb (NWB),
and black globe (BG) temperatures.
