                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           HEADQUARTERS AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND




                                                                                      AETCGM2014-36-03

                                                                                             11 June 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR 2 AF/CC                                                                      22 May 2014
                 AU/CC

FROM: HQ AETC/A2/3/10
      1 F Street Suite 2
      Randolph AFB TX 78150-4325

SUBJECT: AETC Guidance Memorandum 36-03, Military Training Instructor Training and
Development

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Commander Air Education and Training Command, this AETC Guidance
Memorandum (GM) immediately implements HQ AETC guidance and procedures for training and
development of military training instructors (MTI). Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory.
To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein
prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. This GM applies to military training instructors assigned to the 737 Training Group, Lackland AFB
TX, 433 Training Squadron, Lackland AFB TX, and the Officer Training School, Maxwell AFB AL.

3. Attachment 1 to this Memorandum, Interim Guidance for Military Training Instructor Training and
Development, provides new guidance, procedures, and responsibilities for planning, conducting, and
documenting training and professional development of MTIs.

4. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this GM are maintained in accordance
with AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule.

5. The guidance and procedures in this Memorandum become void after one year has elapsed from the
date of this Memorandum, or upon release of an AETC publication incorporating the guidance and
procedures. Our POC is Mr. Anthony Merritt, AETC/A3PV, DSN 487-7477.




                                                   TIMOTHY M. ZADALIS
                                                   Major General, USAF,
                                                    Director of Intelligence, Operations,
                                                   and Nuclear Integration

Attachment
Interim Guidance for Military Training Instructor Training and Development
                                               Attachment 1

             Interim Guidance for Military Training Instructor Training and Development
This guidance implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It provides interim policy,
procedures, and responsibilities for planning, conducting, and documenting training and professional
development of military training instructors (MTI).
1. Purpose. Provide job preparation, training, and professional development of MTIs assigned to basic
military training (BMT).
1.1. MTI School (MTIS).
1.1.1. Provides initial MTI training course, continuation training, remedial training, and training
oversight.
1.1.2. Briefs MTI trainers on individual student MTI needs as necessary.
1.1.3. Reviews training records with student MTIs after each training rotation, conducts additional
training, and provides feedback.
1.1.4. Documents these sessions on memorandum for record (MFR) and forward to MTIS commandant,
737 TRSS/CC and 737 TRG/CC/CCC. At a minimum, include any deviations from established training
policies, training shortfalls/successes, summary of student MTI work hours, and any situations
obstructing a professional learning environment.
1.1.5. Prior to student MTI final teaching qualification (TQ) evaluation, reviews the student MTI’s
training records and verifies with the trainer that the student MTI is prepared for evaluation.
1.1.6. Evaluates cause of student MTI TQ failures and advises on specific remediation.
1.1.7. Tracks TQ evaluation results to monitor standardization and program success.
1.1.8. Provides continuation training for MTIs.
2. Military Training Instructor (MTI):
2.1. The MTI is an instructor who is responsible for conducting BMT as specified by established policies
and directives. MTIs are responsible for the morale and welfare of all assigned trainees and instruct
military training subjects in both indoor and outdoor environments.
2.2. MTIs may perform other roles in BMT such as war skills and military studies (WSMS) instructor
and basic expeditionary airmen skills training (BEAST) cadre, physical training and supply NCO,
military drill and ceremonies NCO, reception center, etc..
2.3. MTIs teaching BMT are not Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) instructors.
2.4. MTIs will complete the Military Training Instructor course. MTIs will also complete the teaching
internship and teaching qualification. Although MTIs are not required to obtain an academic degree, they
are highly encouraged to do so.
2.5. Specific training requirements are outlined for the following MTI categories:
2.5.1. First Tour MTI.
2.5.2. Returning MTI.
2.5.3. Reserve MTI.
2.5.4. War Skills and Military Studies Instructor.
2.5.5. Instructor Supervisor.
2.5.6. MTI Trainer.
3. MTI Requirements. Refer to the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory, Special Duty Identifier
(SDI) 8B000, for entry and retention requirements of this special duty.
4. MTI Training:
4.1. Purpose. MTI training provides the framework for new MTIs to develop the knowledge and skills
necessary to deliver classroom, dormitory, or drill instruction independently. Initial MTI training consists
of three parts: a pre-MTI training package, the Military Training Instructor course, and the MTI teaching
internship. Returning MTIs, War Skills and Military Studies instructors, reserve MTIs, instructor
supervisors, and MTI trainers complete specifically tailored training programs. MTIs are initially
assigned to the 737 TRSS for training. The initial training period is completed upon successful
completion of TQ.
4.2. First Tour MTI. First tour MTIs will complete the following training:
4.2.1. Pre-MTI training. Individuals selected for first-tour MTI special duty are strongly encouraged to
complete the pre-MTI training package prior to attending the MTI course in order to prepare for MTI
special duty. MTIS provides MTI candidates with the training materials. Candidates are strongly
encouraged to begin the training package at their home station prior to permanent change of station (PCS)
and complete the package prior to attending the MTI course.
Note: MTI candidates awaiting their MTI course date may be assigned to the MTI Training and
Qualification Squadron (TQS) to observe BMT processes. MTI candidates should not work more than 8
hour days while observing.
4.2.2. MTI Course. Individuals selected for first-tour MTI special duty must complete the MTI course.
This course provides the basic knowledge and skills needed to perform MTI duties. Special Duty
Assignment Pay (SDAP) is initiated upon successful completion of the MTI course.
4.2.3. MTI Teaching Internship. The MTI teaching internship is an experiential program designed to give
new instructors practical teaching experience and classroom/trainee management skills under the
supervision of a qualified MTI trainer. The MTI teaching internship begins after completion of the
teaching qualification (TQ) process.
4.2.4. Teaching Qualification (TQ). The TQ process ensures all MTIs are task qualified and have
mastered the teaching methods and techniques necessary to be an effective instructor in basic military
training.
4.3. Returning MTI:
4.3.1. Returning MTIs are assignees who previously held SDI 8B000. MTIs reassigned to a teaching
position (MTI flight instructor, instructor supervisor, or WSMS instructor) or returning from
deployment/temporary duty (TDY) after a one-year absence are considered a returning MTI.
4.3.2. Returning MTIs are initially assigned to the 737 TRSS pending a training needs assessment and
completion of any applicable refresher training.
4.3.3. The 737 TRG Superintendent determines if a returning MTI must attend the MTI course based on
previous experience and date of last assignment.
4.3.4. If the returning MTI is not required to complete the MTI course, the returning MTI begins the TQ
process.
4.4. Reserve MTIs. All MTIs assigned to the 433 TRS reserve unit as first tour MTIs must complete the
first tour MTI training requirements. MTIs assigned to the 433 TRS who previously served as active duty
MTIs will be considered returning MTIs and comply with training requirements in paragraph 4.3.
4.5. War Skills and Military Studies (WSMS) Instructors:
4.5.1. WSMS instructors must have completed first tour MTI training requirements and have a minimum
of 6 months experience as a MTI flight instructor prior to being assigned as a WSMS instructor.
4.5.2. TQ for WSMS instructors consists of:
4.5.3. Be trained and certified on appropriate WSMS core tasks in Command Job Qualification Standard
(CJQS).
4.5.4. Reviewing all relevant instructional materials (lesson plans, trainee study materials, measurements,
etc).
4.5.5. Observing a certified WSMS instructor teach each lesson. Viewing a taped lesson can satisfy this
requirement.
4.5.6. Personalize a lesson plan for the assigned subject/block of instruction. Instructor supervisors will
approve personalized lesson plans to ensure the added information is accurate and applicable to the
lessons prior to use.
4.5.7. Satisfactorily accomplish all trainee progress checks and achieve a minimum 90% on at least one
version of the end of course test.
4.5.8. Receive a satisfactory or higher rating on initial evaluation teaching any assigned WSMS CJQS
class.
4.6. Instructor Supervisor. An instructor supervisor is a certified MTI whose responsibilities are to
perform MTI duties and to supervise and evaluate other MTIs. Instructor supervisors must:
4.6.1. Be a certified MTI with a minimum of 12 months experience as a MTI flight instructor prior to
being assigned as an instructor supervisor.
4.6.2 Complete the MTI Supervisor course within 3 months of assignment as a supervisor.
4.6.3. Maintain CJQS certification and subject matter proficiency in BMT course.
4.6.4. Have no record of disciplinary action that reflects a significant lack of character or
behavioral/emotional control.
4.7. MTI Trainer:
4.7.1. MTI Trainers conduct on the job training for student MTIs. Trainers train student MTIs in tasks
listed in the CJQS, assess student MTI proficiency, and document task qualification in records.
4.7.2. Prerequisites. MTI trainer must:
4.7.2.1. Be a certified MTI with a minimum of 12 months as a MTI flight instructor.
4.7.2.2. Have served as flight instructor (Team Chief) for a minimum of 3 flights.
4.7.2.3. Have passed all subject matter proficiency verification.
4.7.2.4. Be rated satisfactory or above on all teaching evaluations within the last 12 months with no items
rated needs improvement.
4.7.2.5. Have no record of disciplinary action that reflects a significant lack of character or
behavioral/emotional control.
4.7.2.6. Have an average on-time graduation rate of 85% or greater for all flights in the past 12 months.
4.7.2.7. Be nominated by squadron commander.
4.7.3. Nominated candidates for MTI Trainer will:
4.7.3.1. Complete the Air Force Trainer’s course
4.7.3.2. Complete the MTI trainer course
4.7.3.3. Receive a satisfactory rating on the initial Evaluator Effectiveness evaluation from 737 TRG
Stan Eval or MTIS.
5. MTI Teaching Internship. The MTI teaching internship is an experiential program designed to give
new instructors practical teaching experience and classroom/trainee management skills under the
supervision of a qualified MTI trainer. The MTI teaching internship begins after completion of the
teaching qualification (TQ) process. The MTI teaching internship consists of:
5.1. A minimum of 180 hours of instructor-related experience. This includes 120 contact hours of
supervised teaching, 30 hours of curriculum/lesson plan preparation, and 30 hours of teaching
qualification experience consisting of test/progress check administration and review, trainee counseling,
instructor performance feedback, and subject matter proficiency verification/testing.
5.2. Receive satisfactory or higher ratings on the initial qualification evaluation and three scheduled
instructor evaluations (one each dorm, drill, and lecture/guided discussion).
5.3. Completion of Air Force doctrine training. Air Force doctrine training consists of reading AFDD 1,
Air Force Basic Doctrine, Organization, and Command, Chapter 1 found on the Air Force e-Publishing
website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFDD1.pdf.
5.4. Internship Documentation. The instructor supervisor documents teaching internship requirements
on AETC Form 470, Teaching Internship Log. The instructor supervisor forwards the completed AETC
Form 470 to the squadron commander. The squadron commander submits the AETC Form 470 and
recommendation to the 737 TRG/UTM. Maintain the completed AETC Form 470 and commander’s
recommendation in the MTI’s AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder.
6. Teaching Qualification (TQ):
6.1. The TQ process ensures all MTIs are task qualified and have mastered the teaching methods and
techniques necessary to be an effective instructor in basic military training. Upon graduation of the MTI
course, student MTIs are entered into TQ to gain experience through on-the-job training. Upon
successful completion of TQ, an MTI can teach unassisted as a MTI flight instructor (team member).
6.2. MTIS, together with the MTI TQS, manages the TQ process and establish the student MTI’s AF
Form 623. All MTIs in grades E-4 through E-7 maintain an AF Form 623 with the 8B000 CJQS, AF
Form 623a, On the Job Training Record-Continuation Sheet, AETC Form 10, Instructor
Training/Proficiency Record, AETC Form 470, and AETC Forms 281, Instructor Evaluation Checklists,
as applicable.
6.3. Student MTIs are not permanently assigned to a BMT flight during TQ.
6.4. Student MTIs have 90 days to certify on all CJQS core tasks and complete TQ. The MTIS, together
with the MTI TQS, conducts a progress review on any student MTI who has not completed TQ within 90
days.
6.5. The TQ process consists of:
6.5.1. CJQS core task training and certification to include the use of motivational training tools.
6.5.2. Reviewing trainee study materials.
6.5.3. Observing a certified MTI teach each lesson.
6.5.4. Reviewing the teaching format instructions in Attachments 3-8.
6.5.5. Personalize BMT lesson plans. Instructor supervisors will approve personalized lesson plans to
ensure the added information is accurate and applicable to the lessons prior to use.
6.5.6. Satisfactorily accomplish initial subject matter proficiency verification/testing.
6.5.7. Receive a satisfactory or higher rating on the initial qualification evaluation consisting of one
dormitory evaluation, one drill evaluation, and one lecture evaluation.
6.5.8. Complete three training rotations. The purpose of the training rotations is to provide concentrated
training in the BMT weeks of training where the majority of tasks are contained. Training rotations are
focused on the student MTI and task completion in differing training situations (e.g. different genders,
personality mixes, etc.). During training rotations, the trainer determines the student MTI work schedule
and MTI controlled flight activities in the best interest of the student MTI. Squadron leadership will
ensure student MTIs assigned to their squadron have work hours structured to allow time for scheduled
teaching opportunities and receive down time in order to rest and prepare for training events.
6.5.8.1. First rotation (zero week through Friday of WEEK 2). Designed to familiarize the student MTI
with BMT, routes of march, processing locations, practical marching experience, and to open training on
basic tasks in the CJQS.
6.5.8.2. Second rotation (zero week through Friday of WEEK 2). Designed to provide full hands on
training, signing off basic tasks and opening training on more complex tasks.
6.5.8.3. Third rotation (zero week through task completion). Designed for more solo experience with
trainer oversight and signing off complex tasks. At the conclusion of the third rotation, the student MTI
and trainer may continue with one flight until the flight ships to complete training and certification on any
open CJQS line items.
6.5.8.4. Variations in rotation schedules due to availability of BMT flights, trainers, and other unforeseen
circumstances must be approved by the MTI TQS commander. Provide a copy of the approved variation
memorandum to the MTIS and 737 TRG/CCC.
6.6. TQ Process Management:
6.6.1. MTI TQS will assign student MTIs to a trainer and to a zero week BMT flight to begin their
training rotations. Upon completion of the first rotation, the student MTI reports back to MTIS for
additional training assistance, if needed, assessment and feedback of the rotation, and review of CJQS.
6.6.2. MTI TQS will assign the student MTI to a different zero week BMT flight for the second and third
rotations. The new zero week flights should be of the opposite gender if possible. Upon completion of
the second rotation, the student MTI reports back to MTIS for additional training assistance, if needed,
assessment and feedback on the rotation and review of CJQS.
6.6.3. Following the assessment and review of CJQS line items, 737 TRSS confers with MTI Mission
Capability Review Board (MMCRB) to determine the gaining squadron for the student MTI.
6.6.4. MTI TQS will perform the initial qualification evaluation on the student MTI.
6.7. Documentation. Document training and certification on task items in 8B000 CJQS or the Air Force
Training Record (AFTR). Add comments to AF Form 623a or AFTR, as applicable. Document course
qualification on AETC Form 10 upon certification of all core tasks and satisfactory initial qualification
evaluation.
7. Subject Matter Proficiency Verification/Testing
7.1. Initial subject matter proficiency verification/testing is satisfied by completing the following
performance objectives:
7.1.1. Control of a marching flight.
7.1.2. Dormitory inspection procedures.
7.1.3. Weapons disassembly progress check.
7.1.4. Physical training progress check.
7.1.5. Reporting progress check.
7.1.6. Written proficiency test.
7.2. MTIs will complete subject matter proficiency verification/testing for their assigned subject areas at
least once every 365 days, beginning from their initial TQ date. Subject matter proficiency verification
for MTI flight instructors consists of satisfactory accomplishment (pass/fail) of all applicable progress
checks. Subject matter proficiency verification/testing for WSMS instructors consists of satisfactorily
accomplishment (pass/fail) of all applicable progress checks and achieving a minimum 90% on at least
one version of the end of course test.
7.3. MTIs assigned to non-teaching duties (BEAST cadre, physical training and supply NCO, military
drill and ceremonies NCO, reception center, etc.) will maintain subject matter proficiency
verification/testing requirements.
7.4. MTIs authorized to perform evaluations receive an Evaluator Effectiveness evaluation at least once
every 365 days, beginning from the date of the initial evaluation.
7.5. Instructor supervisors will decertify any MTI failing subject matter proficiency verification. The
instructor supervisor will refer the MTI to the MTIS for remediation and recertification.
8. MTI Evaluations:
8.1. Instructor evaluations are essential in assessing and maintaining quality instructor performance and
providing constructive feedback to improve training delivery.
8.2. Types of Evaluations:
8.2.1 Initial Qualification. Evaluation conducted as part of TQ. The initial qualification evaluation
measures MTI performance in three separate areas: dormitory, drill, and lecture presentations. The
qualification evaluation provides an objective assessment of the student MTI’s mastery of the teaching
methods and techniques in the separate subject areas. MTI TQS conducts all initial qualification
evaluations.
8.2.2. Scheduled. Evaluations conducted according to the schedule described in paragraph 8.4. The
scheduled evaluation demonstrates sustained mastery of the teaching methods and techniques and
qualification to continue teaching without assistance. Scheduled evaluations are conducted by the
instructor supervisor or 737 TRG Stan Eval. Scheduled evaluations assess drill instruction, dormitory
instruction, and lecture or guided discussion presentation. Rotate topic areas with each evaluation.
8.2.3. No-notice. Any evaluation conducted outside the schedule described in paragraph 8.4. All MTIs
are subject to no-notice evaluations by higher headquarters, squadron leadership, instructor supervisors,
and 737 TRG Stan Eval. No-notice evaluations will not count for scheduled requirements.
8.2.4. Follow-up. Evaluation conducted when an MTI is rated as needs improvement (NI) on any one or
more items during an evaluation. Follow-up evaluations should focus on the NI items, however, all
applicable items are subject to evaluation.
8.2.5. Evaluator Effectiveness. Evaluation conducted on all individuals performing MTI evaluations.
Ensures evaluators have the necessary skills to assess MTI performance, compliance with standards, and
application of effective teaching methods and techniques.
8.3. Conducting Evaluations:
8.3.1. Use the AETC Form 281, the Instructor Evaluation Guide in Attachment 2, and the applicable
teaching format instructions in Attachments 3-8 to conduct MTI evaluations. Include evaluation of
proper application of motivational training procedures in Section E of the AETC Form 281, as applicable.
8.3.2. All personnel conducting MTI evaluations will complete the MTI Supervisor course and receive a
satisfactory rating on the initial Evaluator Effectiveness evaluation prior to conducting evaluations.
8.3.3. Instructor supervisors primarily conduct scheduled evaluations. Stan Eval may conduct scheduled
or no-notice evaluations. Squadron commanders will designate, by memorandum, other squadron
personnel authorized to conduct scheduled evaluations in the absence of the instructor supervisor and no-
notice evaluations.
8.3.4. Evaluations should last at least 50 minutes (depending on topic area) to provide a comprehensive
evaluation.
8.3.5. Feedback to the MTI should be constructive and provide specific recommendations for
improvement, when necessary.
8.3.6. If the overall evaluation rating is below satisfactory, the instructor supervisor will decertify the
MTI and refer the MTI to MTIS for remediation and recertification.
8.4. Evaluation Schedule:
8.4.1. All MTIs will receive three scheduled evaluations; 30 days, 60 days, and 90 days following the
initial qualification date (one dormitory, one drill, and one lecture, in any order).
8.4.2. Thereafter, evaluate every 180 days from the initial qualification date.
8.4.3. MTIs assigned to non-teaching positions (BEAST cadre, physical training and supply NCO,
military drill and ceremonies NCO, reception center, etc.) are exempt from evaluation.
8.4.4. WSMS instructors will receive an initial evaluation on any WSMS CJQS class. Thereafter,
evaluate every 180 days from the initial qualification date.
8.4.5. The initial qualification date is based on the date the MTI completed initial first tour TQ.
Evaluations may be performed + 5 days from the scheduled evaluation date. When deviations from the
schedule are necessary due to temporary duty (TDY), leave, or other unforeseen circumstances, document
the reason for the deviation on an MFR.
8.5. Documentation. Maintain completed AETC Forms 281 and documentation of schedule deviations
in the AF Form 623. Maintain completed evaluation forms until the individual is removed from MTI
duty due to PCS or other actions, as applicable.
9. MTI Decertification and Remedial Training:
9.1. Instructor supervisors will decertify MTIs who fail to receive a satisfactory rating on subject matter
proficiency verification/testing or instructor evaluation. Supervisors will decertify specific CJQS task
items, as applicable, and enter the individual in a remedial training program.
9.2. MTIs have 30 days to complete remedial training and be re-evaluated/re-certified. Remedial periods
beyond 30 days must be justified to and approved by the squadron commander.
9.3. The squadron commander will remove the unqualified MTI from duty until remedial training, re-
evaluation, and task recertification are complete.
9.4. Consult with MTIS for remedial training advice and planning in the area of deficiency. MTIS will
assign an MTI trainer to conduct the remedial training.
9.5. Upon completion of the remedial training and recommendation of the MTI trainer, the supervisor
will conduct subject matter proficiency verification/testing or evaluation on the applicable CJQS task
item(s).
9.6. If the MTI receives a satisfactory rating, the supervisor re-certifies the tasks in the CJQS and
documents the AF Form 623a. The squadron commander returns the MTI to duty.
9.7. If the MTI fails to satisfactorily complete remedial training or fails the follow-up evaluation, the
squadron commander provides recommendation for further remedial training or permanent removal from
MTI duty to 737 TRG.
9.8. Squadron commanders will consult the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory, Special Duty
Identifier 8B000, to ensure any evaluations resulting in decertification do not require action regarding
qualification for the special duty.
10. MTI Continuation Training. Continuation training is essential to the ongoing professional
development of MTIs. This training enhances their technical and professional skills. Continuation
training is provided by MTIS. The required and recommended continuation training courses are listed in
the CJQS.
11. Master Instructor Program:
11.1. Purpose. Master instructor status recognizes MTIs for sustained training delivery and professional
growth above the AETC minimum training and performance requirements. This voluntary program
denotes exemplary subject-matter expertise, professional development, and teaching ability the instructor
developed through experience and supplementary education and training. Minimum AETC training for
master instructor status includes completion of the MTI course and teaching internship requirements.
11.2. Program Eligibility. The program applies to all special duty identifier 8B000 assigned to an
instructor position when the nomination is submitted for certification. Instructors may begin the program
upon completion of their initial teaching qualification.
11.2.1. The flight commander notifies the 737 TRSS program manager of all MTIs entering the master
instructor program.
11.2.2. Upon completion of the program requirements, MTIs are awarded the AETC master instructor
badge.
11.2.3. MTIs assigned to BMT on the date of this publication who were awarded master instructor under
AETCI 36-2202 guidance retain their master instructor status.
11.3. Program Criteria. The criteria for achieving master instructor include an academic degree,
teaching experience, continuing education, MTI evaluations, and professional projects.
11.3.1. Academic Degree Criteria. An academic degree is a prerequisite for master instructor. MTIs
must have a minimum of an associate’s degree when the nomination is submitted in order to be
considered for master instructor status.
11.3.2. Teaching Experience. MTIs who desire to achieve master instructor status must complete a
minimum of 18 months of teaching experience from the initial qualification date, with a minimum of 600
contact hours presentation as primary instructor. MIR hours, when not the primary instructor, cannot be
applied toward the experience criteria. Returning MTIs must have a minimum of 6 months (of the 18
months experience requirement) and 300 contact hours (of the 600 hours teaching requirement) in the
current assignment.
11.3.3. Continuing Education. MTIs must complete a minimum of 6 semester hours of college
education, beyond the associate degree requirement. These education courses may be AETC faculty
development courses awarding CCAF credits or available college courses. Courses must be completed
while assigned to BMT and be upper level (200 series and above) to be accepted. Courses must align
with the following subject areas:
11.3.3.1. Counseling. Courses should focus on counseling techniques and application of counseling
techniques.
11.3.3.2. Psychology. Courses should focus on learning theory, adult learning concepts, educational
psychology, small group psychology, motivational theory, or social psychology.
11.3.3.3. Academic and Performance Measurement. Courses should focus on learning and assessment
techniques, to include common and advanced testing theories, the development and use of academic and
performance measurement tools or statistics, and the fundamentals of test construction.
11.3.3.4. Communication Skills. Courses should focus on advanced written and verbal communications
such as facilitator or trainer courses, small group communications, or interpersonal communications.
11.3.3.5. Professional military education (PME) courses, College Level Examination Program (CLEP)
tests, and Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support (DANTES) tests do not apply toward
the education requirement for master instructor.
11.3.4. Instructor Evaluations. MTIs must receive an overall rating of excellent or higher on the last
three consecutive instructor evaluations (AETC Form 281). The third instructor evaluation is conducted
by 737 TRG Stan Eval.
11.3.5. Professional Projects. MTIs should take an active role in improving the training and education
program of the training group by participating in professional projects directly related to the development
of new training or the improvement of existing training for the BMT program. Examples of professional
projects include, but are not limited to, participating in: BMT curriculum reviews; feedback analysis;
8B000 utilization and training workshops; BMT Triennial Review; revising or developing a module of
instruction; Standardization Evaluation inspection processes; and/or in BMT Air Force Smart Operations
for the 21st Century events.
11.3.5.1. A minimum of 80 project contact hours are required. All professional projects are managed and
assigned by the 737 TRSS/CC.
11.3.5.2. MTIs in the master instructor program may be temporarily detailed to the training group while
working on professional projects.
11.3.5.3. At the completion of the project, the project supervisor will sign and date the master instructor
program log to document the total number of hours the instructor worked on the a training project.
11.4. Program Management:
11.4.1. 737 TRSS/CC appoints a master instructor program manager.
11.4.2. 737 TRSS/CC manages and assigns professional projects to MTIs in the master instructor
program.
11.4.3. The 737 TRG/TD approves professional projects.
11.4.4. Master instructor nomination packages must include as a minimum:
11.4.4.1. Copy of AETC Form 10 and teaching hours log signed by the flight commander.
11.4.4.2. Course certificates or copies of transcripts for college courses.
11.4.4.3. Master instructor program log indicating approved professional project(s) and hours worked on
each project signed by the 737 TRSS/CC.
11.4.4.4. Copies of the last three evaluations (AETC Form 281).
11.4.5. Flight commander will:
11.4.5.1. Notify the TRSS of all MTIs entering the master instructor program.
11.4.5.2. Verify completion of master instructor program requirements and master instructor nomination
package.
11.4.5.3. Attach a memorandum coversheet and forward master instructor nomination package to
squadron commander for review and approval.
11.4.6. Squadron commander will review and endorse the nomination package and forward to 737
TRSS.
11.4.7. 737 TRSS/CC will:
11.4.7.1. Review the nomination package and sign the memorandum coversheet, certifying all program
requirements have been met.
11.4.7.2. Prepare AETC Form 630, Master Instructor Certificate, for group commander signature.
11.4.7.3. Staff the certified nomination packages through the 737 TRG/CCC to the 737 TRG/CC for
approval.
11.4.8. The group commander approves master instructor status by signing the AETC Form 630.
11.4.9. 737 TRSS program manager documents and maintains all certified nomination packages.
11.4.10. The flight commander will document master instructor status on the AETC Form 10 in Section
I, Instructor Identification/Master Instructor Data.
11.5. Responsibilities. Training group will establish additional program guidance and format for master
instructor program log and memorandum coversheet in a supplement to this policy. HQ AETC/A3PV
reviews and approves supplemental guidance for the master instructor program.
12. Master Military Training Instructor (MMTI) Program:
12.1. Purpose. Master Military Training Instructor (MMTI) status recognizes MTIs for superior
performance, ethics, leadership ability, and sustained professionalism. The MMTI is a voluntary program
that builds on the professional development attained through the master instructor program.
12.2. Program eligibility. The MMTI program applies to all special duty identifier 8B000 assigned to
an instructor position when the application is submitted for approval.
12.2.1. The squadron commander notifies the 737 TRSS program manager of all MTIs applying for
MMTI status.
12.2.2. Upon completion of program requirements, MTIs are awarded the Master Military Training
Instructor blue rope. MMTIs at BMT and Officer Training School (OTS) are authorized to wear the blue
rope around the crown of the campaign hat.
12.2.3. MTIs assigned to BMT on the date of this publication who were awarded the blue rope under
previous guidance must complete the program criteria prescribed in this policy within one year of the date
of this publication to retain the blue rope.
12.2.4. Returning MTIs who were awarded the blue rope under previous guidance will not wear the blue
rope until they complete the program criteria prescribed in this policy.
12.3. Program Requirements. The requirements for achieving MMTI status include:
12.3.1. Have a current score of 80% or higher on the most recent Air Force Fitness Test.
12.3.2. Be a master instructor for 3 months prior to application.
12.3.3. Have no record of disciplinary action that reflects a significant lack of character or
behavioral/emotional control.
12.3.4. Have an average on-time graduation rate of 85% or higher for all flights in the past 12 months.
12.3.5. Have served as flight instructor (Team Chief) for a minimum of 3 flights.
12.3.6. Have received excellent or higher on most recent instructor evaluation (AETC Form 281).
12.3.7. Satisfactory accomplishment (pass/fail) of last MTI subject matter proficiency verification testing
in the following areas:
12.3.7.1. Control of a marching flight.
12.3.7.2. Dormitory inspection procedures.
12.3.7.3. Weapons disassembly progress check.
12.3.7.4. Reporting progress check.
12.3.8. Receive a 90% or higher on a written proficiency test covering MTI and instructional knowledge
such as: MTI lesson plans; applicable AF, AETC, and 737 TRG instructions; and AFMAN 36-2236,
Guidebook for Air Force Instructors.
12.3.8.1. The test will be developed by 737 TRG/CCR and administered by the 737 TRSS.
12.3.8.2. MTIs receiving a score less than 90% may reapply for MMTI status no earlier than 30 days
after each test attempt.
12.3.8.3. No more than three test attempts are allowed.
12.4. Program Management:
12.4.1. 737 TRSS/CC appoints an MMTI program manager.
12.4.2. 737 TRSS program manager monitors completion of MMTI program requirements.
12.4.3. MTI forwards memorandum applying for MMTI status to squadron commander.
12.4.4. Squadron commander will:
12.4.4.1. Notify the 737 TRSS of all MTIs applying for MMTI status.
12.4.4.2. Verify completion of program requirements and endorse the application.
12.4.4.3. Forward endorsed application to 737 TRSS program manager.
12.4.5. 737 TRSS program manager schedules the MTI for the written proficiency test. Upon
completion of the written test, the 737 TRSS program manager annotates the test score on the application.
12.4.5.1. If the test score is below 90%, the program manager returns the application to the squadron
commander.
12.4.5.2. If the test score is 90% or higher, the program manager forwards the application to the 737
TRSS/CC.
12.4.6. 737 TRSS/CC will:
12.4.6.1. Review and endorse the application, certifying all program requirements have been met.
12.4.6.2. Prepare the Master Military Training Instructor Certificate, for 737 TRG/CC signature.
12.4.6.3. Staff the endorsed application through the 737 TRG/CCC to the 737 TRG/CC for approval.
12.4.7. The 737 TRG/CC approves MMTI status by signing the certificate.
12.4.8. 737 TRSS program manager documents and maintains all approved applications.
12.4.9. The squadron commander documents MMTI status on the AETC Form 10 in Section V, Awards,
Licensures, and Certifications.
12.5. Responsibilities. Training group will establish additional program guidance and format for
application memorandum in a supplement to this policy. HQ AETC/A3PV reviews and approves
supplemental guidance for the MMTI program.
13. Rescission Authority. MTIs must maintain an image of professionalism and integrity, adhering to
Air Force and AETC standards. Failure to maintain satisfactory subject matter proficiency
verification/testing and/or instructor evaluations, or failure to comply with any Air Force or AETC policy
standards, such as dress and appearance, Air Force fitness, or unprofessional relationships, will result in
permanent removal from MTI duties, removal of the instructor badge, and removal of MMTI status, the
master instructor badge, and blue rope, as applicable.
                                               Attachment 2
                                INSTRUCTOR EVALUATION GUIDE
A2.1. Purpose. This attachment provides a guide to conducting periodic instructor evaluations and
rating an instructor’s performance.
A2.2. Terminology. The terms used in this guide are a starting point for establishing standards of
performance. For purposes of this guide, the term few implies one to three occurrences of a behavior;
several implies four to seven occurrences; and frequent implies eight or more occurrences of a behavior.
These numbers assume a 50 minute period of observation and may be adjusted for the actual length of the
evaluation period. Note: The examples throughout this guide serve only as a reference since evaluation
situations vary. Make appropriate comments in the COMMENTS block as necessary to explain each
entry.
A2.3. Preparing for the evaluation:
A2.3.1. Ensure you have the following, as applicable, prior to entering the classroom:
A2.3.1.1. Blank AETC Form 281.
A2.3.1.2. Writing paper for notes.
A2.3.1.3. Instructor Evaluation Guide.
A2.3.1.4. Pen or pencil.
A2.3.2. Ensure you have reviewed the following, as applicable, to ensure a comprehensive evaluation:
A2.3.2.1. Master lesson plan. Use the squadron “sample” master lesson plan.
A2.3.2.2. Copies of teaching format/guidelines (Attachments 3-8) as applicable.
A2.3.2.3. Technical orders, checklists, or other references as needed (available from instructor
supervisor).
A2.3.2.4. MIR waiver, if any (available from instructor supervisor).
A2.3.3. Position yourself in the classroom/dorm/drill pad where you will not distract the trainees.
A2.3.4. Do not participate in discussions during the evaluation period.
A2.3.5. Do not disrupt classroom instruction. Check lesson plans, etc., before or after class or during a
break.
A2.3.6. If the evaluator is not the instructor supervisor, coordinate the evaluation with the appropriate
instructor supervisor.
A2.4. Completing the AETC Form 281:
A2.4.1. Prior to beginning the evaluation:
A2.4.1.1. Complete all blocks prior to Section I on the AETC Form 281.
A2.4.1.2. Place an X in the appropriate box to identify the type of evaluation.
A2.5. Completing Section I, Items:
A2.5.1. Part A, Teaching Preparation:
A2.5.1.1. General. Place an X in the appropriate YES/NO block for every item (A1 through A3).
A2.5.1.1.1. If the instructor accomplished the item, mark the YES column.
A2.5.1.1.2. If the instructor did not accomplish the item, mark the NO column.
A2.5.1.1.2.1. If NO is marked, and the item is not applicable to the lesson observed, also mark the NA
column.
A2.5.1.1.2.2. If NO is marked, and the item applies to the lesson observed, then also mark the needs
improvement (NI) column and include a short justification in the Comments block.
A2.5.1.2. Item 1, Lesson Plan/Other Teaching Guides Approved by the Supervisor; Technical
Orders Are Current:
A2.5.1.2.1. YES: Lesson plan review is current, signed by supervisor, and used to guide training
activities in the classroom or lab area.
A2.5.1.2.2. NO: Lesson plan review is not current; supervisor has not signed lesson plan within last year;
lesson plan is not present in the classroom or lab area and/or not used to guide training activities.
A2.5.1.3. Item 2, Equipment/Training Aids/Computer Technology Listed in POI Is Ready For Use:
A2.5.1.3.1. YES: Instructor ensured required equipment, training aids, and computer technology listed in
POI is available and ready for use within the classroom.
A2.5.1.3.2. NO: Equipment, training aids, or computer technology listed in POI is not available, set up,
or functioning as required by the lesson.
A2.5.1.4. Item 3, Mandatory Informational Items Appropriately Posted in Instructional Area:
A2.5.1.4.1. YES: All informational items identified by local policy are current; POC information is
correct and displayed in the classroom or lab area.
A2.5.1.4.2. NO: One or more required informational items are not posted, not current, or POC
information is incorrect. Prelims not covered as directed in teaching formats.
A2.5.2. Part B, Instructional Skills and Ability:
A2.5.2.1. General. Place an X in the appropriate RATING block adjacent to each line item (B4 through
B16).
A2.5.2.2. Item 4, Stated Lesson Overview and Included a Clear Statement of Objectives:
A2.5.2.2.1. OUTSTANDING: Clear step-by-step overview of lesson outlined; correlated the objective to
performance on the job; clearly explained instructor assists and method of trainee measurement.
A2.5.2.2.2. EXCELLENT: Objectives were written on the board, flip chart, training material or other
audiovisual aid and matched POI; stated the objectives up front and properly explained lesson.
A2.5.2.2.3. SATISFACTORY: Stated lesson overview and included a statement of the objectives.
A2.5.2.2.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Objectives of the lesson not stated; no overview. Instructor did
not state the name of the lesson.
A2.5.2.3. Item 5, Used Appropriate Techniques (Examples, Scenarios) to Assist and Motivate
Students:
A2.5.2.3.1. OUTSTANDING: Observed trainee participation in class and properly evaluated progress to
identify requirements for individual improvement; actively involved trainees in the lesson; used explicit
and interesting examples to stimulate trainee interest and motivation, uses a personal appeal to trainees
and re-enforces their desire to learn.
A2.5.2.3.2. EXCELLENT: Adjusted approach to subject matter to assure trainees assimilated material;
maintained positive learning environment; related material to actual job performance.
A2.5.2.3.3. SATISFACTORY: Attempted to involve trainees in the lesson; displayed enthusiasm during
instruction; motivation and remotivation steps included as required by lesson plan.
A2.5.2.3.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not attempt to involve the trainees in the lesson; displayed a
lack of enthusiasm for the material. Instructor failed to incorporate core values into the lesson.
A2.5.2.4. Item 6, Used Training Aids Effectively:
A2.5.2.4.1. OUTSTANDING: Marker board and other training aids were extremely effective in teaching
the subject matter; training aids integrated seamlessly and flawlessly into lesson; no errors in training aid
use.
A2.5.2.4.2. EXCELLENT: Training aids and devices used in a manner that enhanced training outcome;
all aids fully visible to all trainees; few errors in training aid use, which were not repeated.
A2.5.2.4.3. SATISFACTORY: Used training aids effectively; several errors occurred in training aid use,
but they did not detract from the lesson.
A2.5.2.4.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Training aids not effectively used; frequent errors in training aid
use detracted from the lesson. (Example: Aids not visible, out of order or sequence with instruction;
instructor talked to the aid, used training aids inappropriately, apologized for the training aids, etc.)
A2.5.2.5. Item 7, Displayed Natural Mannerisms and Maintained Eye Contact:
A2.5.2.5.1. OUTSTANDING: Used eye contact to assess trainee understanding and to draw trainees into
the discussion; gestures completely relaxed and natural; no distracting mannerisms.
A2.5.2.5.2. EXCELLENT: Impartial eye contact with all trainees; few distracting mannerisms; used
gestures to emphasize and clarify difficult points.
A2.5.2.5.3. SATISFACTORY: Displayed natural mannerisms; maintained eye contact most of the time;
used appropriate gestures; several distracting mannerisms.
A2.5.2.5.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Eye contact not impartial; did not speak directly to the trainees
for long periods or excessively read to the trainees; gestures stiff and unnatural; distracting mannerisms
occurred frequently or persisted for an excessive period of time (i.e., hands in pockets, jingling keys,
parade rest, “fig-leaf,” leaning on podium, playing with markers or other training aids, etc.).
A2.5.2.6. Item 8, Verbalized Effectively (i.e., Good Volume/Tone/Pitch/Speed/Grammar) and
Avoided Verbal Distracters .
A2.5.2.6.1. OUTSTANDING: Used vocal variety to convey difference in meaning; no grammar or
sentence structure errors; no verbal distracters.
A2.5.2.6.2. EXCELLENT: Varied rate of delivery as well as the volume, force, and pitch of voice; few
grammar or sentence structure errors; few verbal distracters.
A2.5.2.6.3. SATISFACTORY: Verbally clear and easily heard; several grammar and sentence structure
errors; several verbal distracters; several grammar or sentence structure errors.
A2.5.2.6.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Mispronounced technical terms; frequently used improper
grammar and sentence structure; voice too loud or too quiet; frequent verbal distracters (for example,
overuse of stock expressions, vocalized pauses).
A2.5.2.7. Item 9, Used Effective Question and Answer Techniques:
A2.5.2.7.1. OUTSTANDING: Used leadoff, follow-up and spontaneous questions to initiate, support
and control the discussion effectively; used both overhead and directed questions to draw all trainees into
the discussion; planned questions to ensure all trainees reached the objective; did not use questions that
did not stimulate thought; questions were easily understood by all, and all responses were validated.
A2.5.2.7.2. EXCELLENT: Used questions to initiate, support, and control the discussion; used questions
to draw trainees into the discussion; planned questions that supported the objective; rarely used questions
that did not stimulate thought; questions were understood by most and no responses were discounted.
A2.5.2.7.3. SATISFACTORY: Used few questions to control the discussion; used questions to draw
most trainees into the discussion; in addition to thought-provoking questions, used several questions that
did not stimulate thought; planned questions related to the objective; most questions were understood by
trainees and few responses were discounted.
A2.5.2.7.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not use questions to control the discussion; relied solely on
overhead or directed questions leaving many trainees out of the discussion; questions were not planned or
did not support the objective; did not use thought-provoking questions—trainees merely parroted back
answers; questions were not understood by trainees—trainees did not know how to respond; did not
adequately address trainee questions or discounted trainee responses to questions. Instructor failed to
give trainees an opportunity to ask questions.
A2.5.2.8. Item 10, Administered Student Measurement Appropriately:
A2.5.2.8.1. OUTSTANDING: Covered missed material with trainees to ensure they understood why
errors occurred; reinforced trainee understanding of material evaluated.
A2.5.2.8.2. EXCELLENT: Covered high-miss questions, near high-miss questions, and answered all
trainee questions effectively.
A2.5.2.8.3. SATISFACTORY: Administered trainee measurement devices properly according to
measurement instructions; read trainee instructions to class before administering measurement; reviewed
missed questions and gave correct responses in critique.
A2.5.2.8.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: No critique of measurement device; measurement device
administered improperly; did not read trainee instructions to class before administering measurement
device.
A2.5.2.9. Item 11, Maintained Control of Class:
A2.5.2.9.1. OUTSTANDING: Full attention of each trainee focused on lesson.
A2.5.2.9.2. EXCELLENT: Trainee behavior and attitudes conducive to learning; trainee attention was
focused on lesson; few inattentive trainees noted; inattentive trainees were effectively refocused and/or
counseled.
A2.5.2.9.3. SATISFACTORY: Trainees were for the most part attentive to the lesson; inappropriate
trainee behavior, if displayed, was corrected; several inattentive trainees were noted; classroom rules were
enforced.
A2.5.2.9.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Trainee behavior distracted other members of the class;
inappropriate trainee behavior was not corrected; majority of trainees did not have their attention on the
lesson; classroom rules not enforced (i.e., drinks around equipment, trainee late reporting or returning to
class from a break, etc.). Instructor failed to manage distractions to prevent obstacles to learning.
A2.5.2.10. Item 12, Demonstrated Thorough Knowledge of Subject/Procedures:
A2.5.2.10.1. OUTSTANDING: Clearly explained the subject at hand; quickly and correctly answered
questions pertaining to the subject; no technical errors noted.
A2.5.2.10.2. EXCELLENT: Demonstrated thorough knowledge of subject and procedures; used
examples to clarify problem areas; no more than one corrected technical error noted.
A2.5.2.10.3. SATISFACTORY: Demonstrated adequate knowledge of the subject and procedures; few
technical errors noted (incorrect, inaccurate, outdated information, and/or procedures); adequately
corrected all technical errors.
A2.5.2.10.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not fully understand the subject; lesson contained one or
more uncorrected technical errors (incorrect, inaccurate, outdated information); lesson contained several
uncorrected technical errors.
A2.5.2.11. Item 13, Utilized Multiple Instructor Requirement (MIR) Effectively:
A2.5.2.11.1. OUTSTANDING: Instructor provided guidance and direction to the MIR; instructor and
MIR worked well together, significantly contributing to the learning process.
A2.5.2.11.2. EXCELLENT: Used MIR instructor to effectively enhance instruction and safety.
A2.5.2.11.3. SATISFACTORY: MIR instructor used at appropriate times, as indicated in POI.
A2.5.2.11.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: MIR instructor not used as indicated in POI; required MIR
instructor not used.
A2.5.2.12. Item 14, Demonstrated Poise and Set Positive Example of Dress and Behavior:
A2.5.2.12.1. OUTSTANDING: A role model for trainees; far exceeded dress and appearance
requirements.
A2.5.2.12.2. EXCELLENT: Displayed professional attitude, confidence and good posture; exceeded
dress and appearance requirements.
A2.5.2.12.3. SATISFACTORY: Exhibited professional behavior; in compliance with dress and
appearance standards.
A2.5.2.12.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Behavior not professional; cynicism, profanity, intimidation, or
off-color remarks used; lacked poise—poor posture; sat on tables, etc.; not in compliance with dress and
appearance standards.
A2.5.2.13. Item 15, Managed Lesson Effectively/Completed All Phases of Lesson, Reviewed Main
Points in Lesson Summary:
A2.5.2.13.1. OUTSTANDING: All main points were covered in detail; transitions were used between
main points with little to no distraction to the learning environment. Extremely smooth-flowing lesson;
interim summaries used to fully support the lesson; main points of the lesson reviewed in depth at the
conclusion of the lesson; effectively re-motivated trainees during conclusion; re-motivation left trainees
with a clear understanding of the “why” they should perform the lesson.
A2.5.2.13.2. EXCELLENT: All objectives/main points presented; effective conclusions, interim
summaries, and transitions used to bridge key points; in group-paced classes, adjusted pace according to
trainee needs when appropriate
A2.5.2.13.3. SATISFACTORY: All portions of the lesson were covered; lesson well paced; conclusions,
interim summaries, transitions used most of the time in the lesson; they were reasonably effective in
moving between main points with minimal distractions to the learning environment; re-motivation left
trainees on appositive note.
A2.5.2.13.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: All objectives not covered; lesson pace too fast or too slow;
conclusions, interim summaries, transitions were not used as indicated in lesson plan; missed main points
which prevented significant information being presented and/or presented information out of sequence
which distracted from the learning environment; re-motivation poorly motivated the trainees and did not
provide an understanding of the “why” which negatively impacted the lesson. Instructor failed to re-state
name of the lesson or objective in the summary.
A2.5.2.14. Item 16, Noted Those Students Not in Compliance With Required Standards for
Behavior/Appearance:
A2.5.2.14.1. OUTSTANDING: Corrected trainees not meeting standards with candor and tact while
preserving a positive learning environment.
A2.5.2.14.2. EXCELLENT: Identified trainees not meeting standards and held them accountable to take
corrective actions.
A2.5.2.14.3. SATISFACTORY: Noted those trainees not in compliance with behavior and appearance
standards.
A2.5.2.14.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not note those trainees out of compliance with behavior
and appearance standards.
A2.5.3. Part C, Performance Exercise Presentation:
A2.5.3.1. General. Place an X in the appropriate RATING block adjacent to each line item (C17 through
C23).
A2.5.3.2. Item 17, Stated Accurate and Complete Instructions/Guidance; Used Correct Terms:
A2.5.3.2.1. OUTSTANDING: Ensured all trainees understood all aspects of the performance exercise;
previewed elements of the lesson plan and performance exercise and accentuated known difficult areas of
the lab.
A2.5.3.2.2. EXCELLENT: Thoroughly explained the performance exercise, including the evaluation
criteria; integrated the exercise with the lesson.
A2.5.3.2.3. SATISFACTORY: Briefed trainees on the performance exercise instructions and guidance
using correct terminology.
A2.5.3.2.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Failed to explain the performance exercise to the trainees; used
incorrect terminology. Failed to label the container, where the item is viewed from (dorm only). Did not
introduce or explain BMT Form 128 as described in attachment 3a (dorm only).
A2.5.3.3. Item 18, Clearly Identified Procedure Versus Technique:
A2.5.3.3.1. OUTSTANDING: Ensured understanding of all procedures and various approved techniques
to accomplish the procedures.
A2.5.3.3.2. EXCELLENT: Thoroughly explained step-by-step instructions as procedures and technical
methods as techniques.
A2.5.3.3.3. SATISFACTORY: Differentiated between procedure and technique (i.e., what to do vs. how
to do, etc.).
A2.5.3.3.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not differentiate between procedure and technique.
A2.5.3.4. Item 19, Stated Student-specific Goals Based on Trends and Desired Learning Objectives
Where Applicable:
A2.5.3.4.1. OUTSTANDING: Motivated trainees to achieve student-specific goals.
A2.5.3.4.2. EXCELLENT: Explained student-specific goals based on previous trends and objectives.
A2.5.3.4.3. SATISFACTORY: Stated student-specific goals based on objectives where applicable.
A2.5.3.4.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not state student-specific goals based on objectives where
applicable.
A2.5.3.5. Item 20, Involved Students in the Introduction/Demonstration of New Procedures:
A2.5.3.5.1. OUTSTANDING: Related new procedures to previous knowledge.
A2.5.3.5.2. EXCELLENT: Involved trainees actively in the introduction and demonstration of new
procedures; answered all questions effectively.
A2.5.3.5.3. SATISFACTORY: Ensured all trainees could see and hear introduction and demonstration
(passive involvement).
A2.5.3.5.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Trainees not involved in the introduction and demonstration of
new procedures; trainees could not see and/or hear introduction/demonstration.
A2.5.3.6. Item 21, Ensured Equipment Was Properly Configured and Addressed Any Unexpected
Problems Appropriately:
A2.5.3.6.1. OUTSTANDING: All materials organized and properly configured, set up, and arranged
effectively to obtain full benefits of the equipment.
A2.5.3.6.2. EXCELLENT: Ensured equipment was ready for immediate use.
A2.5.3.6.3. SATISFACTORY: Ensured equipment required on POI was present and properly
configured; deficiencies noted according to local directives; ensured all safety devices in proper working
order.
A2.5.3.6.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Equipment required by POI was not present; did not ensure
proper equipment configuration or address unexpected problems.
A2.5.3.7. Item 22, Provided Appropriate and Timely Explanations During Student Performance:
A2.5.3.7.1. OUTSTANDING: Maintained trainee motivation during correction; provided guidance as
trainees were allowed to correct their errors.
A2.5.3.7.2. EXCELLENT: Provided additional information or guidance to clarify the subject during
trainee performance.
A2.5.3.7.3. SATISFACTORY: Provided appropriate and timely explanations during trainee
performance; used instructor assists correctly.
A2.5.3.7.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not provide appropriate or timely explanations during
trainee performance; misused instructor assist. Instructor failed to size the flight prior to performing in
application (drill only).
A2.5.3.8. Item 23, Integrated Safety Principles into Lesson and Applied Safety Precautions at All
Times:
A2.5.3.8.1. OUTSTANDING: Modeled safety precautions and equipment use during the lesson;
emphasized safety principles in the performance exercise.
A2.5.3.8.2. EXCELLENT: Covered safety procedures for present procedure and environment; explained
the specific hazards and motivated trainees to follow safety precautions.
A2.5.3.8.3. SATISFACTORY: Integrated general safety procedures into performance exercise;
identified hazards and safety precautions and equipment; enforced safety at all times.
A2.5.3.8.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not integrate general safety procedures into lesson; did not
enforce safety.
A2.5.4. Part D, Feedback to Trainees:
A2.5.4.1. General. Place an X in the appropriate RATING block adjacent to each line item (D24 through
D28).
A2.5.4.2. Item 24, Accurately Reconstructed Performance/Mission Events:
A2.5.4.2.1. OUTSTANDING: Reconstruction included final summary to clarify the lesson in the minds
of all trainees, to correct any misunderstandings, and to reemphasize main points.
A2.5.4.2.2. EXCELLENT: Used positive review of performance event to promote further study and to
increase trainee participation.
A2.5.4.2.3. SATISFACTORY: Accurately reconstructed performance and mission events.
A2.5.4.2.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not accurately reconstruct performance and mission events.
A2.5.4.3. Item 25, Identified Student Strengths/Weaknesses:
A2.5.4.3.1. OUTSTANDING: Identified the root causes of the weaknesses in trainee performance, if
any.
A2.5.4.3.2. EXCELLENT: Provided detailed explanation of trainee strengths and weaknesses during
and/or after performance.
A2.5.4.3.3. SATISFACTORY: Identified trainee strengths and weaknesses.
A2.5.4.3.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not address trainee strengths and weaknesses. Failed to
leave the trainees on a positive note.
A2.5.4.4. Item 26, Discussed Corrective Action for Student Weaknesses:
A2.5.4.4.1. OUTSTANDING: Suggestions given to promote and increase trainee understanding and
knowledge; provided related instruction, practice, or remediation to trainees when needed to accomplish
the objective.
A2.5.4.4.2. EXCELLENT: Used positive feedback to encourage further student effort; used a variety of
teaching techniques to aid trainees in accomplishing the objective.
A2.5.4.4.3. SATISFACTORY: Discussed corrective action for trainee weaknesses. Provided trainees
the “how” to improve or correct deficiencies/weaknesses.
A2.5.4.4.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not discuss corrective actions for trainee weakness.
A2.5.4.5. Item 27, Accurately Assessed Student Achievement of Goals/Learning Objectives:
A2.5.4.5.1. OUTSTANDING: Thoroughly assessed all aspects of the trainees’ performance of the task
or mastery of the subject.
A2.5.4.5.2. EXCELLENT: Assessed most elements of subject or task.
A2.5.4.5.3. SATISFACTORY: Evaluated key elements of subject or task.
A2.5.4.5.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not accurately assess (e.g. instructor stated trainees
performed well, but trainees performed poorly) or failed to assess trainee achievement and understanding.
A2.5.4.6. Item 28, Described Next Phase of Training and Suggested Preparation Assignments:
A2.5.4.6.1. OUTSTANDING: Provided detailed instructions on preparation assignments for the next
phase of training; explained how current lesson applies to the overall job responsibilities, if applicable.
A2.5.4.6.2. EXCELLENT: Provided trainees with study materials and gave assignments for the next
phase of training; explained why material is important and how it relates to other objectives.
A2.5.4.6.3. SATISFACTORY: Described next phase of training and assigned or suggested preparation
assignments.
A2.5.4.6.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Did not discuss the next phase of training; did not suggest
preparation assignments.
A2.5.5. Part E, Additional Items BMT SPECIFIC (ADD Items 29-32 to the AETC Form 281):
A2.5.5.1. General. Place an X in the appropriate RATING block adjacent to each line item (E29 through
E32).
A2.5.5.2. Item 29, Students Properly Positioned/Seated:
A2.5.5.2.1. OUTSTANDING: All trainees were positioned/seated in such a way as to greatly enhance
the learning environment; every trainee was able to see the action and fully participate.
A2.5.5.2.2. EXCELLENT: Majority of the trainees were positioned/seated in such a way as to greatly
enhance the learning environment; majority of the trainees were able to see the action and fully
participate.
A2.5.5.2.3. SATISFACTORY: Trainees were able to see the action and participate. Some trainees may
not be positioned correctly, but did not distract from the class or prevent learning.
A2.5.5.2.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Trainees were poorly positioned/seated which distracted the
learning environment; many trainees were unable to see the action or participate.
A2.5.5.3. Item 30, Effective Attention Step:
A2.5.5.3.1. OUTSTANDING: Attention step was highly effective in getting the trainees attention in
preparation for learning and enhanced the lesson.
A2.5.5.3.2. EXCELLENT: Attention step was very effective in getting the trainees attention in
preparation for learning.
A2.5.5.3.3. SATISFACTORY: Attention step was effective in getting the trainees attention in
preparation for learning.
A2.5.5.3.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Attention step was not provided or effective in getting the
trainees attention in preparation for learning.
A2.5.5.4.. Item 31, Proper Command Voice:
A2.5.5.4.1. OUTSTANDING: Superior command voice effectiveness enabling trainees to perform and
understand the commands given; exhibited exceptional command voice characteristics; greatly enhanced
the learning environment.
A2.5.5.4.2. EXCELLENT: Command voice was very effective allowing trainees to perform and
understand the information presented; skilled use of command voice characteristics enhanced the learning
environment.
A2.5.5.4.3. SATISFACTORY: Command voice was adequate allowing trainees to perform and
understand the information presented; exhibited some of the command voice characteristics; did not
prevent trainees from performing material taught.
A2.5.5.4.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Command voice was ineffective and/or distracting, preventing
trainees from performing or understanding the material; distracted from the learning environment.
Instructor failed to call commands at the position of attention (drill only).
A2.5.5.5. Item 32, Whole Impression:
A2.5.5.5.1. OUTSTANDING: Superior whole impression demonstration; established the standard of
performance with no errors which greatly enhanced the lesson.
A2.5.5.5.2. EXCELLENT: Whole impression demonstrated and established the standard of performance
with little to no errors which enhanced the lesson.
A2.5.5.5.3. SATISFACTORY: Whole impression demonstrated and established the standard of
performance with only minor errors which did not negatively impact the lesson.
A2.5.5.5.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT: Whole impression demonstrated did not establish the standard of
performance with significant errors that negatively impacted the lesson. Instructor failed to state the
purpose of the lesson. Second whole impression (if required) did not match the first whole impression
(dorm only). Did not state what areas of the body to view and specific action areas (drill only).
A2.5.6. Comments.
This section is used to provide a short justification of ratings of -NI and-O in Section I. Provide item
numbers. Any additional observations or comments should be in Section III, Recommendations for
Improvement or General Comments.
A2.5.7. Section II, Overall Performance Rating:
A2.5.7.1. When computing the overall rating, compute percentages using only areas receiving a rating
(O, E, S, or NI). Do not include areas marked N/A when computing ratings.
A2.5.7.2. To be rated outstanding, an instructor must satisfy all requirements of the satisfactory and
excellent ratings as well as the requirements of an outstanding rating. As evaluator, you must document
statements supporting the outstanding rating on the AETC Form 281.
A2.5.7.3. To be rated excellent, the instructor must satisfy all requirements of both the satisfactory and
excellent ratings.
A2.5.7.4. Any items marked needs improvement (NI) require a follow-up evaluation be conducted no
later than 30 calendar days after the original evaluation. The follow-up evaluation will address only the
areas marked NI. As evaluator, you must document statements supporting the needs improvement rating
on the AETC Form 281.
A2.5.7.5. Compute the overall rating as follows: (Note: Do not round up computations.)
A2.5.7.5.1. OUTSTANDING-85% or more items rated outstanding. No items rated needs improvement.
A2.5.7.5.2. EXCELLENT-75% or more items rated excellent or higher. No items rated needs
improvement.
A2.5.7.5.3. SATISFACTORY-75% or more items rated satisfactory or higher. No more than 25% of
items rated needs improvement.
A2.5.7.5.4. NEEDS IMPROVEMENT-26-39% of items rated needs improvement.
A2.5.7.5.5. UNACCEPTABLE-40% or more of the items rated needs improvement.
A2.5.8. Section III, Recommendations for Improvement or General Comments. Provide constructive
feedback. Explain what the instructor did well and what would make their presentation better. Stress that
further refinements will be made as they develop their own technique when teaching in their courses.
A2.5.9. Section IV, Acknowledgement of Evaluation. Individual conducting the evaluation will sign as
the evaluator. Individual being evaluated will sign as the instructor evaluated. If evaluator is a squadron
or GSU commander, supervisor signature is not required.
A2.5.10. Section V, Follow-up Evaluation. Complete follow-up evaluation within 30 calendar days.
Allow enough time to improve based on previous recommendations. All items marked needs
improvement must be reevaluated. Use the original form to conduct the follow-up evaluation. Ensure all
items marked needs improvement are addressed and corrected.
                                               Attachment 3
                        CONDUCTING LECTURE FORMAT INSTRUCTION
A3.1. The following guidelines are intended to standardize the conduct of lecture format instruction.
These guidelines are written for and speak to the MTI. MTIs should read and follow these guidelines to
ensure standardized presentations.
A3.2. Prior to starting class:
A3.2.1. Ensure the area you will utilize is setup and prepared.
A3.2.2. Place all pertinent info on the board (if available).
A3.2.3. Position flight so all trainees can see and hear.
A3.2.4. Have all items available necessary to teach the class.
A3.2.5. Have up-to-date and signed lesson plans on hand.
A3.2.6. Ensure trainees have reference Basic Military Training Study Guide (BMTSG)/note taking
material.
A3.3. Preliminary actions (No specific order):
A3.3.1. At a minimum:
A3.3.1.1. Introduce yourself.
A3.3.1.2. Identify waivers. If trainees are restricted from performance, allow them to observe the lesson.
A3.3.1.3. Explain emergency evacuation procedures.
A3.4. Lesson Presentation:
A3.4.1. Introduction:
A3.4.1.1. Attention. Get the trainee’s attention and help them focus on the subject and be ready to learn.
A3.4.1.2. Motivation. Engage the trainees on why the lesson is important. Encourage the trainees to
develop an interest in the subject. The instructor should make a personal appeal to trainees and reinforce
their desire to learn. The appeal may relate the learning to career advancement or to some other need.
This motivational appeal should continue throughout the lesson.
A3.4.1.3. Overview. State the name of the lesson and the objective(s) from the lesson plan. Tell the
trainees what they will learn and how they will learn it. Tell the trainees what will be covered in the
lesson without exposing the lesson itself and how they will be evaluated.
A3.4.1.4. Transition. Transitions signal to the trainees that you are progressing to a new point.
A3.4.2. Body:
A3.4.2.1. Present the lesson in a logical sequence in accordance with the lesson plan.
A3.4.2.2. Use audiovisual aids in accordance with the lesson plan.
A3.4.2.3. Review Lesson Plans (not required).
A3.4.2.4. Questions. Use questions throughout the lesson to enhance learning and assess trainee
comprehension. Give the trainees an opportunity to ask questions.
A3.4.3. Conclusion:
A3.4.3.1. It is allowable to answer questions and, if necessary, clarify/re-demonstrate parts of the lesson
any time during the conclusion to ensure learning takes place.
A3.4.3.2. Summary. Re-state the name of the lesson and the objective(s). Briefly summarize the main
points in a concise manner.
A3.4.3.3. Remotivation. Instill in trainees a desire to retain and use what they have learned. Emphasize
the lesson may also provide the foundation for future lessons.
A3.4.3.4. Assignment. Assign a task which relates to the material presented such as reviewing BMTSG
or practicing task during free time.
A3.4.3.5. Closure. Ensure trainees recognize the lesson is over.
                                               Attachment 4
                        EVALUATING LECTURE FORMAT INSTRUCTION
A4.1. The following guidelines are intended to standardize the evaluation of lecture format instruction.
These guidelines are written for and speak to the instructor supervisor/evaluator. Instructor
supervisors/evaluators should read and follow these guidelines to ensure standardized evaluation of
lecture format instruction.
A4.2. General guidelines:
A4.2.1. Core values are integrated throughout the lesson.
A4.2.2. Instructor must manage distractions to prevent obstacles to learning.
A4.2.3. Choral responses should be limited to motivational responses without interrupting other classes
in the area. Over use of choral responses is distracting and may prevent trainees with questions from
being heard.
A4.2.4. Risk Management (RM) should be included as identified in the lesson plan. If there are no RM
tags identified in the lesson plan, RM is not required.
A4.2.5. General instructional techniques such as natural hand gestures, fluid eye contact, voice
characteristics, etc. should be natural and properly used.
A4.2.6. Mandatory visual aids are properly used. Personalized visual aides are encouraged but not
necessary. Visual materials should certainly be interesting, but the primary purpose of any visual aid is to
portray or support an idea graphically. The visual material should not be exposed/presented until the
proper point in the lecture. Materials that are visible too soon, or those that remain in view after the point
has been made, distract from and interrupt the continuity of the lecture.
A4.2.7. Appropriate transitions are used to move between main points. Transitions are statements used
by the instructor to move from the introduction to the body of the lecture, between main points, between
sub-points within each main point, and from the body to the conclusion of the lecture. Transitions signal
the trainees that we are progressing to a new point, but they are also important in maintaining the
continuity and flow of the information.
A4.3. Body:
A4.3.1. All material in the lesson plans must be presented in lesson plan sequence, however, it does not
need to be word for word from the lesson plan. Instructors may paraphrase the content as long as the
lesson intent is maintained.
A4.3.2. Unique terms/acronyms must be explained.
A4.3.3. Repeat trainee questions so everyone can hear.
A4.3.4. Instructors should use varying questioning techniques to enhance the lesson. Use of only
overhead or directed questions should be avoided.
A4.3.5. Instructors may carry a portion of the lesson plan while moving around the room, but the lesson
plan should not be used as a crutch.
A4.3.6. Instructors may move around the room as a manner to enhance their class. There is no specific
direction or method to this movement as long as control is maintained and does not become a distraction
to learning.
A4.4. Conclusion. The summary should restate the name of the lesson and summarize the main points in
a concise manner.
                                               Attachment 5
                      CONDUCTING DORMITORY FORMAT INSTRUCTION
A5.1. The following guidelines are intended to standardize the conduct of dormitory format instruction.
These guidelines are written for and speak to the MTI. MTIs should read and follow these guidelines to
ensure standardized presentations.
A5.2. Prior to starting class:
A5.2.1. Ensure the area you will utilize is setup and prepared.
A5.2.2. Place all pertinent info on the board (if available).
A5.2.3. Position flight so all trainees can see and hear.
A5.2.4. Have all items available necessary to teach the class.
A5.2.5. Have up-to-date and signed lesson plans on hand.
A5.2.6. Ensure trainees have reference (BMTSG)/note taking material.
A5.3. Preliminary actions (No specific order):
A5.3.1. At a minimum:
A5.3.1.1. Introduce yourself.
A5.3.1.2. Identify waivers. If trainees are restricted from performance, allow them to observe the lesson.
A5.3.1.3. Explain emergency evacuation procedures.
A5.4. Lesson Presentation:
A5.4.1. Introduction:
A5.4.1.1. Attention. Get the trainee’s attention and help them focus on the subject and be ready to learn.
A5.4.1.2. Motivation. Engage the trainees on why the lesson is important. Encourage the trainees to
develop an interest in the subject. The instructor should make a personal appeal to trainees and reinforce
their desire to learn. The appeal may relate the learning to career advancement or to some other need.
This motivational appeal should continue throughout the lesson.
A5.4.1.3. Overview. State the name of the lesson and the objective(s) from the lesson plan. Tell the
trainees what they will learn, how the lesson will proceed (demonstrate the task, break down the task,
apply what is learned, and provide feedback), and how they will be evaluated.
A5.4.1.4. Transition. Transitions signal to the trainees that you are progressing to a new point.
A5.4.2. Body:
A5.4.2.1. 1st Whole Impression:
A5.4.2.1.1. State the purpose of the lesson.
A5.4.2.1.2. Display a properly prepared area which sets the standard for performance.
A5.4.2.1.3. State what the trainees are viewing.
A5.4.2.2. Explain/Demonstrate:
A5.4.2.2.1. State general instructions from lesson plan.
A5.4.2.2.2. Label container/area stating where item is viewed from.
A5.4.2.2.3. Break the container/area down and rebuild step-by-step in a logical sequence, following the
lesson plan.
A5.4.2.3. 2nd Whole impression. Display a properly prepared container/area matching the 1st whole
impression (unless otherwise specified by lesson plan), setting the standard for performance.
A5.4.2.4. Review Lesson Plan (not required).
A5.4.2.5. Questions. Use questions throughout the lesson to enhance learning and assess trainee
comprehension. Give the trainees an opportunity to ask questions.
A5.4.2.6. BMT Form 128, Recruit Living Area Checklist.
A5.4.2.6.1. Present the BMT Form 128 and explain the purpose of the form. Explain the form is
primarily for MTI use, but trainees will use it to see and correct their demerits. Emphasize trainees are
not to alter the form, such as not torn, written on, destroyed, or folded.
A5.4.2.6.2. Briefly explain the four different areas on the form (recruit living area, clothing drawer,
security drawer, and wall locker).
A5.4.2.6.3. Briefly explain the legend on the form.
A5.4.2.6.4. Explain and state the purpose of the different types of inspections and re-evaluations.
A5.4.2.6.5. Briefly explain how trainees pass/fail inspections. Thoroughly explain the demerit system
and how many demerits constitute a failed inspection.
A5.4.2.6.6. Focus on the area taught during the lesson such as end of bed display, security drawer, or
wall locker, and demerits specific to that container/area.
A5.4.3. Application:
A5.4.3.1. Have trainees apply the information learned to properly prepare the container/area.
A5.4.3.2. Make accurate and timely individual and overhead corrections.
A5.4.4. Conclusion:
A5.4.4.1. It is allowable to answer questions and, if necessary, clarify/re-demonstrate parts of the lesson
at any time during the conclusion to ensure learning takes place.
A5.4.4.2. Feedback. Provide constructive feedback on the trainees’ performance, highlighting specific
and common mistakes that occurred during the application step. End on a positive note.
A5.4.4.3. Summary. Re-state the name of the lesson and the objective(s). Briefly summarize the main
points (areas essential to the task) in a concise manner.
A5.4.4.4. Remotivation. Instill in trainees a desire to retain and use what they have learned. Emphasize
the lesson may also provide the foundation for future lessons.
A5.4.4.5. Assignment. Assign a task which relates to the material presented such as reviewing BMTSG
or practicing during free time.
A5.4.4.6. Closure. Ensure trainees recognize the lesson is over.
                                               Attachment 6
                      EVALUATING DORMITORY FORMAT INSTRUCTION
A6.1. The following guidelines are intended to standardize the evaluation of dormitory format
instruction. These guidelines are written for and speak to the instructor supervisor/evaluator. Instructor
supervisors/evaluators should read and follow these guidelines to ensure standardized evaluation of
dormitory format instruction.
A6.2. General guidelines:
A6.2.1. Core values are integrated throughout the lesson.
A6.2.2. Instructor must manage distractions to prevent obstacles to learning.
A6.2.3. Choral responses should be limited to motivational responses without interrupting other classes
in the area. Over use of choral responses is distracting and may prevent trainees with questions from
being heard.
A6.2.4. RM should be included as identified in the lesson plan. If there are no RM tags identified in the
lesson plan, RM is not required.
A6.2.5. General instructional techniques such as natural hand gestures, fluid eye contact, voice
characteristics, etc. should be natural and properly used.
A6.2.6. Mandatory visual aids are properly used. Personalized visual aides are encouraged but not
necessary. Visual materials should certainly be interesting, but the primary purpose of any visual aid is to
portray or support an idea graphically. The visual material should not be exposed/presented until the
proper point in the lecture. Materials that are visible too soon, or those that remain in view after the point
has been made, distract from and interrupt the continuity of the lecture.
A6.2.7. Appropriate transitions are used to move between main points. Transitions are statements used
by the instructor to move from the introduction to the body of the presentation, between main points,
between sub-points within each main point, and from the body to the conclusion of the presentation.
Transitions signal the trainees that we are progressing to a new point, but they are also important in
maintaining the continuity and flow of the information.
A6.2.8. Instructor only briefed the information necessary for the gender being taught.
A6.3. Body:
A6.3.1. Instructor did not teach during the whole impression. The whole impression’s purpose is to
demonstrate the container/area.
A6.3.2 . The 1st and 2nd whole impression should be identical. Optional items may be included, as long
as they are explained that they are optional.
A6.3.3. Gave the trainees ample time to view the whole impression prior to breaking it down.
A6.3.4. After whole impression, items should be set aside as not to create a distraction however, it is not
necessary to hide or conceal these items. Moving items out of the work space satisfies this need.
Trainees should be given a task while whole impression is being broken down.
A6.3.5. All material in the lesson plans must be presented in lesson plan sequence, however, it does not
need to be word for word from the lesson plan. Instructors may paraphrase the content as long as the
lesson intent is maintained.
A6.3.6. Possible demerits and applicable instructions should be discussed during the demonstration.
A6.3.7. Unique terms such as grounded, flush, and aligned must be explained.
A6.3.8. During the explain/demonstrate portion, it is permissible to re-demonstrate if a trainee has a
question. All of the trainees’ questions should be addressed prior to application so they have a better
understanding of how to perform.
A6.3.9. Repeat trainee questions so everyone can hear.
A6.3.10. Instructors should use varying questioning techniques to enhance the lesson. Use of only
overhead or directed questions should be avoided.
A6.3.11. Application instructions must include a time limit to complete the task, what to do if they have
problems, the chain of command, and specific directions on what to do at the conclusion of the task or
time limit.
A6.4. Application:
A6.4.1. The instructor must move around, observe the trainees perform the task, and make corrections, as
necessary.
A6.4.2. The instructor may stop the trainees and re-teach the problem area if there are numerous common
mistakes.
A6.4.3. The application does not have a specific structure and can be done in many ways such as “lock-
step”, “walk-and-talk”, or group performance. Most important is the instructors’ effectiveness in ensuring
control of the lesson, appropriate individual/overhead corrections, active involvement, and ensuring
learning is taking place.
A6.5. Conclusion:
A6.5.1. Instructor provided constructive feedback after the application. Feedback should provide a
positive motivation to the trainees. A structured “good-bad-good” format is not required. Focus should
be on quality and positive motivation.
A6.5.2. The summary should restate the name of the lesson and summarizes the main points (areas
essential to performing the task) in a concise manner.
A6.6. BMT Form 128, Recruit Living Area Checklist:
A6.6.1. General guidelines:
A6.6.1.1. The BMT Form 128 should be covered during the first lesson for which it would apply and
during all subsequent dormitory instruction.
A6.6.1.2. Form should be taught in a logical sequence such as top to bottom or left to right.
A6.6.1.3. An example evaluation should be filled out on the visual aid prior to teaching the BMT Form
128.
A6.6.1.4. Instructor used visual aid properly such as they did not talking to form, they positioned the
visual aid so all trainees could see, and they removed the visual aid when finished.
A6.6.2. Teaching Requirements:
A6.6.2.1. Present the BMT Form 128 and explained the purpose of the form.
A6.6.2.2. Explain the four different areas on the form (recruit living area, clothing drawer, security
drawer, and wall locker) and the legend.
A6.6.2.3. Explain and state the purpose of the different types of inspections and re-evaluations.
A6.6.2.4. Explain how trainees pass/fail inspections. Thoroughly explain the demerit system and how
many demerits constitute a failed inspection.
A6.6.2.5. Focus on the area taught during the lesson such as end of bed display, security drawer, or wall
locker, and demerits specific to that container/area.
                                               Attachment 7
                         CONDUCTING DRILL FORMAT INSTRUCTION
A7.1. The following guidelines are intended to standardize the conduct of drill format instruction. These
guidelines are written for and speak to the MTI. MTIs should read and follow these guidelines to ensure
standardized presentations.
A7.2. Prior to starting class:
A7.2.1. Have trainees ground hydration gear and stack weapons.
A7.2.2. Check heat stress flag condition and adjust training accordingly.
A7.2.3. Position flight in line formation with their backs to the sun.
A7.2.4. Place lesson plans centered six paces away to establish the optimal teaching distance for all the
trainees to see and hear.
A7.2.5. Have up-to-date and signed lesson plans on hand.
A7.3. Preliminary actions (No specific order):
A7.3.1. At a minimum:
A7.3.1.1. Introduce yourself.
A7.3.1.2. Identify waivers. If trainees are restricted from performance, allow them to observe the lesson.
A7.4. Lesson Presentation:
A7.4.1. Introduction:
A7.4.1.1. Attention. Get the trainee’s attention and help them focus on the subject and be ready to learn.
A7.4.1.2. Motivation. Engage the trainees on why the lesson is important. Encourage the trainees to
develop an interest in the subject. The instructor should make a personal appeal to trainees and reinforce
their desire to learn. The appeal may relate the learning to career advancement or to some other need.
This motivational appeal should continue throughout the lesson.
A7.4.1.3. Overview. State the name of the lesson and the objective(s) from the lesson plan. Tell the
trainees what they will learn, how the lesson will proceed (demonstrate the movement, break down the
movement, apply what is learned, and provide feedback), and how they will be evaluated.
A7.4.1.4. Transition. Transitions signal to the trainees that you are progressing to a new point.
A7.4.2. Body:
A7.4.2.1. 1st Whole Impression:
A7.4.2.1.1. State the purpose of the movement.
A7.4.2.1.2. State who you represent for each view.
A7.4.2.1.3. Prior to each demonstration, state what areas of the body to view and specific action areas.
A7.4.2.1.4. Properly demonstrate the movement using command voice characteristics and military
bearing. Establish the standard for performance.
A7.4.2.1.5. Demonstrate each movement at least twice; once from the optimum, teaching view and an
alternate view to display other important actions of the movement.
A7.4.2.2. Explain/Demonstrate:
A7.4.2.2.1. State requirements from lesson plan.
A7.4.2.2.2. State the commands associated with the movement. Explain each type and action required.
A7.4.2.2.3. Break the movement down step-by-step in a logical sequence, following the lesson plan.
A7.4.2.2.4. Teach “by-the-numbers”, if applicable.
A7.4.2.3. 2nd Whole Impression. Properly demonstrate the movement again, using command voice
characteristics and military bearing. Reinforce the standard for performance.
A7.4.2.4. Review lesson plan (not required).
A7.4.2.5. Questions. Use questions throughout the lesson to enhance learning and assess trainee
comprehension. Give the trainees an opportunity to ask questions.
A7.4.3. Application
A7.4.3.1. Explain and teach dress, cover interval, and distance (DCID), as applicable.
A7.4.3.2. Teach coach/pupil methodology, as applicable.
A7.4.3.3. Have trainees apply the information learned to properly execute the movement.
A7.4.3.4. Make accurate and timely individual and overhead corrections.
A7.4.4. Conclusion:
A7.4.4.1. It is allowable to answer questions and, if necessary, clarify/re-demonstrate parts of the lesson
at any time during the conclusion to ensure learning takes place.
A7.4.4.2. Feedback. Provide constructive feedback on the trainees’ performance, highlighting specific
and common mistakes that occurred during the application step. End on a positive note.
A7.4.4.3. Summary. Re-state the name of the lesson and the objective(s). Briefly summarize the main
points (areas essential to performing the movement) in a concise manner.
A7.4.4.4. Remotivation. Instill in trainees a desire to retain and use what they have learned. Emphasize
the lesson may also provide the groundwork for future lessons.
A7.4.4.5. Assignment. Assign a task which relates to the material presented such as reviewing the
BMTSG or practicing during free time.
A7.4.4.6. Closure. Ensure trainees recognize the lesson is over.
                                              Attachment 8
                         EVALUATING DRILL FORMAT INSTRUCTION
A8.1. The following guidelines are intended to standardize the evaluation of drill format instruction.
These guidelines are written for and speak to the instructor supervisor/evaluator. Instructor
supervisors/evaluators should read and follow these guidelines to ensure standardized evaluation of drill
format instruction.
A8.2. General guidelines:
A8.2.1. Core values are integrated throughout the lesson.
A8.2.2. Instructor must manage distractions to prevent obstacles to learning.
A8.2.3. Choral responses should be limited to motivational responses without interrupting other classes
in the area. Over use of choral responses is distracting and may prevent trainees with questions from
being heard.
A8.2.4. After the flight has been taught “forward, march”, only formal cadence can be used in lessons.
A8.2.5. RM should be included as identified in the lesson plan. If there are no RM tags identified in the
lesson plan, RM is not required.
A8.2.6. General instructional techniques such as natural hand gestures, fluid eye contact, voice
characteristics, etc. should be natural and properly used.
A8.2.7. Appropriate transitions are used to move between main points. Transitions are statements used
by the instructor to move from the introduction to the body of the lecture, between main points, between
sub-points within each main point, and from the body to the conclusion of the lecture. Transitions signal
the trainees that we are progressing to a new point, but they are also important in maintaining the
continuity and flow of the information.
A8.3. Body:
A8.3.1. Instructor did not teach during the whole impression. The whole impression’s purpose is to
demonstrate the movement.
A8.3.2. When demonstrating the movement, the instructor was at least six paces away and centered the
action on the flight so everyone could see and hear.
A8.3.3. Commands were given using proper command voice and characteristics.
A8.3.4. Gave the trainees ample time to view the whole impression prior to breaking it down.
A8.3.5. The instructor begins the explain/demonstrate by explaining and demonstrating the movements
requirements (e.g.: I am standing/halted at the position of attention).
A8.3.6. The first view from the whole impression is the view used during the explain/demonstrate
portion.
A8.3.7. During the explain/demonstrate portion, it is permissible to re-demonstrate if a trainee has a
question. All of the trainees’ questions should be addressed prior to application so they have a better
understanding of how to perform.
A8.3.8. The instructor will demonstrate the “how” before trainees are used. Trainees can be used as
visual aids at anytime.
A8.3.9. Guidon procedures applicable to each movement may be taught; however, during application, the
guide will not use the guidon for individual drill movements.
A8.3.10. Repeat trainee questions so everyone can hear.
A8.3.11. Instructors should use varying questioning techniques to enhance the lesson. Use of only
overhead or directed questions should be avoided.
A8.4. Application:
A8.4.1. Flight must be sized prior to beginning application.
A8.4.2. If the drill movement changes the flights formation or when DCID is required to be taught,
practice the movement in each of the formations during application (e.g. left flank, to the rear).
A8.4.3. The instructor must move around, observe the trainees perform the task from differing vantages,
and make corrections, as necessary.
A8.4.4. Instructor must stand or march at attention and use proper command voice when giving
commands.
A8.4.5. The instructor may stop the trainees and re-teach the problem area if there are numerous common
mistakes.
A8.4.6. The application does not have a specific structure and can be done in many ways such as “lock-
step”, “walk-and-talk”, or group performance. Most important is the instructors’ effectiveness in ensuring
control of the lesson, appropriate individual/overhead corrections, active involvement, and ensuring
learning is taking place.
A8.5. Conclusion:
A8.5.1. Instructor provided constructive feedback after the application. Feedback should provide a
positive motivation to the trainees. A structured “good-bad-good” format is not required. Focus should
be on quality and positive motivation.
A8.5.2. The summary should restate the name of the lesson and summarizes the main points (areas
essential to performing the movement) in a concise manner.
