BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                             COMMAND MISSION DIRECTIVE 307
COMMAND
                                                                      173rd Fighter Wing (ANG)
                                                           COMMAND MISSION DIRECTIVE

                                                                            26 FEBRUARY 2013


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A3G                                                    Certified by: HQ AETC/A3G
                                                                        (Col Robert R. Erickson)
                                                                                        Pages: 2

In accordance with AFPD 10-1 this directive states the mission, organization, and responsibilities
for the 173rd Fighter Wing (173 FW) Air Education and Training Command (AETC) gained Air
National Guard (ANG) wing and its subordinate units. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Mission. The mission of the 173 FW is to provide combat capability to the warfighter and
security for the homeland, to maintain qualified instructor aircrew for the purpose of training
USAF, ANG, AFRC, DoD aircrew and other designated personnel, and to integrate into the
AETC flying training mission to the extent required to prepare to assume an increased training
mission following mobilization into the active component. In the event of wartime mobilization,
173 FW will be activated in place to perform the AETC flying training mission.
2. Command. The Commander, 173 FW:
2.1. Commands his/her respective ANG units.
2.2. Provide for the following command and control measures:
2.2.1. Retains administrative and operational control over assigned units when not in a mobilized
status.
2.2.2. Retains administrative control over assigned units called under the Presidential Reserve
Call-Up Authority (10 U.S.C. 12304) and under Partial Mobilization (10 U.S.C. 12302).
 2                                                         AETCMD307 26 FEBRUARY 2013


OPCON of the wing and/or separately mobilized units below wing level will be with the active
duty Operations Group.
2.2.3. Passes both ADCON and OPCON of mobilized units under full mobilization to the
designated gaining active duty organization.
3. Responsibilities.
3.1. The Commander, 173 FW:
3.1.1. Is responsible to the National Guard Bureau for administration and operational control of
assigned forces when planning for or performing Federal missions, and to the Governor of
Oregon with respect to State missions.
3.1.2. Coordinates and maintains liaison with Commander, 19 AF to ensure their wing training
standards and qualification levels meet mobilization requirements of AETC flying training
syllabi in their respective major weapons system.
3.1.3. Establishes necessary priorities to ensure accelerated training programs and quotas for
ANG individuals, especially in areas of skill shortages, in support of AETC fighter training
requirements.
3.1.4. Upon mobilization provides Commander, AETC (COMAETC) with combat ready forces
that can operate as seamless members of the Expeditionary Air and Space Force, and when
necessary support surge in production of USAF mission-ready F-15 pilots in all crew positions.
3.1.5. Maintains fully qualified crews to support F-15 Training as a Formal Training Unit (FTU).
3.1.6. Ensures that ANG units and individuals ordered to active duty during a call-up or
mobilization are provided necessary supervision, training, family readiness and administrative
support from existing resources.
3.1.7. Assists Regular Component forces by performing peacetime missions as an adjunct to, or
corollary of, training, and assumes operations and missions assigned in whole or in part to the
ANG Component, and supports operations or missions performed by integrated units.
3.1.8. Carries out wartime and contingency civil defense and disaster preparedness
responsibilities.
4. Direct Communication. 173 FW is authorized direct communications with HQ AETC
directorates and individual members of these organizations on matters related to unit mission
accomplishment. Official staffing of mutual agreements/guidance messages between RegAF
wings and the 173 FW should be staffed to HQ AETC for approval by AETC/A2/3/10.



                                             IAN P. BIGGINS, Col, USAF
                                             Air National Guard Advisor to the AETC
                                             Commander
