BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-2909
COMMAND
                                                                            2 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                         RECRUITING, EDUCATION, AND
                                                     TRAINING STANDARDS OF CONDUCT


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/JAA                                                      Certified by: HQ AETC/JA
                                                                             (Col Polly S. Kenny)
                                                                                        Pages: 28
Supersedes:    AETCI 36-2909, Professional
               and Unprofessional
               Relationships, 2 March 2007,
               AETCI 36-2909_AETCGM1,
               13 March 2013


This instruction implements AFPD 1-1, Air Force Culture, AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards, AFPD
36-29, Military Standards, and AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships,
with an emphasis on recruiting, training, and education environments. It applies to the following
individuals assigned or attached to an Air Education and Training Command (AETC) unit, or
participating in an AETC-sponsored training or education program, as faculty, staff, trainees,
cadets, or students: active duty military, Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS), and
Air Force Reserve Command members; Department of Defense (DoD) civilians; Air Force
Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) cadets; international military or civilian personnel;
and contractor personnel. It also applies to entry-level status Airmen assigned or attached to
AETC units. It also applies to recruiting personnel and first-term Airmen who participate in the
Recruiter Assistance Program (RAP). Military members, including Reserve members on activity
duty or inactive duty for training and ANGUS members, who violate a prohibition in paragraphs
1.3.1., 2.3., 3.3., 4.2., or 5.2 (or any subparagraphs thereunder) of this instruction, and/or
paragraph 3.5 (or any subparagraphs thereunder) of AFI 36-2909 are subject to prosecution
under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) as well as any other applicable
article of the UCMJ. Civilian personnel who violate a prohibition in paragraphs 1.3.1., 2.3., 3.3,
or 4.2, or 5.2 (or any subparagraphs thereunder) of this instruction and/or paragraph 3.5 (or any
 2                                                          AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


subparagraphs thereunder) of AFI 36-2909 are subject to administrative disciplinary action under
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or
civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Contractor personnel who violate any prohibition
of this instruction are subject to penalties according to local laws and the terms of the governing
contract. The ability to take adverse action against personnel from other Services, international
personnel, or contractor personnel will depend on the existence and applicability of a current
memorandum of understanding, memorandum of agreement, international agreement, or
contract. This instruction may only be supplemented with the prior approval of HQ AETC/JA.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: the document title was changed from Professional and Unprofessional Relationships to
Recruiting, Education, and Training Standards of Conduct and the document was broken into
five chapters to address specific standards of conduct. Chapter 1 specifies initial disposition
authorities for certain classes of misconduct, establishes individual and command reporting
requirements, and mandates personnel information files for derogatory information. Chapter 2
clarifies the applicability of unprofessional relationships rules in various training, education, and
recruiting environments; requires individuals to provide notice of past relationships with trainees,
students, or recruits; provides commanders authority to grant exceptions to policy in certain
limited circumstances; prohibits personal relationships between faculty/staff and Airmen in
entry-level status; and provides specific guidance on unprofessional relationships for Building
Partnership Capacity (BPC) training programs. Chapter 3 is new and establishes command-wide
prohibitions and responsibilities regarding trainee abuse and hazing. Chapter 4 is new and
details command-wide policy on academic integrity. Chapter 5 is new and details recruiting
standards of conduct.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                                                            3




Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDELINES                                                                                                             4
     1.1.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................      4
     1.2.   Initial Disposition of Misconduct Allegations. ......................................................                        4
     1.3.   Misconduct Reporting Requirements. ...................................................................                       6
     1.4.   Personnel Information Files (PIFs). .......................................................................                  8
     1.5.   Training Requirements. .........................................................................................             8

Chapter 2—PROFESSIONAL AND UNPROFESSIONAL RELATIONSHIPS                                                                                  9
     2.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................    9
     2.2.   General Guidance on Relationships. ......................................................................                    9
     2.3.   Specific Prohibitions and Responsibilities. ............................................................                    10

Chapter 3—TRAINEE ABUSE AND HAZING                                                                                                      14
     3.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................   14
     3.2.   Terms Explained. ...................................................................................................        14
     3.3.   Specific Prohibitions and Responsibilities. ............................................................                    15

Chapter 4—ACADEMIC INTEGRITY                                                                                                            17
     4.1.   Terms Explained. ...................................................................................................        17
     4.2.   Specific Prohibitions and Responsibilities. ............................................................                    18

Chapter 5—RECRUITING STANDARDS OF CONDUCT                                                                                               20
     5.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................   20
     5.2.   Specific Prohibitions and Responsibilities. ............................................................                    20
     5.3.   Reporting and Documentation Requirements. .......................................................                           21

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          22

Attachment 2—SECDEF WITHHOLDING MEMO                                                                                                    27

Attachment 3—GCMCA REVIEW IN CERTAIN SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES                                                                               28
 4                                                           AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


                                             Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDELINES

1.1. Responsibilities.
     1.1.1. Commanders and leaders at all levels will ensure that all applicants, recruits, trainees,
     cadets, and students are treated with dignity and respect. The success of AETC’s mission
     depends largely upon the trust these individuals place in our recruiters, faculty, and staff.
     Conduct that erodes this trust detracts from the mission and will not be tolerated.
     1.1.2. Most applicants, recruits, trainees, cadets, and students are young and impressionable.
     They may not yet fully appreciate what constitutes acceptable and unacceptable conduct in
     the professional military environment. Interaction with recruiters and training staff offers the
     first examples of professional conduct expected of a military member and creates lasting
     impressions on new personnel. Accordingly, commanders and leaders at all levels must set
     the example through their steadfast commitment to Air Force standards.
     1.1.3. Commanders. One of the most important and fundamental responsibilities of
     command is maintaining good order and discipline within the unit. This responsibility is not
     delegable and commanders are held to a high standard in this area.
        1.1.3.1. The recruiting, education, and training environments present unique challenges
        in maintaining good order and discipline, particularly in the areas of sexual misconduct,
        unprofessional relationships, trainee abuse, hazing, and academic integrity. Commanders
        must be particularly vigilant in order to successfully dissuade, deter, and detect these
        threats.
        1.1.3.2. Violations of standards must be addressed proactively, consistently, and at the
        appropriate level. Experience has shown that failure to consistently enforce standards or
        to hold violators appropriately accountable can lead to an environment that does not deter
        more serious forms of misconduct. Accountability is not limited to, and does not end
        with, disciplinary action. Accountability also includes appropriate consideration of an
        individual’s misconduct in subsequent personnel actions, such as performance reports,
        awards, promotions, transfers, special duty assignments, and selection for increased
        leadership responsibility.
1.2. Initial Disposition of Misconduct Allegations.
     1.2.1. Unprofessional Relationships. Initial disposition authority is withheld to wing
     commanders (or equivalent) and group commanders (or equivalent) who report directly to a
     general court-martial convening authority (GCMCA) (direct-report group commanders), or
     higher, for the following alleged offenses: (1) unprofessional relationships as defined by this
     instruction between faculty, staff, and recruiters and applicants, recruits, Recruiter Assistance
     Program participants (RAPpers), trainees, cadets, students, and entry-level status (ELS)
     Airmen; (2) fraternization, as defined in Article 134, UCMJ, and AFI 36-2909; and (3) any
     attempts to commit such offenses. This initial disposition authority applies to all other
     alleged offenses arising from or relating to the same incident(s), whether committed by the
     alleged perpetrator or the alleged victim.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     5


  1.2.2. Rape, Sexual Assault, and Forcible Sodomy. In accordance with Secretary of
  Defense Memorandum, “Withholding Initial Disposition Authority Under the Uniform Code
  of Military Justice in Certain Sexual Assault Cases,” 20 April 2012, (“SECDEF Withholding
  memo”) (Attachment 2), initial disposition authority is withheld from all commanders who
  do not possess at least special court-martial convening authority (SPCMCA) and who are not
  in the grade of O-6 or higher, for the following alleged offenses: (1) rape, in violation of
  Article 120, UCMJ; (2) sexual assault, in violation of Article 120, UCMJ; (3) forcible
  sodomy, in violation of Article 125, UCMJ; and (4) all attempts to commit such offenses, in
  violation of Article 80, UCMJ. Initial disposition authorities will report initial disposition
  decisions in such cases in accordance with Attachment 3.
     1.2.2.1. Commanders who are not initial disposition authorities under the SECDEF
     Withholding memo should coordinate with the host-installation SPCMCA on the
     appropriate disposition of allegations covered by the SECDEF Withholding memo.
     1.2.2.2. Initial disposition authority for all alleged violations of Articles 120, 120a, 120b,
     120c, and 125, UCMJ, not otherwise withheld under the SECDEF Withholding memo,
     including any attempts to commit such offenses, is withheld to wing commanders (or
     equivalent) and group commanders (or equivalent) who report directly to a GCMCA
     (direct-report group commanders), or higher. This initial disposition authority applies to
     all other alleged offenses arising from or relating to the same incident(s), whether
     committed by the alleged perpetrator or the alleged victim. Commanders of tenant wings
     and direct-report groups who do not possess full SPCMCA shall coordinate with the host
     SPCMCA where resolution includes consideration of a court-martial.
  1.2.3. Trainee Abuse. Initial disposition authority for allegations of trainee abuse as
  defined by this instruction is withheld to squadron commanders or higher. This initial
  disposition authority applies to all other alleged offenses arising from or relating to the same
  incident(s), whether committed by the alleged perpetrator or the alleged victim.
  1.2.4. Recruiter Misconduct. Initial disposition authority for alleged violations of
  paragraph 5.2 by recruiters is withheld to squadron commanders or higher.
  1.2.5. Initial Disposition Authority Responsibilities. Commanders exercising initial
  disposition authority are responsible for determining what initial action is appropriate and
  whether the matter can or should be resolved within their existing authorities. The initial
  disposition decision shall be based upon review of the allegations transmitted, any
  independent review and recommendation received, and consultation with a judge advocate.
  Subordinate unit commanders are encouraged to provide their own recommendations
  regarding initial disposition. Upon review of the case file and consultation with a judge
  advocate, the commander’s options include: (1) no action, (2) corrective administrative
  action, (3) nonjudicial punishment, (4) preferral or disposition of charges previously
  preferred, and (5) forwarding the matter to a superior or subordinate authority for disposition.
  If the commander deems it appropriate to forward a case to a subordinate commander for
  further disposition, the commander may not direct the actions the subordinate commander
  should take.
  1.2.6. The following command actions are not considered an “initial disposition” for
  purposes of this instruction: receiving a report of an offense; apprehending and taking
  custody of a member; investigating a reported offense; imposing pretrial restraint and pretrial
 6                                                           AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


     confinement; preferral of charges; and issuing military protective orders (i.e., “no contact”
     orders).
     1.2.7. Commanders at every level retain the authority and responsibility to create and
     maintain a professional environment, to provide support and assistance to victims, and to
     maintain good order and discipline within their units.
1.3. Misconduct Reporting Requirements.
     1.3.1. Duty to Report. Recruiters, faculty, and staff members with knowledge of an alleged
     violation, or attempted violation, of this instruction shall immediately report the allegation to
     an appropriate authority, unless otherwise exempted by operation of law, regulation, or
     policy. Personnel receiving such reports will forward the report through appropriate
     channels to the alleged violator’s squadron/detachment commander. Failure to observe the
     provisions of this paragraph and its subparagraphs by military personnel is a violation of
     Article 92, UCMJ. Violations by civilian personnel may result in administrative disciplinary
     action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of
     related laws.
        1.3.1.1. “Knowledge” means awareness of an allegation. It does not require a belief in
        the accuracy or truth of the allegation. Knowledge may be obtained by any means,
        including, but not limited to, witnessing the offense, statements by third parties, and
        course surveys, critiques or comment cards.
        1.3.1.2. Except as specified below, an “appropriate authority” includes a supervisor, a
        member of the chain of command, legal office personnel, Air Force Office of Special
        Investigations (AFOSI), Security Forces, the Inspector General, and/or the Sexual
        Assault Response Coordinator.
            1.3.1.2.1. Pursuant to AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR)
            Program, paragraph 2.12.1., any Air Force member or civilian employee, other than
            those personnel authorized to receive confidential communications or otherwise
            exempted by operation of law, regulation, or policy, who receives a report of a sexual
            assault incident about a subordinate in the individual’s supervisory chain shall, as
            soon as possible, report the matter to the AFOSI. If a report cannot be made to the
            AFOSI, the report will be made to the Security Forces which will then notify the
            AFOSI.
            1.3.1.2.2. Allegations of the following offenses will be reported to wing commanders
            (or equivalent) and/or direct-report group commanders:              (1) unprofessional
            relationships as defined by this instruction between faculty, staff, and recruiters and
            applicants, recruits, RAPpers, trainees, cadets, students, and ELS Airmen; (2)
            fraternization, as defined in Article 134, UCMJ, and AFI 36-2909; and (3) any
            attempts to commit such offenses.
            1.3.1.2.3. Faculty and staff assigned to, or functionally managed by, Second Air
            Force with knowledge of an alleged violation shall report the matter in accordance
            with Second Air Force misconduct reporting policies and procedures.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    7


         1.3.1.2.4. Recruiting personnel will, at a minimum, immediately report actual or
         suspected violations of the prohibitions and mandatory provisions contained in
         paragraph 5.2 to their squadron commander.
     1.3.1.3. Victims of an alleged violation of this instruction are not required to report.
  1.3.2. Command Misconduct Reporting Requirements. This paragraph establishes
  general command misconduct reporting requirements.              Reportable offenses include
  allegations against AETC personnel, tenant unit personnel on AETC installations, and
  personnel on temporary duty (TDY) to AETC installations. These reporting requirements are
  not limited to alleged violations of the standards of conduct governed by this instruction.
     1.3.2.1. Sexual Assault. Unrestricted allegations of rape, sexual assault, and forcible
     sodomy, including attempts, must be immediately reported through command channels to
     HQ AETC/CC, with copies to AETC/CV and AETC/JA. Units that report directly to
     AETC A2/3/10 shall also copy the Director of AETC A2/3/10.
     1.3.2.2. Certain Unprofessional Relationships. Alleged violations of the specific
     prohibitions in paragraph 2.3 by faculty, staff, and recruiters must be immediately
     reported through command channels to HQ AETC/CC, with copies to AETC/CV and
     AETC/JA. Units that report directly to AETC A2/3/10 shall also copy the Director of
     AETC A2/3/10.
     1.3.2.3. Other Special Interest Cases. Allegations of the following offenses shall be
     reported through command channels to the first general officer exercising GCMCA over
     the member. Violations by TDY personnel or members of other U.S. military services
     will also be reported to the member’s parent command.
         1.3.2.3.1. Unprofessional relationships as defined in this instruction and in AFI 36-
         2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, not otherwise reportable under
         paragraph 1.3.2.2 Examples include: allegations of unprofessional relationships
         involving students, ELS Airmen, and RAPpers.
         1.3.2.3.2. Trainee abuse as defined in this instruction, including attempts.
         1.3.2.3.3. Academic integrity violations by officers and senior non-commissioned
         officers.
         1.3.2.3.4. Violations of paragraph 5.2 by recruiters.
         1.3.2.3.5. Regardless of offense, all allegations involving officers, cadets, CMSgts,
         and SMSgts.
         1.3.2.3.6. Regardless of grade, allegations involving serious crimes, as defined in
         Section 13E, AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, including attempts,
         conspiracies, and solicitations to commit these crimes.
         1.3.2.3.7. Any other allegations with potential community impact or reaction, or
         potential or actual media coverage.
     1.3.2.4. Violations of this instruction by international personnel will be reported to the
     International Military Student Officer, who will facilitate any required notifications to the
     head of the sponsoring security assistance implementing agency.
 8                                                          AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


        1.3.2.5. Commanders at all levels shall also report all initial allegations of such
        misconduct to the servicing office of the staff judge advocate and provide frequent
        updates thereafter.
1.4. Personnel Information Files (PIFs). All AETC units must establish and maintain PIFs to
document general misconduct, substandard performance, and other derogatory information on
permanent party officer and enlisted members assigned to AETC. Commanders and supervisors
must review the PIF in conjunction with other personnel actions, to include performance reports,
awards and decorations, promotions, reassignments, special duty assignments, and promotion to
supervisory and/or leadership positions. Commanders and supervisors must also review PIFs in
conjunction with subsequent disciplinary and adverse actions, such as decertification.
     1.4.1. Examples of derogatory information that must be documented in the PIF include
     memoranda for record, “no contact” orders, letters of counseling/admonition/reprimand,
     derogatory documentation not placed in an Unfavorable Information File, as well as
     disciplinary and temporary/permanent decertification actions specific to certain career fields
     (e.g., military training instructor temporary “hat removals”).
     1.4.2. Reference AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Record System, for general information
     regarding PIF record content, storage, and access. AETC units are only required to establish
     PIFs if misconduct or other derogatory information is documented on an individual. For
     intra-command reassignments, PIFs must be forwarded to the gaining commander. For inter-
     command reassignments, the PIF must be given to the individual or destroyed.
1.5. Training Requirements. All commanders, judge advocates, investigators, and supervisors
will familiarize themselves with this instruction. Commanders of education, training, and
recruiting units will ensure all personnel - including faculty and staff, trainees, cadets, students,
ELS Airmen, recruiters, and RAPpers - are briefed on the relevant provisions of this instruction
upon their arrival, and at least annually thereafter.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    9


                                           Chapter 2

            PROFESSIONAL AND UNPROFESSIONAL RELATIONSHIPS

2.1. Overview.
   2.1.1. Professional Relationships. Personnel are encouraged to communicate freely
   regarding their careers, classroom performance, duties, and missions. This type of
   communication enhances performance, morale, and discipline and improves the training
   environment. At the same time, it preserves proper respect for authority and focuses on the
   mission.
   2.1.2. Unprofessional Relationships. Unprofessional relationships covered by this
   instruction include those between faculty, staff, recruiters, and RAPpers and applicants,
   recruits, RAPpers, trainees, cadets, students, and ELS Airmen. Whether pursued on or off
   duty, relationships are unprofessional when they detract from the authority of superiors or
   result in (or reasonably create the appearance of) favoritism, misuse of office or position, or
   the abandonment of organizational goals for personal interests. Unprofessional relationships
   may include relationships between officers; between enlisted members; between officers and
   cadets or enlisted members; between military personnel and civilian employees or contractor
   personnel; between recruiters and recruits, applicants, or RAPpers; and between RAPpers
   and recruits or applicants.
2.2. General Guidance on Relationships.
   2.2.1. The AETC mission demands that personnel maintain proper and professional
   relationships in the recruiting, training, and education environments. Faculty, staff and
   recruiters will be held primarily accountable for consensual but unprofessional relationships
   with trainees, cadets, students, recruits, applicants, RAPpers, or ELS Airmen. In addition to
   possible disciplinary action, a substantiated allegation of an unprofessional relationship may
   result in removal from the recruiting, education, or training environment,
   temporary/permanent decertification, and/or withdrawal of associated Special Duty
   Identifiers. Trainees, cadets, students, RAPpers, and ELS Airmen have an independent
   obligation to avoid prohibited behaviors. However, given the power imbalance between such
   personnel and faculty, staff, and recruiters, commanders must exercise special care in
   assessing the subordinate member’s culpability as it may be more appropriate to treat them as
   victims in particular cases.
   2.2.2. Not all contact or association between trainees, cadets, students, recruits, applicants,
   RAPpers, or ELS Airmen and faculty, staff, or recruiters is prohibited. This instruction
   provides general guidance to allow for the application of sound judgment and common sense
   on a case-by-case basis. Commanders must consider the totality of the circumstances when
   determining whether the personal relationship at issue violates this instruction. Factors to
   consider include, but are not limited to, whether the conduct has compromised the chain of
   command, resulted in the appearance of partiality, or otherwise undermined good order,
   discipline, authority, and/or morale.
   2.2.3. The camaraderie essential to military organizations is particularly beneficial in the
   military training and education process. Personnel covered by this instruction are
   encouraged to participate in appropriate organizational functions, such as picnics, sporting
 10                                                         AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


   events, graduations, assignment selection events, sponsorship programs, student
   achievements, Air Force-approved fund drives, membership campaigns, religious and civic
   events, and similar activities authorized by their commander.
2.3. Specific Prohibitions and Responsibilities. Military members, DoD civilian employees,
and applicable contractor personnel are responsible for complying with this instruction both on
and off duty in their personal behavior and in their treatment of others. These personnel must
ensure their relationships are professional and impartial, do not create the appearance of
favoritism, and do not detract from the professional image the Air Force intends to project.
Conduct that violates the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this paragraph and its
subparagraphs by military personnel is a violation of Article 92, UCMJ. Violations by civilian
personnel may result in administrative disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable
criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws.
   2.3.1. Applicability. Except as noted below, the specific prohibitions and responsibilities
   detailed in paragraph 2.3 of this instruction, including its subparagraphs, continue throughout
   all periods of accession, training, and instruction. This includes periods where personnel are
   awaiting basic military or initial skills training (including breaks in basic military or initial
   skills training), and periods where personnel have been eliminated from basic military or
   initial skills training and are awaiting discharge or reclassification. It also includes the entire
   period of entry-level status for enlisted personnel, regardless of their training status.
       2.3.1.1. Specific prohibitions and responsibilities pertaining to applicants, recruits,
       RAPpers, trainees, cadets, students in initial skills training, and ELS Airmen apply
       regardless of the existence of any past, present, or anticipated future relationship between
       such personnel and a recruiter, RAPper, faculty member, or staff member. For purposes
       of this instruction, initial skills training is not complete until a student graduates from
       initial skills training and reports to his or her first permanent duty station of assignment
       or follow-on training program. For example, a technical training instructor at one
       installation may not engage in a personal relationship with a student in initial skills
       training at another installation, even if there is no prior, current, or anticipated training
       relationship between the instructor and the student.              Similarly, a Specialized
       Undergraduate Pilot Training (SUPT) instructor at one installation may not engage in a
       relationship with an SUPT student (to include personnel in casual status awaiting
       training) assigned to another installation.
       2.3.1.2. Specific prohibitions and responsibilities pertaining to relationships between
       faculty, staff, and recruiters and students who have completed initial skills training and
       are no longer in entry-level status (non-ELS students), apply only when there is a training
       relationship (direct or indirect) between such personnel, and they apply throughout the
       entire training program or course of instruction. For example, a student attending
       retraining, continuation, or upgrade training may not engage in a personal relationship
       with a faculty or staff member in that student’s training program. Similarly, PME faculty
       and staff may not engage in personal relationships with students enrolled in their course
       of instruction.
   2.3.2. Covered Relationships. The prohibited activities detailed in paragraph 2.3.3
   generally apply to relationships between recruiters, RAPpers, faculty, and staff and
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   11


  applicants, recruits, RAPpers, trainees, cadets, students, ELS Airmen, and their immediate
  family members. Specifically:
     2.3.2.1. Faculty and staff will not engage in the activities detailed in paragraph 2.3.3 with
     applicants, recruits, trainees, cadets, students, ELS Airmen, and/or their immediate family
     members.
     2.3.2.2. Trainees, cadets, students, and ELS Airmen assigned to AETC will not engage
     in the activities detailed in paragraph 2.3.3 with faculty, staff, recruiters, and/or their
     immediate family members.
     2.3.2.3. Recruiters will not engage in the activities detailed in paragraph 2.3.3 with
     recruits, applicants, RAPpers, trainees, cadets, students in initial skills training, ELS
     Airmen, and/or their immediate family members.
     2.3.2.4. RAPpers will not engage in the activities detailed in paragraph 2.3.3 with
     recruiters, recruits, applicants, and/or their immediate family members. This instruction
     does not govern otherwise proper relationships between RAPpers and trainees, cadets,
     students, other RAPpers, and/or ELS Airmen.
  2.3.3. Prohibited Activities. Personnel shall not engage, or try to engage, in the following
  activities within the context of relationships covered by paragraph 2.3.2
     2.3.3.1. Engaging in personal, social contact by any means. Prohibited contact includes,
     but is not limited to, personal, social media contact, such as: e-mail, texting, Facebook,
     Twitter, and similar virtual social networks.
     2.3.3.2. Developing, establishing, or carrying on personal, social relationships. This
     includes, but is not limited to: attending or hosting unofficial social gatherings;
     frequenting clubs, bars, theaters, or sporting events; participating in personal sports
     activities (e.g., golf, racquetball, bowling); or providing alcohol to, accepting alcohol
     from, or consuming alcohol with such personnel.
     2.3.3.3. Establishing, developing or conducting intimate or sexual relationships. This
     includes, but is not limited to, dating, handholding, kissing, embracing, caressing, and
     engaging in sexual activities. Prohibited intimate or sexual relationships may be
     conducted in person and/or via cards, letters, telephone calls, e-mails, texting, instant
     messaging, videos, photographs, or any other means of communication or social media.
     2.3.3.4. Making sexual advances toward, or seeking or accepting sexual favors.
     2.3.3.5. Using one’s grade or position, threats, pressure, or promises of return favors or
     favorable treatment to gain, or attempt to gain, sexual favors.
     2.3.3.6. Establishing a common household (that is, sharing the same living area in an
     apartment, house, or other dwelling). This prohibition does not extend to situations
     where military operations reasonably require the sharing of living accommodations.
     2.3.3.7. Soliciting donations, except for official Air Force campaigns or pursuant to
     approved fundraisers.
     2.3.3.8. Gambling, lending money, borrowing money, or otherwise becoming indebted.
     2.3.3.9. Accepting personal goods for storage or any other reason.
12                                                        AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


     2.3.3.10. Accepting personal services for any reason, even if for compensation.
     2.3.3.11. Basic military training instructors may not attend technical training graduations
     without prior written approval from the 737 TRG/CC.
     2.3.3.12. Recruiters may not attend Basic Military Training or technical training
     graduations without prior written approval from their squadron commander.
  2.3.4. Building Partnership Capacity (BPC) Training Programs. This paragraph applies
  to faculty, staff, trainees, cadets, and students participating in programs that support the BPC
  mission. Relationships between BPC faculty and staff and BPC trainees, cadets, and students
  are not subject to the specific prohibitions and responsibilities contained in paragraph 2.3.3
  However, BPC faculty and staff:
     2.3.4.1. Shall comply with the limitations identified in AFI 36-2909 as well as the more
     specific guidelines in this instruction. This includes the specific prohibitions and
     responsibilities contained in paragraph 2.3.3 relating to relationships with non-BPC
     applicants, recruits, trainees, cadets, students, ELS Airmen, and their immediate family
     members.
     2.3.4.2. Shall not establish, develop, try to develop, or conduct intimate or sexual
     relationships with BPC trainees, cadets, or students. This includes, but is not limited to,
     dating, handholding, kissing, embracing, caressing, and engaging in sexual activities.
     Prohibited intimate or sexual relationships may include relationships conducted in person
     and/or via cards, letters, telephone calls, e-mails, texting, instant messaging, videos,
     photographs, or any other means of communication or social media.
     2.3.4.3. Shall not make, or try to make, sexual advances toward, or seek or accept sexual
     favors from BPC trainees, cadets, or students.
     2.3.4.4. Shall not use, or try to use, their grade or position, threats, pressure, or promises
     of return of favors or favorable treatment to gain, or attempt to gain, sexual favors from
     BPC trainees, cadets, or students.
     2.3.4.5. Shall not establish a common household with BPC trainees, cadets, or students
     (that is, share the same living area in an apartment, house, or other dwelling). This
     prohibition does not extend to situations where military operations reasonably require the
     sharing of living accommodations.
     2.3.4.6. Shall not solicit, or try to solicit, donations from BPC trainees, cadets, or
     students, except for official Air Force campaigns or pursuant to approved fundraisers.
     2.3.4.7. Shall not gamble with, lend money to, borrow money from, or otherwise become
     indebted to BPC trainees, cadets, or students.
  2.3.5. Notice of Pre-Existing Relationships. Recruiters, RAPpers, faculty, and staff
  members shall immediately inform their chain of command if they learn that a relative,
  friend, or anyone with whom they have had a personal or intimate relationship, is an
  applicant, recruit, RAPper, trainee, cadet, or student in their particular accession, training, or
  instruction program. Faculty and staff members will also inform their chain of command if a
  permanent party ELS Airman with whom they have had a personal or intimate relationship is
  assigned to their training unit. Leadership shall take reasonable steps to avoid placing such
  applicants, recruits, RAPpers, trainees, cadets, students, or ELS Airmen under the direct
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  13


  supervision of these recruiters, RAPpers, faculty, or staff members. Trainees, cadets,
  students, and RAPpers should not be assigned to the same squadron/detachment as such
  faculty, staff, or recruiters. Recruiters, faculty, and staff members will ensure their actions
  do not give the appearance of preferential treatment or favoritism towards these RAPpers,
  trainees, cadets, students, or ELS Airmen.
  2.3.6. Waivers and Exceptions.
     2.3.6.1. Common sense exceptions, to include accommodations of a blood or marriage
     relationship, may be allowed when authorized in writing by the person’s commander.
     Personnel authorized such exceptions will respect all military customs and courtesies
     when they are on duty, in uniform in public, or at official social functions. Other
     common sense exceptions are permitted for organizational functions recognized by
     appropriate authorities (e.g., intramural sports, squadron picnics, field days, chapel and
     religious activities, and holiday parties). Participants in such events shall observe
     appropriate customs and courtesies.
     2.3.6.2. Non-ELS Students: Group commanders (or equivalent) may grant exceptions
     to permit personal, social contact and/or relationships between recruiters, faculty, and
     staff and non-ELS students. Such exceptions should be granted only when there is no
     official and/or training relationship (direct or indirect) between the parties and no such
     relationship is anticipated during the remainder of the student’s training program or
     course of instruction. Exceptions are not authorized for intimate or sexual contact with
     non-ELS students, as described in paragraph 2.3.3.3
     2.3.6.3. Permanent Party ELS Airmen:             Training Squadron commanders (or
     equivalent) are authorized to grant appropriate exceptions to permit personal, social
     contact and/or relationships between faculty and staff members and ELS Airmen
     assigned as permanent party to their training units. Such exceptions should be granted
     only when necessary to encourage and facilitate the professional integration of ELS
     Airmen at their first permanent duty station. Exceptions are not authorized for intimate
     or sexual contact with ELS Airmen, as described in paragraph 2.3.3.3
     2.3.6.4. First Assignment Instructors: The continuation of a pre-existing personal,
     social, intimate, or sexual relationship between two students is subject to written
     commander approval when one of the students transitions to instructor status; e.g., as a
     First Assignment Instructor Pilot. In such cases, commanders will ensure the student and
     instructor are not assigned to the same squadron for training purposes. Personnel
     authorized such an exception will avoid actions that may give the appearance of
     preferential treatment or favoritism.
  2.3.7. Reporting and Documenting Unprofessional Relationships. Alleged violations of
  this chapter will be reported in accordance with paragraph 1.3 Substantiated unprofessional
  relationship allegations will be documented and maintained in the member’s PIF in
  accordance with paragraph 1.4
 14                                                       AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


                                           Chapter 3

                              TRAINEE ABUSE AND HAZING

3.1. Overview. Leadership, faculty, and staff are responsible for safeguarding the safety,
morale, and welfare of assigned trainees, cadets, and students, to include providing them with a
healthy learning environment. Faculty and staff must treat all trainees, cadets, and students with
dignity and respect. Trainee abuse and hazing, as defined by this instruction, are wholly
inconsistent with these responsibilities and will not be tolerated.
3.2. Terms Explained.
   3.2.1. Trainee Abuse. Any unauthorized physical or verbal act or omission by a faculty or
   staff member against a trainee, cadet, or student intended to cause, or likely to result in,
   unlawful physical, emotional, psychological, or financial harm. Examples include, but are
   not limited to: maltraining, cruelty and maltreatment (verbal and/or physical), hazing,
   unlawful discrimination, wrongful appropriation, abuse of authority, sexual harassment, rape,
   sexual assault, and forcible sodomy.
   3.2.2. Maltraining. Any practice not designed to meet a course training objective.
   Examples of maltraining include, but are not limited to: using abusive or excessive physical
   exercise; unnecessarily rearranging the property of a trainee to correct infractions; and
   misapplication of motivational training tools. Any practice for the purpose of inducing a
   trainee, cadet, or student to self-eliminate is considered maltraining. Other examples include:
   making a trainee perform degrading or humiliating tasks; assigning remedial training to an
   entire group based on the deficiencies of an individual or a few individuals; and assigning
   remedial training that does not fit the deficiency. Training conducted in violation of
   applicable risk management plans and/or in violation of hydration and work rest cycle
   standards also constitutes maltraining.
   3.2.3. Cruelty and Maltreatment Generally. Military personnel who are cruel toward,
   oppress, or maltreat persons subject to their orders are guilty of cruelty and maltreatment
   under Article 93, UCMJ. The cruelty, oppression, or maltreatment, although not necessarily
   physical, is measured by an objective standard. Assault, improper punishment, and sexual
   harassment may constitute this offense. The imposition of necessary or proper duties and the
   exaction of their performance does not constitute this offense even though the duties are
   arduous or hazardous or both. Acts constituting this offense may also violate other
   provisions of the UCMJ. For purposes of this instruction, the offense of cruelty and
   maltreatment is further subdivided into physical maltreatment, verbal maltreatment, and
   sexual harassment.
       3.2.3.1. Physical Maltreatment. Causing or engaging in unauthorized and unwanted
       physical contact with another or improperly depriving another of basic physical
       necessities. Examples include, but are not limited to: poking, hitting, thumping, pushing,
       grabbing, physical violence, physical intimidation, assault, rape, sexual assault, forcible
       sodomy, as well as unauthorized deprivation of medical care, basic sustenance, hydration,
       hygiene, restroom breaks, and recuperation. Note: Within Basic Military Training, the
       M16 Trainer Weapon will not be used in any capacity as a disciplinary tool.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     15


       3.2.3.2. Verbal Maltreatment. Verbal maltreatment includes any language that
       degrades, belittles, demeans, maliciously embarrasses, or slanders an individual or group.
       This includes any such language that unlawfully discriminates on the basis of the color,
       national origin, race, religion, age, ethnic group, gender, sexual orientation or physical
       stature of any individual or group. Examples include, but are not limited to: profanity;
       depicting, suggesting, insinuating, condoning, or encouraging immoral, unethical, illegal,
       or unprofessional conduct; crude, offensive language in rhymes or prose as memory
       devices (mnemonics); racially disparaging remarks; training tools that contain profane
       words, offensive language, or inappropriate sexual or gender references; and any
       language that establishes a hostile environment, promotes sexual harassment, or
       engenders disrespect toward a particular race, religion, or gender.
       3.2.3.3. Sexual Harassment. Sexual harassment is a form of sexual discrimination that
       involves unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or
       physical conduct of a sexual nature when: (1) submission to such conduct is made either
       explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of a person’s job or career; (2) submission to
       or rejection of such conduct by a person is used as a basis for career or employment
       decisions affecting that person; or (3) such conduct has the purpose or effect of
       unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or creates an
       intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment. In short, it includes influencing,
       offering to influence, or threatening the career, pay, or job of another person in exchange
       for sexual favors, and deliberate or repeated offensive comments or gestures of a sexual
       nature.
   3.2.4. Hazing. Any conduct whereby a military member or members, regardless of service
   or rank, without proper authority causes another military member or members, regardless of
   service or rank, to suffer or be exposed to any activity which is cruel, abusive, humiliating,
   oppressive, demeaning, or harmful. Soliciting or coercing another to perpetrate any such
   activity is also considered hazing. Hazing need not involve physical contact among or
   between military members; it can be verbal or psychological in nature. Actual or implied
   consent to acts of hazing does not eliminate the culpability of the perpetrator. Examples of
   hazing include, but are not limited to: unauthorized psychological games (e.g., “loyalty
   checks”); initiation rites or rituals that threaten or result in bodily harm to any person (e.g.,
   “blood wings,” branding, tattooing, striking); forced or coerced consumption of alcohol,
   drugs, or tobacco products; and forced or coerced consumption of excessive or harmful
   liquids, foods, or any other substances. Hazing may occur among faculty and staff members,
   between faculty and staff and trainees, cadets, and students; and among trainees, cadets, and
   students.
3.3. Specific Prohibitions and Responsibilities. Conduct that violates the prohibitions and
mandatory provisions of this paragraph, including its subparagraphs, by military personnel is a
violation of Article 92, UCMJ. Violations by civilian personnel may result in administrative
disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws.
   3.3.1. Faculty and staff shall not engage in, or try to engage in, trainee abuse. Faculty and
   staff shall not encourage or condone trainee abuse by others.
16                                                     AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


  3.3.2. AETC personnel shall not engage in, or try to engage in, hazing, regardless of the
  rank, position, or training status of the perpetrator or victim.
  3.3.3. Allegations of trainee abuse and/or hazing will be reported in accordance with
  paragraph 1.3
  3.3.4. Substantiated allegations of trainee abuse and/or hazing will be documented and
  maintained in the member’s PIF in accordance with paragraph 1.4 In addition to possible
  disciplinary action, substantiated allegations of trainee abuse and/or hazing may result in a
  faculty or staff member’s removal from the training environment, temporary/permanent
  decertification and/or withdrawal of associated Special Duty Identifiers.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   17


                                           Chapter 4

                                  ACADEMIC INTEGRITY

4.1. Terms Explained.
   4.1.1. Academic Integrity. Uncompromising adherence to a code of ethics, morality,
   conduct, scholarship, academic standards, and other values related to academic activity.
Note: Academic integrity is distinct from the concept of academic freedom, which relates to the
freedom of inquiry, discussion, and debate among faculty, staff members, trainees, cadets, and
students without fear of sanctions or reprisal. Within the educational setting, guest lecturers,
faculty, staff members, trainees, cadets, and students are encouraged to support or criticize any
objective, policy, or opinion in the pursuit of knowledge and understanding, but must do so with
dignity and respect, and with appropriate regard to military customs and courtesies.
   4.1.2. Individual Work Assignments. Academic assignments, examinations, or research
   efforts in which individuals are expected to do their own work without consulting or
   collaborating with others, or using any materials that were researched, drafted, or prepared by
   another person, except as specifically authorized by the assignment instructor.
   4.1.3. Group Work Assignments. Academic assignments, examinations, or research
   efforts not otherwise specified as individual work assignments. Note: Specified group
   assignments may also limit or prohibit consultation or collaboration with other groups or
   with individuals outside of a specified group.
   4.1.4. Cheating. The act of intentionally providing and/or receiving improper assistance on
   academic assignments, examinations, or research efforts. Examples include, but are not
   limited to: plagiarism; misrepresentation; gaining unauthorized access to faculty materials
   that have not been released for student use; copying answers from another’s work; using
   unauthorized texts, notes, materials, or other references for examinations or other assigned
   work; knowingly permitting another student to copy one’s writing assignments, speeches or
   briefing materials, or answers from an examination paper; submitting as individual work
   product any materials that were researched, drafted, or prepared by another person; and
   collaborating or consulting with other persons on individual work assignments except as
   specifically authorized by the assignment instructions.
   4.1.5. Plagiarism. The act of appropriating the written work of another, parts or passages of
   their writings, or the ideas or language of another, and intending to pass them off as the
   product of one’s own mind. An example of plagiarism is copying material verbatim without
   quotation marks or citation and with the intent to claim the material as one’s own work.
   Another example is the intentional use of a source’s sentence structure, style, and content
   with only minor word changes (i.e., paraphrasing), without giving credit to the source.
       4.1.5.1. Writing in an academic environment differs significantly from traditional “staff
       work.” As AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, states: “In the staff environment, we
       frequently reuse previously prepared data to save time and avoid ‘reinventing the wheel,’
       but we rarely need to cite the source of such data. In the academic world, however,
       reusing another’s work without giving that person credit and deliberately trying to pass it
       off as your own, is plagiarism.”
 18                                                        AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


       4.1.5.2. Although academic guidelines should make plagiarism rules as clear as possible,
       students also must take responsibility for their work. Students who have any questions
       about citation or crediting a source have an obligation to ask for clarification from a
       faculty or staff member.
   4.1.6. Misrepresentation. The act of making an assertion or omission to intentionally
   deceive or mislead. Misrepresentation may be an oral or written statement that is misleading
   or deceiving and meant to be so, for example, false reporting. A student may also commit
   misrepresentation by omission, such as deliberately withholding material information.
   Students who resubmit research papers or other work prepared by them to fulfill a prior
   academic requirement, while disguising or failing to disclose the resubmission, would be
   guilty of misrepresentation. For example, a student may not resubmit a research paper that
   was previously submitted in another course (or a variant of the current course, for example, a
   nonresident version of the same course), without disclosing the resubmission.
   4.1.7. Intent. Intent is a state of mind in which a person seeks to accomplish a given result
   through a course of action. Intent can seldom be proven by direct evidence, but must
   ordinarily be inferred from the surrounding facts and circumstances. Intent is an element of
   plagiarism, cheating, and misrepresentation. Intent is different from “motive,” which is what
   prompts a person to act or fail to act - in other words, why he or she acted or did not act.
   Thus, a student who cheats may be motivated by laziness or a desire to get a better grade,
   rather than by a desire to violate the rules of academic integrity. However, as long as the
   student intends to engage in the conduct that constitutes cheating (e.g., using notes in a
   closed-book examination), he or she has the requisite intent to cheat.
4.2. Specific Prohibitions and Responsibilities. Conduct that violates the prohibitions and
mandatory provisions of this paragraph or its subparagraphs by military personnel is a violation
of Article 92, UCMJ. Violations by civilian personnel may result in administrative disciplinary
action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
laws.
   4.2.1. All faculty, staff, trainees, cadets, and students must adhere to the highest standards of
   academic integrity. They shall not engage in, try to engage in, or assist others to engage in,
   cheating, plagiarism, misrepresentation, or any other act constituting a lack of academic
   integrity. Failure on the part of any individual to practice academic integrity reflects
   discredit both on the Air Force and on the individual.
   4.2.2. Each AETC education and training activity will clearly specify the types of study and
   reference materials that trainees, cadets, and students may use in accomplishing their
   academic assignments.
   4.2.3. Each AETC education and training activity will ensure all faculty, staff, trainees,
   cadets, and students, including students in AFIT civilian institution programs, are fully aware
   of these academic integrity standards.
   4.2.4. Personnel who violate academic integrity standards are subject to disenrollment and
   expulsion from the training program or course of instruction. Students disenrolled from Air
   University (AU) courses of instruction for academic integrity violations are not allowed to
   reenroll or attend the course unless the school commandant approves a waiver in accordance
   with AU policy.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 19


  4.2.5. Trainees, cadets, and students whose violations of academic integrity are not
  discovered until after program completion are still subject to appropriate disciplinary and/or
  adverse action. For AU students, completion certificates and/or diplomas may be subject to
  revocation, as set forth in applicable AU policies.
  4.2.6. AFROTC cadets are held to the same academic integrity standards as other AETC
  students; however, they are not usually subject to punishment under the UCMJ. Initially,
  violations of academic integrity are handled under the rules and authority of the host
  academic institution. After institutional actions, the AFROTC unit commander reviews the
  specifics of the situation. If the unit commander determines that a violation of academic
  integrity standards took place, he or she takes appropriate action under AFROTC policies, up
  to and including elimination of non-contract cadets, disenrollment for contract cadets, and
  UCMJ action for cadets subject to the UCMJ.
  4.2.7. Violations by TDY personnel or members of other U.S. military services will be
  reported to the individual’s commander for appropriate disciplinary or administrative action.
  The report should include all documentation supporting the alleged violation and a request to
  the individual’s commander for a notice of final case disposition. Violations by international
  trainees and cadets will be reported to the International Military Student Officer, who will
  facilitate any required notifications to the head of the sponsoring security assistance
  implementing agency. Violations by international students are reported to AU/IA for
  appropriate notifications through Air Force and international channels.
  4.2.8. Violations by students enrolled in AU nonresident (distance learning) programs are
  reported by the school/Center commandant/commander to the student’s commander for
  appropriate disciplinary action. The report should include all documentation supporting the
  alleged violation and a request to the individual’s commander for a notice of final case
  disposition.
  4.2.9. All other alleged violations of this chapter will be reported in accordance with
  paragraph 1.3
  4.2.10. For AETC personnel, substantiated violations of academic integrity will be
  documented and maintained in the member’s PIF in accordance with paragraph 1.4
 20                                                        AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


                                            Chapter 5

                        RECRUITING STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

5.1. Overview. The standards in this chapter serve as the foundation for professionalism and
integrity in the conduct of day-to-day recruiting operations. Personnel who violate any
prohibition of paragraph 5.2 or its subparagraphs are subject to disciplinary action under the
UCMJ, Article 92. Violations by civilian personnel may result in administrative disciplinary
action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
laws.
5.2. Specific Prohibitions and Responsibilities. In addition to the prohibitions and mandatory
provisions contained elsewhere in this instruction, recruiting personnel will not:
   5.2.1. Conceal, advise an applicant/recruit or other person to conceal, or conspire with an
   applicant/recruit or other person to conceal disqualifying factors.
   5.2.2. Take any action to qualify an ineligible applicant/recruit in violation of directives.
   5.2.3. Take any action to mislead or misinform a prospect or applicant/recruit regarding any
   aspect of recruiting policies, procedures, entitlements, or benefits.
   5.2.4. Provide misinformation designed to induce an applicant/recruit to apply for or accept
   enlistment, commissioning, or appointment.
   5.2.5. Advise applicants/recruits regarding the transfer of dependent custody or changing
   marital status for the purpose of entry into the Air Force.
   5.2.6. Violate any other recruiting policy or procedure that results in the processing or
   enlistment, commissioning, or appointment of an ineligible applicant/recruit.
   5.2.7. Initiate or participate in any action to influence lawyers, attorneys, law enforcement
   officials, or judicial authorities to release, dismiss, drop charges, or otherwise mitigate
   dispositions to qualify an individual for Air Force enlistment, commissioning, or
   appointment. Recruiting personnel will not accompany applicants or recruits to court for any
   reason.
   5.2.8. Purchase, use, or give advice regarding any type of drug testing product to attempt to
   determine an applicant’s or recruit’s qualifications.
   5.2.9. Release any applicant/recruit information to agencies or persons outside of the DoD.
   Instead, recruiting personnel will refer all inquiries or requests for such information to their
   Recruiting Squadron commander.
   5.2.10. Make statements that imply the Air Force will take legal action against an
   applicant/recruit who refuses to enter active duty or extended active duty.
   5.2.11. Become involved in, or otherwise assist in, general educational development (GED)
   testing of individuals beyond advising them to contact the nearest state education official
   authorized to administer the GED test.
   5.2.12. Sponsor an alien for permanent residence in the United States by citing the Air Force
   as a prospective employer. Additionally, recruiting personnel will not recruit in a foreign
   country unless invited by the foreign government (specifically, Canada and Mexico). Some
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    21


   countries have laws forbidding the armed forces of a foreign state from recruiting in their
   country, such as Canada’s “Foreign Enlistment Act.”
   5.2.13. Engage in recruiting irregularities. A “recruiting irregularity” is defined as any other
   failure to follow recruiting procedures not covered under this instruction that causes a
   prospect, applicant, or recruit to be misinformed about any aspect of the recruiting or
   enlistment process, policies, procedures, entitlements, and benefits.
5.3. Reporting and Documentation Requirements. Alleged violations of this chapter will be
reported in accordance with paragraph 1.3 Substantiated allegations will be documented and
maintained in the member’s PIF in accordance with paragraph 1.4




                                             EDWARD A. RICE, JR. General, USAF
                                             Commander
 22                                                     AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
AFPD 1, Air Force Culture, 7 August 2012
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFPD 36-23, Military Education, 27 September 1993
AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards, 7 August 2012
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994
AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, 1 May 1999
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 26 October 2009
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 2004
AFI 36-3209, Separation and Retirement Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve Members, 14 April 2005
AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 6 June 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, 1 August 2004
Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “Withholding Initial Disposition Authority Under the
Uniform Code of Military Justice in Certain Sexual Assault Cases,” 20 April 2012
Under Secretary of the Air Force Memorandum, “General Court-Martial Convening Authority
(GCMCA) Review in Certain Sexual Assault Cases,” 17 June 2013
Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
ALS—Airman Leadership School
AU—Air University
AWC—Air War College
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      23


BPC—Building Partnership Capacity
COT—Commissioned Officer Training
DEP—Delayed Entry Program
ELS—Entry-Level Status
GCMCA—General Court-Martial Convening Authority
GED—General Educational Development
NCOA—Noncommissioned Officers Academy
OTS—Officer Training School
PIF—Personnel Information File
PME—Professional Military Education
RAP—Recruiter Assistance Program
RAPper—Recruiter Assistance Program Participant
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SNCOA—Senior Noncommissioned Officers Academy
SOS—Squadron Officers School
SPCMCA—Special Court-Martial Convening Authority
SUPT—Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
TDY—Temporary Duty
UNT—Undergraduate Navigator Training
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice

Terms
Abuse of Authority—An arbitrary and capricious exercise of power by a faculty or staff
member. To qualify as arbitrary or capricious, the act must: (1) either adversely affect any
person or result in personal gain or advantage to the perpetrator; and (2) must not be within the
perpetrator’s authority granted under applicable regulations, law, or policy; or must not be based
on relevant data and factors; or must not be not rationally related to the relevant data and factors.
Applicant—Any person who tells a recruiter that he or she is interested in joining the Air Force.
Applicant status: (1) terminates upon signing of the enlistment, appointment, or commissioning
contract; (2) continues as long as the applicant pursues entrance into the Air Force; or (3)
continues until the applicant is notified in writing of permanent disqualification.
Cheating—The act of intentionally providing or receiving improper assistance on academic
assignments, examinations, or research efforts.
Course of Instruction—Professional Military Education and Developmental Education
programs designed to educate members, including, but not limited to: ALS, NCOA, SNCOA,
SOS, ACSC and AWC. Education courses of instruction are distinct from training programs.
 24                                                         AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


Entry-Level Status Airmen—Airmen within the first 180 days of continuous active military
service, as defined in AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen. For Reserve
component members, this includes Airmen within the first 180 days after beginning an initial
period of entry-level active duty training, as defined in AFI 36-3209, Separation and Retirement
Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members.
Faculty and Staff—DoD, contract, and international personnel - either military or civilian - who
are directly or indirectly involved in formal AETC training or education programs. This
category does not include installation support personnel (for example, finance, personnel,
contracting). It includes, but is not limited to, military training instructors; military training
leaders; technical training instructors; Officer Training School (OTS) instructors; instructor
pilots; professional military education (PME) instructors; developmental education instructors,
AFROTC instructors; contract instructors; other instructors of trainees, cadets, and students; and
training support staff.
Hazing—Any conduct whereby a military member or members, regardless of service or rank,
without proper authority causes another military member or members, regardless of service or
rank, to suffer or be exposed to any activity which is cruel, abusive, humiliating, oppressive,
demeaning, or harmful. Soliciting or coercing another to perpetrate any such activity is also
considered hazing. Hazing need not involve physical contact among or between military
members; it can be verbal or psychological in nature. Actual or implied consent to acts of hazing
does not eliminate the culpability of the perpetrator.
Immediate Family Member—Parents, siblings, spouse, and children, including step-relations.
Initial Skills Training—A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for
enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to qualified officers. Used as an overarching term for
enlisted and officer initial skill training. Note: For purposes of this instruction, initial skills
training is not complete until a student graduates from initial skills training and reports to his or
her first permanent duty station of assignment or follow-on training program.
Maltraining—Any practice not designed to meet a course training objective. Examples of
maltraining include, but are not limited to: using abusive, excessive physical exercise;
unnecessarily rearranging the property of an Airman to correct infractions; and misapplication of
motivational training tools. Any practice for the purpose of inducing an Airman to self-eliminate
is considered maltraining. Training conducted in violation of applicable risk management plans
and/or in violation of hydration and work rest cycle standards also constitutes maltraining.
Misrepresentation—The act of making an assertion or omission to intentionally deceive or
mislead. Misrepresentation may be an oral or written statement that is misleading or deceiving
and meant to be so, for example, false reporting. A student may also commit misrepresentation
by omission, such as deliberately withholding material information.
Personal, Social Contact—Any contact for other than official, professional and/or
organizational purposes.
Personal, Social Relationship—Any relationship for other than official, professional and/or
organizational purposes.
Physical Maltreatment—Causing or engaging in unauthorized and unwanted physical contact
with another or improperly depriving another of basic physical necessities.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  25


Plagiarism—The act of appropriating the written work of another, parts or passages of their
writings, or the ideas or language of another, and intending to pass them off as the product of
one’s own mind.
RAPper—First-term Airmen who participate in the Recruiter Assistance Program (RAP),
governed by AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program.
Recruit—An individual who applies for an enlistment, appointment, or commissioning program
and signs an enlistment, appointment, or commissioning contract, respectively. Recruit status
terminates upon entry into the Air Force, withdrawal of selection, permanent disqualification, or
applicant-initiated termination of processing.
Recruiter—Any commissioned officer, noncommissioned officer (NCO), Airman, or recruiting
staff member whose primary duty is to recruit Air Force enlisted members, officers, or officer
candidates (including OTS, health professions programs, AFROTC, and other officer accession
programs). Recruiters include, but are not limited to: recruiters, Military Entrance Processing
Station liaison NCOs, production supervisors, flight chiefs, production superintendents,
recruiting squadron/detachment staff, AFROTC admissions liaison officers, liaison officer
directors, regional directors of admissions, assistant regional directors of admissions (commonly
referred to as “gold bars”), and unit admissions officers.
Sexual Harassment—Sexual harassment is a form of sexual discrimination that involves
unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a
sexual nature when: (1) submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term
or condition of a person’s job or career; (2) submission to or rejection of such conduct by a
person is used as a basis for career or employment decisions affecting that person; or (3) such
conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work
performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.
Student—U.S. military, foreign military, and civilian personnel who are assigned or are on
temporary duty to AETC bases, wings, detachments, or schools to attend technical training
(including initial, supplemental, and advanced training, and retraining) or academic courses of
instruction. It also includes personnel enrolled in Air University nonresident courses (distance
learning). Examples include, but are not limited to, technical training schools, professional
military education, developmental education, SUPT/UNT, and personnel participating in AFIT
civilian institution programs.
Trainee Abuse—Any unauthorized physical or verbal act or omission by a faculty or staff
member against a trainee, cadet, or student intended to cause, or likely to result in, unlawful
physical, emotional, or psychological, or financial harm.
Trainees and Cadets—U.S. military, foreign military, and civilian personnel who are assigned
or on temporary duty to AETC bases, wings, detachments, or schools to attend Basic Military
Training, Officer Training School (OTS), Commissioned Officer Training (COT), or to
participate in AFROTC. This includes personnel who are awaiting such training (including
breaks in training), have been eliminated such training and are awaiting discharge, or have
completed such training but are awaiting initial skills training. This definition also includes
Reserve component personnel who - upon completion of such training - return to their permanent
duty station or home of record while awaiting initial skills training.
 26                                                       AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


Training—Programs of accession, initial skills, and technical training, including, but not limited
to: Basic Military Training, technical training, AFROTC, OTS, COT, SUPT, UNT, and similar
AFSC-awarding courses or pipelines. Training programs are distinct from education courses of
instruction.
Verbal Maltreatment—Verbal maltreatment includes any language that degrades, belittles,
demeans, maliciously embarrasses, or slanders an individual or group. This includes any such
language that unlawfully discriminates on the basis of the color, national origin, race, religion,
age, ethnic group, gender, sexual orientation, or physical stature of any individual or group.
AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013                     27


                                 Attachment 2
                       SECDEF WITHHOLDING MEMO

Figure A2.1. SECDEF Withholding Memo.
 28                                               AETCI36-2909 2 DECEMBER 2013


                                   Attachment 3
            GCMCA REVIEW IN CERTAIN SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES

Figure A3.1. GCMCA Review in Certain Sexual Assault Cases.
