BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AETC INSTRUCTION 11-407
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                                  15 MAY 2008
COMMAND
                                                                                       Flying Operations

                                                            PARACHUTE STANDARDIZATION AND
                                                                      EVALUATION PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AETC/A3TC                                    Certified by: HQ AETC/A3T (Col Lee T. Pittman)
Supersedes AETCI11-407, 7 July 2003                                                      Pages: 13

This instruction implements AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 September 2004. It establishes and defines
the standardization and evaluation (stan/eval) program for all military parachutists assigned or attached
within AETC. This publication does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command
units. This publication describes the organizational structure, policies, and administrative procedures for
stan/eval functions at each level of command. Criteria for military parachutists are contained in separate
publications. Submit all supplements to this instruction to HQ AETC/A3T for coordination before imple-
mentation. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information used in this publi-
cation.
Submit waiver requests to HQ AETC/A3T, 1 F Street, Suite 2, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4325, for con-
sideration, review, and approval. Submit suggested improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through chain of command to HQ AETC/A3T, 1 F Street
Suite 2, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4325. (AF Form 847 is prescribed by AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Man-
uals Program (FMP). Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)
The Privacy Act of 1974 applies to certain information gathered pursuant to this instruction. The Privacy
Act System Number F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS), covers required
information. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/
afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
The revision updates references from DOO to A3T throughout the publication; adds the 306 FTG (para-
graph 1.); deletes last sentence (paragraph section 1.2.); deletes one objective (paragraph 1.3.1.) and
renumbers paragraph 1.3.5 as paragraph 1.3.1.; rewords requirement from going through numbered Air
Force (NAF) to going through appropriate chain of command changing timeframe for coordinating on
2                                                                            AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008


waiver request (paragraph 1.4.); changes NAF to 19AF (paragraph 2.1.); removes the 2AF position from
Figure 1. and modifies the entire figure; changes examples and removes additional information on train-
ing (paragraph 3.); adds B-22 parachute system training and evaluation information (paragraph
3.1.1.1.1.); adds information pertinent to remedial training and retesting (paragraph 3.1.1.1.2.); removes
information pertaining to spot evaluations and requires commanders be aware of short-notice spot evalu-
ations (paragraph 3.3.2.); and adds information pertaining to results on the AF IMT 804, Report of Task
Evaluation (paragraph 3.8.2.4.). A bar ( | ) indicates revision from the previous version.


1. General. The provisions of this instruction apply to commanders, military parachutists (including
civilians that are required to conduct military parachute operations as part of their official duties), super-
visors, personnel performing the duties of, or instructing, military parachutists assigned or attached to
AETC including U.S. Air Force Academy cadets involved in 306 FTG parachute operations.
    1.1. The overall objective of the parachutists stan/eval program is to standardize personnel parachute
    procedures and to provide commanders and operations staff with meaningful indicators reflecting
    individual and overall unit effectiveness to perform the unit mission. It provides guidance, direction,
    and quality assurance indicators for qualified individuals to conduct parachute operations within
    AETC. This program defines evaluation requirements designed to ensure safe operations and is not
    intended to drive proficiency levels.
    1.2. Numbered Air Force or groups may supplement this instruction. Forward all supplements to this
    instruction through channels to HQ AETC/A3T for approval. Supplements will not contain proce-
    dures that are contrary or less restrictive than those in this publication. This program emphasizes the
    requirements defined in the Air Force on-the-job-training (OJT) system to ensure all primary skills are
    evaluated on a recurring basis, regardless of whether or not these skills are necessary for current
    instructor duties.
    1.3. Specific objectives follow:
       1.3.1. Enhance parachute operations safety.
       1.3.2. Coordinate the development of standardized task-oriented criteria.
       1.3.3. Assess unit effectiveness and compliance with operational directives and procedures.
       1.3.4. Provide a system to assess individual proficiency and capability to accomplish assigned
       parachute duties.
    1.4. HQ AETC/A3T will serve as the major command (MAJCOM) office of primary responsibility
    (OPR) with waiver authority for all waiver requests to this instruction. Submit waiver requests in writ-
    ing through the appropriate chain of command.

2. Pyramid Evaluation System. HQ AETC/A3T will provide overall management of the AETC person-
nel parachutists stan/eval program and will implement the program as outlined in this instruction. HQ
AETC/A3TC will serve as OPR. Manpower authorizations allocated to AETC parachutists are limited,
and therefore not represented at every level of the command chain.
    2.1. Evaluation Process. Figure 1. represents the pyramid evaluation process for parachutists within
    AETC. Each unit directly below HQ AETC/A3TC must have a personnel parachute program manager
    (PPPM) or a designated representative at the squadron level. 19AF will have an assigned PPPM qual-
AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008                                                                               3


   ified in both static line and freefall parachuting and (or) jumpmaster procedures. The AETC instruc-
   tors at Operating Location (OL)–B, 342d Training Squadron (342 TRS) (U.S. Army Airborne
   School), and OL-D, 342 TRS (U.S. Army Military Freefall School), will adhere to program directives
   defined by the U.S. Army, and applicable memorandums of understanding when conducting duties as
   instructors. This instruction applies when conducting unilateral Air Force training.


Figure 1. Pyramid Evaluation Chart.




   2.2. HQ AETC/A3T Evaluators. HQ AETC/A3T evaluators will:
      2.2.1. Serve as the HQ AETC PPPM.
      2.2.2. Administer the command parachute stan/eval program, and act as the primary evaluator for
      2AF units.
      2.2.3. Be formally appointed by HQ AETC/A3T in writing.
      2.2.4. Receive training from an Air Force task certifier course and ensure training is documented
      in member’s AF Form 623, Individual Training Record.
      2.2.5. Receive their evaluations from other AETC evaluators.
      2.2.6. Assist with formal and informal staff assistance visits ensuring compliance with guidance.
      2.2.7. Serve as OPR for this instruction.
      2.2.8. Identify both positive and negative trends in the parachute stan/eval program and provide
      recommendations to HQ AETC/A2/A3 and units on how to improve the process.
4                                                                            AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008


       2.2.9. Maintain a cross-tell information system with other services, Air Force, and other MAJ-
       COMs for the most current information regarding safety, procedures and equipment, and forward
       this information to subordinate units.
       2.2.10. Provide units with the most current list of publications, directives, policies, checklists, and
       information regarding parachute operations.
       2.2.11. Augment the AETC inspector general team during operational readiness inspections, as
       required.
    2.3. 19AF Responsibilities. Appoint, in writing, a PPPM or evaluator to serve as the commander’s
    focal point, ensuring all units within the command have a viable stan/eval program. The 19AF PPPM
    or evaluator must:
       2.3.1. Be qualified as freefall jumpmaster and have been on operational jump status for at least
       one consecutive three-year period. Additionally, the member will have at least a craftsman (seven)
       skill level in their primary Air Force specialty code.
       2.3.2. Be current as a static line and (or) freefall jumpmaster to evaluate jumpmaster-qualified
       personnel.
       2.3.3. Meet qualifications as a trainer and (or) certifier.
       2.3.4. Be evaluated every 17 months.
       2.3.5. Ensure units comply with this instruction; AFI 11-410, Personnel Parachute Operations,
       and its AETC supplement.
       2.3.6. Conduct parachute evaluations (initial parachute evaluations [IPE] and (or) recurring para-
       chute evaluations [RPE]) on group PPPM.
       2.3.7. Provide assistance, when requested, to unit and (or) squadron PPPM and stan/eval moni-
       tors.
       2.3.8. Coordinate with HQ AETC PPPM on most current information regarding safe military
       parachute operations. Disseminate pertinent information to units.
       2.3.9. Analyze evaluation data at least annually for adverse trends, and recommend corrective
       action to the commander and HQ AETC/A3T.
       2.3.10. Use short-notice spot inspections to evaluate effectiveness of unit programs.
    2.4. Unit Responsibilities. Follow guidance in paragraphs 2.3.2. through 2.3.5., and appoint, in writ-
    ing, one of the unit PPPMs as the group PPPM.
    2.5. Unit Stan/Eval Monitors. Unit stan/eval monitors will:
       2.5.1. Be skilled in static line and (or) freefall parachute operations as required by unit mission,
       and maintain a high level of proficiency. Skilled is defined as having attained the appropriate
       jumpmaster rating(s), and having been on operational jump status for at least one consecutive
       three-year period. Note: 306 FTG will use a minimum of one year on operational jump status.
       2.5.2. Be current as a static line and (or) freefall jumpmaster to evaluate jumpmaster-qualified
       personnel.
       2.5.3. Meet qualifications as a trainer and (or) certifier.
AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008                                                                                       5


       2.5.4. Be evaluated every 17 months.
       2.5.5. Ensure units comply with this instruction, AFI 11-410, and its AETC supplement.
       2.5.6. Serve as certifying official on AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring
       Training, column c, for all evaluations conducted on unit personnel. (AF IMT 1098 is prescribed
       by AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program on the Job Training Administration.
       Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)
       2.5.7. Inform commander of factors adversely affecting safe military parachutist operations, and
       recommend corrective action.
       2.5.8. Analyze evaluation data at least annually for adverse trends, recommend corrective action
       to the commander, and forward all data to HQ AETC/A3T through appropriate chain of command.

3. Evaluations. Recurring evaluations help to ensure that parachutists within AETC are trained to con-
duct military parachute operations safely and effectively. Evaluators will ensure evaluations focus on
safety using established procedures, checklists, and directives; and that they evaluate the individual while
performing his or her highest parachutist rating level (for example, static line or freefall jumper, static line
or freefall jumpmaster). All evaluations are graded pass or fail.
   3.1. Initial Evaluation. All newly assigned personnel must receive an initial evaluation prior to per-
   forming parachute operations without trainer or evaluator supervision. The initial evaluation require-
   ments are the same as for the RPE in paragraph 3.1.1.
       3.1.1. Recurring Parachute Evaluation (RPE). RPEs are administered every 17 months after the
       individual receives his or her IPE. RPEs may be accomplished anytime after the twelfth month
       following the initial evaluation and must be accomplished not later than (NLT) the last day of the
       17th month following the initial evaluation (for example, initial evaluation accomplished 10 Jan
       07; RPE is due NLT 30 Jun 08, and eligibility window begins on 10 Jan 08.). An RPE consists of
       a records review, emergency procedures (EP) for freefall: evaluation in a hanging harness or emer-
       gency procedures for static line: five points of performance, collisions and entanglements, towed
       parachutists, malfunctions, activation of the reserve, and emergency landings. Accomplish the
       records review and emergency procedures review before the parachute deployment.
           3.1.1.1. EP exercises for hanging harness are listed in AFI 11-411(I), Military Free-Fall Para-
           chuting; AFMAN 11-420, Static Line Parachuting Techniques and Training; or USPA Sky-
           diver’s Information Manual (available at http://www.uspa.org/shop/pubs/SIM.htm).
           Training should contain practice scenarios. After the evaluator determines the parachutist has
           had adequate practice, a practical evaluation will be given. Note: 306 FTG will use parachut-
           ing course syllabus for EP exercise.
               3.1.1.1.1. B-22 parachute system (EP) training and evaluation will be conducted using HQ
               AETC/A3T approved training and evaluation procedures established through 19 AF/
               PPPM.
               3.1.1.1.2. In case of failure, the parachutist will receive remedial training and retesting.
               Remedial training and retesting may occur immediately. After an EP evaluation has been
               completed successfully, document the training on AF IMT 1098.
           3.1.1.2. The records review must be accomplished for all parachute evaluations prior to
           deployment, and should not be accomplished more than 1 week before the deployment. The
6                                                                          AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008


           evaluator will review pertinent documentation related to the individual’s capability to conduct
           safe parachute deployment procedures. As a minimum, review the following:
               3.1.1.2.1. The evaluator will ensure the individual jump record folder (JRF) is current and
               qualified using AF IMT 922, Individual Jump Record, or AF IMT 4323, ARMS
               Multi-Crew Jump Record, and the file contents comply with AFI 11-410, Personnel Para-
               chute Operations. (AF IMTs 911 and 4323 are prescribed by AFI 11-410. Refer to that
               publication for guidance on filling out the forms.)
               3.1.1.2.2. The evaluator will review AF IMT 803, Report of Task Evaluation, and AF IMT
               1098. (AF IMT 803 is prescribed by AFI 36-2201, Volume 3. Refer to that publication for
               guidance on filling out the form.)
               3.1.1.2.3. Current publications, directives, and checklists are necessary to accomplish safe
               parachute operations.
    3.2. Parachute Deployment. The deployment phase will consist of a pre-jump briefing, to include
    an operational risk management (ORM) assessment, equipment preparation, aircraft deployment, and
    post-jump debrief and critique.
    3.3. Short-Notice Spot Evaluations. The unbiased, random, and systematic use of spot evaluations
    is a means of providing feedback to commanders on the effectiveness of the parachute stan/eval pro-
    gram. They are not the only means of determining its effectiveness, but when used consistently, are a
    valuable tool for ensuring a safe and competent parachute operations training and evaluation program.
       3.3.1. A qualified evaluator may administer spot evaluations during any parachute deployment.
       Personnel receiving spot evaluations must be notified of the evaluation prior to the start of the
       pre-jump briefing.
       3.3.2. Commanders will be informed of the results of all short-notice spot evaluations.
    3.4. Requalification Evaluation. Individuals who fail an evaluation require at least one training ses-
    sion addressing the areas failed during the evaluation, and require a qualified trainer recommend the
    individual for a requalification evaluation prior to the evaluation. Conduct requalification evaluations
    within 30 days of evaluation failure. Document the training and recommendation in AF Form 623
    (The requirements are the same as for the RPE.). Commanders will review all failures of a requalifi-
    cation.
    3.5. Administration of Evaluations. A sound and practical evaluation program is a prerequisite for
    effective evaluation. Evaluators must have the judgment necessary to meet unexpected or induced
    emergencies and the ability to exercise judgment through mature realization of their own and their
    trainees’ limitations. An evaluator’s familiarity with the concepts of safe parachute operations and
    sound judgment are critical factors to properly assess performance. AETC Form 22, Parachutist Eval-
    uation Worksheet (Attachment 2), may be used to aid in a parachutist evaluation.
       3.5.1. Grading. Pass or Fail.
       3.5.2. Substandard Performance:
           3.5.2.1. Minor Infractions. During the debriefing, the evaluator will discuss and correct minor
           procedural violations that do not jeopardize safety.
AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008                                                                                7


         3.5.2.2. Compromised Safety. When the evaluator determines that safety has been compro-
         mised, or is about to be compromised, he or she will immediately cease all operations. The
         evaluator, using sound judgment and ORM principles, may either assume the duties of the
         individual being evaluated and continue the mission, thoroughly critique the individual and
         allow the mission to continue, or cancel the operation. A safety compromise will result in the
         individual being decertified from any further jumps until he or she receives a requalification
         evaluation. For dual qualified jumpers, the evaluator will determine if the infraction warrants
         decertification for both types of qualifications and will document appropriate recommenda-
         tions on AF IMT 803 and in the individual’s AF Form 623, as appropriate.
     3.5.3. Evaluations resulting in task decertification will comply with Air Force OJT guidance.
     3.5.4. Evaluators will not evaluate personnel they have trained unless no other option exists.
     3.5.5. Evaluations will not be changed to a training mission, and a training mission will not be
     changed to an evaluation after the start of the mission briefing.
  3.6. Evaluation Briefings. Evaluators will ensure the examinee understands the parameters of the
  evaluation prior to the start of the evaluation.
  3.7. Evaluation Debriefings. The evaluation debriefing may be the most important phase of the
  evaluation process. It provides a forum for potential learning and (or) reinforcing the concept of safe
  parachute operations. Conducting a proper debrief allows maximum benefit from the information col-
  lected and may be used to identify excellence or deficiencies in the parachute training segment.
     3.7.1. Evaluators should take notes during the evaluation process to enhance the debriefing.
     3.7.2. The evaluator should review these notes and proceed chronologically through the events of
     the evaluation relating all aspects whether positive or negative.
     3.7.3. The evaluator must reinforce the positive aspects and professionally critique the negative
     aspects, offering corrective action, as necessary.
     3.7.4. The examinee must be afforded an opportunity to contribute his or her comments, observa-
     tions, and recommendations.
     3.7.5. Key unit personnel should attend as many evaluation debriefings as their schedules permit.
     3.7.6. The debriefing is not complete until the evaluation is properly documented.
  3.8. Documentation Procedures. Documentation is a performance indicator not only of the trainee
  but the parachute stan/eval program as a whole. Concise and factual documentation provides a history
  of tasks accomplished and the conditions in which they were accomplished. In the event an individual
  is not required to maintain AF Form 623 (officers and master sergeants and above), maintain a locally
  developed JRF for purposes of this instruction.
     3.8.1. AF Form 623. The AF Form 623 maintains basic source documents to provide a current
     history of each jumper’s qualifications. An AF Form 623 will be established for each individual as
     required and must be maintained according to published guidance. Units may also document
     jump-related history on a locally developed JRF. Maintain AF Form 623 or locally developed JRF
     in a location readily accessible to supervisors, trainers, evaluators, and the individual members.
     3.8.2. AF IMT 803. The AF IMT 803 is used to record an evaluation in brief and concise state-
     ments, and is maintained in the individual’s AF Form 623. All entries must be legible and initialed
8                                                                           AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008


         by the trainee in order to be considered valid. Self-explanatory blocks are not addressed. When
         additional comments are required, they are referenced and filed with the original AF IMT 803 on
         an AF IMT 623a, On-the-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet. (AF IMT 623a is prescribed by
         AFI 36-2201, Volume 3. Refer to that publication for filling out the form.)
            3.8.2.1. Job Task Item(s) Evaluated. Write in the appropriate type of evaluation (initial,
            RPE, requalification, or spot), if applicable and task evaluated.
            3.8.2.2. Remarks. Fill in a concise and factual history of tasks accomplished and the condi-
            tions in which they were accomplished. Trainee will initial 803 remarks section following
            evaluators comments.
            3.8.2.3. Unsatisfactory Performance. A trainer or evaluator who is decertified will not per-
            form those duties until he or she successfully completes additional training or a requalification
            evaluation as appropriate.
            3.8.2.4. Results. Indicate by checking available blocks as satisfactory or unsatisfactory.
         3.8.3. AF IMT 623a. The AF IMT 623a is used to expand upon comments logged on the AF IMT
         803. Use the AF IMT 623a for recommendations and explanation of restrictions, recommenda-
         tions for commanders review action, and to record positive performance as well as negative. The
         evaluator and trainee’s initials must be recorded after comments in order for the comments to be
         considered valid.
         3.8.4. AF IMT 1098. This form consolidates the status and history of qualifications and training
         of a critical or recurring nature where key personnel can readily review them (see Figure 1.).

Figure 2. AF IMT 1098 Entries.


    Column A Enter the selected special task training or qualification.
    Column B Enter completion date of the special training or written exam.
    Column C The certifying official’s signature completes the documentation and indicates the
             individual’s qualification to perform parachute operations without direct supervision.
    Column D Trainee initials.
    Column E Evaluation only: enter “P” for pass and “F” for fail.
    Column F When the entry pertains to training, enter C for classroom, P for practical, and SS for
             self-study.
    Column G Enter next due date.

         3.8.5. Cancellation Evaluations. In the event a scheduled evaluation is planned, briefed, and
         flown but is cancelled due to weather or equipment, grade the evaluation as a partial evaluation. If
         unable to complete the missing portions of the evaluation within 30 days, reaccomplish a complete
         evaluation.
         3.8.6. Waivers. Waivers for RPE will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Send waiver
         requests through MAJCOM channels to HQ AETC/A3T. Waiver requests will include:
            3.8.6.1. Documentation as to why the RPE could not be accomplished within the five month
            window.
AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008                                                                              9


          3.8.6.2. Number of jumps that have occurred through the current evaluation period.
          3.8.6.3. Justification as to why the evaluation period must be extended, for example, mission
          impact, temporary duty schedules, etc.

4. Prescribed Forms:
AETC Form 22, Parachutist Evaluation Worksheet

5. Adopted IMTs and Forms:
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record
AF IMT 623a, On-the-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet
AF IMT 803, Report of Task Evaluation
AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication
AF IMT 922, Individual Jump Record
AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF IMT 4323, ARMS Multi-Crew Jump Record



                                  ANTHONY F. PRZYBYSLAWSKI, Maj General, USAF
                                  Directorate of Intelligence & Air, Space, and Information Operations
10                                                                       AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 September 2004
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 6 April 2005
AFI 11-410, Personnel Parachute Operations, 20 May 2004
AFI 11-411 (I), Military Free-Fall Parachuting, April 2005
AFMAN 11-420, Static Line Parachuting Techniques and Training, September 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program on the Job Training Administration, 4 February
2005
AFI 11-410/AETC Supplement, Personnel Parachute Operations, 30 April 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
EP—emergency procedures
IPE—initial parachute evaluation
JRF—jump record folder
MAJCOM—major command
NLT—not later than
OJT—on-the-job-training
OL—operating location
OPR—office of primary responsibility
ORM—operational risk management
PPPM—personnel parachute program manager
RPE—recurring parachute evaluation
stan/eval—standardization and evaluation
TRS—training squadron

Terms
Certification—A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.
Evaluator—An individual who assesses training and certifies qualifications or specific tasks.
Failure—When an individual fails an evaluation and is unable to satisfactorily complete any phase of an
evaluation.
AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008                                                                                  11


Initial Evaluation—An evaluation administered to personnel who have never been qualified according
to this instruction and respective MAJCOM training directives.
OJT—Individual training in designated job skills provided to individual members when serving in job
positions in operational units.
Qualification Expiration—The date qualification expires, normally the last day of the month (17 months
from the last successful evaluation).
Recurring Parachute Evaluation—An evaluation administered within a specified period of time on a
recurring basis (for example, every 17 months).
Requalification Evaluation—An evaluation required due to an unsatisfactory rating on a previous
evaluation or evaluation expiration.
Short-Notice Spot Evaluation—An evaluation given as a quality control measure to evaluate members
on specific tasks or qualifications but not to satisfy a recurring evaluation requirement.
Standard—An exact value, physical entity or abstract concept that authority, custom, or common consent
sets up and defines to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring qualities or quantities, developing
practices or procedures, or evaluation results. A fixed quality or quantity.
Tasks, Conditions, and Standards—A method of evaluating performance. Defines a specific task to be
accomplished, the conditions the task is to be accomplished under, and the standard that is to be met for
the task.
Trainee—An individual who is undergoing training.
Trainer—A trained and qualified person who teaches others to perform specific tasks.
Unit Stan/Eval Monitor—An individual appointed by the commander to oversee the standards and
evaluation program.
12                                                                          AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008


                                              Attachment 2

                 AETC FORM 22, PARACHUTIST EVALUATION WORKSHEET

A2.1. Purpose. AETC Form 22 was developed specifically for use as an aid (tool) for the evaluator to
use during the parachutist evaluation. There is no specific format in completing this form. Most blocks
within the form are self-explanatory. Ratings are P for pass, F for fail, and N/O for not observed. The
evaluation is not restricted or limited to the items listed on the reverse side of the form. Figure A2.1. and
Figure A2.2. provide a sample of AETC Form 22.

Figure A2.1. Front Side of Form.
AETCI11-407 15 MAY 2008           13


Figure A2.2. Back Side of Form.
