BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AETC INSTRUCTION 90-401
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND                                                7 FEBRUARY 2001

                                                                                        Command Policy

                                                  NOTIFICATION OF DISTINGUISHED VISITORS
                                                                   TO AETC INSTALLATIONS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the HQ AETC Publishing WWW site at
http://www.aetc.randolph.af.mil/im. If you lack access, contact your Base Publishing Manager.


OPR: HQ AETC/CCP (Capt Stephen Landry)                                      Certified by: HQ AETC/CCP
Supersedes AETCI 90-401, 13 March 1995                                         (Lt Col Murrell Stinnette)
                                                                                                  Pages: 6
                                                                                           Distribution: F


This instruction implements AFPD 90-4, Relations With Congress. It establishes procedures and
responsibilities for official visits of distinguished visitors (DV) to AETC, including Air University, 2AF,
19AF, wings, and tenant units on AETC bases.

This publication does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in
accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule (this will become AFMAN 33-322,
volume 4).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

References distinguished visitors acting in the capacity as a contractor or contractor representative
(paragraph 1). Reflects the current notification/approval process for international visits (paragraph
2.6.2). Requires AETC Command Chief Master Sergeant notification of all active and retired Chief
Master Sergeant of the Air Force visits (paragraph 3.2.4). Requires explicit notification if a visit will
include an orientation flight (paragraph 3.3.3). A H indicates revision from the previous edition.

H 1. Distinguished Visitor (DV) Visits. DVs visits to AETC are a matter of command interest and must
receive every consideration to ensure visit requirements are managed in a courteous and professional
manner. HQ AETC/CCP will inform the AETC Commander of all proposed and scheduled DV visits.
Additionally, all visits by members of the United States Congress or their staff must be immediately
reported to the AETC Command Action Group (HQ AETC/CCX). HQ AETC/CCX will ensure
compliance with (including after-action reports) AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations With Congress. The
provisions of AETCI 90-105, Management of Contractor Visits to Headquarters Air Education and
Training Command, also apply to requested visits by distinguished visitors acting in the capacity as a
contractor or contractor representative.

2. Terms Explained:
2                                                                  AETCI90-401        7 FEBRUARY 2001


2.1. Distinguished Visitor. Any visitor of DV Code 6 (brigadier general, SES, GS-16, or State
positions) equivalent or above (active or retired), AETC wing commanders, Chief Master Sergeants of
the Air Force (active or retired), Medal of Honor recipients (active or retired), nationally or
internationally known personalities, foreign dignitaries, corporate vice presidents and above, and
prominent government or elected officials to include congressional and senatorial staffers.

2.2. DV Monitor. The person (usually the wing executive officer or protocol officer or NCO)
responsible for monitoring visits of DVs to an AETC base or unit who must notify HQ AETC/CCP.
NOTE: HQ AETC/CCP is the DV monitor for HQ AETC.

2.3. Final Package. The visitor’s schedule, approved by the wing commander, provided to the DV as a
guide for his or her stay. The itinerary gives a concise schedule of events planned for the visit including
times, dates, places, briefers and briefing topics; tour locations with the names of escorts and greeters at
each location; dress for specified activities; and biographies of staff members the DV will meet. It does
not include specific instructions to the support agencies. It should provide the basics of what the DV
would see and hear, an approximate timetable and whom he or she will meet.

2.4. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The agency determined by the commander as having the
primary interest or functional responsibility for a DV’s visit. On notification of a proposed or scheduled
visit, the OPR obtains available information about the visit, establishes a time schedule for completing
planning actions, ensures suitable arrangements are made, and adequate guidance provid ed to officers
designated to meet the DVs.

2.5. Support Facilities. Base agencies, such as transportation, billeting, officers club, and base
operations, which support a DV's requirements.

2.6. Types of Visits:

2.6.1. Command Visits. Visits by persons other than those identified in paragraph 2.1 when the visitor
or purpose of the visit is considered of sufficient significance to warrant HQ AETC Command Section
interest. Visits approved by Secretary of the Air Force, Office of International Affairs (SAF/IA), but not
covered by paragraph 2.1, fall under command visits.

H 2.6.2. Foreign Visits. All foreign visits designated to AETC installations are received by HQ AETC
Foreign Disclosure Office (AFSAT/CCD) via the foreign visit system (FVS), with the exception of
Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) sponsored visits. CVAI notifies MAJCOM commanders of
CSAF sponsored visits directly. AFSAT/CCD forwards all foreign DV visits to HQ AETC/DS for
approval. If the DV visit is for HQ AETC, the DS will appoint an OPR. Release of information and
documentation to foreign visitors will be in accordance with AFI 16-201, Disclosure of Military
Information to Foreign Government and International Organizations (U)(Secret).

3. Responsibilities:

3.1. The AETC/DS or its appointed office will evaluate the scope of interest of each DV and task the
OPR to prepare the details of the visit.

3.2. The OPR will:
AETCI90-401        7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                       3


3.2.1. Designate a project officer to coordinate and monitor all aspects of the visit.

3.2.2. Immediately provide the composition of the visiting party and details of the schedule of events to
the DV monitor.

3.2.3. Provide a brief after-action report upon request to the DV monitor on completion of the visit.

H3.2.4. Notify AETC Command Chief Master Sergeant’s Office, DSN 487-4848 or COMM (210) 652-
4848, of all active and retired Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force visits.

3.3. The DV monitor will:

3.3.1. Establish procedures to receive information on DVs from his or her base.

3.3.2. Coordinate with the HQ AETC Command Section or its appointed office concerning the DV visit.

H3.3.3. Fax (DSN 487-6653 or COMM (210) 652-6653) or e- mail (aetc.ccp@randolph.af.mil), AETC
Form 88, Distinguished Visitor Notification, to HQ AETC/CCP within 24 hours of notification. (See
Attachment 2 for helpful hints on preparing AETC Form 88.) Call HQ AETC/CCP to ensure receipt of
AETC Form 88. (Send all other fax transmittals for HQ AETC/CCP to DSN 487-6653 or COMM (210)
652-6653.) Explicitly annotate if the visit will include an orientation flight. Refer to AFI 11-401, Flight
Management, for additional requirements/procedures on requesting orientation flight approval. In
instances where a flight is approved during the course of the visit, immediately notify AETC/CCP so
that senior staff may be informed. NOTE: In the event of an unfavorable incident or a significant change
to the itinerary, immediately notify HQ AETC/DS or CCP. If appropriate, the commander should inform
the HQ AETC Command Section of the incident.

3.4. Staff agencies or subordinate units will:

3.4.1. Provide support as required or requested.

3.4.2. Notify the HQ AETC Command Section and/or DV monitor of DV visits to the functional area.

3.4.3. Send proposed itineraries for visiting three- and four-star generals (and any equivalents) as early
as possible. Forward all subsequent updates of original itineraries.

3.5. The project officer will:

3.5.1. Coordinate staff participation and arrange support requirements as required or requested. (Use
AETC Form 163, Distinguished Visitor Checklist, or a locally developed checklist and AETCPAM
90-101, Protocol Primer.)

3.5.2. Prepare and distribute the final plan to involved staff agencies and/or specific staff persons.

3.5.3. Prepare the visitor's itinerary and welcome package. Provide a welcome package to each member
of the DV’s party.
4                                                                  AETCI90-401        7 FEBRUARY 2001

3.5.4. Set up a VOQ room (if applicable); and assist in arrival and/or departure (transportation, luggage,
etc.).

4. Meeting and Hosting Officials. Senior officials of the installation, units and staff agencies directly
involved in the visit will normally meet and host DVs. Heads of the respective agencies having an
interest in the visit should represent their staff agencies at official and social functions required by the
visit plan.

5. Special Requirements and Guidance for OPRs and Project Officers:

5.1. If the DV's female spouse accompanies the DV, the female spouse of a senior officer usually acts as
her escort. For a DV’s male spouse, a male senior officer usually acts as his escort. The OPR will
prepare an individual itinerary for a spouse.

5.2. For international visitors, determine their fluency in English. If the DV is not fluent in English,
identify an individual who speaks the DV's language and understands the DV's customs to serve as
translator and escort throughout the visit. If no translator is available at the base and one is not
accompanying the DV during the visit, call HQ AETC/CCP for assistance or guidance. NOTE: AFSAT
can provide a “CULTURGRAM” which includes detailed information on a country's dietary and
religious customs and courtesies. AFSAT is the initial coordination agency for all Security Assistance
Training Program (SATP) visits to AETC bases.

5.3. Provide accommodations commensurate with a DV's position. The arrangements for payment of
billeting, messing, and commercial transportation normally rest with the military escort responsible for
settling these details.

6. Forms Prescribed. AETC Form 88.

7. Forms Adopted. AETC Form 163.



                                                ERIC J. ROSBORG, Colonel, USAF
                                                Director of Staff

2 Attachments
1. Glossary of References and Supporting Information
2. Helpful Hints for Preparing AETC Form 88
AETCI90-401     7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                            5

                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFPD 90-4, Relations With Congress
AFI 16-201, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Government and International
Organizations (U)(Secret)
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule (this will become AFMAN 33-322, volume 4)
AFI 90-401, Air Force Relations With Congress
AETCI 90-105, Management of Contractor Visits to Headquarters Air Education and Training
Command
AETCPAM 90-101, Protocol Primer

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ANG—Air National Guard
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DV—distinguished visitor
OPR—office of primary responsibility
6                                                              AETCI90-401       7 FEBRUARY 2001

                                           Attachment 2

                    HELPFUL HINTS FOR PREPARING AETC FORM 88

      Block                                            Explanation

NAME                Full name of the DV. If he or she is a foreigner, enclose the last name in
                    parentheses, for example, General Ignacio Manuel (Quintana) Arevalo.

GRADE/              Grade (rank) of DV and DV code, if civilian; for example, John H. Doe (DV-5).
DV CODE

GO-BY NAME          If the salutation is different than the go-by name, so state. In addition, add the
                    conversational name or nickname.

TITLE               Examples include: Chief of Staff, Japanese Air Self Defense Force; Retired, USAF
                    (NOTE: Be sure to add the specific service); Senator (R-NC); General Manager,
                    McDonnell- Douglas; Air Attaché, British Embassy; etc.

DUTY STATION/       Include the country, if not USA.
CITY/STATE

ACCOMPANIED         Spouse's conversational or go-by name (if spouse is accompanying DV). Also the
BY                  number traveling in party. Prepare a separate form for each accompanying DV.

DATE AND ETA        Date and approximate local time of arrival, and mode of travel (mil air,
                    commercial air, POV, GOV, etc.). Flight numbers, call signs, etc., are not
                    necessary.

DATE AND ETD        Same as ETA, but with departure information.

VISITING BASE/ Identify base and/or organization the DV is visiting.
ORGANIZATION

PURPOSE OF          Enter explicit, but not complicated, information. Identify only key issues and key
VISIT               places or units. Define acronyms. Also annotate if the visit will include an
                    orientation flight.
