                         DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                      AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND



                                                                            AETCGM2014-48-01

                                                                                     30 May 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR 37 TRW/CC

FROM: AETC/CC
      1 F Street, Suite 1
      JBSA Randolph TX 78150-4324

SUBJECT: AETC Guidance Memorandum for Military Training Consult Service

RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

1. By Order of the Commander, Air Education and Training Command, this AETC Guidance
Memorandum immediately implements the Military Training Consult Service for Basic Military
Training. This AETC Guidance implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise. It
provides guidance for implementation of the 559th Aeromedical Squadron Military Training
Consult Service as an operational mental health team embedded into USAF Basic Military
Training (BMT). It establishes procedures and standards for conducting psychological screening
for selection and sustainment of Military Training Instructors serving at BMT. This instruction
applies to all applicants for Military Training Instructor Duty at BMT. In addition to Active
Duty (AD) personnel, this publication applies to the Air Reserve Component (ARC), the Air
Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National Guard (ANG), and Air Force Pre-Trained Individual
Manpower (PIM). This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Authority to collect and maintain records prescribed in this AFI are
outlined in Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Privacy Act System Notice F044 AFSG
G, Aircrew Standards Case File, applies Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To
the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications the information herein
prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. This applies to Military Training Instructors assigned to the 737th Training Group, JBSA-
Lackland TX, and the 433d Training Squadron, JBSA-Lackland TX.

3. Ensures all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.

4. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
5. If you have any questions about this guidance memorandum, please contact 559
AMDS/MTCS, DSN 473-9386.

6. The memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon release of an AETC publication incorporating the guidance and
procedures, whichever is earlier.




                                                 ROBIN RAND
                                                 General, USAF
                                                 Commander

Attachment:
Military Training Consult Service
                                          Attachment 1

                       MILITARY TRAINING CONSULT SERVICE

       This instruction describes newly established medical processes in support of USAF Basic
Military Training (BMT) operations, specifically the Military Training Consult Service (MTCS).

1. Objective: MTCS is a four-member team of psychologists and mental health technicians
assigned to the 59th Medical Wing, 559th Medical Group, 559th Aeromedical Squadron and
embedded into the 37th Training Wing, 737th Training Group, BMT to provide command
consultation, assist in Military Training Instructor (MTI) selection and training, and
psychological resiliency support to instructors for safe, effective performance throughout the
special duty assignment.

2. Responsibilities:

   a. The 37th Training Wing will ensure sufficient resources for MTCS operations.

   b. The 37th Training Wing will assure compliance with this guidance memorandum.

3. MTCS:

   a. MTI Selection:

      1) MTCS will develop and monitor the MTI Psychological Screening Protocol for
         effective use and potential improvements, and will provide updates and training to Air
         Force Medical Services (AFMS) providers in the use of the protocol.

      2) MTCS will administer the Multi-Dimensional 360 Assessment (MD360) to candidates
         being considered for MTI duty.

      3) MTCS will receive and review results of the psychological screening interview and
         provider assessment, will integrate results from the MD360, and will make
         recommendation on psychological fitness/suitability and safety risk to the 737 TRG.
         Protected Health Information will be disclosed in accordance with DoD 6025.18-R,
         DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation.

      4) MTCS will continually monitor and statistically analyze the effectiveness of
         instruments for ongoing validation and improvement.

   b. Command Consultation: MTCS will serve as consultants to Group, Squadron, and Flight
      leadership regarding psychological/behavioral issues that may impact individual, group, or
      unit safety and mission performance. This may include conducting focused
      attitude/climate assessment of units, groups, or individuals regarding performance and
      resiliency issues. MTCS may also conduct program evaluation analyses as requested by
      command, as well as review and interpret survey and other data for trend information for
      the command.
c. Instructor Consultation Services: MTCS will provide or arrange for a continuum of
   service options for assistance, including educational trainings and consultation to
   individuals, groups, and family members of MTIs in topics relevant to MTI duty
   performance, resiliency, work-life balance, and relationships. These prevention/education
   efforts are not associated with medical/mental health documentation of any kind. MTIs,
   staff, or family members who may need or desire mental health, medical, or other services
   will be educated regarding resources available in the area.

d. MTI Special Duty Annual Resiliency Consultation:

  1) All MTIs will receive an Annual Resiliency Consultation (ARC) in support of safe and
     effective functioning and resilience through MTI special duty. Timing at 12, 24, and 36
     months is intended to coincide with early in-duty performance following training, at
     approximate mid-tour, and prior to completion of the assignment.

  2) ARC is comprised of an individual preventative mental health screening with MTCS
     staff regarding psychological and behavioral health and risk factors relevant to safe and
     effective performance in MTI special duty. Education and appropriate referrals will be
     provided to the MTI if needed or desired. A brief notation of this consultation during
     MTI special duty status will be made in the electronic medical record. Individual
     information discussed will be confidential except as mandated by law or regulation.

  3) If determination is made that an MTI’s current stressors or risk factors interfere
     significantly with the mission of safe and effective training, in an emergency, or
     otherwise mandated by law or regulation (e.g. suspected family maltreatment),
     recommendations will be made to the MTI and to his/her commander regarding
     potential risks to duty performance/safety, as well as options for care. Documentation
     will be made in the electronic medical record to support care and return to duty as
     appropriate.

  4) Aggregate data from ARCs may be used to monitor and advise leadership regarding
     trends, issues/challenges of MTI duty, as well as make organizational recommendations
     to improve the overall wellbeing, resilience, and performance of MTIs.
