BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                 COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-2221
COMMAND
                                                                               9 AUGUST 2011
                                                           Incorporating Change 1, 31 JULY 2012

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                 FLYING TRAINING COURSE AND SPECIAL
                                                         PUBLICATIONS DEVELOPMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A3FV                                                     Certified by: HQ AETC/A3F
                                                                             (Col Charles E. Catoe)
                                                                                          Pages: 44


This instruction implements policy guidance found in AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training.
It delineates a command flying training special publication system to issue Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) flying training publications by prescribing requirements to develop
formal flying training courses and associated materials using Instructional System Development
(ISD). It contains responsibilities and procedures for planning, developing, and validating
formal flying training systems, programs, or courses within AETC. It implements the principles
of ISD as directed by AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. It establishes policy and
guidance to assist personnel in using the ISD process to develop flying training syllabuses,
courseware, and other training documents under the operational control of HQ AETC. It outlines
the AETC flying training development process for agencies developing, or requesting
development of, flying training syllabuses and courseware in AETC. It authorizes printing and
duplication of related documents. This instruction applies to all AETC organizations and
agencies involved in the development, management, support, administration, delivery, or
evaluation of formal AETC flying training programs and flying training syllabuses and other
special publications to include joint/international programs, Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training
(ENJJPT), Air National Guard (ANG), and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). When not in
conflict with other guidance of higher precedence, contractors are expected to comply with this
instruction and its intent. Contracts written after the publication of this instruction will include
this instruction as a compliance requirement.

Subordinate units may supplement this instruction using guidance in AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, but may not modify this document. Units must coordinate supplements
with HQ AETC/A3FV before publication. Submit any suggested changes to this instruction on
 2                                                                                       AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through command channels, to HQ
AETC/A3FV, 1 F Street, Suite 2, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4325. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply Air Force endorsement. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change removes references to 19 th Air Force/NAF, adds references to AETC/A3V,
Standardization and Evaluation Division, and changes some roles of AETC/A3F and A3Z;
provides reference to AFPC ADSC updates in ETCA; clarifies course training standards (CTS)
policy in syllabi; clarifies the use of external documents referenced within a syllabus; clarifies
courseware reviews, prohibits most courseware changes by instructors in the field; corrects
office symbols in Attachment 6; and clarifies the required flying training syllabus item table at
Attachment 7.

CHAPTER 1—STRUCTURE AND RESPONSIBILITY                                                                                                    4
       1.1.    Structure. ............................................................................................................    4
       1.2.    Responsibilities. .................................................................................................        4
CHAPTER 2—FLYING TRAINING COURSE DEVELOPMENT                                                                                              8
       2.1.    Description. ........................................................................................................      8
       2.2.    Instructional System Development. .....................................................................                    8
       2.3.    Systems Acquisition. ..........................................................................................           11
CHAPTER 3—SYLLABUS DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                           12
       3.1.    Flying Training Syllabus Development. ..............................................................                      12
       3.2.    Syllabus Revision and Change. ...........................................................................                 16
CHAPTER 4—COURSEWARE                                                                                                                     17
       4.1.    Types of Products. ..............................................................................................         17
       4.2.    Objectives and Samples of Behavior. ..................................................................                    18
       4.3.    Classification, Disclosure, and Restrictions. ........................................................                    18
       4.4.    Development Style Guidance. .............................................................................                 19
       4.5.    Courseware Revision and Change Procedures. ....................................................                           19
       4.6.    Courseware Configuration Control. ....................................................................                    19
       4.7.    Continuous Improvement Process. ......................................................................                    20
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                                              3


     4.8.   Briefing Room Interactive (BRI). ........................................................................   20

CHAPTER 5—SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS                                                                                          22
     5.1.   Flying Training Special Publications. ..................................................................    22
     5.2.   International flying training special publications. ................................................        23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                          24

Attachment 2—SAMPLE TRAINING TASK LIST                                                                                  31

Attachment 3—SAMPLE COURSE MAP                                                                                          33

Attachment 4—SAMPLE COURSE TRAINING STANDARDS (CTS)                                                                     34

Attachment 5—SAMPLE MANEUVER INFORMATION FILE (MIF)                                                                     36

Attachment 6—SAMPLE SYLLABUS COORDINATION PROCESSCHANGE OR
             REVISION                                                                                            37

Attachment 7—REQUIRED FLYING TRAINING SYLLABUS ITEMS TABLE                                                              38

Attachment 8—SAMPLE CHANGE TRANSMITTAL PAGE (CTP)                                                                       42

Attachment 9—SAMPLE COURSEWARE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT
             PROCESS                                                                                                    44
 4                                                          AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011



                                          Chapter 1

                           STRUCTURE AND RESPONSIBILITY

1.1. Structure. AETC flying training organizational structure is large and complex. While a
large number of agencies and organizations are concerned with the Air Force flying training
mission, this publication specifically concerns AETC flying training.
     1.1.1. HQ AETC Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear Integration (A2/3/10) is
     the executive authority for all AETC flying training programs.
        1.1.1.1. HQ AETC Undergraduate Flying Training Division (A3F) is the certifying
        authority and point of contact (POC) for undergraduate flying training (UFT). HQ
        AETC/A3F also has management oversight for courseware development, training aids,
        contracted activities, simulators, and the AETC Graduate Evaluation program.
        1.1.1.2. HQ AETC Graduate Flying Training Division (A3Z) is the certifying authority
        and POC for graduate flying training (see AETCI 36-2205, Formal Flying Training
        Administration and Management, appropriate volume for exceptions). HQ AETC/A3Z is
        also the certifying authority and POC for Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape
        (SERE), Undergraduate Air Battle Manager (UABM) Training (also Weapons Director
        (WD) Training, and AETC Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU) Training after
        UABM Training), Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA) Training; and has management
        oversight of several contracted Aircrew Training System (ATS) programs.
     1.1.2. The National Guard Bureau (NGB/A3) maintains approval and waiver authority for
     actions relating to flying training program issues of the ANG.
     1.1.3. The Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC/A3) maintains approval and waiver
     authority for actions relating to flying training program issues for AFRC.
     1.1.4. DELETED
     1.1.5. AETC, AFRC, and ANG wings, groups, and squadrons ensure the implementation and
     delivery of flying training programs.
1.2. Responsibilities.
     1.2.1. HQ AETC/A2/3/10:
     1.2.1.1. Provides subject matter and ISD expertise for the development of flying training
     programs and syllabuses.
        1.2.1.2. Approves new, revised, or changed AETC flying training syllabuses, ―Small-
        Group Try-Out‖ (SGTO) and ―Validation‖ syllabuses. This includes those applicable to
        both Air Force and ANG formal training units (FTU). NGB/A3 approves ANG-unique
        syllabuses. The Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training (ENJJPT) steering committee is the
        approving authority for ENJJPT undergraduate, pilot instructor training (PIT),
        introduction to fighter fundamentals (IFF) and IFF instructor pilot syllabuses with HQ
        AETC/A2/3/10 concurrence.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                    5


  1.2.2. HQ AETC/A3F:
     1.2.2.1. Develops, validates, and certifies undergraduate flying training programs and
     associated syllabuses. Refer to applicable AETCI 36-2205 volume for specific program
     exceptions and responsibilities.
     1.2.2.2. May approve purely administrative, non-substantive changes to syllabi as
     defined by AFI 33-360.
     1.2.2.3. Serves as functional office of primary responsibility (OPR) for certain flying
     training syllabuses. As such, provides the POC for each applicable syllabus. The POC is
     the focal point for syllabus feedback, suggestions, and coordinates all syllabus revisions
     and changes as necessary and submits for approval.
     1.2.2.4. Produces, or is responsible for, the production and coordination of flying
     training syllabuses; certain acquisition functions such as providing subject matter
     expertise, ISD expertise, and certain sustainment and quality assurance expertise, and
     training device sustainment expertise.
     1.2.2.5. Develops, validates, and accepts undergraduate and some graduate (or other)
     flying training courseware and maintains the UFT Briefing Room Interactive (BRI)
     program.
     1.2.2.6. In coordination with HQ AETC/A3R, Requirements and Resources Division,
     reviews proposed acquisition or modification programs to ensure personnel use ISD (to
     include media and cost benefit analysis) to decide the mix, quantity, and sophistication of
     training equipment and use of technology to deliver productive and cost effective
     training. Along with HQ AETC/A3R, ensure the use of the Planning, Programming,
     Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) system to properly set aside resources and identify
     training funds.
     1.2.2.7. AETC is Lead Command for the Air Force-wide Aerospace Physiology (AP)
     Training program. HQ AETC/A3F serves as POC and certifying authority for AP policy,
     guidance, and courseware; and servers as manager for AP training devices. Note:
     guidance contained in this AETCI addressing ―flying training‖ is applicable to, and
     includes AP training within AETC.
  1.2.3. HQ AETC/A3Z:
     1.2.3.1. Develops, validates, and certifies graduate (and some undergraduate) flying
     training programs and associated syllabuses. May approve purely administrative, non-
     substantive changes to syllabi as defined by AFI 33-360. Refer to applicable AETCI 36-
     2205 volume for specific program exceptions and responsibilities.
     1.2.3.2. Serves as the functional OPR for certain flying training syllabuses. As such,
     provides the POC for each applicable syllabus. The POC is the focal point for syllabus
     feedback, suggestions, and coordinates all syllabus revisions and changes as necessary
     and submits for approval.
     1.2.3.3. Produces, or is responsible for the production and coordination of flying training
     syllabuses; certain acquisition functions such as providing subject matter expertise, ISD
     expertise, and certain sustainment and quality assurance expertise, and training device
     sustainment expertise.
 6                                                                AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


        1.2.3.4. In coordination with HQ AETC/A3R, reviews proposed acquisition or
        modification programs to ensure personnel use ISD (to include media and cost benefit
        analysis) to decide the mix, quantity, and sophistication of training equipment and use of
        technology to deliver productive and cost effective training. Along with HQ AETC/A3R,
        ensure the use of the PPBE system to properly set aside resources and identify training
        funds.
     1.2.4. HQ AETC/A3I, Technology Integration Division, is responsible for Training
     Integrated Management System (TIMS) and Graduate Training Integrated Management
     System (GTIMS). For detailed information regarding these and other HQ AETC/A3I
     responsibilities, see AFI 36-2201, and AETCI 36-2223, Flying Training Student Information
     Management.
1.2.5. A3V provides program standardization, evaluation, and flying training program policy for
all AETC flying training programs.
     1.2.6. Wings, groups, squadrons and units using AETC flying training syllabuses are the
     active, hands-on providers of AETC flying training directly to students. These personnel are
     critical to the effectiveness of flying training. Commanders, instructors, staff, and students all
     have a responsibility for effective Air Force flying training, and therefore must be active in
     the feedback of information regarding the efficacy of each syllabus and the associated
     training. Do this either directly to the POC or through formalized feedback/evaluation
     systems or review meetings.
     1.2.7. Contractors are obligated by the covenants of the particular contract which take
     precedence over this instruction. However, since the acquisition process may result in
     contractors providing any level of products or services from mission design series (MDS)
     hardware with a total training system, to instructor, administrative, or courseware services;
     contractors involved with AETC flying training have responsibilities regarding the
     development of AETC flying training programs and the resulting syllabuses and associated
     courseware production. As such, the ISD mandate of AFPD 36-22 applies.
     1.2.8. AETC/IA and Air Force Security Assistance Training Squadron (AFSAT) coordinate
     international flying training with applicable HQ AETC/A2/3/10 divisions and Foreign
     Disclosure Offices, as necessary.
     1.2.9. Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) responsibilities. Flying
     training program managers must ensure AETC flying training courses listed in ETCA are
     correct and up-to-date.
     1.2.9.1. The ETCA site, https://www.my.af.mil/etcacourses/, includes specific AETC
     information for formal flying training courses conducted or managed by AETC. The ETCA
     includes courses conducted or administered by the Air Force and reserve forces, and serves
     as a reference for the Air Force, DoD, other military services, government agencies, and
     security assistance programs.
        1.2.9.2. The AETC flying training division responsible for a flying training syllabus
        identifies ETCA maintainers (syllabus managers, POCs, or other appointed personnel) to
        maintain current, correct, updated course and general information of the ETCA Web site.
        Note: AFPC updates the ADSC information in ETCA for AETC flying training courses
        IAW AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC).
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                              7


     1.2.9.3. ETCA maintainers use the ETCA software user manual and procedures on the
     ETCA Web site to initiate, maintain, and remove course announcements.
     1.2.9.4. ETCA maintainers review and update course announcements annually. Whether
     or not announcement changes are required, ETCA maintainers must check the ―update‖
     button so that the ―last changed‖ date updates.
  1.2.10. Equipment Requirements. Units establish flying training equipment authorizations
  using AETC Form 120, Training Equipment List, IAW AFMAN 23-110, Basic USAF Supply
  Manual, 1 April 2009, Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 22, paragraph 22.171.
 8                                                              AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                             Chapter 2

                       FLYING TRAINING COURSE DEVELOPMENT

2.1. Description. AETC flying training programs are large, expensive, and complex. While
made as safe as possible, the inherent danger of flying is ever-present. Consequently, every effort
is required to develop flying training that is safe, efficient, and economical; and that produces
competent, well-trained aircrew personnel with the knowledge, skills, and attributes to
accomplish the Air Force mission. To that end, AFPD 36-22 mandates ISD for all Air Force
training. AETC personnel and contractors directly involved with syllabus development and/or
courseware production must be knowledgeable of ISD.
2.2. Instructional System Development. AETC personnel must apply the guidance contained
in AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development and the appropriate volumes of AFH 36-
2235, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems (12 volumes) to develop flying training
courses, programs, phases, syllabuses, and courseware. Flying training is complex and ISD is a
flexible process. However, while allowances may be made for unique, special features of
different flying training programs, the systematic ISD process to plan, design, develop, and
eventually deliver flying training must be followed. ISD includes development of key training
products listed in the following paragraphs. Such development is accomplished within the
framework of the Total Training System.
     2.2.1. The Total Training System consists of all that contributes to the training program:
     aircraft, aircrew training devices (ATD), facilities, personnel, support agencies, syllabuses,
     courseware, hardware, and software (to include electronic training management systems). All
     of this is included within the ISD model, much of it as high level system functions.
     2.2.2. ISD System Functions include ―management‖ for directing and controlling; ―support‖
     for maintaining; ―administration‖ for normal processing and record keeping; ―delivery‖
     includes students, instructors, and the actual instruction; and ―evaluation‖ which includes the
     gathering of feedback information for the sake of continuous improvement.
     2.2.3. While not a specific phase of the ISD process, planning for a flying training course
     must begin as soon as possible. See AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training, for policy and
     guidance. Refer to AFH 36-2235, Volume 8, Information for Designers of Instructional
     Systems, Application to Aircrew Training for detailed ―how to‖ information regarding
     planning for flying training. While every detail of the handbook need not be followed, the
     general guidelines and recommendations should be followed as closely as possible.
        2.2.3.1. Planning team personnel include experts in all relevant areas for the instruction:
        subject matter experts for each specific area, resource and scheduling experts, ISD and
        courseware experts, and any other specialties deemed appropriate.
        2.2.3.2. Planning includes determining ISD management issues, evaluation strategies,
        and estimation of resource requirements and constraints. It also includes determining
        training program needs and concepts. It takes place before developing or revising flying
        training.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                    9


     2.2.3.3. The outcomes of ISD planning are the training evaluation plan and the training
     development plan. These plans are to be maintained accurate and updated into the
     analysis, design, and development phases of ISD.
  2.2.4. AFH 36-2235, Volume 8 explains three types of ISD analysis: task analysis, target
  population analysis, and resource requirements and constraints analysis. In practice, these
  analyses begin, are considered during, and are very much part of planning for flying training
  instructional systems. Use the guidance provided by the appropriate volume of AFH 36 -2235
  to complete the following analyses. Contractors may use commercial best practices when
  ISD analyses are required; however, such analyses must meet the standards and needs of
  AETC flying training program development. Contract requirements take precedence over this
  instruction.
     2.2.4.1. Task analysis is conducted by breaking down the tasks to be performed by the
     particular aircrew position (job) for which training is conducted. For undergraduate
     training programs, base this analysis on the tasks required for the undergraduate MDS,
     and the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for entry to the next level of training
     (graduate) or operational job. For graduate programs, base the task analysis on
     operational requirements.
     2.2.4.2. Population analysis is determining the range of aptitudes, experiences, skills and
     knowledge of subject matter of the persons for whom the training is to be designed. It
     may also address issues of student status such as USAF, ANG, AFRC, international
     students, etc. This analysis must be completed before the design phase of ISD.
     2.2.4.3. Resource requirements and constraints analysis is necessary to determine the
     equipment, facilities, funds, personnel, and time required and available. This analysis
     provides needed information for planning and design. Failure to complete this analysis
     properly can result in wasted time and money or too few training resources resulting in
     bottlenecks in the training program or an inability to surge, if required.
     2.2.4.4. Following completion of analyses, update the ISD Evaluation and Training
     Development plans.
  2.2.5. Design and development are the next two phases of ISD. The ISD model rightly treats
  them separately and AFH 36-2235, Volume 8 separates them by chapters as distinct entities.
  However, the realities of developing flying training are best considered when these two
  phases go hand-in-hand. Literally, like the fingers of two hands held together. The design and
  development phases of ISD work best together for AETC flying training when ISD is
  interactive, interlaced, and iterative.
     2.2.5.1. When the design phase of ISD is completed, a syllabus is prepared, coordinated,
     and published. Consequently, flying training syllabus development is completed during
     the design phase.
     2.2.5.2. Courseware is developed during the development phase of ISD.
     2.2.5.3. For the design and development phases of ISD to function efficiently and
     effectively, it is best when aviation-expert personnel are experienced and knowledgeable
     of instructional systems, and when ISD experts are experienced and knowledgeable of
     flying training.
10                                                              AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


        2.2.5.4. Syllabus and courseware development personnel must coordinate closely during
        this process. Production of training materials often necessitates long lead-times and
        scheduling so that on-time implementation of all training resources is possible.
        Courseware personnel are often responsible for developing courseware-specific
        objectives and tests during the design process.
     2.2.6. Implementation of an AETC flying training program follows years of effort. While
     much work is done, most of the work remains. During implementation, the ISD model is best
     viewed as whole, rather than in isolated phases. This is when training is conducted a nd the
     effectiveness of training delivery is evaluated and the flying training program is subjected to
     the continuous improvement process. Personnel directly involved in the implementation of
     AETC flying training programs should review and must comprehend the information on
     implementation in AFH 36-2235, Volume 8.
     2.2.7. Evaluation and the Continuous Improvement Process (CIP).
        2.2.7.1. See AFH 36-2235, Volume 8, Chapters 6, 7, and 8 for detailed guidance
        regarding validation and evaluation of flying training programs. All flying training
        courses, changes, adjustments, and courseware must be validated.
        2.2.7.2. Validation determines the effectiveness of training as it is being developed. It is
        a cyclical process of development, tryout, and revision. This process must be planned to
        be effective. Who is going to do it, when, and how will they do the validation? It includes
        internal reviews, individual and small-group tryouts, and field evaluations. The degree
        and extent of validation is dependent upon the age of the program and size of the change.
        Instructional development team members and those responsible for implementation and
        delivery of training must work together to determine validation plans and to execute an
        effective evaluation program.
        2.2.7.3. Formative evaluation begins early and is intended to make corrections and
        improvements while the system is being developed. This applies to the overall syllabus
        and to all courseware, objectives, and tests. In some cases, formative evaluation may be
        equated to validation reviews and tryouts.
        2.2.7.4. Summative evaluation occurs after formative evaluation activities are completed.
        It essentially consists of operational tryouts with the first two or three classes undergoing
        training. Summative evaluations are conducted on fully integrated training systems when
        each component of the system is functioning as a whole. This form of evaluation is
        essential in determining the effectiveness of the completed flying training system and
        correcting any deficiencies prior to the final implementation/full operation flying training
        program. At that time, CIP moves on to operational evaluation.
        2.2.7.5. Operational evaluation takes place after the completed training system is fully
        operational—after summative evaluation. Fielded and mature systems are constantly
        improved through the operational evaluation processes. The two types of operational
        evaluation are internal and external. Internal includes feedback data from instructors,
        student critiques, and student performance (test and check-ride scores) results. External
        evaluation includes feedback data collected from the field. Examples of external
        evaluation include inspection reports (staff assistance, compliance inspections, and
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                      11


       others), the AETC Graduate Evaluation program, training review board meetings, and
       curriculum/courseware review meetings.
2.3. Systems Acquisition. Government procurement of new or modified weapon systems
trigger training requirements for the people that operate those systems. AETC flying training
programs are constantly changing because of such procurement and modernization. The
development of this training may be done by contractors, by government personnel, or by a
combination of both. Refer to AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, for
specific guidance and policy for MAJCOMs on system acquisition and the application of ISD.
   2.3.1. ISD for flying training is essential in the system acquisition process and must begin
   early to provide for effective flying training with systems acquisition. Use AFH 36-2235,
   Volume 8, and AFH 36-2235, Volume 3, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems,
   Application to Acquisition, as guides for applying the ISD model for procured flying training
   development. Follow these and the principles of AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System
   Development to develop flying training courses. Initially, flying training analysis often
   results from a government and contractor joint effort. In such cases, the appropriate AFH 36-
   2235 volume serves as a useful guide and may continue to provide guidance throughout
   flying training ISD.
   2.3.2. Include contractors responsible for development of training early in the planning
   process. This is especially true when those same contractors may be involved with ATS
   implementation. Follow the guidance in the appropriate chapter of AFH 36-2235, Volume 3.
   2.3.3. The analysis of requirements for each flying training specialty begins early in the
   system acquisition process when a crew position is designed into an MDS. When not done
   previously, ISD analyses must be accomplished (either by contractor, government, or both)
   to ensure adequate task analysis and production of a training task list (TTL), which is a key
   document for training and syllabus development.
   2.3.4. The design, development, implementation, and evaluation phases of ISD are addressed
   in AFH 36-2235, Volume 3, which should be used for clarification and guidance. Contract
   requirements take precedence over such guidance, but contractors are expected to follow a
   process that provides for flying training standards that are equal to, or exceeds this guidance.
 12                                                             AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                             Chapter 3

                                  SYLLABUS DEVELOPMENT

3.1. Flying Training Syllabus Development. The AETC syllabus is the primary flying training
course control document. It is a tool for the ―Management‖ system function of the ISD model,
and is a resulting product of the analysis and design phases of ISD. Coordinate each syllabus
within HQ AETC (and other MAJCOMs, as necessary) staff agencies for planning and
resourcing, with courseware development staff, and with organizations responsible for the
implementation of the flying training system or program.
      3.1.1. Syllabus Organization. Develop flying training courses by aircrew position or
      specialty. A syllabus identifies flying training courses that are divided into phases,
      categories, and units of instruction. Training courses may be tracked/divided or further
      specialized within a position or crew specialty, and consequently within a syllabus. These are
      not required categories, but when programs are divided as such, the syllabus must explain
      and identify them. Furthermore, one flying training program or course may consist of more
      than one syllabus per specialty. At the completion of the design phase of ISD, a syllabus
      should be prepared, coordinated, and published.
      3.1.2. Order of Precedence. A syllabus is directive in terms of the administration, delivery,
      and evaluation system functions (see the appropriate volume of AFH 36 -2235 for definitions
      of these terms). Formal flying training course syllabuses must be followed unless a waiver
      request is approved (as per the process stated within the syllabus). However, if a conflict is
      discovered between a syllabus and a directive publication (for example an AFI or AETCI),
      the directive publication takes precedence (notify the syllabus OPR of any conflict). An
      AETC flying training syllabus may be more restrictive than a directive publication, but it
      cannot be less restrictive.
      3.1.3. Syllabus Requisites. A syllabus is the source document for course prerequisites and
      prescribes the overall course instruction, gives special instructions, and lists each training
      event in the curriculum. In cases where other directives provide prerequisites, all
      prerequisites apply since that is most restrictive. Syllabus OPRs clarify prerequisite
      requirements by including all course prerequisites in the syllabus and listing the prescribing
      directive (if applicable).
      3.1.4. Additional Syllabus Content. As a management tool, flying training syllabuses may
      include training events addressing other issues such as leadership training (when directed),
      physical fitness requirements (compliance with USAF or appropriate standards), ancillary
      training (when necessary), medical and physiological requirements (as appropriate for the
      flying training), record keeping requirements (AETC standards), student evaluation
      (grading), and administration and orientation (training support). Furthermore, a syllabus
      (when required) addresses student status such as regular Air Force, ANG, Air Force
      Reserves, international students, security clearances, etc. Depending upon the particular
      course and how training is to be conducted, the syllabus shall address each of these issues.
      Either alternate tracks within one syllabus, or multiple syllabuses for a program may be used
      to accommodate these differences (see section on population analysis, paragraph 2.2.4.2.).
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                      13


  3.1.5. The Training Task List. A training task list is necessary for each aircrew position (see
  Attachment 2 for sample training task list), but is not a part of a syllabus. The flying training
  listed in a syllabus is derived from a training task list developed as part of ISD analysis.
  Through subject matter experts at syllabus conferences, training review boards, or other
  information exchanges, the POC/Syllabus Manager/Developer determines a sequence of
  training events intended to teach material and provide for performance opportunities during
  the course of training. This results in a ―straw-man‖ or draft syllabus. Once developed, make
  appropriate periodic adjustments and changes to the training and syllabus. The syllabus
  manager either maintains (or ensures maintenance of) up-to-date TTLs consistent with the
  appropriate syllabuses. TTL updates should follow the same revision schedule as the
  corresponding syllabus. Syllabus OPRs ensure such maintenance if by a syllabus production
  organization such as a contractor or training unit.
  3.1.6. The Training Plan. Training Plans document the ISD planning process. See AFH 36-
  2235, Volume 8, Chapter 3, Section F, ―Write Training Development Plan‖ for examples of
  plan content. Use the training plan along with the TTL to develop a syllabus. This is to
  ensure a complete training curriculum with details of all training included. Syllabus
  developers use ISD guidance (see AFMAN 36-2234 and AFH 36-2235) and knowledge
  gained from experience with developing flying training programs, subject matter expertise,
  and resource/scheduling expertise (i.e., HQ AETC/A3R) to determine amount, type, and
  sequence of training events. This sequence may be best viewed as a Course Map, which may
  eventually be part of the completed syllabus (see Attachment 3 for sample Course Map).
  Course Maps are not a syllabus requirement. Training plan maintenance is completed by the
  syllabus manager, as required.
  3.1.7. The Course Training Standards (CTS). Each AETC flying training syllabus outlines
  the training required to achieve the proficiency specified in the CTS. (See Attachment 4 for
  sample of CTS). AETC flying training CTS items follow a Criterion Referenced Objective
  format and should be developed following AFMAN 36-2236, paragraph 3.3.4 and Chapter 5.
     3.1.7.1. CTS ensure the standards each student must achieve prior to completing the
     formal course are clearly understood by training faculty and staff, students, and by other
     MAJCOM personnel.
     3.1.7.2. CTS provide the basis for syllabus development, courseware production, training
     objectives, training evaluation, and student grading.
     3.1.7.3. CTS must clearly state what the graduate must be able to do, under what
     conditions, and to what level of performance. The CTS format will consist of a stated
     performance, condition, and a measurable (to the extent that is possible) clearly and
     concisely worded standard. Numerical required proficiency levels (RPL) are not
     sufficient substitutes for clearly stated AETC syllabus CTS.
         3.1.7.3.1. CTS are not required for courses that are ―experiential‖ in nature
         (observable and measureable performances not appropriate), such as Aircrew
         Survival training programs and others that consist of ―be familiar with‖ experiences.
     3.1.7.4. In cases where the condition or standard remains the same for several CTS items
     or where it is clearly understood, it need not be listed for each performance. Stating or
     describing a condition or standard in the preceding paragraph is sufficient. For example,
14                                                             AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


        ―as a crew member‖ or ―in the aircraft or simulator‖ would be conditions for a number of
        performances. However, unique or special conditions, or conditions requiring certain
        equipment or using specific information must be listed.
        3.1.7.5. Standards referenced to other documents or publications, written as ―in
        accordance with‖ (IAW) other guidance or directives is acceptable when necessary.
        While specific citations are preferred, ―applicable directives‖ is acceptable when multiple
        directives are being referenced. It is not acceptable when there is a clear document to
        reference. AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific standards are acceptable and may be directly
        referenced as CTS in a syllabus; however, syllabus OPRs are responsible for ensuring
        that such standards can be correctly gleaned from referenced documents. Flying training
        courses are based upon CTS. Deferring standards to sources outside OPR control might
        result in a standard being changed and implemented before the syllabus, courseware,
        resources, or training can be adjusted or changed to train the new standard.
        3.1.7.6. Each flying training course (and syllabus) normally has its own CTS. However,
        with adequate justification, syllabus OPR agreement, and Lead Command coordination,
        CTS may exist as a separate course document (not included within a syllabus). This
        might be done, for example, when several syllabuses use the same CTS.
        3.1.7.7. CTS for CEA syllabuses may be drawn from the Career Field Education and
        Training Plan (CFETP) Specialty Training Standards (STS) for the particular career field.
        However, the instructions in the preceding paragraphs apply.
        3.1.7.8. In case of a CTS conflict between an AETC syllabus and an MDS-specific
        publication, the MDS publication takes precedence over an AETC syllabus. However,
        when a syllabus CTS is more restrictive, the syllabus CTS will stand.
     3.1.8. Student Evaluation. Student evaluation must be addressed in AETC flying training
     syllabuses.
        3.1.8.1. Syllabus developers and POCs must be knowledgeable of AFI 11-202, Volume
        2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program and AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific,
        Volumes—Aircrew Evaluation Criteria. Instructors, evaluators, and students must clearly
        understand student grading policy and procedures.
        3.1.8.2. The syllabus, or AETCI 36-2205, applicable volume, must clearly explain how
        student performance is evaluated throughout the course of flying training. The following
        evaluation subjects must be clearly explained in each syllabus, or cited as deferred to AFI
        11-2 MDS-Specific Volume 2 (or similar authoritative MAJCOM or AF-level
        document), or AETCI 36-2205, applicable volume, as necessary.
           3.1.8.2.1. Regression rules addressing conditions and actions when a student’s
           proficiency regresses to an unsatisfactory level.
           3.1.8.2.2. Unsatisfactory student performance policy and procedures.
           3.1.8.2.3. Progress or commander review or check process, as necessary.
           3.1.8.2.4. Grading standards and procedures addressing both performance and
           knowledge standards.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                   15


         3.1.8.2.5. Corrective action and additional training for less than acceptable student
         performance at any time.
         3.1.8.2.6. Explanation of performance standards, codes, and training management
         systems (TMS) use.
         3.1.8.2.7. Individual task grading and overall lesson/event/mission/sortie grade.
     3.1.8.3. Each syllabus must clearly explain the required proficiency level milestones for
     any phase or block advancement in flying training. Maneuver Information File (MIF) or
     RPL tables are methods of identifying expected/planned/required student performance
     during specified training events. MIF, RPL, or similar methods of identifying standards
     must be explained and included in a syllabus. They are not to be used as substitutes for
     clearly worded CTS. See Attachment 5 for a sample MIF.
  3.1.9. Syllabus coordination and approval.
     3.1.9.1. Syllabus OPRs determine the required coordination agencies because different
     syllabuses have different coordination requirements. In some cases, coordination is
     necessary with NGB, AFRC, and AFSAT or another MAJCOM. See Attachment 6 for a
     sample of a syllabus coordination process.
     3.1.9.2. At the HQ AETC level, normally coordinate draft syllabuses, revisions and
     changes through 4-, 3-, and 2-letter offices with an ESSS. At the final stage, include an
     AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request, for the certifying and
     approving authorities only.
     3.1.9.3. Regardless of the source, AETC units must coordinate all proposed changes to
     training and syllabi with the HQ AETC OPR before incorporating them into the training
     program or syllabus. Units will advise HQ AETC syllabus OPRs of pertinent discussions
     with other MAJCOMs regarding proposed changes to training and syllabi. HQ AETC
     OPRs will ensure resource and policy implications are addressed. Syllabi developed by
     local units and subsequently forwarded to a HQ AETC OPR should undergo local
     coordination; however, a final product is prepared by the OPR for HQ-level coordination.
     3.1.9.4. Coordinate all syllabuses (and courseware) intended for international student
     through the AETC/IA or SAF/IA.
     3.1.9.5. Because the syllabus is a source document for TMS, new and changed syllabi
     must be coordinated with TMS (TIMS, GTIMS, etc.) personnel so that TMS changes are
     planned and system alterations anticipated.
     3.1.9.6. DELETED
  3.1.10. Contractor-Developed Syllabuses.
     3.1.10.1. Unless otherwise required by contract, contractors for AETC flying training
     syllabus development shall follow this instruction.
     3.1.10.2. For contracted ATS flying training, the contractor develops, updates, and
     maintains courseware and training syllabuses and performs task and media analysis
     associated with aircrew qualification training per AFI 36-2201; AFI 36-2251; AFMAN
     36-2234; and consistent with the applicable ATS contract (see applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-
     Specific, Volume 1).
 16                                                             AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


         3.1.10.3. The syllabus OPR is at HQ AETC. Contractor-developed syllabuses must be
         passed to the OPR for further action, coordination, and eventual HQ AETC/A2/3/10
         approval.
      3.1.11. Additional Syllabus Requirements.
         3.1.11.1. When not addressed elsewhere (i.e., an AETCI 36-2205 volume), define
         syllabus controls, waivers, and deviations. Include procedures, necessary actions and the
         approval chain for waivers and deviations.
         3.1.11.2. Explain syllabus management functions and identify planned review dates by
         month and year. Document all syllabus reviews. If a syllabus is changed as a result of a
         review, the updated syllabus is the documentation. Otherwise, the OPR completes a
         memo for record of the review.
      3.1.12. AETC international flying training syllabuses, as considered here, are dedicated to
      training only international students. This does not address other AETC flying training
      attended by international students.
         3.1.12.1. AFSAT POCs coordinate with the applicable HQ AETC/A3F or A3Z branch to
         develop international flying training syllabuses. Define all waiver and deviation
         procedures in each international syllabus.
         3.1.12.2. AFPD 36-22 mandates the use of ISD for all Air Force training. Make every
         effort to use ISD to define what instruction is needed, and ensure development of safe,
         efficient, and cost-effective instruction.
         3.1.12.3. If time does not permit the development of a country-specific syllabus;
         AFSAT, and the applicable HQ AETC/A3 division will use an existing HQ AETC
         A2/3/10 approved syllabus as a template to structure a modified version, tailored to
         country specific requirements and disclosure restrictions. Use this interim syllabus only
         until a formal syllabus can be created and approved by HQ A2/3/10. HQ AETC/A2/3/10
         is the approval authority for these interim syllabuses.
         3.1.12.4. The appropriate HQ AETC/A3 division chief approves redacted syllabuses.
         Coordinate all syllabuses through the AETC FDO.
         3.1.12.5. International students must meet established course entry prerequisites listed in
         the syllabus. The AFSAT program manager obtains the student records (or equivalents)
         prior to any formal training for verification. If required, HQ AETC/A3F or A3Z
         determines requisite equivalency. If additional training is required to meet prerequisites,
         establish a training plan approved by HQ AETC/A3F or A3Z prior to placing the student
         against a training quota, unless attendance at another formal course is required.
         3.1.12.6. See paragraph 5.2. regarding information about special publications for
         international student training.
3.2. Syllabus Revision and Change. A syllabus revision is a rewrite with a new cover date that
supersedes and replaces the previous version. A syllabus change is less material changed and
maintains the cover date. See AFI 33-360 for accurate definitions regarding changes and
revisions.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                     17


                                           Chapter 4

                                       COURSEWARE

4.1. Types of Products. Courseware includes all instructional/training material, print or
electronic, including technical data, software products, textual materials, audio tapes, slides,
movies, video tapes, video discs, and other audiovisual materials. It includes student guides,
instructor guides, training manuals, examinations, supporting materials for simulator or trainer
missions, guidebooks, and Interactive Courseware (ICW). It may include computer simulations,
part-task trainers (PTT), desktop training devices and associated supporting materials. The
purpose of courseware is to support flying training by providing instructors and students the
materials necessary to complete training. AETC government agencies and contractors preparing
courseware must follow prepared style guidance (see AETC ―bookstore‖ web page, ATS
contractor prepared guidance, or other) to ensure standardization of courseware within each
training program (not necessarily command-wide). However, effective and efficient delivery of
training remains paramount.
   4.1.1. Terminology. Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI) is a term applied to a group of
   predominantly interactive, electronically-delivered training and training support products
   (courseware). IMI products include Interactive Courseware (ICW), electronic publications
   and testing, simulations, and electronic management systems. While IMI may be used to
   identify training units or courseware, syllabuses need not be changed to accommodate
   changing ICW or Computer-Based Training (CBT) to IMI. Note: ICW, CBT, and Computer
   Assisted Instruction (CAI) are considered synonymous for the purposes of this instruction.
   See MIL-HDBK-29612-3A, Development of Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI), (Part
   3), 31 August 2001; DOD Instruction 1322.20, Development and Management of Interactive
   Courseware (ICW) for Military Training, March 14, 1991; and AFI 36-2201 for more
   detailed information.
   4.1.2. Instructor guides and student guides are either paper-based or electronic. They must
   have appropriate identifying markings (use program-specific standardized marking and
   appropriate security guidance markings) on the cover and each page identifying the syllabus
   (course, phase, block, or other unit of training). See paragraph 5.1.1. Include a table of
   contents for guides with more than a few lessons. Ensure applicable classification and other
   restriction markings, dates of the original document and any changes.
   4.1.3. Training manuals are produced to meet specific needs of a training course. Other than
   appropriate date, releasability, accessibility, and classification markings; local requirements
   are used to determine layout.
   4.1.4. In some cases, simulations/PTT used for training and that have software products used
   to control the devices may be considered courseware similar to computer-based training.
   When considered as such, the products are subject to the same controls as courseware.
   4.1.5. Guidebooks are subject to the same requirements as guides and manuals.
   4.1.6. Classroom media and projections are to be maintained consistent with available
   technical data. Courseware used in classroom situations must be appropriately marked
   regarding classification and releasability. Technical data must be reviewed and monitored
   carefully to ensure courseware accuracy is maintained. Training organizations and
 18                                                              AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


      contractors responsible for accuracy of such courseware shall have a documented system in
      place to review the process and courseware for technical accuracy and to correct courseware
      products when technical data changes.
      4.1.7. For courseware intended to be hosted on the Advanced Distributed Learning Service
      (ADLS), the Requestor/Course Owner coordinates with AETC/A3IA on technical aspects of
      developing the on-line module.
      4.1.8. Examinations may be electronic or paper-based. Where flying training examinations
      are electronic (such as multiple choice tests), back-up procedures must be in place to prevent
      loss of training/testing due to non-availability of electronic media. However, when electronic
      testing is available, it will be used. Examinations are to be developed to test specific, known
      objectives. For detailed information on writing test questions, see AFMAN 36-2236,
      Guidebook for Air Force Instructors and AFH 36-2235, Volume 12, Information for
      Designers of Instructional Systems Test and Measurement Handbook.
      4.1.9. Government approval/acceptance is required for all contractor-produced courseware,
      unless otherwise specified by contract.
4.2. Objectives and Samples of Behavior. Extensive instructions and information on writing
objectives are available from many other sources. See AFMAN 36-2236, and several volumes of
the AFH 36-2235, for such specific guidance. For additional information and guidance refer to
the AETC handout on Preparing Flying Training Specialized Publications, on the AETC
electronic                 ―bookstore.‖               The              URL                 is
https://aetc_uft.randolph.af.mil/bookstore/home/homePage.aspx.
      4.2.1. While higher level, terminal objectives and CTS are appropriate for syllabuses or
      other course control documents; student-centered enabling or lesson-level objectives are to
      be included in flying training courseware. These objectives should be clearly stated with
      behaviors to be observed and measured, conditions under which the behavior will normally
      take place, and the standards to which the student will be held.
      4.2.2. Depending on the training environment of a particular unit of training, either criterion
      referenced objectives (CRO) or level of learning objectives (LOL) with samples of behavior
      (SOB) may be most suitable, as determined by an Instructional Designer/Developer.
      4.2.3. Generally, for academic instruction where student knowledge is measured by
      academic test, LOL with SOB are preferred. See AFMAN 36-2236 for detailed specific
      guidance on using CRO and LOL with SOB and explanations of the difference.
4.3. Classification, Disclosure, and Restrictions. Comply with all security-related direction
for all courseware products in every medium.
      4.3.1. International Training. AFSAT POC coordinates with the applicable HQ AETC/A3
      division or contracting agency to develop courseware for international flight training. ISD
      procedures and standards apply. If time does not permit development of country-specific
      courseware, AFSAT, and the applicable HQ AETC/A3 divisions may authorize use of
      existing, approved courseware tailored to country-specific requirements and compliant with
      foreign disclosure restrictions.
      4.3.2. All courseware (and syllabuses) used for international training shall be coordinated
      through the AETC FDO or SAF/IA.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                    19


4.4. Development Style Guidance. A variety of styles and formats are used for flying training
courseware products within AETC flying training programs. As an aid to courseware production
and standardization, guidelines and templates are available on the AETC Flying Training Special
Publications website at https://aetc_uft.randolph.af.mil/bookstore/home/homePage.aspx.
From ―General Pubs,‖ access either ―Publications Guide‖ or ―Publications Template,‖ as
appropriate. Courseware is password protected on this site.
4.5. Courseware Revision and Change Procedures. While locally developed courseware may
have some differences in appearance and processes, the following are AETC-wide general
procedures for courseware revisions and changes.
   4.5.1. Courseware revisions are major modifications of courseware, affecting subject matter,
   instructional design, and/or media. They involve full edit and evaluation reviews. Revisions
   are published with a new release date, and supersede previous versions of the same
   courseware. In most cases, this courseware is planned/timed for release to be used beginning
   on a specific date or with a specific class.
   4.5.2. Courseware changes are more modest updates of content accomplished in a shorter
   time, and normally do not require a full instructional design review. Courseware changes are
   issued with the original document date and a change identification number (C1, C2, etc.).
   There are two types of formal changes: a page-insert change and an interim change.
   4.5.3. Page-insert changes are issued primarily to update instructor guides, training manuals,
   and similar courseware. However, a page-insert change may apply to student guides. A page-
   insert change is published with a Change Transmittal Page (CTP) (see Attachment 8 for
   sample CTP) that includes instructions for posting the change, a summary of the changes
   (normally a separate page from the CTP), and the new content pages to be inserted. It is also
   possible for a page-insert change to include some write-in changes.
   4.5.4. After the change is posted, file the CTP and the summary of changes page at the end
   of the original document. For documents with more than one change, file all the CTPs and
   summary of changes at the back of the original document. Indicate changed material with
   stars and/or bars.
   4.5.5. Interim changes allow updates to courseware [i.e., personalized instructor guides (IG)
   or student guides (SG), when required], with as little impact as possible. An Interim Change
   Transmittal page is created following the same CTP procedures for a Page-Insert Change.
   The date on the new Cover page does not change, as this is the date of the basic publication.
   Additionally, changes are not incorporated into the original document, as is done with the
   page-insert method.
4.6. Courseware Configuration Control. Configuration control (or management) is required
to maintain control of versions, location of master documents, and control of revision and
changes. See Attachment 9 for an example of a configuration management process. It provides a
unique identification, controlled storage, and change control of work procedure components and
products during the courseware development lifecycle. The following is a summary of benefits.
   4.6.1. Documents courseware configuration and establishes a baseline for making changes.
   4.6.2. Manages change activity using a defined process.
   4.6.3. Verifies and records the incorporation of changes throughout the courseware lifecycle.
 20                                                              AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


      4.6.4. Organizes configuration items such as graphics, IGs, SGs, CBT files, multimedia
      presentations, etc., for retrieval as needed.
      4.6.5. Supports configuration status accounting by providing current status and/or the history
      of changes.
      4.6.6. Assists in determining the overall impact of officially approved work on the training
      system (number of courses, lessons, media, frames, etc.).
      4.6.7. Aids in providing an estimated level of work to complete requested revisions.
      4.6.8. Produces ad hoc reports that provide the basis for planning and decision making.
      4.6.9. To ensure standardization, classroom instructors must use approved courseware
      provided by the responsible OPR, without alteration. With OPR approval, individual units
      may add supplemental material to reflect local procedures, policies, and recent technical
      changes not yet incorporated into the courseware.
      4.6.10. Instructors will provide proposed changes to the OPR for incorporation into
      approved courseware. Instructors are expected to call students’ attention to any inaccuracies
      in courseware or recent technical changes while the OPR works to incorporate revisions.
4.7. Continuous Improvement Process. See AFH 36-2235, Volume 8, Chapters 6, 7, and 8 for
detailed guidance regarding validation and evaluation for courseware. All flying training
courseware must be validated to determine effectiveness.
      4.7.1. Formative evaluation is intended to make corrections and improvements while
      courseware is being developed. This is the basic review process and is considered a normal
      part of the courseware development process before courseware is released for use in training.
      4.7.2. Summative evaluation occurs after formative courseware evaluation activities are
      completed. It consists of operational tryouts with the first two or three classes undergoing
      training. Feedback on the efficacy of courseware is essential.
      4.7.3. Operational evaluation provides feedback on the quality of courseware and its
      effectiveness in light of the total training system. The two types of operational evaluation are
      internal and external. Internal includes feedback data from instructors, student critiques, and
      student performance (test and check-ride scores) results. External evaluation includes
      feedback data collected from the field.
4.8. Briefing Room Interactive (BRI). BRI is a computer (often web-based) application used
for aircrew briefings and mission planning. The products used with BRI are courseware and BRI
software may be courseware.
      4.8.1. AETC has two primary goals for BRI. First, to ensure mission briefing excellence
      through standardization within aircraft (training types) while placing special emphasis on
      instructional mission briefings. The second goal is to provide instructors and students access
      to rich media already available (such as within the ICW).
      4.8.2. For each training location, BRI is tailored or designed to meet the particular needs of
      the local training program and student population. Undergraduate Flying Training BRI is
      managed and maintained by HQ AETC/A3F.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                21


  4.8.3. In most cases within AETC flying training, BRI is developed and maintained by the
  same (or similar) agency responsible for courseware.
  4.8.4. Since BRI uses data and information obtained from various sources (web pages, web
  services, or web application), it requires extensive care and work with other communication
  agencies regarding security of computer systems.
  4.8.5. Instructors should be familiar enough with BRI to make use of its content to enhance
  training for their students. BRI use for mission briefings is encouraged.
  4.8.6. Agencies providing BRI for training organizations must ensure that a process is
  available for requests and feedback.
 22                                                            AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                             Chapter 5

                                   SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

5.1. Flying Training Special Publications. Preparing flying training special publications is a
coordinated effort between program managers and supervisors to ensure technical accuracy and
sound instructional procedures. For the purposes of this instruction, all AETC flying training
syllabuses qualify as special publications. Courseware is considered a special publication if it is
normally provided in printed or electronic ―book‖ form, such as instructor and student guides,
manuals, and handouts. Not all courseware qualifies as a special publication. See the chapter on
courseware.
      5.1.1. Designate publications with an alpha-numeric identifier. HQ AETC/A3R determines
      the course identifier. As an example, for T-38C Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
      (SUPT), the first three elements, P-V4A-A, identify the course and syllabus. The fourth
      element, if applicable, is the two-letter academic subject identifier (for example, -AA for
      Applied Aerodynamics). The fifth element identifies the type of courseware; for example, -
      IG (Instructor Guide), -SG (Student Guide), -CL (Checklist), -HO (Handout), -TM (Training
      Manual). For example, P-V4A-A-AA-SG identifies the T-38C SUPT Applied Aerodynamics
      Student Guide.
      5.1.2. Do not use copyrighted material unless you obtain a release from the copyright owner.
      5.1.3. Syllabus page numbering follows the same standard found in instructions. The cover
      and purpose page have no page numbers. The contents page is ―i‖ and ―ii‖ is the continued
      contents and the summary of changes. Chapter 1 begins on page 1 and all the remaining
      pages are numbered consecutively with no blank pages. Each chapter begins at the top of a
      new page, regardless of whether it is odd or even. Automatically insert page numbers as
      Times New Roman, 10-point, bold.
      5.1.4. Provide instruction for submitting improvements within each special publication. In
      some cases (like some courseware), the procedure may be specified separately. Users should
      find the procedure specified within the publication to submit suggestions for improvement.
      5.1.5. AETC Flying Training Special Publications Web Site. This Web site (―electronic
      bookstore‖) contains current versions of syllabuses, courseware, current status and the
      history of changes to courseware, and a link to access courseware change requests.
         5.1.5.1. Bookstore personnel check the Web site for the latest edition before printing or
         copying new publications. The electronic file should be downloaded from the Web site to
         the desktop, printed, and then deleted from the desktop. If corrections to newly revised
         courseware are needed, a change is normally released after two or three classes are
         taught. The URL is: https://aetc_uft.randolph.af.mil/bookstore/home/homePage.aspx.
         5.1.5.2. This publications library consists of many sources and all are online. Use the
         following Web sites to access our most common publications
http://www.aetc.af.mil/
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/orgs.asp?type=pubs
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pub1.html
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                       23


       5.1.5.3. Special publication guidelines and templates are also available on the AETC
       Flying Training Special Publications Web site (―electronic bookstore‖). From ―General
       Publications,‖ access either ―Publications Guide‖ or ―Publications Template.‖ The ―Pubs
       Guide‖ page provides access to the AETC Handout on special publications. The ―Pubs
       Templates‖ page provides access to the syllabus template with specific instructions.
       Courseware is password protected on this site.
   5.1.6. See Attachment 7 for a listing of required syllabus items.
5.2. International flying training special publications.
   5.2.1. Information contained in flying training special publications is identified as
   ―controlled unclassified military information" (CUMI) due to MDS technical and operational
   content. Thus, the distribution and releasability statements found in front of the publications,
   "Distribution: Authorized to Department of Defense and U.S. companies under DoD
   contract for this course only. Releasability: Access to this publication is restricted. Refer
   requests for this document to the OPR." apply.
   5.2.2. In making a dissemination determination, it is AETC policy that requestors provide
   information necessary to make an appropriate decision. This should include, as appropriate,
   providing a suitably approved DD Form 2345, Militarily Critical Technical Data Agreement,
   contract number(s), request for proposal or request for information data, grant information, or
   sponsoring DoD activity information. In some cases, approved non-disclosure agreements
   may be required.
   5.2.3. Organizations may receive requests for syllabus, lesson plans, or other courseware
   documents. These unsolicited proposals sometimes require a contractor who is not on
   contract to have access to technical information which helps them craft that proposal. In such
   cases, dissemination may be made but it requires careful scrutiny and care. Knowledge about
   prior work accomplished by such a contractor could be useful. References might be
   requested.
   5.2.4. All circumstances cannot be foreseen. Caution regarding release of data, including
   assurances that other steps (like the submittal of an approved DD Form 2345), and all other
   measures are used to weigh the value of the release against the risk assumed by the release.




                                             JAMES A. WHITMORE, Major General, USAF
                                             Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                             Integration
 24                                                        AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March
2007
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training, 22 March 2004
AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training, 17 May 2007
AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 8 December 2006
AFI 33-360, Volume 1, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006 (incorporating
through change 3, 11 June 2009)
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, 5 June 2009
AFH 36-2235, Volume 3, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Application to
Acquisition, 1 November 2002
AFH 36-2235, Volume 8, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Application to
Aircrew Training, 1 November 2002
AFH 36-2235, Volume 12, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Test and
Measurement Handbook, 1 November 2002
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009 (incorporating through interim change 7, 1
January 2011)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 28 May 2008
AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 November 1993
AFMAN 36-2236, Handbook for Air Force Instructors, 12 November 2003
AETCI 36-2205, Volume 1, Formal Flying Training Administration and Management, 29 May
2009
AETCI 36-2223, Flying Training Student Information Management, 30 March 2007 (certified
current 30 April 2009)
DOD Instruction 1322.20, Development and Management of Interactive Courseware (ICW) for
Military Training, March 14, 1991 (Incorporating Change 1, November 16, 1994)
MIL-HDBK-29612-3A, Development of Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI), (Part 3), 31
August 2001
Adopted Forms
DD Form 2345, Militarily Critical Technical Data Agreement, 1 March 2011
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request, 1 April 10
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 09
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                               25


AETC Form 120, Training Equipment List, 12 August 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFECD—AF Enlisted Classification Directory
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRES—Air Force Reserves
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSAT—Air Force Security Assistance Training Squadron
ANG—Air National Guard
AP—Aerospace Physiology
ATD—Aircrew Training Device
ATS—Aircrew Training System
BRI—Briefing Room Interactive
CAI—Computer-Assisted Instruction
CBT—Computer-Based Training
CEA—Career Enlisted Aviator
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CFT—Cockpit Familiarization Trainer
CIP—Continuous Improvement Process
CR—Commander’s Review
CPT—Cockpit Procedural Trainer
CRO—Criterion Referenced Objectives
CSO—Combat Systems Officer
CTP—Change Transmittal Page
CTS—Course Training Standards
DO—Director of Operations or Operations Officer
ENJJPT—Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcements
 26                                                    AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
FTU—Formal Training Unit
GTIMS—Graduate Training Integration Management System
IAW—In Accordance With
IFF—Introduction to Fighter Fundamentals
IG—Instructor Guide
IMI—Interactive Multimedia Instruction
ISD—Instructional System Development
LC—Lead Command
LOL—Level of Learning
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MIF—Maneuver Item File
MIL—Mediated Interactive Lecture
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OFT—Operational Flight Trainer
OG/CC—Operations Group Commander
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PFT—Programmed Flying Training
PIT—Pilot Instructor Training
PTT—Part-Task Trainer
POC—Point of Contact
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPL—Required Proficiency Level
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape
SG—Student Guide
SGTO—Small Group Tryout
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SOB—Samples of Behavior
STS—Specialty Training Standards
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                     27


SUPT—Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
TIMS—Training Integration Management System
TTL—Training Task List
UABM—Undergraduate Air Battle Manager
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
UC—Using Command
UTD—Unit Training Device
UFT—Undergraduate Flying Training
WST—Weapon System Trainer

Terms
Aircrew— The total complement of rated (pilots, navigators, air battle managers, and flight
surgeons), career enlisted aviators (1AXXX Air Force Specialty Codes), and nonrated aircrew
(K-, Q-, or X-prefixed Air Force Specialty Code) personnel responsible for the safe ground and
flight operation of the aircraft and onboard systems, or for airborne duties essential to
accomplishment of the aircraft’s mission. Includes members in initial formal training for
immediate assignment to an authorized operational flying position. Individuals must be on
aeronautical orders and assigned to an authorized position according to AFI 65 -503, US Air
Force Cost and Planning Factors, or nonrated aircrew not in an aircraft’s basic crew
complement, but required for the mission. Aircrew members perform their principal duties
inflight and their presence is required for the aircraft to accomplish its primary tasked mission.
Duties must be essential to operating the aircraft or mission systems and equipment used for
completing a mission, or other duties essential to the aircraft’s mission.
Notes:—1. US Air Force Academy (USAFA)/Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps cadets
enrolled in approved USAFA flying programs are accorded aircrew status while actively
participating in such programs. Cadets are placed on aeronautical orders authorizing flying status
while participating in approved USAFA flying programs and will not be added in the operational
ARMS database. Host Aviation Resource Management office personnel will not assign an
Aviation Service Code and an Aviation Service Date will not be established. Neither flying
incentive pay nor flying duty credit are authorized.
2. The term ―navigator‖ includes all navigator specialties and is synonymous with the
designation Combat Systems Officer (CSO). New UFT graduates are designated CSOs, but
previously qualified individuals will continue to be identified as navigators.
Aircrew Training Device (ATD)—Training devices used to prepare aircrew members for the
actual performance of flight duties. ATDs include simulators, cockpit familiarization trainers
(CFT), cockpit procedures trainers (CPT), unit training devices (UTD), operational flight trainers
(OFT), part-task trainers (PTT), weapon system trainers (WST), desktop trainers.
Briefing Room Interactive (BRI)—A computer application used for aircrew briefings and
mission planning.
Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA)—Personnel in AFSCs 1AXXX and 8A000.
 28                                                            AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)—A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training.
Category—Simulator and aircraft training of a particular type; such as qualification, transition,
instruments, formation, low-level navigation. The first letter in the designator identifies the
category (e.g. T8201 is in the transition category).
Change—Implies a ―page-insert‖ change instead of a complete revision or rewrite.
Computer Based Training (CBT)—Training in which computers are used for training
development, delivery, evaluation, and training management. The management functions often
include scheduling, lesson selection, score keeping, and quality of student responses. See
Interactive Courseware (ICW).
Course—The entire program of academic training, ground training, simulators and aircraft
conducted in all media during the programmed training days as directed in a syllabus.
Course Training Standards (CTS)—The performance, conditions and standards describing
skills and proficiency levels required for students to complete a course.
Courseware—The technical data, textual materials, audio, video, film, computer instruction,
instructor guides, student guides, and other training material developed to support and implement
the syllabus.
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA)—Contains specific MAJCOM
procedures, fund cite instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses
conducted or managed by the MAJCOMs or field operating agencies (FOAs). The ETCA
contains courses conducted or administered by the AF and reserve forces and serves as a
reference for the AF, DoD, other military services, government agencies, and security assistance
programs.
Flying Training Special Publications—Syllabuses and courseware.
Graduate Flying Training—Follow-on formal flying training accomplished after completing
undergraduate (―white jet‖) flying training. In AETC, often referred to as ―gray jet‖ programs.
Instructional System Development (ISD)—A deliberate and orderly process for planning and
developing instructional programs that make sure personnel are taught the knowledge, skills, and
attitudes essential for successful job performance. Depends on a description and analysis of the
tasks necessary for performing the job, objectives, and tests clearly stated before instruction
begins, evaluation procedures to determine whether or not the objectives have been reached, and
methods for revising the process based on empirical data. (See AFMAN 36-2234)
Interactive Courseware (ICW)—ICW is computer controlled courseware that relies on trainee
input to determine the pace, sequence, and content of training delivery using more than one type
medium to convey the content of instruction. ICW can link a combination of media, to include
but not be limited to; programmed instruction, videotapes, slides, film, television, text, graphics,
digital audio, animation, and up to full motion video, to enhance the learning process. ICW may
also be referred to as Computer Based Instruction (CBI) and Computer Based Training (CBT).
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                      29


Interactive Multimedia Instruction (IMI)—A term applied to a group of predominantly
interactive, electronically-delivered training and training support products. IMI products include
instructional software and software management tools used in support of instructional programs.
IMI can be presented as a stand-alone, self-paced program, an instructor-led presentation, or a
program to support on-the-job training or personal Performance enhancement.
Lead Command (LC)—The MAJCOM, which is the primary operator of a system, subsystem,
or item of equipment. This generally applies to those operational Commands or organizations
designated by Headquarters US Air Force to conduct or participate in operations or operational
testing (See AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems).
The Air Force assigns responsibility for overall management of each prime mission system to a
LC. The LC contributes to the process of developing and maintaining a force structure with a
balance of complementary capabilities, and it establishes a basis for rational allocation of scarce
resources among competing requirements. In other words, the LC is responsible for advocating,
programming and allocating funding for those systems assigned to it.
Maneuver Item File (MIF)—A table listing all maneuvers, and the proficiency required in each
maneuver, for all categories in a course.
Mission Design Series (MDS)—System by which military aerospace vehicles are identified. See
DoD 4120.15-L, Model Designation of Military Aerospace Vehicles, for a complete description
of this identification system.
Phase—A major component of a course. For example, undergraduate pilot training consists of
three phases: preflight, primary and advanced.
Regression—A student is said to have regressed when, following achieving a proficient grade
for a maneuver or graded training behavior, the student is graded at an unsatisfactory level of
performance. Treatment of student regression is addressed in a syllabus.
Revision—a publication that supersedes its previous version. The revised publication has a new
date and includes a statement on the purpose page under the supersession line. For example,
―Supersedes AETC Syllabus P-V4A-A, July 2009.‖ A revision automatically supersedes all
changes to the previous edition, unless otherwise stated.
Simulator—A training device that permits development and practice of the necessary skills for
accomplishing operational tasks, to a prescribed standard of competency, in a specific prime
mission system and duty position.
Subject—In academic training, the first two letters of the designator identify the subject
(Example: AA0401 is in applied aerodynamics.)
Training Medium—A type of training device or presentation method. Examples of media
include Computer-Based Training (CBT) or Computer-Assisted Instruction (CAI), Instructor-
Based Training (IBT), Mediated Interactive Lecture (MIL), Unit Training Device (UTD), student
or instructor guides and simulators.
Training System—A systematically developed curriculum including, but not necessarily limited
to, courseware, classroom aids, training simulators and devices, operational equipment,
embedded training capability, and personnel to operate, maintain, or employ a system. The
Training System includes all necessary elements of logistic support.
 30                                                           AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


Unit—A group of simulator or aircraft lessons in a given category. The first two numbers in the
designator identify the unit. For example, T8101 is in the T8100 unit.
Using Command (UC)—Any Command or organization that possess a prime weapon system
and uses the products of the Training System. The Using Command is responsible for managing
and conducting mission operations using the resources allocated by the Lead Command and
Higher Headquarters. As such, the UC is responsible for defining the system requirements
necessary to conduct and sustain operations. These requirements are submitted to the Lead
Command for advocacy, programming and funding allocation. If only one MAJCOM or agency
possesses the weapon system, that MAJCOM or agency is the designated lead command.
Reference AFPD 10-9 for further guidance on the delineation of responsibilities for Lead and
Using Commands.
Validate—The process of assessing the effectiveness of training, a syllabus, or courseware as it
is being developed with the intention of improving the training product. It is a process of
repetitive cycles of development, tryouts, and revisions until evidence shows that the training is
effective.
Validation Syllabus—An officially approved syllabus intended for tryout for a limited (but not
necessarily determined) amount of time. Following completed course/syllabus validation, a final
syllabus should be published.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                                         31


                                                 Attachment 2
                                   SAMPLE TRAINING TASK LIST




                                   TASK LIST PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                           VALUE       DEFINITION: The Individual:

                                       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most
                              1
                                       of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)

        TASK                           Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts.
                              2
                                       (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
    PERFORMANCE
      LEVELS                           Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.
                              3
                                       (COMPETENT)

                                       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others
                              4
                                       how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                                       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.
                              a
                                       (NOMENCLATURE)

       *TASK                  b        Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
    KNOWLEDGE
                                       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is
      LEVELS                  c
                                       needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)

                                       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (COMPLETE
                              d
                                       THEORY)

                              A        Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)

     **SUBJECT                         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the
                              B
                                       subject. (PRINCIPLES)
    KNOWLEDGE
      LEVELS                           Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.
                              C
                                       (ANALYSIS)

                                       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.
                              D
                                       (EVALUATION)
*    A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of
     knowledge for a specific task. (Examples: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related
     to any specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.
^         This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the
course.
X         This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to
limitations in resources.
32                                                                 AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                SAMPLE TRAINING TASK LIST
Tasks, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
a. Defensive Counterair Operations
(1) Understand defensive counterair (DCA) operations and employment procedures             B
(2) Understand combat air patrol (CAP) management procedures                               B
(3) Understand characteristics, capabilities, limitations ground based systems             B
(4) Understand air defense readiness and alert launch procedures                           B
(5) Understand defense in depth                                                            B
b. Offensive Counterair Operations
(1) Understand offensive counterair (OCA) operations and employment procedures             B
(2) Understand proper strike package organization and timing                               B
(3) Understand proper sweep package organization and timing                                B
c. Conduct Battle Management Operations
(1) Conduct check-in operations                                                            2b
(2) Conduct J-SEAD operations                                                              2b
(3) Conduct HVAA operations                                                                2b
(4) Conduct personnel recovery/combat search and rescue operations                         2b
(5) Conduct DCA operations
(a) Conduct mission planning for DCA operations                                            2b
(b) Execute DCA operations                                                                 2b
(6) OCA operations
(a) Conduct mission planning for OCA operations                                            2b
(b) Execute OCA operations                                                                 2b
(7) Conduct tactical air refueling missions                                                2b
(8) Conduct RPA operations                                                                 2b
d. Understand theater preparation and intelligence requirements for a large force combat
                                                                                           B
training exercise
e. Large Force Combat Training Exercise
(1) Conduct mission planning to conduct a large force combat training exercise             1b
(2) Execute a large force combat training exercise                                         1b
(3) Conduct large force exercise weapons/surveillance execution briefing                   2b
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                                                                                                              33


                                                                                      Attachment 3
                                                                           SAMPLE COURSE MAP

                                                                                     TX Track 3

      A                    B                                                 C                    D       E                                                F
      TR-1               AHC FMT                                           WPN-1
                                                                                                ACT-2   NIGHT-2                                           AA-5


20                                  TR/AAR PB                              AVI-T3
                                                                                     20    40                                                                     40
                                                                                                                   LASDT


 19                       EPE
                                                                           AVI-14
                                                                                     19    39                                                    LASDT            39
                          FMT



 18                                                                        AVI-13
                                                                                     18    38                                                                     38
                                                                                                  SAT


 17                                                                        AVI-12
                                                                                     17    37                                 CAS
                                                                                                                              FMT
                                                                                                                                                                  37
              SEPT-1


 16                        TR                                                        16    36                              AG PB          AG-3
                                                                                                                                                                  36
                          FMT-7
                                          AHC                              AVI-11



 15                        TR
                                                                           AVI-T2
                                                                                     15    35                       SAT
                                                                                                                                                                  35
                          FMT-6                 LS-3                                                                                      AG-1
                                                                                                                    FMT



 14                        TR
                                                LS-2                       AVI-10
                                                                                     14    34                                                                     34
                          FMT-5
                                                                                                                    ACM


 13                                                                        AVI-9
                                                                                     13    33                                 ACM
                                                                                                                                                 TP-2     TP-1
                                                                                                                                                                  33
                                                         AVI-SIR                                                              FMT



 12                        TR
                                                                           AVI-8
                                                                                     12    32                                                                     32
                          FMT-4
                                                                                                BFM-4


 11   HF-2
                           TR
                                                                           AVI-7
                                                                                     11    31                                                                     31
                          FMT-3
                                                                                                BFM-2

 10                        TR
                                                               AVI-T1      AVI-5
                                                                                     10    30                                                                     30
                          FMT-2
                                                                                                BFM-1

 9                                               AVI-4             AVI-3   ACG-T2
                                                                                      9    29                                  BFM
                                                                                                                                                 IN-1
                                                                                                                                                                  29
                                                                                                                               FMT
                                                                                                                                                          AA-4



 8                                                                                    8    28                                 BFM PB                      AA-3
                                                                                                                                                                  28
                                          TR FMT PB                        ACG-10


 7                                                                         ACG-9
                                                                                      7    27                                                                     27
                                            ST-3
                                                                                                  I-1


 6                                 LS-1                                    ACG-8
                                                                                      6    26                      S/E-T      WPN T1             AA-1     AA-2
                                                                                                                                                                  26

 5            HF-1                                             ACG-T1      ACG-7
                                                                                      5    25                                                                     25     LEGEND
                                                                                                TR-3


 4                                                                                    4    24                                                                     24       ACT-2
                                                                   ACG-6   ACG-5                                                                          WPN-5
                                                                                                TR-2                                                                       Flight

 3                                               ACG-2             ACG-3   ACG-4
                                                                                      3    23                                                             WPN-4
                                                                                                                                                                  23
                                                                                                TR-1                                                                       FMT

 2                                                                 AVI-2    AVI-1
                                                                                      2    22                                       INSTM-T       IRC     WPN-3
                                                                                                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                                                        Academics


 1                ST-1             ST-2            ST-3a                   ACG-1
                                                                                      1    21               AHC
                                                                                                                                                 WPN-1    WPN-2
                                                                                                                                                                  21
                                                                                                            FMT                                                         Specialized
                                                                                                                                                                       Training/Other

                                                                                                  A         B                                      C
        After SEPT-1, additional SEPT sessions will be scheduled every two weeks .                       EPE FMT                                 AVI-T3
 34                                                                                  AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                                       Attachment 4
                           SAMPLE COURSE TRAINING STANDARDS (CTS)

           Performance                                   Conditions                                  Standards
1.    Mission Planning / Briefing / Debriefing
a. Perform appropriate mission               a. Given air navigation computer,          a. In a timely manner to meet
planning to include Operational Risk         PFPS / AMP, plotter, appropriate forms,    maneuver requirements, and correctly,
Management (ORM) checklist, chart            aeronautical charts (JNC, ONC, TPC),       and comply with all directives.
preparation, computing takeoff, climb,       AF Form 70, DD Form 175 / 175-1, and       b. Route of flight without error or
enroute, descent, approach, and landing      Airfield Suitability and Restrictions      omission that preclude mission success
data (TOLD): planning mission profile,       Report (ASRR).                             Minor math errors allowed.
and alternate course of action where         b. Access (in person or telephone          c. Correctly identify appropriate
appropriate.                                 link) to FAA or military weather           weapon effect and select optimal
                                             briefing facility.                         weapon to achieve desired effect.
                                             c. Access to applicable AF directives,
                                             FLIP, NOTAMs, local instructions,
                                             flight manual, and checklist.
                                             d. Access to weapon planning
                                             publications and/or software
                                             e. Access to ATO/spins and AFTTPs
                                             (T25 only)
b. Conduct pre- / post-mission               a.   Flight room environment.              a. IAW appropriate directives and
briefing / debriefing for simulator and/or   b.   Record of student performance.        Student Guide.
aircraft sortie.                             c.   Appropriate weather data.             b. Clearly define the mission overview
                                             d.   Briefing guide when appropriate.      and mission goals.
                                                                                        c. Provide correct information on
                                                                                        what must be accomplished.
                                                                                        d. Clearly state CRM objectives and
                                                                                        expectations for the mission.
                                                                                        e. Define where CRM skills enhance
                                                                                        mission performance.
                                                                                        f. State where CRM enhances mission
                                                                                        effectiveness and safety.

c. Pubs posted                                                                          a. IAW directives.
d. NOTAMS copied, understood, and            a.   Flight room environment               a. IAW directives with only minor
correctly evaluated for departure,                                                      errors / omissions.
destination, emergency / alternate                                                      b. Correctly briefings in accordance
airfields, and special use airspace                                                     with directives with only minor errors /
                                                                                        omissions.
2.    Ground Operations
a. Accomplish checklists and                 a. Applicable Abbreviated Flight           a. Complete, IAW technical orders,
associated procedures for pre and/or post    Crew Checklist                             safely and with minor deviations.
flight ground operations.                    b. Appropriate checklist/in-flight
                                             guide for CSO modified equipment
                                             c. AFTO Form 781
3.    Takeoff and Departures
a. Direct / monitor takeoff and              a. Simulator / Aircraft                    a. IAW ATC clearance.
departure, maintain terrain avoidance.       b. Published departures procedures or      b. Comply with IFR Navigation and
                                             radar vectors.                             Basic / Enroute Control standards.
                                             c. Monitoring from CSO position            c. IAW AF directives and technical
                                                                                        orders.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                                        35


          Performance                            Conditions                              Standards
4.   Low-Level Navigation Procedures
a. Direct low-level navigation        a. Day VFR flight mission.           a. Correctly navigate to turn points
procedures.                           b. Preplanned route on appropriate   through corridors, direct altitudes,
       (1)        Low-Level Route     aeronautical chart.                  manage fuel requirements.
    Entry.                            c. Visual / Radar                    b. IAW FLIP, regulatory guidance; and
       (2)        Altitude Control.                                        ATC. Arrive at entry point ±1 NM.
       (3)        Ground Track                                             c. Maintain 500 – 1,500 feet AGL
    Control                                                                unless obstacles or safety dictate
       (4)        Inflight                                                 otherwise.
    Computation.                                                           d. Maintain planned course ±1 NM
       (5)        Chart Reading.                                           unless deviating for weather, to meet
       (6)        Turns                                                    timing or other tactical reason. At all
       (7)        Low-Level Route                                          times the aircraft must maintain the
    Abort / Exit.                                                          confines of the low-level corridor. Reach
                                                                           each checkpoint within a ±1NM radius
                                                                           unless cutoff being used to meet a timing
                                                                           problem, tactical threat avoidance or
                                                                           deviation is required for safety of flight.
                                                                           e. Compute correct and accurate
                                                                           adjustments to deviations to ensure
                                                                           course, time, and altitude standards are
                                                                           achieved.
                                                                           f. Correctly identify chart markings
                                                                           with prominent landmarks along route.
                                                                           g. Direct turn to maintain or achieve
                                                                           course control standards.

                                      d. As a crewmember in the T25/T96    a. Correctly navigate to turn points
                                      simulator.                           through corridors, direct altitudes,
                                                                           manage fuel requirements.
                                                                           b. IAW FLIP, regulatory guidance; and
                                                                           ATC. Arrive at entry point ±1 NM.
                                                                           c. Maintain preplanned MSA altitude
                                                                           unless threats, timing control, safety or
                                                                           other tactical reasons dictate otherwise.
                                                                           d. Maintain planned course ±5 NM
                                                                           unless deviating for weather, timing
                                                                           control, safety, or other tactical reason
                                                                           dictates otherwise. Reach each
                                                                           checkpoint within ±1NM (±5NM T25)
                                                                           radius unless cutoff being used to meet a
                                                                           timing problem, tactical threat avoidance
                                                                           or deviation is required for safety of
                                                                           flight.
                                                                           e. Compute appropriate adjustments
                                                                           to deviations to ensure course, time, and
                                                                           altitude standards are achieved.
                                                                           f. Correctly identify chart markings
                                                                           with prominent landmarks along route.
                                                                           Navigate without using navigation
                                                                           instruments or controller directions.
 36                                                        AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 5
                  SAMPLE MANEUVER INFORMATION FILE (MIF)

Maneuver Item File (MIF)
Maneuvers followed by a plus (+) must be accomplished in the specified unit. Maneuvers with a
number and no (+) are optioned and if performed must meet the specified level of performance.
Do not accomplish maneuvers that do not show a number next to them on the MIF.
                         T-1 Navigation OFT Maneuver Item File
                                                                       Units / Sorties
No.    Maneuver
                                                                   S30 / 2         S31 / 2
  1    Mission Planning                                              2+               3+
  2    Briefing / Debriefing                                         3+               3+
  3    Ground Operations                                             3+               3
  4    Takeoff and Departure                                         3+               3+
  5    Low-Level Navigation Procedures                                                3+
  6    Position Accuracy                                                              3+
  7    Fuel Management                                               2+               3+
  8    Weather Avoidance                                                              3+
  9    Time Control                                                                   3+
 10    Equipment Operations                                          2+               3+
 11    Emergency Procedures                                          3+               3+
 12    General Knowledge                                             3+               3+
 13    Approaches                                                                     3+
 14    Checklist Use / Inflight Checks                               3+               3+
 15    Inflight Planning                                                              3
 16    Crew Coordination                                             2+               3+
 17    Communication                                                 3+               3+
  AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                          37


                                           Attachment 6
                           SAMPLE SYLLABUS COORDINATION PROCESS

            (SYLLABUS COORDINATION DETAILS ARE DETERMINED BY OPR)



      - Emergency change
      - Regulatory/Maintenance                       Send implementation/publication notifications
       - Graduate Evaluation                                   to appropriate agencies.
      - RTRB or Other



                                                       Post syllabus and other required documents
         Training Team OPR                             (as applicable) to AETC Bookstore Website
          Initial Assessment



TIMS, GTIMS, or other TMS affected?                       OPR establish implementation date/class
  AETC/A3IS or Contractor or TMS                          start. Coordinate with A3R, A3F or A3Z,
              OPR                                                            A3I
(FSI/NGIT Assessment/Coordination)


A3F or A3Z Simulator/Instructor contract                      AETC/A2/3/10            Approve
   program managers or government                             syllabus
   instructor management for impact
             considerations
                                                                AETC/A3F or A3Z Certify or
                                                                       Approve
   Courseware or BRI impact? Allows
 courseware/BRI development in parallel
  with syllabus coordination for timely
             implementation.                                             AETC/A3-FT
                                                            Release for top two letter coordination




 Change or revision (4 and 3-ltr
 coordination as required--OPR):
                                                          Syllabus, courseware, BRI, TMS products
     - Training Team
                                                          either    complete    or   implementation
     - A3R
                                                          coordination planned.
     - A3IS
     - A3V
     - FMAT
     - A3F
     - A3Z
     - A3G/ANG
     - A3H/AFRC
     - AETC/IA
     - AFSAT
     - Other MAJCOM
     - Other Services
 Note: Actual syllabus coordination
 details are determined by OPR.
38                                                                    AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                           Attachment 7
                REQUIRED FLYING TRAINING SYLLABUS ITEMS TABLE

I           A                                                     B
t
                                    Required Information For All Flying Training Syllabi
e
                        Paragraphs listed here must be included in each syllabus. When they do not apply,
m
                       mark them ―not applicable.‖ When another document addresses the subject, provide
         Location
                                                  specific reference to that document.
1    Cover Page        Course identifier, title, and effective date.
2    Purpose Page      Course identifier, effective date, purpose statement, approving authority signature
                       block. OPR, POC, and certifying authority. If necessary, add mention of documents
                       needed to complete the syllabus, such as AETCI 36-2205, applicable volume. Also
                       include the following statements:
                       Accessibility: A .pdf file is available on the ―AETC Flying Training Special
                       Publications‖ Web site.
                       Distribution: Authorized to Department of Defense and U.S. companies under DoD
                       contract for this course only.
                       Releasability: Access to this publication is restricted. Refer requests for this
                       document to the OPR.

3    Contents          Insert/update an automatically generated table of contents using the template. ―i‖ is
                       the page number. The table of contents usually continues over to page ii.
4    Summary of        List the significant differences since the superseded version. If authoring a new
     Changes           syllabus, there is no summary of changes. ―ii‖ is the page number.

5    Chapter 1         Course Description. Include the Title, Identifier, Objective, Location, Duration,
                       Entry Prerequisite(s), Status Upon Graduation (If applicable, include a statement that
                       graduates are awarded an AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training), and Summary.
                       Use tables to summarize academic, ground, simulator, and aircraft training. ―1‖ is
                       the page number.
6    Chapter 2         Course Administration. Include the following sections and paragraphs (as
                       applicable). Paragraph text may vary from here:
                       Section A—Syllabus Management.

                       1. Syllabus Interpretation.
                       This syllabus is directive and must be followed as written. If no clear syllabus
                       guidance exists, resolve the situation using the appropriate wing chain of command.
                       If the logical course of action appears to conflict with other directives, contact the
                       HQ AETC/A3F or A3Z OPR, DSN 487-XXXX.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                                39


                  2. Syllabus Waiver.
                  An approved syllabus waiver is required for any planned exception to the syllabus
                  caused by special or unusual circumstances. Permanent or blanket waivers are not
                  authorized, but should be suggested as syllabus changes. Do not accomplish or omit
                  any training requested in a waiver until notification of approval. Maintain a
                  permanent record of all approved waivers in the student’s training folder. Submit
                  waiver requests electronically or in writing, on AETC Form 6, Waiver Request, to
                  the following approval authorities:
                         a. Provide the office symbols that approve/deny waiver requests for this
                         specific syllabus. Forward the final outcome to the OPR.
                         b. For senior officer syllabus and entry prerequisite waivers, provide the
                         office symbols that approve/deny waiver requests for this specific syllabus.
                         Forward the final outcome to the OPR.
                  3. Syllabus Deviation and Omitted Training.
                  A syllabus deviation is any unplanned variation from syllabus requirements such as
                  prerequisite flow, turn times, and failure to comply with syllabus directives or MIF
                  requirements. Document all syllabus deviations in the student’s training folder. If a
                  syllabus deviation results in an omission of required training, the FTG/CC
                  determines if the omitted training can be accomplished later in the syllabus flow
                  without adversely affecting the quality of student training. Document FTG/CC-
                  directed corrective actions, and the accomplishment of the omitted training in the
                  student’s training folder.
                  4. Incomplete Training.
                  USAF Rated officers and Career Enlisted Aviators (CEAs) who attempt to
                  voluntarily disenroll from this course are processed IAW AFI 11-402, as
                  supplemented. For active duty rated officers and CEAs attending an AETC formal
                  flying training course, AETC/CC is the final approval authority for all FEB actions.
                  For rated AF Reserve officers and CEAs attending an AETC formal flying training
                  course, AFRC/CC is the final approval authority for all FEB actions.
                  Section B—Training Management.
                  1. Fuel Conservation. (adjust to be MDS specific or ―not applicable,‖ as necessary)
                  AETC is committed to fuel conservation and maximizing training value for the
                  command’s energy resource investment without compromising safety, air discipline,
                  or negatively affecting the quality of our flying training product. Aircrews must
                  manage aviation fuel as a limited and costly resource. Consider fuel optimization
                  throughout all phases of mission planning and syllabus execution. Ensure ground
                  operations (engine start times/taxi routing) and flight profiles are optimized for
                  efficient fuel use. Adhere closely to syllabus average mission durations (AMD). Do
                  not exceed these flight times except for extenuating circumstances or to meet
                  training objectives.
40                                                             AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                 IAW the applicable volume(s) of AETCI 36-2205, include additional paragraphs,
                 such as: Flight Commander/Flight Leader Responsibilities, Training Requirements
                 and Restrictions, Additional Training (AT) Sorties, Medical Procedures, Flying
                 Safety, Emergency Procedures (EP) Training, Briefing Requirements, Instructor
                 Continuity, Regression Rules, Fair/Unsatisfactory Performance, Category
                 Check/Progress Check/Elimination Check (PC/EC) Guidance, Commander’s Review
                 (CR) Process Flowchart, Solo Restrictions, Minimum Scheduled Student Turn-
                 Times, Simulator Requirements, Increased G-Awareness, Managing International
                 Students, Commander’s Review Process/Training Review Board, Cockpit/Crew
                 Resource Management (CRM). Direct reference to 36-2205 volume is acceptable.
                 Section C—Grading Procedures.
                 IAW the applicable volume(s) of AETCI 36-2205, define the grading criteria in
                 paragraphs, such as: Assessing Student Performance, Absolute Rating Scale,
                 Relative Grading Scale, Maneuver Item File (MIF), Solo Flight Grading Procedures,
                 Incomplete Sorties. Follow the grading standards. Direct reference to 36-2205
                 volume is acceptable.
                 Section D—Course Training Standards (CTS).
                 CTSs must define the performance, conditions, and standards required for each listed
                 task. To graduate, students must meet each syllabus-directed CTS. Direct reference
                 to the evaluation criteria from AFI 11-2MDS-specific Volumes 2 as an AETC
                 standard is authorized if not otherwise specifically defined in the syllabus. Be sure to
                 identify the appropriate level (Q). Depict the CTS as a 3-column table of
                 performance, conditions, and standards. If all the conditions or standards are
                 identical, define the conditions in the ―Tasks‖ paragraph and use a single or 2-
                 column table.

7    Chapter 3   Academic Training. List all academic subjects and the lessons comprising those
                 subjects in a table. In four columns, include the identifier, title, medium and duration
                 of each lesson. Provide a row to show the total duration for each subject and the
                 overall academic training total. Coordinate closely with the academic courseware
                 authors to ensure the lesson identifier, title, medium and duration are accurate.
8    Chapter 4   Flying Training. Divide the chapter into sections for each category in the course.
                 Detail the ground training, simulator, and aircraft events required. Include Maneuver
                 Item File (MIF) tables to specify the required proficiency levels for each maneuver
                 in every category.
9    Chapter 5   General Instructions. Include the prerequisite table, a bibliography, a list of any
                 required training aids, and a glossary of abbreviations, acronyms, and terms. Course
                 maps (when used) should be placed in this chapter to reflect course flow and/or
                 prerequisite items, when included in the course maps.
                 Section A—Prerequisites.
                 Include a table depicting all lessons for academic training, ground training, simulator
                 and aircraft. List the prerequisite(s) for each lesson.
                 Section B—Bibliography.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                                41


                  As applicable, list training aids, instructions, other syllabuses, instructor guides,
                  student guides, training manuals, etc., if required by this specific course. As
                  necessary, indicate the ―Basis of Issue‖ as 1/student, 1/instructor, 1/flight, etc.
                  Section C—Glossary.
                  Provide a list of abbreviations (acronyms and initialisms) and terms pertinent to this
                  specific course and/or referred to in the syllabus.
                  Additional optional sections may be added if they clarify or enhance the syllabus
                  requirements. Examples are: a flowchart, example completed forms, worksheets,
                  etc.
 42                                                                         AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                                                        Attachment 8
                        SAMPLE CHANGE TRANSMITTAL PAGE (CTP)
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                             Change 1
Headquarters Air Education and Training Command                             AETC Instructor Guide P-V4A-A-IM-IG
Randolph AFB TX 78150-4404                                                                             April 2010
                                                   T-38 Flight Planning
Change AETC Instructor Guide P-V4A-A-IM-IG, April 2001 as follows:
1. Page-Insert Changes — A vertical bar indicates new or revised material.
      Remove                       Insert
      Cover, Purpose Page          Cover (C1), Purpose Page (C1)
      GN0407
      1–4                          1 (C1), 2, 3 (C1), 4
      9 – 10                       9 (C1) – 10 (C1)
      GN0410
      1–4                          1 (C1) – 3 (C1), 4
      9 – 10                       9 (C1), 10
      19 – 20                      19, 20 (C1)
2. Write-In Changes — Annotate with ―Change 1, Dec 02‖ in the nearest margin.
      Page           Reference                   Line              Action
      1              Paragraph 7                 T-38 Dual         Navigation: Change from ―19/22.5‖ to ―17/20.4‖
                                                                   Formation: Change from ―26/32.5‖ to ―17/20.4‖
      5              Paragraph 12 c                                Change to read: ―Do not schedule PT on training
                                                                   days when there is night flying.‖
      5              Paragraph 15                1 and 2           Change the number ―five‖ to ―seven.‖
      23 – 27                                                      Renumber items 15 – 20 as items 16 – 21.
      46                                                           Change ―N6301 – 04‖ to ―N6301 – 02‖
3. Filing — After posting the change, file this page at the end of AETC Instructor Guide P-V4A-A-IM-IG,
April 2001.
OFFICIAL



JEFFREY B. KENDALL
Brigadier General, USAF
DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE, OPERATIONS,
AND NUCLEAR INTEGRATION

Pages: 9
OPR: HQ AETC/A3FO (Mr. Bob Watson, DSN 487-2214)
Approved by: HQ AETC/A3FO (Maj. Eric Glasz, DSN 487-9644)
Editor: Mr. Lewis Kelsey
Distribution: Authorized to Department of Defense and U.S. companies under DoD contract for this course only.
AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                              43


Releasability: Access to this publication is restricted. Refer requests for this document to the OPR.



                                             Summary of Changes
OA0513
Corrects the flight plan examples in Lesson 0103 to reflect no air refueling and two low-level
routes
Realigns the lesson titles with the CSO syllabus
Replaces lesson FN0203 and FN0209 and makes minor changes to other lessons
Aligns the ground training missions with the April 2002 T-38 SUPT Syllabus (P-V4A-A)
Updates the course to account for the change from T-37 to T-6 aircraft for lead-in training
Adds training in AP0602 on the Narrow Panel Regulator
OA0514
Adds training in AP0603 on parachute components and functions
Adds an additional lesson (AP0604) on Parachute Descent Landing to allow the student to
practice with the harness and connections used on the C-9 parachute
Changes goals for all lessons to level-of-learning objectives with associated samples of behavior
Adds an engine components review segment at the beginning of SO0110
Reflects HQ AETC/A3F courseware format changes and incorporates changes and modifications
suggested in the past year by field instructors
Adds F0102 as a CBT lesson discussing extended trail procedures
Adds instructional content to support the Briefing Room Interactive (BRI) program
Updates multiple lessons to reflect changes in AFMAN 11-217, Volume 1
Adds Lessons JL0106, Descent and Landing Techniques and JL0107, Parachute Familiarization
Training
Corrects errors in CG Limits in AE-04, Slides 40 and 50
Adds additional departure methods EN-01
Changes Aircraft Designation code on EN-04 slides concerning DD Form 175
44                                      AETCI36-2221 9 AUGUST 2011


                         Attachment 9
     SAMPLE COURSEWARE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT PROCESS
