BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR EDUCATION TRAINING COMMAND
17TH TRAINING GROUP                                             INSTRUCTION 36-2201

                                                          GOODFELLOW AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement

                                                                           9 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                        TECHNICAL AND BASIC MILITARY
                                                               TRAINING EVALUATION\

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 17 TRG/CCME                                      Certified by: 17 TRG/CCM (Timothy Ori)
Supersedes: AETCI 36-2201/17TRG Sup                                                 Pages: 5
            19 January 2009


This supplement used in combination with AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development,
Delivery, and Evaluation; and AETCI 36-2201, Technical and Basic Military Training
Evaluation; establishes procedures and responsibilities for assessing the quality of technical
training. This supplement applies to all units and elements of the 17th Training Group that deal
with students, including Goodfellow Geographically Separated Units (GSUs). It also applies to
Army, Navy, and Marine Corps training elements on Goodfellow. It establishes the Training
Evaluation Program (TEP) within the 17 TRG. This supplement may not be further
supplemented or expanded by subordinate units without prior coordination with the OPR. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR), 17 TRG/CCME, using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https //www.my.af.mil/afrims/rims.cfm The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Major changes include: paragraph renumbering (throughout Supplement); assigns responsibility
for QA program (2.1); changes OPR for attrition/washback analysis from Registrar to TMs
(3.1.2); directs use of EoC Program Guide and deletes paper-based procedures (3.2); modifies
 2                         AETCI 36-2201_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP 9 NOVEMBER 2011


Type 6 feedback report procedures to match new requirements (3.3.2.1); details TA procedures
(6.1.1); deletes requirement for CCME handout (10.4.10); assigns responsibility for semi-annual
trend analysis (10.4.13).
2.1. The Training Evaluation office (17 TRG/CCME) is responsible for managing and
conducting the 17 TRG internal and external feedback programs, and the Training Assessment
(TA) program.
3.1.1. (Added) Within the 17 TRG, the individual training squadrons and the Faculty
Development Flight of the 17th Training Support Squadron (17 TRSS) are responsible for
establishing instructional and measurement review procedures IAW AETCI 36-2203, Technical
and Basic Military Training Development.
3.1.2. (Added) Training Managers (TM) are the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for
attrition and washback trend analysis for their assigned courses, IAW AETCI 36-2215, Technical
and Basic Military Training Administration.
3.2. The 17 TRG/CCME is the group OPR for the Student Feedback Program. MTTs and
international students may use paper-based feedbacks. If additional questions are needed, submit
a request to 17 TRG/CCME for question development guidance, approval, implementation, and
monitoring purposes.
3.2.1.1. (Added) When a GSU is on a non-Air Force host base and participates in the host
service training feedback program, additional feedback sessions to meet requirements in this
instruction are not required. If the GSU commander (or equivalent) determines that the host base
feedback programs do not meet the intent of AETCI 36-2201, the GSU commander will
implement procedures to satisfy AETC requirements.
3.2.1.2. (Added) Squadron commanders and GSU commander (or equivalent), to include the 17
TRSS, Faculty Development Flight and each participating service (Army, Navy, and Marine
Corps), will provide 17 TRG/CCME a copy of the student feedback monitor (SFM) appointment
letter. Include the names, office symbols, and telephone numbers of the primary and alternate
monitors.
3.2.1.3. (Added) The squadron SFM will forward comments submitted by Air Force Reserve
students about the student's Air Force Reserve Liaison Office to HQ AFRC/A1K, 155 2nd Street,
Robins AFB, GA 31098-1635 or fax to DSN 497-0370.
3.2.1.4. (Added) When deemed appropriate by a 17 TRG Squadron or GSU commander,
forward replies to students’ next training unit or follow on assignment for proper dissemination.
3.2.1.5. (Added) Squadron personnel may conduct mid-course or periodic feedback on any
training. If the feedback specifically requires sister-service input or action, ensure the respective
service feedback monitor addresses the feedback. Track feedback to resolution.
3.2.2.1. (Added) The student feedback monitors, instructors, and flight commanders will ensure
AETC Form 736, Student Feedback, is displayed in each Air Force classroom and other
locations as appropriate. For GSUs, ensure a stock of AETC Form 736, Student Feedback, is
displayed in an accessible location for Air Force personnel.
3.2.2.2. (Added) Commanders or chiefs will encourage students to submit feedback at any time
on any aspect of technical training, military training, quality of life, or base support activity
without fear of reprisal.
AETCI 36-2201_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP 9 NOVEMBER 2011                                                  3


3.2.2.3. (Added) The classroom instructor or designated individual will brief students on the
feedback program during the course orientation unit and will encourage students to use the
feedback program to make constructive comments. Students may submit an AETC Form 736 at
any time for any issue. Encourage students to use the customer service forms from the
appropriate agency when possible.
3.2.2.4. (Added) Student feedback is feedback on base support, military training, classroom
instruction, training facilities, and quality of life.
3.2.2.4. 1 (Added) Feedback on base support issues will be forwarded to 17 TRG/CCME for
routing to the applicable base support organization for their info/action. 17 TRG/CCME will
follow-up any action items until closed.
3.2.2.4.2. (Added) Feedback on military training and quality of life from Army, Navy, and
Marine Corps students will be routed through the appropriate service liaison office to the service
student feedback monitor. SFMs will take appropriate action in a timely manner; ensure follow-
up actions are completed; and provide replies (if requested) to students.
3.2.2.4.3. (Added) Feedback on technical training, and on military training and quality of life
from Air Force students, will be routed through the appropriate agency for their info/action.
SFMs will ensure follow-up actions are completed and provide replies (if requested) to students.
3.2.3. (Added) 17 TRG TTMS EoC program . Refer to 17 TRG End of Course Survey
Program Guide for specific requirements and guidance.
3.3.1. (Added) The commander or chief (or the designated appointees) will monitor the Type 6
student feedback program, as applicable, and will maintain records of actions.
3.3.1.1. (Added) As representatives of the commander or chief, feedback monitors are
responsible for Type 6 course feedback, as applicable, and will track receipt, distribution, and
suspense of feedback. Ensure follow-up actions and replies are documented, timely, and
appropriate. Provide replies within 5 working days to any request for a response.
3.3.1.2. (Added) Maintain questionnaire metrics and student comments with squadron response
summaries for inclusion in next semi-annual report. Dispose of when no longer required.
3.3.2.1. (Added) The TM will generate the report, with inputs from the SFM and TDE.
Forward the completed report to 17 TRG/CCME no later than 15 July for the period of January
through June and 15 January for the period July through December. CCME will review, obtain
the Group Commander’s signature, post as required, and make the required notifications.
4.1. 17 TRG/CCME will respond to AETC/A3PV’s request for information to support their
survey control number (SCN) request.
4.3.1. Contact 17 TRG/CCME for a field interview briefing and the documents needed to
conduct interviews. Return completed documents within 10 duty days after return from TDY.
4.4.1. (Added) All personnel within the 17 TRG will give the customer service information
process (CSIP) and customer service information line (CSIL) the widest possible publicity. Use
the following statement in all career field education and training plans (CFETP); STSs; and
CTSs; and modify, as appropriate, for career development courses (CDC) and other documents:
“A 24-hour Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisor's
convenience to identify demonstrated over- or under-training on performance/knowledge items
 4                         AETCI 36-2201_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP 9 NOVEMBER 2011


listed in the training standard. For a quick response to any training concerns, call CSIL, DSN
312-477-3350, anytime day or night, or via e-mail address 17trg.ccme2@goodfellow.af.mil.
This statement may be modified, but must contain the contact information.
4.4.2. (Added) Advertise the CSIP/CSIL to the other services.
4.4.2.1. (Added) 17 TRG/CCME will maintain a record of the receipt and processing of
comments or queries through the CSIP/CSIL. Record the date received, name of the person
submitting the inquiry, party providing the feedback, and the date answered (within 5 days of
receipt). 17 TRG/CCME will send a letter of acknowledgment, e-mail, or make a courtesy
phone call to the originator. When necessary, 17 TRG/CCME will send a copy of the original
comments/report to the training squadron for input and corrective action.
4.4.2.2. (Added) For significant training issues, the training evaluation office may formulate the
final response to the originator based on input from the training squadron. Coordinate the final
response with the appropriate training squadron commander or TM, and have the final response
approved and signed by the training evaluation chief. Trends established will be reported in the
FEQS.
4.5.2.1. (Added) 17 TRG/CCME will follow-up on GAS that are in-transit, have incorrect PAS
codes, or do not have the correct email address.
4.5.3. 17 TRG/CCME will post the GAS summary as required and make the required
notifications.
4.5.4.1. (Added) 17 TRG will send a GAS tasking letter with the number of GAS sent and
unsatisfactory GAS received to each training squadron. Unsatisfactory GAS requires squadron
review and response. The survey administrator (17 TRG/CCME) will forward the unsatisfactory
GAS and a response suspense date to the training squadron point of contact (POC) for review
and response. The survey administrator will track and follow-up GAS responses until closed.
4.5.4.2. (Added) 17 TRG/CCME will maintain a record of the receipt and processing for any
GAS requests from the field for information or clarification. Record the date received, name of
the person submitting the inquiry, party providing the feedback, and the date answered (within 5
days of receipt). 17 TRG/CCME will send a letter of acknowledgment, e-mail, or make a
courtesy phone call to the originator. When necessary, 17 TRG/CCME will send a copy of the
comments/report to the training squadron for input and corrective action.
6.1.1. (Added) In addition to the no-notice evaluations, 17 TRG/CCME may conduct special
evaluations or staff assistance visits (SAV) as requested or directed by commanders to assess the
quality of training programs.
6.1.1.1. (Added) TA instructor evaluations will not substitute for or be used in lieu of scheduled
instructor evaluations. Do not record these evaluations in the faculty records.
9.1. The responsible TM will notify 17 TRG/CCME and 17 TRSS/TSR in writing at least 30
days in advance of scheduled Utilization and Training Workshops (U&TW), Training Planning
Team (TPT), and Cryptologic Training Advisory Groups (CTAG) meetings.
9.2. (Added) (17 TRG) The TM will ensure each training standard item rated below 90 percent
satisfactory or 50 percent utilization is considered by the U&TW or CTAG attendees for
improvement or deletion from the training standard. The training manager will ensure
AETCI 36-2201_GOODFELLOWAFBSUP 9 NOVEMBER 2011                                             5


documentation of recommendations for improvement or deletion from the training standard is in
the meeting minutes.
10.4.10. Deleted
10.4.11. (Added) (17 TRG) CDC writers in the training squadrons will monitor CDC trends and
coordinate with 17 TRG/CCME when adverse trends are noted. CDC writers will also assist in
CDC evaluations when trends indicate a need for course evaluation.
10.4.13. This semi-annual trend analysis report is the report identified in AETCI 36-2201,
Paragraph 6.1.4. 17 TRG/CCME will prepare and submit the report.
10.4.14. MTLs and instructors will complete the online Basic Military Training Airman
Performance Survey within 60 days of receiving notification.




                                          JOHNDAVID W. WILLIS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
