                                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                         HEADQUARTERS AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND




                                                                      AETCI36-2803_AETCGM2013-01

                                                                                          31 December 2013
MEMORANDUM FOR SEE DISTRIBUTION

FROM: HQ AETC/A3O
      1 F Street Suite 2
      JBSA Randolph, TX 78150-4325

SUBJECT: AETCI36-2803_AETCGM2013-01, Operations Recognition Program

1. By Order of the Commander, Air Education and Training Command, this AETC Guidance
Memorandum (GM) immediately implements changes to AETCI 36-2803 pertaining to AETC-
sponsored Air Traffic Control and Airfield Management functional awards. Compliance with this
Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other AETC
publications, the information herein prevails IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-
0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority,
or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

2. This GM applies to all AETC Airfield Operations personnel.

3. Guidance in AFI 36-2807 shall be used when preparing Air Force-sponsored Airfield Operations
Annual Awards nomination packages; however wing commanders must submit a nomination
memorandum to HQ AETC/A3O in lieu of the transmittal letter identified in AFI 36-2807. The
nomination memorandum will certify each award nominee’s eligibility and qualifications.

4. The suspense for all Airfield Operations Annual Awards nomination packages to arrive at HQ
AETC/A3O is 15 January of the next calendar year. Late submissions will not be considered.

5. Attachment 1 to this Memorandum, HQ AETC Airfield Operations Annual Awards, prescribes new
criteria for submission of AETC-sponsored Airfield Operations Annual Awards nominations.

6. The guidance and procedures in this Memorandum become void after one year has elapsed from the
date of this Memorandum, or upon release of an AETC publication incorporating the guidance and
procedures. Our POC is Mr. Aubrey Morganfield, AETC/A3OF, DSN 487-9526.



                                                  ROBERT D. REDANZ, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                  Chief, Operations and Readiness Division
                                                  Directorate of Intelligence, Operations,
                                                  and Nuclear Integration
                                                 Attachment 1

                              HQ AETC Airfield Operations Annual Awards

This attachment provides interim policy, procedures, and responsibilities for implementing the
AETC-sponsored Airfield Operations Annual Awards program.
1. Purpose. Provide procedural guidance for the AETC-sponsored Airfield Management (AM) and Air
Traffic Control (ATC) Awards Program. Specify procedures to recognize AETC personnel who have
made significant contributions to AM and ATC in categories other than those eligible for Air Force-level
recognition.
2. Award Categories. AETC-sponsored AM and ATC awards consist of six categories: AM Training
Achievement, ATC Training Achievement, Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPS) Specialist of the
Year, AM Contracting Officer Representative (COR) of the Year, Airfield Operations System
Specialist (AOSS) of the Year, and The Byron “BT” Parcenue Airfield Operations Professional of the
Year.

3. Award Criteria.

3.1. Airfield Management Training Achievement. An award given to a qualified individual for
exceptional contributions to AM training. Competition is open to all AM personnel involved in training,
not just the AM Training Manager. Consider the following areas for this award:

3.1.1. Effective use of instructional methods.

3.1.2. Actions taken to improve training capabilities.

3.1.3. Application of training innovations or methodology.

3.2. Air Traffic Control Training Achievement. An award given to a qualified individual for
exceptional contributions to ATC training. Competition is open to all controllers involved in training, not
just the chief of training or chief of standardization.

3.2.1. Effective use of instructional methods.

3.2.2. Actions taken to improve training capabilities.

3.2.3. Application of training innovations or methodology.

3.3. Terminal Instrument Procedures Specialist of the Year. An award given to a qualified individual
for exceptional contributions to a TERPS program. Competition is open to all TERPS personnel who
manage a base level TERPS program. NOTE: MAJCOM TERPS specialists are eligible to compete for
this award. However, the substantiating data on the submitted AF IMT 1206 must reflect only services
for/contributions to a single field unit’s program. Also, the supported unit’s OSS/CC (or equivalent) must
sign the transmittal/nomination letter. Consider the following areas for this award:

3.3.1. Introduced procedures resulting in improved quality, safety and/or efficiency of the ATC system.

3.3.2. Application of extraordinary efforts to protect lives and resources.

3.3.3. Outstanding duty performance.

3.3.4. Demonstrated outstanding capabilities while supporting deployments, exercises, inspections, etc.
3.4. Airfield Management Contracting Officer Representative (COR) of the Year. An award given
to an AM COR who oversaw a base level AM contract to an exemplary degree. Consider the following
areas for this award:

3.4.1. Outstanding duty performance in all areas.

3.4.2. Introduced AETC-adopted COR program methods which improved quality and efficiency.

3.4.3. Submitted an approved suggestion that enhanced AETC COR programs.

3.4.4. Demonstrated ability to identify contract deficiencies resulted in improved performance.

3.5. Airfield Operations Systems Specialist (AOSS) of the Year. An award given to a qualified AOSS
who oversaw an airfield operations automation program to an outstanding degree. Consider the following
areas for this award:

3.5.1. Outstanding duty performance in all areas.

3.5.2. Innovative management and/or leadership qualities in the field of Airfield Operations Automation.

3.5.3. Initiation and/or application of innovations or methodology that enhanced wing, command, or Air
Force automation capabilities.

3.5.4. Submitted an approved suggestion that enhanced automation within the airfield operations
community.

3.5.5. Demonstrated outstanding capabilities while supporting deployments, exercises, inspections, etc.

3.6. The Byron “BT” Parcenue Airfield Operations Professional of the Year. An award given to any
qualified individual assigned to an airfield operations flight (AOF) whose overall leadership,
professionalism, service and/or accomplishments directly improved flight operations to an exemplary
degree. Consider the following areas for this award:

3.6.1. Outstanding duty performance in all areas.

3.6.2. Innovative management and/or leadership qualities.

3.6.3. Initiation and/or superior application of innovations or methodology.

3.6.4. Submitted an approved suggestion that greatly enhanced airfield operations.

3.6.5. Demonstrated outstanding capabilities while supporting deployments, exercises, inspections, etc.

3.7. Award Eligibility. Nominees must be fully qualified in their positions of assignment at the time of
nomination IAW AFI 13-204, and must have served in those duties for at least six months. Individuals on
waivers will be considered on a case-by-case basis.

3.8. Nominating Procedures.

3.8.1. AETC wings may submit only one nomination package for each award as follows:

3.8.1.1. Signed wing commander (Wg/CC) nomination memorandum addressed to HQ AETC/A3O
certifying each award nominee’s eligibility and qualifications.

3.8.1.2. Cover letter, formatted IAW AFI 36-2807, paragraph 3.3.3.2.
3.8.1.3. Most current version of AF IMT 1206.

3.8.1.3.1. Limit substantiating data to no more than 15 lines on the front side. Nomination criteria
headings in the specific accomplishments section are not used. It must be bullet format, Times New
Roman font, 12 point. Nominations may include acronyms identified in AFI 13-204 Volumes 1 through
3, and AFI 13-213. Do not use local acronyms or abbreviations.

3.8.1.3.2. Locations with contracted services, where oversight is provided by and/or workload is shared
with active duty or federal civilian employees, are eligible; however, the accomplishments in the
substantiating data on the AF IMT 1206 must be entirely attributable to active duty and/or federal civilian
personnel. Contract personnel involvement or actions must not have contributed in any way to the
accomplishments cited on the AF IMT 1206.

3.8.1.4. Electronically package the three required documents in paragraphs 3.8.1.1 through 3.8.1.3 into a
single portable document format (.pdf) file. Use the following format for naming purposes: MAJCOM
NAME_AWARD CATEGORY_YEAR.pdf.

3.8.2. To be competitive, only include information relevant to the respective nomination category; e.g.,
do not use duties such as President of the Booster Club in the justification for packages nominating ATC
Trainer of the Year.

3.8.3. Nominees for AETC-sponsored Airfield Operations Annual Awards will not compete beyond
MAJCOM level. Unit leadership should carefully consider whether a potential nominee for an AETC-
sponsored award may also be highly competitive for an Air Force level award before submitting a
nomination for the AETC-sponsored award.

3.8.4. Negative replies are required for each category.

3.9. Selection Process. The Airfield Operations Branch Chief (AETC/A3OF) will ensure board
members are selected to evaluate nomination packages. Selection boards will consist of at least 5
members, with at least 50 percent of the members from functional areas outside of the award functional
area. The most senior member will normally serve as board chair, voting only in case of ties. Board
results for each award are forwarded through HQ AETC/A3O to HQ AETC/A2/3/10 for final approval.

3.10. Award Recipient Notification. Award recipients will be notified by congratulatory memorandum
from HQ AETC/A2/3/10 through appropriate command channels.
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-2803
COMMAND
                                                                              12 JANUARY 1999

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                   OPERATIONS RECOGNITION PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/DO                                                      Certified by: AETC AOS/CC
                                                                                (Lt Col T. Fossen)
Supersedes:    AETCI 36-2803, 28 July                                                     Pages: 7
               1995


This instruction establishes the Operations Recognition Program for Air Education and Training
Command (AETC); implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs; and describes
the sponsorship levels of AETC operations awards, award categories, eligibility criteria,
nomination procedures, and selection processes. This instruction applies to AETC wings and
operations organizations aligned under Air University (AU), Maxwell AFB AL, HQ 2 AF,
Keesler AFB MS, and HQ 19 AF, Randolph AFB TX. Submit recommended changes on AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Send the form to AETC AOS/AOX, 1
F Street, Suite 2, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4325. Supplements to this instruction may be
developed as needed. Submit supplements for review and approval before publication. Proposed
supplements should be submitted to AETC AOS/AOX within 1 year of the publication date of
this instruction. Requests for waivers to any requirement stated in this instruction should be
submitted according to the guidance in AFI 33-360, Volume 1, Publications Management
Program. (NOTE: See AETCI 36-2801, Air Education and Training Command [AETC]
Recognition Program, for information concerning other major command (MAJCOM), Air Force,
and US government non-flying awards not covered in this instruction.) This instruction requires
the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The
authority to collect and maintain this information is in Title 10, United States Code, Chapter 857,
Decorations and Awards. System of records notice F900 AF MP A, Awards and Decorations,
applies.
 2                                                           AETCI36-2803 12 JANUARY 1999


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision restructures select paragraphs of the former edition, adds the Tactical Deception
Award (paragraph 2), adds command and control awards (paragraph 4), and removes flying
training awards now incorporated into AETCI 36-2802, Flying and Technical Training
Recognition Program. Guidance has been simplified to replace varying guidance for each
functional area with guidance applicable to all. Exceptions are listed separately citing applicable
AFIs required for additional guidance. A bar (|) in the left margin indicates revision from the
previous edition.

Section A—Operations Recognition Program Overview

1. Purpose. Throughout AETC there are people who are performing their jobs at levels that not
only meritoriously distinguish them from their colleagues, but make it possible for the command
to consistently provide the highest quality training for the Air Force. AETC's Operations
Recognition Program is designed to recognize those individuals who make truly outstanding
contributions to the command's operational mission by performing their duties to the highest
measure of Air Force Core Values--"integrity first, service before self, and excellence in all we
do." Award winners are recognized annually at formal award ceremonies conducted by senior
leadership at the appropriate command level and, depending upon sponsorship, winners are
eligible to compete for corresponding awards at Air Force level. The purpose of AETC's
Operations Recognition Program awards is to:
     1.1. Enhance the overall visibility of AETC personnel and their accomplishments.
     1.2. Recognize outstanding achievement by officers, senior noncommissioned officers
     (NCO), NCOs, airmen, and civilians.
     1.3. Reward individuals for initiative and valuable actions.
2. Award Categories. Each year AETC recognizes superior performance in ten operational
categories (functional areas): air traffic control, airfield management, command and control,
intelligence, life support, operations resource management, readiness, survival, erosion,
resistance, and escape (SERE) training, tactical deception, and weather (Table 1).
3. Award Sponsorship Levels. There are two sponsorship levels for awards in AETC's
Operations Recognition Program--AETC-sponsored and both AETC and Air Force-sponsored
awards.

Section B—AETC-Sponsored Awards

4. Categories and Awards. At this time, AETC-sponsored awards fall into three functional
areas: command and control, intelligence, and readiness. AETC recognizes three command and
control awards--Command Post Controller of the Year, Outstanding Command Post of the Year
(Category I), and Outstanding Command Post of the Year (Category II). AETC recognizes two
Intelligence awards--AETC Outstanding Intelligence Large Unit of the Year and AETC
Outstanding Intelligence Small Unit of the Year. AETC also recognizes five readiness awards--
Readiness Officer of the Year, Readiness NCO of the Year, Readiness Airman of the Year,
Readiness Civilian of the Year,andReadiness Base of the Year.
AETCI36-2803 12 JANUARY 1999                                                                 3


  4.1. Eligibility. Individual nominees for command and control and readiness awards must
  have served in those duties for at least 6 months. Competition is based upon
  accomplishments of the preceding calendar year. Intelligence units at the following locations
  are eligible to compete for Outstanding Intelligence Large Unit of the Year: Goodfellow
  AFB, Kirtland AFB, Little Rock AFB, Luke AFB, Maxwell AFB, Randolph AFB (AETC
  AOS/IN), and Tyndall AFB. Eligibility for Outstanding Intelligence Small Unit of the Year
  will include the intelligence units at Altus AFB, Columbus AFB, Corry Station, Fairchild
  AFB, Lackland AFB, Laughlin AFB, Randolph AFB (12 OSS), and Vance AFB. The
  following command posts are eligible to compete for Outstanding Command Post of the Year
  (Category I): Altus, Little Rock, Luke, Randolph, and Tyndall. Eligibility for Outstanding
  Command Post of the Year (Category II) will include the command posts at Columbus,
  Goodfellow, Lackland, Laughlin, Keesler, Maxwell, Sheppard, and Vance.
  4.2. Award Nomination Packages—Submission and Preparation Procedures. AETC
  wings may submit only one nomination for each award. Nomination packages are due to the
  appropriate office of primary responsibility (OPR) in accordance with suspense dates
  specified in Table 1. With the exception of the Command Post, Readiness Base of the Year,
  or Outstanding Intelligence Unit of the Year (organizational awards), nomination packages
  for all other command and control and readiness awards are standardized and must include:
     4.2.1. A nomination memorandum from the wing commander addressed to AETC
     AOS/CC certifying each award nominee's eligibility and qualifications.
     4.2.2. A one-page description of the nominee's performance prepared on AF Form 1206,
     Nomination for Award, typed in bullet format, single-spaced. AF Form 1206 content
     should emphasize exceptional performance in the award category and must, at minimum,
     address the following three areas:
         4.2.2.1. Overall Ability and Knowledge. State examples and operational mission
         impact of exceptional performance within nominee's primary area of expertise that set
         the individual apart from others.
         4.2.2.2. Other Contributions to Unit Mission. State examples and impact of
         significant contributions to the unit's operational mission outside of the nominee's
         primary area of expertise.
         4.2.2.3. Professional Military Qualities. State examples of leadership and
         professional qualities that contribute to the "whole person" concept and reflect Air
         Force Core Values.
     4.2.3. A one-page, biographical sketch in bullet format to include name, grade (as of 31
     December), organization, duty title, assignment history, professional military education,
     and other noteworthy awards or recognition.
     4.2.4. A completed DD Form 2266, Hometown News Release Information, to facilitate
     MAJCOM release in the event the nominee wins.
     4.2.5. Nomination packages for Command Post of the Year should be formatted as
     specified in 4.2.2 but prepared on plain bond paper and focused on the following three
     areas:
 4                                                           AETCI36-2803 12 JANUARY 1999


            4.2.5.1. Command post operations-related accomplishments and contributions to the
            unit mission.
            4.2.5.2. Awards and other recognition earned by the command post.
            4.2.5.3. All other accomplishments.
        4.2.6. Nomination packages for AETC Outstanding Intelligence Large and Small Unit of
        the Year should be formatted as specified in 4.2.2. See the AETC supplement to AFI 36-
        2847, Intelligence Awards, for criteria for submission and preparation procedures.
        4.2.7. Nomination packages for Readiness Base of the Year should be formatted as
        specified in 4.2.2 but prepared on plain bond paper and focused on aggregate unit
        contributions to readiness in three areas:
            4.2.7.1. Real world and or exercise participation that demonstrates wing readiness.
            4.2.7.2. Exercise evaluation team (EET) contribution to overall wing readiness.
            4.2.7.3. MAJCOM/Air Force-wide readiness initiatives.
     4.3. Selection Process. AETC functional area managers serve on the selection board for
     their functional areas. Selection boards will consist of a minimum of five members, with at
     least 50 percent of the members from functional areas outside of the award functional area.
     One of the officers, usually the most senior, will serve as board chair, voting only in case of
     ties. The AETC AOS/CC, or his designated representative, retains final approval authority
     over the composition of all award selection boards. Board results for each award are
     forwarded through HQ AETC command channels to AETC/CC for final approval.

Section C—AETC and Air Force-Sponsored Awards

5. Categories and Awards. At this time, there are eight functional area award categories
sponsored by both AETC and Air Force: air traffic control, airfield management, intelligence,
life support, operations resource management, SERE training, tactical deception, and weather.
With the exception of intelligence, specific awards in all eight categories are described in AFI
36-2807, Headquarters United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff Plans and Operations
Annual Awards Program. Intelligence awards are described in AFI 36-2847. AETC
organizations at all levels should review the awards described in each of these AFIs to determine
those that are applicable for submitting individual and or organizational nominations.
     5.1. Eligibility. With the exception of intelligence, eligibility for awards in all categories
     listed in paragraph 5 is established by AFI 36-2807. Eligibility for intelligence awards is
     established by AFI 36-2847.
     5.2. Award Nomination Packages--Submission and Preparation Procedures. AETC
     wings may submit only one nomination for each award. Nomination packages are due to the
     appropriate OPR according to suspense dates specified in Table 1. Suspenses in Table 1 are
     constructed to accommodate Air Force-level suspenses. With the exception of intelligence,
     award nomination packages must be prepared in accordance with procedures described in
     AFI 36-2807. Intelligence award nomination packages must be prepared according to AFI
     36-2847. In those cases where use of AF Form 1206 is directed, follow formatting guidelines
     described in paragraph 4.2.2. In addition to following applicable AFI procedures, wing
AETCI36-2803 12 JANUARY 1999                                                                   5


     commanders must also submit a nomination memorandum addressed to AETC AOS/CC
     certifying each award nominee's eligibility and qualifications. Each nomination package must
     also include a completed DD Form 2266 to facilitate MAJCOM release in the event the
     nominee wins.
     5.3. Selection Process. The selection process for AETC winners of AETC and Air Force-
     sponsored awards is the same as for AETC-sponsored awards described in paragraph 4.3.
     AETC winners will be submitted to compete for corresponding AF- level awards.

Section D—Award Notification, Presentation, Procurement, Publicity, Recordkeeping, and
Questions

6. Award Notification. MAJCOM-level award winners will be notified by memorandum from
the AETC/CC through appropriate command channels. Additionally, HQ AETC/DO will
formally announce the names of winners in a message to the wings. Air Force-level award
winners will be notified in accordance with procedures contained in AFI 36-2807.
7. Award Presentation. With the exception of AETC intelligence awards, the annual
Operations Recognition awards are generally presented at the spring AETC Commanders'
Conference to the respective award winner's wing commander. AETC intelligence award
winners are normally presented at the annual AETC Intelligence Conference Awards Banquet.
Air Force-level presentations are made according to procedures described in AFI 36-2807.
8. Award Procurement. The presenting organization is responsible for procurement of awards.
HQ AETC procures awards for MAJCOM-level recipients while lower command levels procure
awards for their respective award levels. Refer to AFI 36-2853, Unit Plaque Awards, for award
specifications and procurement.
9. Publicity. Commensurate with the level of the award, base and local media should be used to
generate public interest. Recognition of award winners at all levels should also be publicized at
other command functions and through other communication vehicles as much as possible--e.g.,
wing safety meetings, AETC Crossfeed articles, etc., respectively.
10. Questions. Direct questions about awards to the functional manager in the appropriate
award OPR listed in Table 1.

Table 1. AETC Operations Awards.

  I                A                        B                    C                    D
  T
                                                               OPR           Recommendations
  E                                                         Nomination            Due
  M            Category                 Sponsor              Suspense           AETC/CC
 1      Air Traffic Control       AETC and Air Force AETC AOS/AOF
                                                     1 December               31 January
 2      Airfield Management       AETC and Air Force AETC AOS/AOF
                                                     1 December               31 January
6                                                  AETCI36-2803 12 JANUARY 1999


    I               A                  B                C                 D
    T                                                  OPR       Recommendations
    E                                               Nomination        Due
    M          Category              Sponsor         Suspense       AETC/CC
3       Command and Control   AETC               AETC AOS/AOC
                                                 15 January       15 February
4       Intelligence          AETC and Air Force AETC AOS/IN
                                                 15 December      1 February
5       Life Support          AETC and Air Force AETC AOS/AOX
                                                 1 January        20 February
6       Operations Resource   AETC and Air Force AETC AOS/AOX
        Management                               1 December       1 January
7       Readiness             AETC               AETC AOS/AOX
                                                 15 January       15 February
8       SERE Training         AETC and Air Force HQ AETC/DOF
                                                 1 January        1 February
9       Tactical Deception    AETC and Air Force HQ AETC/AOX
                                                 1 October        15 October
10      Weather               AETC and Air Force AETC AOS/AOW
                                                 1 December   1 January




                                        RICHARD C. MARR, Major General, USAF
                                        Director of Operations
AETCI36-2803 12 JANUARY 1999                                                               7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Chapter 857, Decorations and Awards
AFI 33-360, Volume 1, Publications Management Program
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs
AFI 36-2807, Headquarters United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff Plans and Operations
Annual Award Programs
AFI 36-2847, Intelligence Awards
AFI 36-2853, Unit Plaque Awards
AETCI 36-2801, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Recognition Program
AETCI 36-2802, Flying and Technical Training Recognition Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AU—Air University
EET—Exercise evaluation team
MAJCOM—Major command
NCO—Noncommissioned officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
