BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          AETC INSTRUCTION 63-102
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                            14 APRIL 2010
                                                                Certified Current on 18 April 2014
                                                                                       Acquisition

                                                           AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                         COMMAND TECHNICAL MANUALS
                                                                             (AETCTM)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the AETC Publishing Web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A4MMP                                                   Certified by: HQ AETC/A4M
Supersedes: AETCI21-301, 5 July 2007                                           (Col Robert J. West)
                                                                                         Pages: 31


This instruction implements AFPD 63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Lifecycle Management.
It establishes the system through which AETC technical manuals (AETCTM) are developed,
published, issued, and controlled. This system sets procedures, standards, and minimum
requirements for the preparation of AETCTM drafts and camera ready copies. It applies to
trainer development activities that manufacture and/or maintain trainers and training devices
listed in Federal Stock Class 6900. It applies only to those AETCTMs issued in support of
trainers and training devices as described. It does not include trainers covered by the Air Force
Technical Order System or supported by Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). This instruction
does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command or Air National Guard units. Refer
recommendations for change, improvements or waiver requests to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using AETC Form 1236, Request for Improving/Changing AETC
Maintenance Publications. Requests must be approved by the group commander (or squadron
commander, if not assigned to a group) before forwarding to HQ AETC/A4M, for action by HQ
AETC/A4MMP. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained according
to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.
2                                                                  AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates
all applicable 2 AF and HQ AETC office symbols. It deletes all requirements and references to
AETC INDEX 3 and spells out trainer development activity responsibilities to maintain complete
AETC technical manual (AETCTM) lists (indexes).

Section A—The AETCTM System

1. Applicability. AETCTMs include installation, operation, and maintenance procedures for
trainers and training devices manufactured by AETC trainer development activities. If an
AETCTM is not required, the trainer development activity may determine that a user’s guide is
more appropriate. The user’s guide is for limited documentation of unique components,
assemblies, and procedures, etc. AETCTMs are not required but may be produced for:
    1.1. One-of-a-kind trainers or training devices with no moving parts or electrical circuits.
    1.2. Trainers and training devices supported by AFMC or covered by the Air Force
    Technical Order System.
    1.3. Trainers and training devices not included in Federal Stock Class 6900.
2. Trainer Development Activity Responsibilities. Operate and maintain all trainers and
training devices in AETC according to the appropriate AETCTM procedures, except those
excluded by paragraph 1.1. Each trainer development activity will develop and publish an
AETCTM to provide information on the assembly, installation, operation, service, disassembly,
overhaul and reassembly of equipment and identification of parts. Each AETCTM is a stand-
alone publication and will provide maximum base-level repair. Trainer development activities
will provide AETCTMs within 180 days after the requester accepts the trainer. The trainer
development activity responsible for the equipment will:
    2.1. Issue supplements, changes, and revisions as necessary.
    2.2. Maintain a record set for each of its AETCTMs.
    2.3. Maintain a complete index of all AETCTMs, including changes, revisions and
    supplements for which the activity is responsible. Conduct an annual index review and
    update as applicable.
    2.4. Request additional user AETCTMs for another trainer development activity from the
    AETCTM OPR.
    2.5. Request AETCTM waivers from 2 AF/TTOC.
3. Recommending Improvements. Send recommendations for improvements to the trainer
development activity responsible for the AETCTM. Do not send recommendations to correct
spelling, typographical errors, or punctuation unless the meaning of a word or sentence is
changed.
4. Numbering AETCTMs:
    4.1. Precede each number with “AETCTM.” For example, AETCTM 20022352-06
    identifies the MQ-1B Predator Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Trainer manual designed by
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                          3


   Sheppard AFB. The first two digits (20) represent the stock record account number base
   identifier illustrated in Table 1.

Table 1. Stock Record Account Number Base Identifier.
 I                       A                                               B
 T
 E
 M    Stock Record Account Number                Base
 1    10                                         Keesler AFB
 2    20                                         Sheppard AFB
 3    69                                         Kirtland AFB
 4    89                                         Randolph AFB
   4.2. The second two digits (02) identify the calendar year of the equipment design, and the
   next four digits (2352) represent the design sequence number. The two digits (06) after the
   dash indicate a major equipment type, as illustrated in Table 2.

Table 2. Major Equipment Type Designator.
  I                      A                                               B
 T
 E
 M    Major Equipment Type Number               Major Equipment Type
  1   01                                        Part task trainer
  2   02                                        Cockpit familiarization trainer
  3   03                                        Cockpit procedures trainer
  4   04                                        Mission trainer
  5   05                                        Operational flight trainer
  6   06                                        Weapon system trainer
  7   07                                        Missile procedures trainer
  8   08                                        Mobile training sets
  9   09                                        Resident training equipment
 10   10                                        Egress procedures trainer
 11   11                                        Ejection seat procedures trainer
 12   12                                        Academic trainer, aircraft systems
 13   13                                        Space programmed training equipment (SPTE)
 14   14-98                                     Reserved for future requirements (to be assigned
                                                by 2 AF/TTOC)
 15 99                                          Miscellaneous type trainer (MTT)
   4.3. Modification instructions are identified by adding a three-digit number immediately
   after the major equipment type designator. For example, in AETCTM 89871154-02-101, the
   first digit of the last set of three digits represents the modification number. The first digit of
   the modification number indicates the maintenance level required to accomplish the
   modification: 1 is field level and 2 is depot (trainer development activity) level. The second
   and third digits (01-99) indicate the number of modifications issued against the equipment,
   regardless of what maintenance level accomplished the modification.
4                                                                AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


5. Types of AETCTMs. Manuals authorized by this instruction are limited to those described
in paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3. This includes changes, revisions, and supplements.
    5.1. Preliminary AETCTM. Prepared in limited quantities for interim use to test and verify
    procedures against the first test or early production model of a trainer. Preliminary
    AETCTMs are for training purposes and operational use pending receipt of a formal printed
    manual. Identify preliminary AETCTMs by stamping or typing the word “Preliminary” at the
    top center of the cover page. Assign a number and a sequential copy number to each
    preliminary AETCTM. Example: Copy 2 of 10 copies.
    5.2. Time Compliance (Modification) AETCTM. Includes instructions for modifying
    trainers; performing or initiating special, one-time inspections; or imposing temporary trainer
    use restrictions.
    5.3. AETCTM. This manual includes procedures for assembly, disassembly, reassembly,
    operation, maintenance, service, overhaul, installation, inspection, and identification of
    trainer parts.

Section B—Publishing AETCTMs

6. Planning, Developing, and Distributing AETCTMs:
    6.1. Begin AETCTM planning and development early in the trainer design and development
    process. To save time, validate and verify at the same time. In a coordinated effort between
    the user and trainer development personnel, verify initial AETCTMs during development,
    test, and evaluation. Verification may continue into operational test and evaluation, if
    necessary.
    6.2. Document this process on AETC Form 372, Technical Manual Validation and
    Verification Record. The user and trainer development representative will sign the form. The
    trainer development activity will retain the form in the training device jacket file.
    6.3. After validation and verification, the OPR will coordinate with 2 AF/TTOC. OPRs may
    coordinate draft publications physically or electronically, but a completed AF Form 673, Air
    Force Publication/Form Action Request, and AETC Form 372 must accompany the draft
    submitted for publication. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
    guidance on completing the AF Form 673. 2 AF/TTOC will return the final draft, with
    coordination, comments, and approved AF Form 673, to the trainer development activity.
    Following coordination, the trainer development activity will publish the AETCTM. Provide
    at least one copy of the AETCTM for each trainer or training device. Note: Only civilian
    employees (not contractors or indirect-hire foreign national employees) and military
    members may coordinate on AETCTMs.
    6.4. When AETCTMs require revision, the OPR will send to 2 AF/TTOC for review,
    coordination, and approval. OPRs may coordinate draft publications using physical or
    electronic medium. A completed AF Form 673 must accompany the draft submitted for
    publication. 2 AF/TTOC will return the final draft, with coordination, comments, and
    approved AF Form 673 to the trainer development activity. Following coordination, the
    trainer development activity will publish the AETCTM. Provide at least one copy of the
    AETCTM for each trainer or training device.
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                    5


7. Preparing AETCTMs:
  7.1. Writing Style. The main consideration in preparing a technical publication is its
  technical content. Avoid vague and ambiguous terms. Use the simplest words and phrases
  that will convey the intended meaning. All essential information must be included, either by
  direct statements or reference.
     7.1.1. Use consistent terminology within the same publication or series of AETCTMs for
     maximum clarity and usefulness.
     7.1.2. Organize consistently within a publication or series of AETCTMs.
     7.1.3. Use short, concise sentences.
     7.1.4. Use punctuation that aids reading and avoids misinterpretation. Well planned
     sentence structure requires minimum punctuation. When punctuation is excessive, rewrite
     for clarity.
     7.1.5. Use the U.S. Government Printing Office Style Manual, available at
     http://www.gpoaccess.gov/stylemanual/index.html, as a general guide for
     capitalization, punctuation, compounded words, numerals, and nontechnical word
     spellings Use technical words only when no other word will convey the intended
     meaning. Do not underscore or use quotation marks for emphasis.
     7.1.6. Use section and paragraph headings that describe section contents. Avoid the use
     of “general” or “miscellaneous.”
     7.1.7. Mark pages that include emergency information with a broken black border.
     7.1.8. Use consistent part nomenclature terminology throughout parts lists, parts
     breakdown, and other directly related publications for maximum clarity and usefulness.
     7.1.9. Use specific serial numbers, block designations, specific model designations, or
     similar identification to explain applicability for individual items of equipment.
     7.1.10. Do not use such terms as “on later equipment” or “on earlier serial numbers.”
     7.1.11. Make no reference to age, sex, race, or national origin. Use gender neutral terms,
     avoiding the use of the word “person.” For example, use the nouns “firefighter” and
     “worker.” Note: Use of the terms “Airman,” “manpower,” “man-year,” and “man-day”
     are authorized.
     7.1.12. When graphics or illustrations are necessary to convey technical information or
     understanding, use gender neutral human figures that reflect a cross section of races.
  7.2. References. The text must refer to:
     7.2.1. Only models or types covered by the AETCTM. Keep references to a minimum to
     facilitate later coverage of modified or additional models or types.
     7.2.2. Temperature readings as calibrated on the equipment. If other than Fahrenheit, the
     equivalent in Fahrenheit will follow parenthetically. Use degrees Fahrenheit for general
     temperature references such as room temperature.
6                                                             AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


    7.2.3. Speed, distance, and meter readings as calibrated on the equipment. If the
    equipment uses the metric system, conversion to U.S. standards will follow in
    parentheses.
    7.2.4. Switch positions and panel markings exactly as marked on the equipment.
    However, symbols on panel markings may spell out the symbols for “Ohm,” “infinity,”
    etc.
    7.2.5. Measurements in U.S. standard units (ounces, pounds, gallons, inches, feet, knots,
    miles, etc.) except instances in which metric measurements are required.
    7.2.6. Illustrations by figure number, including section letter and number (when
    applicable), and the sheet number for multi-sheet illustrations. Refer only to illustrations
    within the same AETCTM. Include the figure and sheet number in references to multi-
    sheet illustrations.
    7.2.7. Index numbers on illustrations first, followed by the figure number. Example: 34,
    FIGURE 2-6.
       7.2.7.1. When multiple references in a paragraph refer to the same figure, only the
       first reference needs to indicate the figure number. For example, indicate
       “Disassembly of Air Valve (FIGURE 5-3). Unscrew safety disc retainer (2) from
       valve body (1) and remove safety disc (3) and safety disc washer (4).”
       7.2.7.2. When the sequence is unbroken for procedures requiring two or more pages,
       repeat the figure number followed by the word “continued’’ after the first reference
       on each succeeding page.
       7.2.7.3. If two or more figures are involved in the same sequence, cite the figure with
       the greater number of items as described above.
       7.2.7.4. Item callouts for items of remaining figures will have the figure number
       following the item number. Example: 21, FIGURE 5-4. In such cases, the paragraph
       lead-in will include a statement similar to this: Item numbers below refer to FIGURE
       5-4 unless otherwise indicated.
    7.2.8. Parts on diagrams by enough of their reference designation to identify the items.
    Example: B6A11.
    7.2.9. Tables by table number. Refer only to tables within the same AETCTM.
    7.2.10. Other supporting paragraphs in the same AETCTM. Use of the word “paragraph”
    or “subparagraph” before the number is optional. Be consistent in its use or omission.
    Avoid duplication of material within the manual except when required for clarity or
    emphasis.
    7.2.11. Other subparagraphs of the same primary paragraph as “above” or “below.”
    7.2.12. Other publication numbers (omitting dates, page, figure, and paragraph numbers)
    to avoid duplication of material exceeding two pages. Only reference publications within
    the publications system authorized at user level. Do not cross-reference when material of
    two pages or less is involved.
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                          7


       7.2.13. Footnotes, when essential for reference, explanation, comments, etc. If footnotes
       are used in the text, use consecutive numbers beginning with 1. As long as it is
       consistent, the numbering system may be per page, per section, or per manual. Do not
       repeat identical footnotes in the unit chosen for numbering (page, section, or manual). Do
       not use footnotes in the text for mandatory requirements. Number footnote references
       separately for each table according to the U.S. Government Printing Office Style Manual.
       Place footnotes to the text at the bottom of the page. Place footnotes to tables below the
       closing line of the applicable table.
   7.3. Grammatical Person and Mood. Use the second person imperative mood for
   procedures. (Example: Remove test set from carrying case.) Use third person indicative
   mood for description and discussion. (Example: When switch "A" is in the ON position,
   lamp 12 lights.)
   7.4. Abbreviations. Keep abbreviations to a minimum, and define each abbreviation the
   first time it appears in each section. Rule to follow: When in doubt, spell it out.
   7.5. Military Terms. For military term use, see Joint Publication (JP) 1-02, DoD
   Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, at http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/doddict/.
   7.6. Mandatory versus Nonmandatory Language. Use “shall,” “will,” or “must” to
   express a binding provision. (Note: It may be necessary to use “will” where simple futurity is
   required; for example, “power for the meter will be supplied by the trainer.”) Use “should” or
   “may” to express a nonmandatory provision.
   7.7. Tables, Charts, and Graphs. Present reference data (other than illustrations, drawings,
   and diagrams) in table, chart, or graph form. Any other type of data that lends itself to a table,
   chart, or graph may also be presented. Design tables, charts, and graphs so they are easily
   understood. Charts and graphs are considered illustrations and must be assigned figure
   numbers.
   7.8. Tabular Material. Inserting a small amount (determined case-by-case) of tabular
   information will not require referencing from adjacent. It may be included in a text
   paragraph without being identified as a table.

Section C—Specifications and Standards

8. Minimum Requirements. This instruction sets minimum requirements for AETCTM drafts,
camera ready copy and changes thereto. It includes all technical documents that are assigned an
AETC identification number and controlled by 2 AF/TTOC. Each AETCTM must include the
information in paragraphs 9 through 19 of this instruction, and placed in the format specified in
Section D. If an AETCTM covers different models, series, or configurations of equipment,
provide differential data sheets or a supplement manual, if needed.
9. Front Matter includes:
   9.1. Title Page. Each AETCTM must have a title page which serves as a cover page. This is
   an unnumbered page showing the AETCTM number, title, stock number, manufacturer’s
   name and address, publication date, and change number with date. See Attachment 2 for
   format and print size.
   9.2. List of Effective Pages. See Attachment 3 for a sample list of effective pages.
8                                                                  AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


       9.2.1. This page is the back of the title page and is identified in the lower outer corner by
       a capital letter “A.” When additional space is required, add page “B,” “C,” etc. The list of
       effective pages includes all manual pages, including title page, a list of effective pages,
       blank pages, added pages, deleted pages, and fold-out pages. Place the following
       statement at the top of page A of the list of effective pages: “Reproduction for
       nonmilitary use of the information or illustrations contained in this publication is not
       permitted.” This statement is not required on successive pages of the list of effective
       pages. Show applicable change or revision numbers and dates on the list of effective
       pages after this statement: DATES OF ISSUE FOR ORIGINAL AND CHANGED
       PAGES ARE:
       9.2.2. Update the list of effective pages for each AETCTM change or revision. Keep the
       list to a minimum by grouping numbers when applicable. List as separate numbers the
       printed side of the sheet and the blank number page, even though a double number will
       appear on the printed side of the sheet. Place the words “added” “deleted” or “blank”
       beside the page number of applicable pages. Show appropriate change numbers in the
       “Change No.” column.
    9.3. Table of Contents. For each AETCTM, prepare a table of contents, including a list of
    illustrations and tables. (See Attachment 4.) Ensure the table of contents lists the sections and
    paragraphs in the same order and with the exact titles used in the text. Show the page number
    of each section or paragraph. Omit paragraph titles from the table of contents in publications
    that include indexes. Show the figure number, title, and page number of each figure. Show
    the table number, title, and page number of each table.
    9.4. Safety Summary. Include a safety summary in each AETCTM. (See Attachment 5.)
    Include all general precautions (high voltage warning, warning against servicing alone, and
    resuscitation statement), warnings, and cautions. The summary must include shop-related
    general safety precautions that are not normally repeated in the text, such as use of safety
    glasses during grinding operations. However, if there is any doubt, include the warning or
    caution in the text.
    9.5. Introduction. Each AETCTM will contain an introduction or introductory material
    describing the scope and purpose of the AETCTM and any other information required by the
    technical content. (See Attachment 6.) Include descriptive information and details of the
    equipment.
    9.6. List of Proprietary Information Included. Copyrighted publications must have a
    copyright release from the publisher when included as an AETCTM insert. Other proprietary
    information will have a release from the originator. After the introductory paragraphs, list the
    proprietary information (Attachment 6) and the publisher or originator copyright release.
    9.7. Reference Publications. If needed for clarity, list publications that relate to the
    AETCTM subject matter or are specifically referenced in the AETCTM (Attachment 6).
10. Preparation for Use and Installation Instructions. Provide unusual unpacking and
assembling instructions. Explain inspection procedures for in-shipment damage. Provide special
installation instructions, such as foundation, ventilation, and clearance requirements; plumbing
and electrical connections; mounting details; wiring diagrams; initial lubrication instructions; and
alignment procedures, as appropriate.
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                       9


11. Theory of Operation. Provide necessary electrical and general theory of operation
instructions for operating and maintenance personnel understanding.
12. Operating Instructions. Instructions will include, but will not be limited to:
   12.1. Explanation of the use and function of each control or instrument.
   12.2. Initial adjustments and control settings.
   12.3. Startup.
   12.4. Normal operation.
   12.5. Operation under emergency, adverse, or abnormal conditions, if applicable.
   12.6. Shutdown - normal and emergency.
13. Maintenance Instructions (Preventive and Corrective). Annotate use of special tools and
test equipment including model or type designation, as appropriate. Include:
   13.1. Cleaning and Lubrication. Periodic cleaning and lubrication information covering
   types of cleaning agents or lubricants required, lubrication frequency, and intervals (monthly,
   quarterly, semiannually, hours of operation, etc.). Identify application points and capacity
   (required amounts). A pictorial format for lubrication is desirable, but not required. Identify
   cleaning and lubrication required during repair, replacement, and reassembly operations.
   13.2. Troubleshooting. Troubleshooting data and fault isolation techniques to correct
   malfunctions that might occur during equipment operation. Include:
       13.2.1. The trouble indication.
       13.2.2. Instructions necessary, including test hookups, to determine the cause.
       13.2.3. Restoration of the equipment to operating condition. Note: Information will be in
       table format with appropriate headings. (See Attachment 7.)
   13.3. Inspection. Provide instructions, including scheduling equipment for damage and
   wear inspection. Table or chart form is preferred, with emphasis on allowable service limits,
   wear, backlash, end play, balance, length and depth of scoring, etc. (Note: These tolerances
   are not to be confused with manufacturing tolerances. Allowable service limits are
   acceptable wear tolerances that will not impair performance.) This information must be
   sufficiently comprehensive to serve as a standard for experienced technicians to determine
   when parts may be continued in service and when they must be replaced.
   13.4. Performance Verification. When applicable, provide requirements for accuracy
   verification of equipment measurement devices needed to restore the equipment to original
   accuracy. These instructions provide complete step-by-step procedures to enable users to
   check indication or reading accuracy. Also include the locations of test connections and
   values at these points, and built-in, self-test feature adjustments, if any.
   13.5. Disassembly, Repair, Replacement, and Reassembly. Give instructions in the
   proper sequence for disassembling, repairing, replacing, and reassembling the equipment.
   Include test, adjustment, and checkout data after reassembly. Provide illustrations, including
   exploded views, as necessary for clarity.
10                                                                AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


14. Preparation for Reshipment Instructions. Include instructions for the disassembly,
removal, and separate packing of sensitive or fragile components; use of reusable shipping cases
or containers; special cradles; securing; covering and preservation; and precautions for
reshipment, shipment, and unloading.
15. Storage Instructions. If equipment is subject to be stored, include instructions for indoor
and outdoor storage, temperature limitations, storage facilities, dunnage, ventilation, revetting,
drainage, staking, grounding, covering, and preservation.
16. Parts List. The parts list provides positive identification of parts necessary for equipment
support, and sufficient information for personnel to requisition replacement parts.
     16.1. Parts List Illustrations. Provide clear, legible illustrations to identify component
     parts and parts relationship. Number and title the illustrations as specified in paragraph 27.1
     of this publication.
     16.2. Use of Index Numbers:
        16.2.1. Each illustration shows an index number which cross-references the illustrated
        part to the listed parts. Group parts by assemblies and subassemblies, with detail parts
        identified to the assembly of which they are components.
        16.2.2. Indent the subassembly nomenclature one space to the right of the assembly
        nomenclature. Indent the detail parts nomenclature one space to the right of the
        subassembly nomenclature. Use periods to fill the spaces caused by indenting. (See
        Attachment 8.)
        16.2.3. Index numbers for each separate figure should start with the Arabic number 1 and
        continue consecutively. Sequence should be from top to bottom or clockwise when
        possible. (Multi-sheet illustration set is one figure.)
        16.2.4. OPRs may use capital alphanumeric suffixes (3A, 3B, etc.) to identify new
        callouts inserted between items when an illustration is changed and/or in the basic
        AETCTM when errors are discovered so late in preparation that renumbering all
        following index numbers would delay publication.
        16.2.5. Do not eliminate suffixed index numbers solely for a revision unless the
        illustration is reaccomplished. Identify all functional items shown as exploded views
        except for exploded views used for disassembly.
     16.3. Vendor Parts. Identify purchased vendor components, assemblies, parts, and bulk
     items not of special design (such as bolts, washers, nuts, screws, keys, hinges, wire, cable,
     gasket material, tubing, hose, etc.) by the vendor’s Air Force-Navy part number, military
     standards part number, or National Aerospace standards part number, as appropriate.
     16.4. Trainer-Peculiar Parts. Assign a part number to each part the trainer development
     activity manufactures or exercises design control over, and for which the activity is the
     logical supplier. This includes vendor or commercial parts that have been altered or modified
     and can no longer be used in their original configuration. Establish part numbers for these
     items, using the drawing number and item number from the bill of materials. Asterisk (*)
     these items in the parts number list following the index number. (See Attachment 8, items 1
     and 7.)
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                      11


   16.5. Vendor Code. Include the commercial and government entity (CAGE) code in a
   separate column after the nomenclature column.
17. Illustrations. Each AETCTM must contain enough illustrations (line drawings and/or
halftones) to locate and identify all components of operational and maintenance significance and,
where necessary for clarity, to show the configuration, and removal and disassembly of parts.
When applicable, include exploded views showing the relationship of assemblies, subassemblies,
and detail parts; schematic diagrams showing the functional physical arrangement of component
devices or parts; wiring diagrams showing the physical electrical connections of the circuit
arrangement; and schematic piping diagrams showing the interconnection of piping, tubing, or
hose and the direction and sequence of fluid flow.
18. Diagrams. Provide circuit or plumbing diagrams to support theory, maintenance, and
troubleshooting.
19. Warnings, Cautions, and Notes. (See Attachment 9 for a sample key.) Warnings and
cautions will precede the text, but follow the paragraph headings to which they apply. Notes may
precede or follow the applicable text, depending on the material emphasized. Warnings, cautions,
and notes must not contain procedural steps, and do not number headings. Do not repeat the
heading WARNING, CAUTION, or NOTE when a warning, caution, or note consists of two or
more paragraphs. (If it is necessary to precede a paragraph by a warning and a note or a caution
and a note, etc., warnings precede cautions and cautions precede notes.) Warnings, cautions, and
notes must be short, concise, and used only to emphasize important or critical data. OPRs may
word warnings and cautions positively or negatively, and must state the hazard and result or
reason, unless it is obvious.

Section D—Format Requirements

20. Preparation. Prepare each AETCTM according to paragraphs 21 through 31 of this
instruction. Some paragraphs may not be required because of equipment design. In such cases,
delete the paragraph that is not required and reformat the package. Do not omit sections no
matter how simple they seem to be.
21. Front Matter:
   21.1. Title Page. See Attachment 2 for sample, format and print size.
   21.2. List of Effective Pages. See Attachment 3 for sample and format. The title must be 14
   point type. All other type must be 10 point or larger.
   21.3. Table of Contents. See Attachment 4 for sample table of contents. The table of
   contents will include a list of illustrations showing the figure number, title, and page number
   of each figure and a list of tables showing the table number, title, and page number of each
   table. The list of illustrations and tables will begin on the page following section VII in the
   table of contents. Note: When the lists of illustrations and tables are brief, both may be
   shown on the same page.
   21.4. Safety Summary. See Attachment 5 for sample safety summary. Each AETCTM
   must have a safety summary, which begins at the top of the right-hand page immediately
   following the list of illustrations and tables.
12                                                                 AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


     21.5. Introduction. See Attachment 6 for sample introduction. Each AETCTM must have
     an introductory paragraph or section, which starts at the top of a right-hand page immediately
     following the safety summary.
22. Text. Each AETCTM must include the information required by Chapter 3,and should be
divided into these sections:
     22.1. Section I, Description and Leading Particulars. This section provides the scope of
     the AETCTM, purpose of equipment, leading particulars, controls (location and function),
     and composite illustrations of the trainer. Show power requirements in a table. Include
     standby, operating, and surge amperage. Present all controls and their locations and functions
     in table format.
     22.2. Section II, Special Tools and Equipment. This section lists all special tools and
     equipment required to maintain the trainer.
     22.3. Section III, Preparation for Use and Reshipment. This section describes facilities
     required, and provides instruction for uncrating, installation, preparation for use, storage (if
     applicable), and preparation for reshipment. Provide trainer dimensions and weights in table
     format.
     22.4. Section IV, Operation. This section covers the theory of operation (mechanical and
     electrical), safety precautions, power up, operating procedures, and shutdown (emergency
     and normal) instructions.
     22.5. Section V, Maintenance. This section provides maintenance requirements and
     instructions for maintaining the trainer. This includes preventive maintenance, cleaning,
     lubrication, inspection, troubleshooting, removal and replacement, repairs, and/or
     adjustments. Provide tables outlining minimum performance standards (may only be an
     electrical power check), cleaning, refinishing materials and lubricants, and troubleshooting.
     Present data in table format. The troubleshooting table should list the trouble or malfunction,
     probable cause, and inspection or remedy (corrective action required).
     22.6. Section VI, Diagrams. This section includes the schematics or diagrams (wiring,
     hydraulic, plumbing, etc.) required to maintain the trainer, an explanation of wire numbers or
     color codes, and a list of diagram data. Include a diagram index showing the figure number
     and title of each schematic or diagram in a table.
     22.7. Section VII, Illustrated Parts Breakdown (IPB). This section provides the
     illustrated parts breakdown, maintenance parts list, and a numerical index (if applicable).
     Include instructions on how to use the parts list and how to obtain trainer unique items. List
     manufacturers’ names, addresses and CAGE codes if available.
23. Final Draft Copy, Preparation Methods. Equipment used to prepare the AETCTM must
be able to provide clear, legible publications at the most economical initial preparation and
follow-up cost ), including reproduction, printing, handling, filing, storing, and shipping. Type
size must be at least 10 point. Fasten page elements that are not printed on the page, such as
corrections, to the page in a manner that will permit repeated handling without losing stripped-in
portions. Single space text in a single column with contrasting weight (bold face) or font
headings.
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                         13


24. Final Draft Copy--Leading and Spacing. Conserve space without affecting readability or
clarity. Avoid blank pages and spaces whenever possible. Use leading and spacing for best
legibility and conservation of space. Single space paragraphs. Slight variations are permitted to
avoid widows and orphans (first or last line of a paragraph on a different page); side heads that
fall on the last line of a page; divided warnings, cautions, and notes; or illustrations and graphics
in undesirable locations.
25. Margin Copy. Margin copy may consist of the change number, page content or equipment
identification, figure number and title, and page number. Mount margin copy on full page
illustrations, including those for foldout pages that have been prepared in exact printing size (or
in the same size as text pages). Full-page photographs that are oversized must either have the
margin copy separate or prepared proportionately oversized and mounted on (included in) the
photograph. Do not put margin copy on an overlay. (Note: Place margin copy outside the portion
of the page used for narrative text or full page illustrations, but within the printing area.)
26. Identification Number. See Attachment 2 for location and print size.
27. Numbering. Number AETCTMs as described in paragraphs 27.1 through 27.7.
   27.1. Pages, Paragraphs, Tables, and Illustrations. Number pages, paragraphs, tables,
   and illustrations consecutively within each section, using two-part Arabic numerals separated
   by a hyphen. The first numeral is the section number; the second numeral is the order within
   the section. The page number appears in the lower outer corner of each page. For example,
   page 5-3 is the third page in section V, while paragraph 5-3 would be the third paragraph in
   section V. Table 5-3 is the third table in section V. (A section may contain both a Figure 5-3
   and a Table 5-3.) When a section starts with a full-page illustration, the illustration may be
   placed on a left-hand page and the page numbered “zero”; for example, 1-0, 3-0, etc. Number
   multi-sheet illustrations consecutively following the title. (Example: “Figure 7-2. Seat-man
   Separator Motor Clutch Assembly. [Sheet 1 of 3 Sheets]”). Number remaining sheets in
   consecutive order ( i.e., Sheet 2, Sheet 3, etc.).
   27.2. Blank Page. A blank page is accounted for, but the number appears on the preceding
   or following page. For example, if page 6 of section I is blank, page 5 is numbered 1-5/ (1-6
   Blank); or if page 5 of section I is blank, page 6 is numbered (1-5 blank)/1-6. Also, when
   applicable, an added page, such as 1-6.1, should show that page 1-6.2 is blank.
   27.3. Title Page. Do not number the title page.
   27.4. List of Effective Pages. Identify the list of effective pages by the capital letter “A” in
   the lower left corner. When additional space is required, add pages “B,” “C,” etc.
   27.5. Front Matter. Number all front matter pages following the list of effective pages and
   preceding section I with sequential, lower case Roman numerals (i.e., i, ii, iii, iv, etc.).
   27.6. Procedural Steps. Identify procedural steps and subordinate steps consecutively.
   Identify procedural steps by lower case letters (a, b, c, etc.) and sub-steps by Arabic
   numerals.
   27.7. Appendixes. When used, identify appendices by capital letters. (Example:
   APPENDIX A, APPENDIX B, etc.) Number pages, paragraphs, illustrations, and tables for
   appendices consecutively in Arabic numerals, separated by a dash and preceded by the
   capital letter of the appendix. Example: A-7 is the seventh page or paragraph in APPENDIX
14                                                                  AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


     A; Figure B-1 is the first illustration in APPENDIX B; Table C-1 is the first table in
     APPENDIX C.
28. Headings. Center numbers and titles for each section at the top of the first page of text.
Start each section on a right-hand page and center the section title two lines below the section
number.
29. Indentations. Indent all lines of warnings, cautions, and notes 1/2 inch from both left and
right margins, with a justified left margin and ragged right margin.
30. Tables and Charts. Prepare tables and charts according to paragraphs 30.1 through 30.4.
     30.1. Final Draft Copy. Place a horizontal rule at the beginning (head) and at the end (foot)
     of a table or chart. Center the table or chart number and title in capital letters above the head
     rule. Capitalize box titles. Design tables so related entries in different columns are aligned.
     30.2. Continued Material. When a chart or table is continued on a following page, repeat
     the number and title at the head of the columns on all subsequent table pages, followed by a
     dash and the abbreviation “cont.” Repeat box head titles also. When information opposite an
     item is continued, repeat the item or its identifying number or letter followed by a dash and
     the abbreviation “cont.”
     30.3. Footnotes. Number chart or table independently from text footnotes. Indicate the
     references by consecutive superior numbers within each chart or table. (Upper case letters,
     asterisks, or another designation may be used where numbers would cause confusion.) Use
     footnotes sparingly, as necessary for clarity, and place immediately below the referenced
     chart or table, on the second line below the closing rule. Notes begin on the left margin and
     carryover lines return to the number of the note or to the point where the text begins if only
     one note.
     30.4. Rules. Tables may be ruled vertically, if necessary for clarity. Place a horizontal rule
     at the beginning and at the end of each chart or table. Omit the closing rule at the foot of a
     continued chart or table; omit the opening rule on the continuation.
31. Illustration Placement and Legends (Keys):
     31.1. Illustration Cutline. Indicate the point where an illustration, chart, or table goes with
     a break in the text, and insert the figure number and title. (See Attachment 10.) Place cutlines
     at the end of the first paragraph, or subparagraph, to which they pertain. Begin the figure
     number at the left margin with a 1-inch space above and below the cutline. Place cutlines for
     fold-out illustrations at the end of the text. For final draft, mount the illustration, chart, or
     table in place and the cutline will be the figure title.
     31.2. Figure Titles. Assign each illustration a figure title. Begin the title two spaces to the
     right of the figure number. Figure titles should begin with an identifying name, such as panel
     assembly or engine start. Use short titles that describe illustration contents or purpose.
     31.3. Illustration Key. For final draft, if space permits, place the key on the illustration
     page. Otherwise, begin it at the top of the page immediately following the illustration. Divide
     the key into two or more columns to conserve space. (See Attachment 9.)
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                      15


      31.4. Divisions. Divide each AETCTM into sections and paragraphs. Title each section and
      numbered paragraph, except procedural steps or statements that follow a colon. Begin the
      second and all subsequent subparagraph lines at the left margin. See Figure 1 for breakout
      example.

Figure 1. Breakout Subordination Example.
 5-12. NONREVERSIBLE VALUE:
 a. Removal.
 b. Disassembly.
         31.4.1. Sections. Number sections consecutively using Roman numerals.
         31.4.2. Paragraphs. Divide text into primary paragraphs and subordinate paragraphs.
         Subordinate paragraphs may be further divided into first subordinate paragraphs or
         procedural steps. Procedural steps may be further divided, if necessary for clarity. Use
         alphanumeric paragraph numbering.
         31.4.3. Paragraph Headings. Identify paragraph headings as primary side heads, first
         subordinate, second subordinate, etc. Periods follow paragraph headings. All numbered
         paragraphs have a side head. Handle paragraphs without side heads as procedural steps.
         31.4.4. Primary Side Heads. Primary side heads are normally used to divide text within
         a section into two or more portions. There should be at least one primary side head in
         each section. Primary side heads stand alone and should appear in capital letters. They
         should begin on the left margin and should be underscored or boldfaced.
         31.4.5. Subordinate Side Heads. Number subordinate side heads and have the order of
         heading as shown in Figure 1.

Figure 2. Order of Heading.
(1) 1-1. PRIMARY SIDEHEAD
(2)             a. First Subordinate Side Head. Xxxx xxx xxxxx x xx xxx xxxxxxx.
(3)                                (1) First Sub-subordinate Side Head. Xxx xxx xxx xxx xxxx
                                   xxx (see note).
OR
(1) 1-1. PRIMARY SIDEHEAD
(2)                       a. First Subordinate Side Head. Xxxx xxx xx xxxxx xxx xxxx
                          xxxxx.
(3)                        (1) First Sub-subordinate Side Head. Xxxx xxxx xxx xxx (see
                          note).

Note: Breakdowns beyond the first sub-subordinate paragraph or first subordinate procedural
step are not normally required. The number of the first subordinate side head or first procedural
step begins in the same position where the text begins in the primary side head. The number of
the second subordinate or first subordinate procedural step begins in the same position where the
text begins in the first subordinate side head or first procedural step. The second and all
following lines of subordinate side heads begin in the same position where the number of the
16                                                                 AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


subordinate side head begins. The second and all following lines of procedural steps and
subordinate procedural steps begin at the same position where the text begins. Capitalize the first
letter of the first word of the title and of each principal word. The text begins on the same line as
the title, separated by a period and two spaces.
       31.4.6. Procedural Steps. Use procedural steps to provide step-by-step instructions, for
       such tasks as disassembly, reassembly, and adjustment procedures. Steps may be further
       divided into sub-steps. Number each procedural step.
       31.4.7. Appendixes. Capitalize and center appendix headings. Appendices immediately
       follow the last section of the manual. Number pages, paragraphs, and illustrations and
       identify them as outlined above.

32. Prescribed Forms:

AETC Form 372, Technical Manual Validation and Verification Record

33. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AETC Form 1236, Request for Improving/Changing AETC Maintenance Publications




                                              GARRY B. RICHEY, SES
                                              Director of Logistics, Installations
                                              and Mission Support
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                      17


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 13
November 2009
AFPD 63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Lifecycle Management, 3 April 2009
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AETCTM 20022352-06, MQ-1B Predator Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), March 2005
U.S. Government Printing Office Style Manual, 2008
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and
Procedures, 30 April 2003
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System, 17 May 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETCTM—Air Education and Training Command technical manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
CAGE—commercial and government entity
OPR—office of primary responsibility
TO—technical order

Terms
Box Head Title—Titles enclosed by rules at the head of table or chart columns.
CAGE Code—Five (5) position code that identifies companies doing or wishing to do business
with the federal government. The code format requires the first and fifth positions be numeric.
The second, third, and fourth may be any alpha/numeric combination, excluding I and O.
Callout—Items used on an illustration to help identify the objects, such as index numbers,
nomenclatures, leader lines, arrows, procedures, and, when placed directly on the illustration,
legends (keys).
CAUTION—Operating or maintenance procedure, practice, condition, or statement that, if not
strictly observed, could result in equipment damage or destruction, loss of mission effectiveness,
or long term health hazards.
Change—Corrected pages to the basic manual totaling 80 percent or less.
Commercial Publication—Manual, booklet, or similar data furnished by manufacturers to
product or equipment purchasers.
18                                                              AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


Final Draft (Formal or Final Manual)— Final document with illustrations, tables, and charts;
ready for printing and publication as an authenticated AETCTM.
Format—Configuration and text layout.
Illustration Cutline—Point where an illustration, table, or chart will be placed; indicated by a
break in the text and the insertion of the figure number and title. (See Attachment 10.)
Index Numbers and Letters—Callouts which consist of a number or letter leading to a legend
(key) which defines the symbol used.
Layout Page—Blank sheet showing marginal copy only; used by an editor to indicate where
text, illustrations, and tabular data will appear on the reproducible copy.
Leader Lines—Line with or without arrowheads extending from the index number, letter, or
nomenclature to the item.
Legend (key)—A tabular list of the key numbers or letters and their meaning.
Nomenclature Callout—Nomenclatures or partial nomenclatures placed directly on an
illustration. Example:“articulated gadget,” “1/2-inch widget.” Note: An essential operating or
maintenance procedure, condition, or statement that must be emphasized.
Preliminary AETCTM—For interim test, verification, training, and operational use pending
receipt of formal, published AETCTM.
Publication Date—Date set by the trainer development activity after which no additions,
deletions, or changes will be made to the publication material.
Revision—Second or subsequent edition of an AETCTM that supersedes the preceding edition
and has a new basic date. It includes all existing changes. Normally, an AETCTM is revised
when the pages affected by existing changes, in addition to pages requiring change, total 80
percent or more of the AETCTM.
Section—Each major functional subdivision of AETCTMs prescribed by this instruction.
Supplement—Subsidiary document that complements information in a manual.
Technical Data—Scientific or technical information, regardless of form or characteristics.
Technical Manual—Publication or other form of documentation that has a description of
equipment with instructions for effective use, including initial preparation for use (operation,
maintenance, overhaul, parts lists or parts breakdown), and related technical procedures.
Validation—Actual performance of operation and maintenance procedures to ensure they are
technically accurate, complete, and compatible with all applicable specification requirements.
Validation includes, but is not limited to, configuration inspection, circuit analysis,
troubleshooting, checkout, calibration, alignment, fault isolation, removal, repair and
replacement instructions, and associated checklists, if applicable.
Verification—Process by which AETCTMs are tested and proven; conducted in an operational
environment to ensure AETCTMs are clear, logical, and adequate for equipment operation and
maintenance, and to certify compatibility with pertinent hardware, tools, and support equipment.
WARNING—Operating or maintenance procedure, practice, condition, or statement that could
result in injury or death if not strictly observed.
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                       19


                               Attachment 2
                            SAMPLE TITLE PAGE
20                                                                 AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


                                           Attachment 3
                           SAMPLE LIST OF EFFECTIVE PAGES

Reproduction of the information or illustrations in this publication for nonmilitary use is not
permitted.
INSERT LATEST CHANGED PAGES. DESTROY SUPERSEDED PAGES.
LIST OF EFFECTIVE PAGES
Note: The portion of the text affected by the changes is indicated by a vertical line in the outer
margins of the page.
DATES OF ISSUE FOR ORIGINAL AND CHANGED PAGES ARE:
Original ………………… 0 ………………………… 3 May 94
Change ………………… 1 ………………………… 10 Aug 94
TOTAL NUMBER OF PAGES IN THIS PUBLICATION IS 84, INCLUDING THE
FOLLOWING:
Page         ……………………………….... *Change
No           ………………………………....                         No
Title        ………………………………....                           1
A            ………………………………....                           1
1-1...1-6    ………………………………....                           0
2-1          ………………………………....                           1
2-2 Blank    ………………………………....                           1
3-1A...3-4 ………………………………....                             0
3-5          ………………………………....                           1
3-6….3-8     ………………………………....                           0
4-1...4-7    ………………………………....                           0
4-8          ………………………………....                           1
5-1...5-10   ………………………………....                           0
6-1...6-4    ………………………………....                           0
7-1…7-28 ………………………………....                               0
* Zero in this column indicates an original page
A Change 1
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                    21


                                        Attachment 4
                             SAMPLE TABLE OF CONTENTS

A4.1. When the list of illustrations and list of tables are brief, both may be shown on the same
page.
22   AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010   23
24                                                               AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


                                          Attachment 5
                               SAMPLE SAFETY SUMMARY

SAFETY SUMMARY

The following are general safety precautions that are not related to any specific procedures.
These are recommended precautions that personnel must understand and apply during many
phases of operation and maintenance.

KEEP AWAY FROM LIVE CIRCUITS

Operating personnel must, at all times, observe all safety regulations. Do not replace components
or make adjustments inside the equipment with the high voltage supply turned on. Under certain
conditions, dangerous potentials may exist when the power control is in the OFF position due to
charges retained by capacitors. To avoid casualties, always remove power and discharge and
ground a circuit before touching it.

DO NOT SERVICE OR ADJUST ALONE

Under no circumstances will any person reach into or enter the enclosure for the purpose of
servicing or adjusting the equipment except in the presence of someone who is capable of
rendering aid.

RESUSCITATION

Personnel working with or near high voltages should be familiar with modern methods of
resuscitation. Personnel performing maintenance above the user level (which requires working
near high voltages) must be a graduate of an approved cardiopulmonary resuscitation course.

                                          WARNING

To prevent injury to personnel and damage to equipment, be sure that all electrical power is
removed from the facility power box before proceeding.

                                          WARNING

In case of emergency that could cause injury to personnel or damage to equipment, press the
EMERGENCY POWER OFF switch.

                                          WARNING

To prevent injury to personnel or damage to equipment, power must not be applied while
performing the following procedures.
                                         WARNING

Disconnect all electrical power before cleaning with any liquid cleaning agent. Injury to
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                      25


personnel and damage to trainer due to short circuit or fire may result. When cleaning with
solvent, be sure the area is well-ventilated to prevent concentrations of fumes which may be
poisonous or explosive.

                                          WARNING

High voltages which can cause death or injury are present in the seat and canopy.
26                                                                 AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


                                          Attachment 6
                                  SAMPLE INTRODUCTION

                                        INTRODUCTION

1. PURPOSE OF THIS MANUAL. This manual provides operation and maintenance
information on the F-16 Cockpit Familiarization Trainer (CFT), Stock Number 6910L100210J,
Design Number 89-94-1117, designed and fabricated by the Trainer Development Flight,
Randolph Air Force Base, Texas. The trainer simulates the cockpit of the F-16 aircraft.

2. CONTENTS OF THIS MANUAL. This manual is divided into seven sections for ease in
locating the type of information desired. Information pertaining to trainer-peculiar systems,
components, or operation is presented in the following sections:

Section I, Description and Leading Particulars, includes the scope of the manual, purpose of
equipment, description, leading particulars, control location and function, and a composite
illustration of the trainer.

Section II, Special Tools and Equipment, lists special tools and support equipment required to
maintain the trainer.

Section III, Preparation for Use and Reshipment, describes the facilities required for the trainer,
installation, preparation for use, and preparation for reshipment. A table is included which lists
dimensions and weight of trainer.

Section IV, Operation, provides theory of operation, safety precautions, and operating
procedures.

Section V, Maintenance, describes the maintenance required for the trainer.

Section VI, Wiring Diagrams, includes the wiring diagrams required to maintain the trainer, an
explanation of wire numbers/color codes, and a list of wiring diagram data.

Section VII, Illustrated Parts Breakdown, contains the illustrated parts breakdown, maintenance
parts list, numerical index, and the reference designation index.
3. USE OF THIS MANUAL. A table of contents indicates section, paragraph, title, and page
number to facilitate location of information. Illustrations, tables, and diagrams are located
throughout the publication to supplement the text. Schematics and wiring diagrams are included
to facilitate part replacement, troubleshooting, and testing. A list of illustrations and tables
indicates number, title, and location. Abbreviations, phrases, and words on a decal, placard, or an
engraving are set forth in the text exactly as they appear on a decal, placard, or engraving.

4. REPAIR KITS. None are required.

5. CHANGE RECOMMENDATIONS. Proposed changes to this manual should be submitted
through command channels to:
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                   27


12 MSG/TF
660 A Street West
Randolph AFB TX 78150-4515
6. RELATED PUBLICATIONS. This manual includes copyright material and release letters
for Attachments 1 and 2, which are on file at the Randolph Trainer Development Flight, 12
MSG/TF, Randolph AFB TX 78150. Copyright material is used with the permission of:

Bell and Cossett                               Holman Inc.
8200 Austin                                    15378 Cypress Park
Morton IL 60143                                Fort Wayne IN 61512
7. REFERENCE PUBLICATIONS. Listed below are publications related to the subject matter
or specifically referenced in this manual:

TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System, 17 May 2007

TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and
Procedures, 30 April 2003
28                                                       AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


                                     Attachment 7
     SAMPLE BOX HEAD TITLES, TABLE RULES, CONTINUED TABLES, TABLE
                   FOOTNOTES, AND COLUMN ENTRIES

Figure A7.1. Sample Box Head Titles, Table Rules, Continued Tables, Table Footnotes and
Column Entries.
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                    29


                                        Attachment 8
                                   SAMPLE PARTS LIST

A8.1. When illustration is large or detailed, use two pages. Place illustration on left page and
text on facing right page. (See Figure A8.1.)

Figure A8.1. Panel Assembly, Air Condition Control Installation.
30                                                 AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010


                                    Attachment 9
      SAMPLE WARNINGS, CAUTIONS, NOTES, AND ILLUSTRATION KEYS

Figure A9.1. Warnings, Cautions, and Notes.




Figure A9.2. Illustration Key.
AETCI63-102 14 APRIL 2010                                                                            31


                                          Attachment 10
     SAMPLE TYPICAL DRAFT COPY PAGE WITH ILLUSTRATION CUTLINE

 SECTION I
1-1. SCOPE OF MANUAL. This manual provides description, operation, maintenance, special
tools, support equipment, and illustrated parts breakdown information for the . . .

1-2. PURPOSE OF EQUIPMENT. The trainer is used to familiarize the student with the
location of controls, operation of equipment, procedures, and any other features affecting . . . .

1-3. DESCRIPTION. The trainer (Figure 1-1) is a . . . .

FIGURE 1-1. T-38 EJECTION SEAT TRAINER (FRONT VIEW).

1-4. POWER REQUIREMENTS. The trainer requires an external source of 115VAC, single-
phase, 50/60 Hz electrical power for . . . .
