BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                COMMAND INSTRUCTION 10-401
COMMAND
                                                                         21 DECEMBER 2010
                                                              Incorporating Through Change 2,
                                                                                28 APRIL 2014

                                                                                    Operations

                                                   CONTINGENCY PLANS MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AETC/A3OX                                               Certified by: HQ AETC/A2/3O
                                                                          (Col Mark R. Morris)
                                                                                     Pages: 22


This instruction implements AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary
Force (AEF), 30 April 2009. It contains the procedures that will be used for base level plans
management under AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance. This guide
outlines the responsibilities and procedures for base-level plan development and unit-level plan
management. This instruction implements command guidance for contingency/operational
planning at Headquarters, Air Education and Training Command (HQ AETC) and AETC bases.
It is applicable to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) operational planners. It is not applicable
to Air National Guard (ANG) units. It describes HQ staff responsibilities and provides guidance
for maintenance of base-level operational plans. This applies to tenant organizations as well as
HQ AETC-owned activities.

Units coordinate local supplements to this instruction through AETC/A3OX prior to publication.
Submit suggested changes to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through command channels, to HQ AETC/A3OX, 1 F Street, Suite 2, Randolph
AFB TX, 78150-4325. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Management System (RDS) located in Air Force Management System(AFRIMS) on the Air
Force Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                                                 AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


Introduction Note: Experience and history have shown that actions taken during an emergency,
contingency, or disaster response, as well as recovery actions, are much more effective if
planned. Plans help units respond to a crisis and minimize the time it takes to organize and begin
recovery actions. The longer it takes a unit to react effectively, the greater the potential for loss
of life and USAF resources. Plans help focus our efforts so we do the right things quickly and
the most important things first. When more than one person is involved, plans help sort out who
does what and when. Plans, operating instructions, and checklists are commonly considered the
products of planning. When preparing plans, never forget that personnel organized, equipped,
and trained to respond to a variety of contingencies are the most important “product” of
planning.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AETCI 10-401 by removing all references to the AETC/A3OX
Community of Practice and replaces with AETC/A3OX SharePoint site and classification
procedures in para 5.1.1. , removes the requirement for Self Inspection Reports to be posted on
the AETC/A3OX CoP and requires wings/units to utilize the Management Internal Control
Toolset (MICT). This change also implements a tiered approach for signifying the appropriate
waiver authority as indicated in parentheses (T-0, T-1, T-2, or T-3) following the
sentence/paragraph that drives the requirement, IAW AFI 33-360. A margin bar (|) indicates
newly revised material.

       1.      Program Elements: .................................................................................................        3
       2.      Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................    3
       3.      Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG): .................................................................                         8
       4.      Staff Assistance Visits: ..........................................................................................        9
       5.      Plan Organization: .................................................................................................       9
       6.      Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................      13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           14

Attachment 2—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE TABLE OF CONTENTS FORMAT                                                                            15

Attachment 3—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE BASIC PLAN                                                                                          17

Attachment 4—(CLASSIFICATION) SAMPLE ANNEX FORMAT                                                                                        19

Attachment 5—RECONSTITUTION OF MISSION PLAN FORMAT                                                                                       21
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                      3



1. Program Elements:
   1.1. Plans Listing. The Plans Listing is designed to provide a condensed reference of all
   AETC contingency plans. The listing outlines HQ AETC plans and all wing-level plans
   required by HQ AETC or Headquarters, United States Air Force (HQ USAF)
   directives. All references and requirements for Wing Plans Officers refer to Host Wing
   Plans Officers when an installation has more than one wing (i.e. Sheppard AFB – 80 FTW/82
   TRW). AETC wing plans officers will publish a base plans listing adapted to their base. (T-
   2) The base plans listing will be reviewed annually and updated as necessary. (T-2) AETC
   tenant organizations will provide plans information for the host unit summary. (T-2)
       1.1.1. AETC Contingency Plans Listing. Every January, HQ AETC/A3OX will publish
       a listing of AETC contingency plans. (T-2) The listing includes all plans published by
       HQ AETC and all wing plans required by HQ AETC or HQ USAF plans and directives.
       This listing is provided to assist wing plans officers and applicable HQ AETC staff OPRs
       with plan development and management. The listing may be accessed via the HQ
       AETC/A3OX SharePoint Site at https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-OP-AE-97/
       1.1.2. To assist HQ AETC/A3OX in updating the AETC contingency plans listing, all
       HQ AETC directorates who require wings to prepare base-level or supporting plans will
       review their requirements and provide updates to AETC/A3OX by December to ensure
       currency of the listing. (T-2)
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. HQ AETC Functional Staff will:
       2.1.1. Publish the initial contingency plan, to include all changes and revisions. (T-2)
       2.1.2. Review base-level contingency plans for accuracy of content within 45 days of
       plan publication. (T-2)
       2.1.3. Provide guidance to subordinate units on contingency plans for which they are
       responsible. (T-2)
       2.1.4. Monitor suspense’s for base-level contingency plan publication and distribution.
       (T-2)
   2.2. HQ AETC/A3OX will:
       2.2.1. Determine plan format. If not specified by other directives, use the format
       presented in this instruction. (T-2)
       2.2.2. Accomplish and distribute AETC Contingency Plans Listing in January of each
       year and or when updated. (T-2)
   2.3. Unit Commanders. Commanders that own wing plans must ensure the following:
       2.3.1. Appoint a Unit Plans OPR and designate a primary and at least one alternate OPR
       Plans Manager to facilitate the wing planning program. Appointments are a minimum of
       one year. (T-2)
4                                                      AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


    2.3.2. Approve plan changes and reviews on wing plans for which the organization is the
    OPR. (T-2)
    2.3.3. Establish an OPR for the plan(s) for which the unit is responsible. Appoint in
    writing a primary and at least one alternate Unit Plans OPR. (T-2)
    2.3.4. Ensure plans-related suspense deadlines are met. (T-2)
    2.3.5. Ensure unit representation at Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG). (T-2)
    2.3.6. Conduct staff assistance visits (SAVs) at least once per calendar year with all
    AETC and tenant organizations having contingency plan requirements. Document SAV
    results and keep on file for two years. AETC tenant organizations will establish a similar
    program within their AOR.
    2.3.7. Ensure all plans representatives conduct a self-inspection of their program at least
    once per calendar year. AETC tenant wings will ensure programs under their purview
    conduct self inspections at least once per calendar year.
    2.3.8. AETC host wing plans officers should strongly consider establishing a wing plans
    working group (WPWG) comprised of plans representatives from functional areas and
    tenants with support requirements. AETC tenant wing plans offices should participate in
    host wing plans working groups as necessary.
    2.3.9. Review and ensure the wing commander (or designated representative) approves
    base contingency plans.
    2.3.10. Review the current AETC Contingency Plans Listing to ensure compliance with
    plans requirements.
    2.3.11. Ensure proper distribution of base plans to tasked organizations and the
    appropriate HQ AETC functional OPR. Distribution of the wing contingency plans will
    be in accordance with the HQ AETC Contingency Plans Listing. AETC tenant wings
    will ensure correct distribution within their wing.
    2.3.12. Conduct key personnel briefings to include:
       2.3.12.1. Initial briefings on all base-level war and contingency plans for newly
       assigned key personnel within 60 days after they assume that position. The wing
       commander designates key personnel in writing (normally group and squadron
       commanders, others as desired).
       2.3.12.2. Refresher briefings on plans for designated key personnel annually.
    2.3.13. Publish local guidance for plans management. Include HQ AETC/A3OX in
    distribution. Consider the following for inclusion in the document:
       2.3.13.1. Plans development, coordination, approval, publication, and revision
       guidance.
       2.3.13.2. Supporting checklist development.
       2.3.13.3. Unit plans representative guidance.
       2.3.13.4. Base-level plans summary (AETC host wings only).
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  5


     2.3.14. Prepare a Wing Contingency Plans listing to include, as a minimum, plan short
     title, date published, OPR, and changes posted. Update as necessary, but at least
     annually, and distribute to all wing and tenant unit plans representatives. AETC tenant
     units will create a similar listing for their plans.
     2.3.15. Ensure all base level plans are available either by electronic means (i.e., CoP,
     SIPRnet, NIPRnet, SharePoint) or hard copy in accordance with the HQ AETC
     Contingency Plans Listing. AETC tenant wings will ensure similar availability for their
     plans.
  2.4. Wing Plans Officers (Operational Planners):
     2.4.1. Must have a Secret clearance. (T-2) If handling of classified material is required,
     the wing plans officer will also have access to SIPRnet. (T-2)
     2.4.2. Review all base-level operations/contingency plans before final publication and
     distribution. (T-2) AETC tenant organization plans officers will review AETC-mandated
     plans and supplements to host-unit plans. (T-2) Ensure the wing commander (or
     designated representative) approves base contingency plans.
     2.4.3. If serving as OPR for a plan, coordinate on and delegate responsibilities for
     preparation of functional area inputs. The OPR is determined by the source document
     requiring the plan or by the wing commander.       Normally, the base OPR will be
     functionally aligned with the HQ AETC OPR. (T-2)
     2.4.4. Provide training for newly-assigned AETC and tenant organization plans
     representatives within 60 days of appointment. (T-2) AETC tenant organization plans
     officers need only brief newly assigned AETC plans representatives. Items covered
     should include key responsibilities, plans format, plans review, staff assistance visits
     (SAVs), and local considerations.
     2.4.5. Establish a plans review program. Consideration should be given to aligning
     reviews with functional AFI requirements. In the absence of such guidance, plans will be
     reviewed at least once in a 24-month period. (T-2) Plans mandated to be reviewed more
     frequently by higher headquarter directives will be reviewed accordingly. AETC tenant
     organizations will establish a similar program within their Area Of Responsibility (AOR).
     (T-2)
     2.4.6. Conduct staff assistance visits (SAVs) at least once per calendar year with all
     AETC and tenant organizations having contingency plan requirements. (T-2) Document
     SAV results and keep on file for two years. (T-2) AETC tenant organizations will
     establish a similar program within their AOR. (T-2)
     2.4.7. Ensure all plans representatives conduct a self-assessment of their program at least
     once per calendar year utilizing the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT). (T-2)
     AETC tenant wings will ensure programs under their purview conduct self inspections at
     least once per calendar year. (T-2)
     2.4.8. AETC host wing plans officers should strongly consider establishing a wing plans
     working group (WPWG) comprised of plans representatives from functional areas and
     tenants with support requirements. AETC tenant plans offices should participate in host
     wing plans working groups as necessary.
6                                                          AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


       2.4.9. Review the current AETC Contingency Plans Listing to ensure compliance with
       plans requirements. (T-2)
       2.4.10. Ensure all base level plans are available either by electronic means (i.e., SIPRnet,
       NIPRnet, SharePoint) or hard copy. AETC tenant wings will ensure similar availability
       for their plans. (T-2)
       2.4.11. Ensure proper distribution of base plans to tasked organizations and the
       appropriate HQ AETC functional OPR. (T-2) Distribution of the wing contingency plans
       will be in accordance with the HQ AETC Contingency Plans Listing. AETC tenant
       wings will ensure correct distribution within their wing. (T-2)
       2.4.12. Conduct key personnel training to include:
           2.4.12.1. Initial briefings on all base-level war and contingency plans for newly
           assigned key personnel within 60 days after they assume that position. (T-2) The
           wing commander designates key personnel in writing (normally group and squadron
           commanders, and other designees as desired). WPOs may delegate key personnel
           briefings for tenant unit/wing personnel to Tenant Wing Plans Officers when properly
           trained to accomplish task.
           2.4.12.2. Refresher briefings on plans for designated key personnel annually. (T-2)
           Use this opportunity to work with key personnel (commanders) to emphasize the
           importance of creating strong objectives for exercises to test/evaluate each plan and
           identify Limiting Factors (LIMFACs). It is essential LIMFACs identified throughout
           the year be resolved through the creation of processes mitigating shortfalls.
       2.4.13. Publish local guidance for plans management. (T-2) Include HQ AETC/A3OX
       in distribution. Consider the following for inclusion in the document:
           2.4.13.1. Plans development, coordination, approval, publication, and revision
           guidance.
           2.4.13.2. Supporting checklist development.
           2.4.13.3. Unit Plans Representative (UPR) and Unit Plans OPR guidance.
           2.4.13.4. Base-level plans listing (AETC host wings only).
           2.4.13.5. Guidance for development of plans checklists.
       2.4.14. Prepare a Wing Contingency Plans listing to include, as a minimum, plan short
       title, date published, OPR, and changes posted. (T-2) Update listing as necessary, but at
       least annually, and distribute to all wing and tenant UPRs, as required. (T-2) AETC
       tenant units will create a similar listing for their plans. (T-2)
    2.5. Unit Plans Representatives (UPR):
       2.5.1. Will be an officer or noncommissioned officer (or civilian equivalent) with at least
       a Secret clearance who is thoroughly familiar with the unit's operation and capabilities.
       (T-2) Commanders should consider one year retainability as a minimum when appointing
       new plans representatives. Send a letter of appointment to the wing plans officer within
       10 workdays of appointment. (T-2) (Note: Contractors authorized as the unit plans
       officer must have a security clearance to handle classified up to the Secret level.) Security
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                 7


     clearances will be validated by a unit security manager and included on the letter of
     appointment. (T-2)
     2.5.2. When UPR serves as an OPR for a plan, they will coordinate on and delegate
     responsibilities for preparation of tasked agencies input(s) IAW WPO guidance. (T-2)
     The OPR is determined by the source document requiring the plan or by the wing
     commander. The base OPR for a plan should be functionally aligned with the HQ
     AETC OPR. All units tasked in plan must take part in the review process. (T-2)
        2.5.2.1. Conduct annual plans reviews as required. Plan OPR initiates review to all
        tasked organizations. UPRs will conduct an annual review of their plan tasks to
        determine if the ability still exists to support the plan as written. (T-2) Submit
        recommended changes to the plan OPR.
        2.5.2.2. Coordinate plan review IAW installation plans review guidance.
     2.5.3. Inform the wing plans officer when a higher-headquarters directive or plan creates
     a requirement to develop or change a wing plan. Where tasked by a plan, UPRs will
     participate in the wing’s plan review process. (T-2)
     2.5.4. Brief new AETC and tenant organization key personnel within 60 days of their
     assignment on all plans and changes that affect their specific functional area. (T-2) Give
     additional briefings, as required, to cover new plans or changes. Document all briefings.
     2.5.5. Ensure adequate instructions, checklists, etc., are developed to implement plans
     under which their agency is tasked. Develop training objectives or table top exercise
     inputs for actions. (T-2)
     2.5.6. Participate in SAVs within their agency with the wing plans officer. Keep SAV
     results on file for at least two years. (T-2)
     2.5.7. Conduct a self-assessment of their program via MICT at least once per calendar
     year and maintain a copy on file for at least two years. AETC tenant wings will ensure
     programs under their purview conduct self-assessments at least once per calendar year
     and maintain a copy on file for at least two years. (T-2) WPOs wing-assessments are
     accomplished in MICT for AETC/A3OX and others review.
  2.6. Unit Plans OPRs: A Unit Plans OPR is an individual(s) assigned to the unit is
  responsible for the development and management of a wing/unit plan. This includes wing
  plans on the AETC Contingency Plans Listing. When possible, commanders should assign
  OPRs from their plans office/agency. Unit Plan OPRs will ensure the following:
     2.6.1. Develop and maintain Unit Plans Continuity Book with the following Tabs. (T-2)
        2.6.1.1. Tab A - Table of Contents
        2.6.1.2. Tab B – Memorandum(s) of Appointment
        2.6.1.3. Tab C – AETCI 10-401 and any Installation Plans guidance
        2.6.1.4. Tab D – AETC Plans Listing and Installation Plans Summary
        2.6.1.5. Tab E - Plan Review Documentation Plan OPRs: Maintain coordination and
        master copy of each plan revision/change for the life of the revision/change.
8                                                          AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


           2.6.1.6. TCurrent Roster of Wing Plans OPRs (office symbol/name).
       2.6.2. Serve as unit representative to the WPWG. (T-2)
       2.6.3. Comply with the proper Operations Security (OPSEC) procedures when
       developing, maintaining, coordinating, and storing plans, checklists or other plans
       material. (T-2)
       2.6.4. Ensure all plans-related suspense deadlines are met. (T-2)
       2.6.5. Inform the UPR when a higher-headquarters directive or plan creates a
       requirement to develop or change a wing plan. (T-2)
           2.6.5.1. Initiate plan reviews with all tasked organizations.
           2.6.5.2. Ensure all reviews, changes and revisions are posted to each plan maintained
           by the unit.
       2.6.6. Facilitate the internal and external coordination process at the unit. (T-2)
       2.6.7. Notify installation XP of the intent to produce or change a wing plan or annex. (T-
       2)
       2.6.8. Comply with the procedures and formats in this instruction or applicable series
       instruction when preparing a new plan, or revising or issuing a change to an existing plan.
       (T-2)
       2.6.9. Conduct an annual review of all plans for which the organization is OPR in
       accordance with this instruction or when governing directives or an organizational
       change dictate a review. (T-2)
       2.6.10. Monitor and document all plan preparation, review, revision, and change actions
       through appropriate suspense deadlines and follow-up actions. (T-2) Ensure the security
       instructions, record of changes page is documented. (T-2)
       2.6.11. Document annual reviews and changes in the plan, and maintain coordination
       actions for one year. (T-2)
3. Wing Plans Working Group (WPWG):
    3.1. The creation of a WPWG is highly encouraged at all installations. For tenant
    organizations, membership in host-unit WPWGs is also highly encouraged. WPWG
    membership should consist of the wing plans officer and squadron/unit plans representatives.
    Consideration should be given to local, off-base subject matter experts for inclusion in the
    WPWG.
    3.2. The wing plans officer (or designated representative) should chair or facilitate the
    WPWG.
    3.3. Consider the following for discussion during WPWG meetings:
       3.3.1. Development and coordination of new plans.
       3.3.2. Discussion of current plan requirements, i.e. creation of a new plan annex
       3.3.3. Review of local procedures and a “How Goes It?” seminar to ensure current plans
       satisfy requirements.
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                      9


       3.3.4. Introduction of new plans representatives.
       3.3.5. Consider review of plans, training events or table top exercise requirements to
       address implementation and local actions.
4. Staff Assistance Visits:
   4.1. Wing staff assistance visits are an integral part of a comprehensive wing plans
   surveillance program. Conduct staff assistance visits at least annually. The squadron
   commander (or equivalent) of the AETC or tenant organization will respond in writing to the
   wing plans officer indicating corrective actions taken. (T-2) Report open items to wing plans
   officer every 30 days until the corrective action is completed. (T-2) Wing plans officers will:
       4.1.1. Publish a proposed staff assistance visit schedule for the entire calendar year. (T-2)
       4.1.2. Confirm visit with the squadron commander (or equivalent) of each AETC and
       tenant organization before the visit to establish time, date, and purpose.
   4.2. Staff assistance visits must be task-oriented and not primarily administrative in nature.
   Consider the following items for review during SAVs.
       4.2.1. Review of all plans to ensure plans viability
       4.2.2. Review of all plans to ensure that supervisors are aware of, and can support,
       specific functional area tasking. Additionally, Verify documentation of key personnel
       briefings.
       4.2.3. Review of all tasked plans on file for currency.
       4.2.4. Actions for preparing plans.
       4.2.5. Review of functional area Crisis Action Team (CAT) checklists for currency and
       adequacy. Ensure adequate instructions, checklists, etc., are developed to implement
       plans under which their agency is tasked.
       4.2.6. Review of classification procedures. (Ensure actions listed in checklists, operating
       instructions, etc., are classified properly.)
   4.3. During staff assistance visits, items discussed must be documented to include
   deficiencies noted, actions taken, open items, and those corrected on the spot. Highlight
   recurring deficiencies. Provide a formal reply to the squadron commander of the AETC or
   tenant organization visited. Unit plans representatives will keep copies of staff assistance
   visit reports on file for two years. (T-2)
5. Plan Organization:
   5.1. Identifying Plans. Wing plans offices will assign a number and or title to their base
   contingency plans to coincide with the number and or title of the HQ USAF or AETC plans
   they support or as specified by higher headquarters or other governing directives. (T-2)
   5.2. Plan Format. Wing supporting plans are written in the format of the plan supported or
   as prescribed in a higher headquarters directive. (T-2) When developing plans that have no
   prescribed format, use the format in AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, as a guide. (T-2) Annex
   designations listed in Attachment 2 are a guide only and may be realigned as required.
10                                                       AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


  5.3. Organization of a Plan. All plans should include these elements in the order listed,
  unless specified otherwise in higher headquarters directives:
     5.3.1. Plan Covers. The cover must show the date of the plan, the issuing headquarters,
     short title and number of the plan; proper security classification, administrative markings,
     and caveats; source of classification; and downgrading or declassification instructions.
     Covers must not contain classified information. Mark top and bottom of both covers with
     the overall classification of the plan. Card stock covers may be used on all plans.
     Classified plan covers must be red or pink.
     5.3.2. Letter of Transmittal. The letter of transmittal of a contingency plan should
     identify the reason for preparing the plan. The need for preparing further supporting
     plans must be specified. The OPR for the plan must be identified and disposition
     instructions must be included when the plan supersedes a previous plan.
     5.3.3. Security Instructions and Record of Changes. The security instructions must
     include the long and short titles of the plan and must be the first page (i) following the
     letter of transmittal. State the classification of the plan and any reproduction limitations.
     The record of changes for the plan may be included on the same page as the security
     instructions, or may be a separate page published on the back of the security instructions.
     Reproduction and limitation instructions are included on the "Security Instructions" page.
     5.3.4. Classification Guidance. The classification guidance page lists subjects requiring
     protection (e.g. operational code words, concept of operations, etc.), if any, and the time
     period during which the protection is required (e.g. planning phase, execution phase,
     post-event phase).
     5.3.5. Plan Summary. The plan summary is used for all contingency plans. It provides
     a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing the plan. It also
     provides a brief review of conditions for implementation, operations to be conducted,
     assumptions, operational constraints, command relationships, logistics requirements,
     limiting factors, and commander's appraisal of the logistics and transportation feasibility
     of the plan.
     5.3.6. Table of Contents. See attachment 2. Annex designations are a guide only and
     may be realigned when necessary to fit specific needs. The table of contents should
     include elements that are published separately.
     5.3.7. Basic Plan. The basic plan consists of the seven main paragraphs shown in
     attachment 3. Additional paragraphs may be included to fit the needs of the plan. The
     basic plan shall be signed by the wing commander or designated representative.
     5.3.8. Attachments to the Plan. Annexes used for the plan shall be listed on the final
     page of the basic plan. Other attachments (appendices, tabs, exhibits, or maps) shall be
     listed on the final page of any attachment which has further attachments. The basic plan
     shall refer to each annex that has been prepared; however, information provided in basic
     plan is not normally repeated in the attachments. Annexes shall be signed by the
     functional area chief charged with overall responsibility for the annex. Exception:
     Annex A and Annex Z (and other non-tasking annexes such as glossaries, acronyms,
     terminology, maps, etc.) do not require signature. See Attachment 4 for a sample annex.
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   11


     5.3.9. Execution Checklist. The execution checklist summarizes the action required by
     the commander preparing the plan to ensure coordinated initiation of operations.
     5.3.10. Distribution List. The distribution list accounts for all copies of the plan and
     informs users which agencies and headquarters maintain copies of the plan. Distribution
     should be held to the minimum essential for planning. Addressees must advise plan
     OPRs of necessary changes to the distribution list.
     5.3.11. DELETED
  5.4. Change Procedures:
     5.4.1. When to Issue a Change. A plan shall be changed rather than revised if the total
     adjustments (any new or previously changed material) affect less than 40 percent of the
     plan. (T-2)
     5.4.2. Identifying Changes:
        5.4.2.1. The date of the change, the date of the basic plan, and the classification of
        the plan (if other than unclassified) must be included in paragraph 1 of the letter of
        transmittal. (T-2)
        5.4.2.2. A copy of the distribution list must be attached to the letter of transmittal. If
        a new annex Z is accomplished, a distribution list is not required. (T-2) The "To"
        element should read: "See Attached Distribution List" or "See Annex Z."
        5.4.2.3. DELETED
     5.4.3. Change Methods:
        5.4.3.1. Page Changes. This is the preferred method of change. This method re-
        accomplishes all pages containing changes. If the change contains classified material,
        two copies of AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate, are
        prepared according to DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, and
        AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
        5.4.3.2. Write-In Changes. Write-in changes (in ink) are permissible but shall not
        be used to make lengthy changes. This procedure may be used only for minor
        corrections, such as changes to numbers, dates, single words, short phrases, etc. If
        page changes are also being made, the write-in changes are either included on the AF
        Form 1565, if used, or listed on the change letter of transmittal.
     5.4.4. Change Transmittal. A transmittal letter is prepared for each change and the
     change is distributed to all addressees listed in Annex Z.
  5.5. Security and Document Marking Considerations:
     5.5.1. Classified contingency plans shall be marked IAW DoDM 5200.01, Volume 2,
     DoD Information Security Program: Marking of Classified Information and AFI 31-401,
     Information Security Program Management.
        5.5.1.1. DELETED
        5.5.1.2. DELETED
        5.5.1.3. DELETED
12                                                     AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


        5.5.1.4. DELETED
        5.5.1.5. DELETED
     5.5.2. AETCPAM 33-301, Employees Responsibilities under the Freedom of Information
     Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA), shall be reviewed by plan OPRs to determine if a
     plan falls under its purview. Marking, handling, and disposition of plans determined to
     be "For Official Use Only" will be in accordance with AETCPAM 33-301.
  5.6. Reconstitution of Mission Plan (RoMP):
     5.6.1. RoMPs must be simple and flexible enough to find utility during any crisis. Plans
     mired in excruciating detail with focus on just one type of event will have little or no
     value when confronted with actual circumstances of the disaster at hand.
     5.6.2. AETC/A3OX will:
        5.6.2.1. Ensure each Wing and tenant (when appropriate) has developed a RoMP
        addressing their specified mission requirements. (T-2) RoMP is not required if Wing
        or tenant (when appropriate) has an AETC/A3OX reviewed Commander
        approved/signed Installation COOP.
        5.6.2.2. Review and coordinate each organization’s RoMP.
     5.6.3. Each organization developing a RoMP will:
        5.6.3.1. Develop using the format in Atch 5.
        5.6.3.2. Complete review and update their RoMP NLT 31 August biennially. Submit
        updated RoMP to AETC/A3OX NLT 1 July biennially for coordination. RoMPs will
        be reviewed and updated to the format in Atch 5 within 90 days of this interim-
        change publication date.
        5.6.3.3. Ensure RoMP is fully integrated into the installation exercise program.
        5.6.3.4. Ensure RoMP conveys a clear understanding of risks, and include a plan of
        action and milestones to mitigate those risks.
        5.6.3.5. Post coordinated/signed RoMP to HQ AETC Crisis Action Team (CAT)
        Community of Practice NLT 31 August biennially, or as changes occur.
        5.6.3.6. Complete annual Table Top exercise of the RoMP. (T-2)The completion of
        the table top exercise will be communicated to A3OX via the After Action Report
        submitted IAW AETCI 10-205, para 5.5.3. (T-2) Continuity of Operations Plans
        Exercises may suffice as your Annual RoMP exercise IAW AFI 10-208, AETC Sup
        1.
     5.6.4. In most cases, geographically separated, subordinate units will fall under and be
     sufficiently covered by their parent organization’s RoMP. However, when the mission of
     a geographically separated, subordinate unit is too complex/unique to fit under their
     parent organization’s RoMP, the parent organization may direct the subordinate unit to
     develop a RoMP to ensure preservation of the mission. Exceptions are:
        5.6.4.1. 2AF, due to its unique operational mission responsibilities, will develop a
        RoMP IAW with this instruction. (T-2)
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   13


          5.6.4.2. Air Force Recruiting Service will develop a RoMP separate from that of their
          host installation. (T-2)
          5.6.4.3. Air University, due to its unique organization, will develop a RoMP
          including the 42 ABW mission. (T-2)

6. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt, and Destruction Certificate




                                           JAMES A. WHITMORE, Major General, USAF
                                           Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                           Integration
 14                                                   AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 April 2009
AETCPAM 33-301, Employee Responsibilities under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
and the Privacy Act (PA), 10 November 2005 (DELETED)
AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998
AFI 10-402, Volume 1, Mobilization Planning, and Personnel Readiness, 9 August 2007
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 January 2008
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 18 October 2007
AFI 90-201/AETC Sup 1, Inspector General Activities, 28 June 2010
DoD 5400-7/AFSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 11 April 2006
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
DoD Pamphlet 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents, 1 April 1997

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CoP—Community of Practice
DoD—Department of Defense
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibilities
RoMP—Reconstitution of Mission Plan
WPWG—Wing Plans Working Group
SIPRNet—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                      15


                                 Attachment 2 (CLASSIFICATION)
                            SAMPLE TABLE OF CONTENTS FORMAT

A2.1. AETC SAMPLE PLAN
(U) - Table of Contents (U)
CONTENTS        Page

Letter of Transmittal Cover

Security Instructions   i

Record of Changes and/or Corrections (may be included on same page as security instructions) ii

Plan Summary iii thru v

Table of Contents       vi thru vii

Basic Plan      BP-1 thru BP-8

Appendix 1, OPSEC       BP-1-1

Appendix 2, COMSEC      BP-2-1

Appendix 3, Concept of Operations       BP-3-1

TAB A, Administration & Logistics       BP-3-A-1

TAB B, Command and Control       BP-3-B-1

ANNEX A – TASK ORGANIZATION             A-1

ANNEX B – CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS SUPPORT            B-1

ANNEX C – OPERATIONS             C-1

ANNEX D – LOGISTICS D-1

ANNEX E – FORCE SUPPORT          E-1

ANNEX F – PUBLIC AFFAIRS         F-1

ANNEX G – AIR FORCE SECURITY ASSISTANCE TRAINING SQUADRON             G-1

ANNEX H – ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES H-1

*ANNEX I – EXECUTION CHECKLIST. Place holder for checklists (where appropriate)

        I-1
 16                                                          AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


ANNEX J – MEDICAL SERVICES J-1

ANNEX K – COMMUNICATIONS-COMPUTER SYSTEMS              K-1

ANNEX L – ENGINEERING          L-1

ANNEX M – SECURITY FORCES M-1

ANNEX N – (Covered under FORCE SUPPORT)        N-1

ANNEX O –      NOT USED

ANNEX P – (Covered in Annex K)P-1

ANNEX Q – STAFF JUDGE ADVOCATE         Q-1

ANNEX R – RECRUITING SERVICE           R-1

ANNEX S – CHAPLAIN SERVICE S-1

ANNEX T – BASIC MILITARY AND TECHNICAL TRAINING T-1

ANNEX U – COMPTROLLER          U-1

ANNEX W – PLANS        W-1

ANNEX X – EXECUTION CHECKLIST          X-1

ANNEX Y – GLOSSARY     Y-1

ANNEX Z – DISTRIBUTION         Z-1



NOTE: Annex designations are a guide only and may be realigned when necessary to fit specific needs.
Information presented in the basic plan is of general need, not for individual functional use better
served in individual annexes.
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                      17


                              Attachment 3 (CLASSIFICATION)
                                    SAMPLE BASIC PLAN

Basic Plan
REFERENCES:
List references by publication number and title. Cite references required for a complete
understanding of the plan. References used should be documents readily available to users of the
plan. Higher-headquarters plans which this plan supports must be listed. List references as
follows:
a. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
b. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
c. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
TASK ORGANIZATION: See annex A. (or list them as appropriate.)
1. ( ) PURPOSE: Provide a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing
the plan. If this is a supporting plan, indicate the plan it supports.
a. ( ) General: Describe the general environment that would establish the probable
preconditions for implementation of this plan.
b. ( ) Assumptions: List the assumptions on which the plan is based. That is, list either the
conditions most likely to exist or other conditions likely to have a significant impact on this plan
as a whole. (Additionally, assumptions about specific aspects of the operation should be
included in appropriate annexes.)
2. ( ) CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION:
a. ( ) Summarize the politico-military situation in which execution of the plan should be
considered, if applicable.
b. ( ) Summarize any legal and environmental considerations that could impact on plan
implementation.
3. ( ) OPERATIONS TO BE CONDUCTED:
a. ( ) Concept of Operations: This explains the operations to be conducted. It should describe
the general nature and purpose of the operations to be conducted, and the coordination and
cooperation necessary to execute actions required by the plan.
b. ( ) Tasks: In separately lettered subparagraphs, list each task assigned to each applicable
commander.
4. ( ) ASSUMPTIONS: List all assumptions.
a. ( ) Administration: State what the administrative requirements are if other than "normal."
Any requirement for operating instructions or checklists in support of the plan may be addressed
here.
b. ( ) Logistics: Provide broad guidance on how support will be furnished. For detailed guidance
on major aspects of required support, refer the reader to the appropriate annex.
 18                                                      AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


5. ( ) OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS: List major factors that may impede accomplishing
the mission, to include any limiting factors.
6. ( ) COMMAND RELATIONSHIPS: If other than "normal," identify the command and
control relationship such as between the wing and an off-base agency that supports the plan.
7. ( ) OPERATION SECURITY: OPSEC PMs will assist unit planners to incorporate
protection of critical information and indicators into supported wartime, operational, and
contingency plans. Identify critical information and OPSEC indicators from all functional areas
requiring protection throughout each phase of the operation.
NOTES:
1. Detailed information on tasking for lower echelons of command is normally not covered in
the basic plan. Detailed information should be covered in the appropriate annexes, appendices,
etc.
2. The seven major paragraph headings shown in this sample will be used in all plans.
Additional paragraph headings may be used to fit the particular needs of the plan.
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                  19


                              Attachment 4 (CLASSIFICATION)
                                  SAMPLE ANNEX FORMAT

  ANNEX C, AETC SAMPLE PLAN (U)

(U) OPERATIONS
(U) REFERENCE: *
a. (U) AFI xx-xxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxx


1. (U) GENERAL:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
c. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
d. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx


2. (U) ASSUMPTIONS: *
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxx


3. (U) RESPONSIBILITIES:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
c. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx


4. (U) LIMITING FACTORS:
a. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b. (U) xxxxxxxxxxxxxx


*Do not duplicate those in the basic plan.


C-1
(CLASSIFICATION)
  20                                                         AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


NOTES:
1. If there is no specific material for a titled paragraph, do not include that paragraph. If you
have additional paragraphs, put them behind those shown.
2. Limit annexes to essential information not covered in other publications. This does not
preclude referencing those other publications as appropriate.
3. For HQ AETC, each annex will be signed by the appropriate two-letter directorate or chief of
special staff office. At base level, plan annex will be signed by the appropriate annex OPR (for
example, group or squadron commanders, agency chief, etc.).
AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                       21


                                          Attachment 5
                    RECONSTITUTION OF MISSION PLAN FORMAT

Plan Covers. The cover must reflect proper security classification (minimum FOUO),
Organization Designation, short title, plan OPR, date, administrative markings and caveats.
Covers must not contain classified information. Classification markings will be in accordance
with AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
BASIC PLAN
1. ( ) PURPOSE: Provide a concise description of the purpose to be achieved by implementing
the plan. If this is a supporting plan, indicate the plan it supports.
a. ( ) Mission – Describe the mission the applicable organization Commander is responsible for
safeguarding. It should explain the general nature and purpose of the operations to be conducted,
as well as the coordination and cooperation necessary to execute required actions.
b. ( ) Assumptions – List the conditions most likely to exist or other conditions likely to have a
significant impact on the plan as a whole.
c. ( ) Milestones – List key actions and steps required to ensure successful reconstitution of the
mission.
2. ( ) CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION:
a. ( ) Summarize any politico-military situation that should be considered if the plan is executed.
b. ( ) Summarize any legal and environmental considerations that could impact plan
implementation.
3. ( ) PLAN OF ACTION: As a minimum, list simple, proposed course(s) of action for the
following scenarios:
a. ( ) Evacuation – Partial/full evacuation of personnel and resources to include dependents and
civilian workforce population. Installations will not initiate plans and/or agreements with other
installations or MAJCOMs to address this area. The AETC CAT will coordinate all requests for
evacuation.
b. ( ) Sheltering - Partial/full sheltering of personnel and resources to include dependents and
civilian workforce population.
c. ( ) Relocation of Mission (if applicable) – Identify possible actions to relocate mission.
Installations will not initiate plans and/or agreements with other installations or MAJCOMs to
address this area. The AETC CAT will coordinate all requests for mission relocation.
d. ( ) International and Joint Service Student Actions (if applicable) – Travel arrangements,
contact with sister services and/or Embassies for required actions regarding delays in training,
mission movement and/or student movement. Installations will not initiate plans and/or
agreements with other installations or MAJCOMs to address this area. The AETC CAT will
coordinate all requests for relocation.
e. ( ) Mitigation - Address mitigation of operational capability, damage to resources and injury
of personnel caused by disasters, accidents or terrorist related events.
 22                                                           AETCI10-401 21 DECEMBER 2010


f. ( ) Critical Assets (if applicable) – Address continuity of operations and or required
reconstitution actions of critical assets identified under the critical infrastructure program.
4. ( ) OPERATIONAL CONSTRAINTS: List major factors that may impede accomplishing
the mission, to include any limiting factors.
5. ( ) AETC SUPPORT REQUESTS: Identify possible AETC requests to include, but not limited to, airlift
and/or humanitarian support, UTC support packages, funding requests, etc.
