BY ORDER OF THE                               AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND
COMMANDER AIR EDUCATION                                                INSTRUCTION
AND TRAINING COMMAND                                                 11-2AA, Volume 1

                                                                                  16 APRIL 2014


                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                        AIR ADVISOR AIRCREW TRAINING



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A3QF                                                   Certified by: HQ AETC/A3Q
                                                                             (Mr. Philip M. Senna)
Supersedes: AETC Air Advisor OI, 10 July 2010                                           Pages: 43


This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures and AFPD 11-4,
Aviation Service. It authorizes and establishes procedures and criteria for qualifying and
evaluating all USAF aircrew personnel performing aircrew duties as air advisors in non-USAF
aircraft in support of Combatant Commanders (COCOM) and SAF/IA requirements under
appropriate legal authorities. This instruction does not apply to USAF Air Advisors under
Operational Control (OPCON) of theater Air Forces unless specifically stated by appropriate
theater Air Force authority. The waiver authority for this publication is HQ AETC/A2/3/10 (T-
2) unless specific waiver authority is granted within this instruction. Ensure all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW)
AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Submit suggested improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through standardization and evaluation (stan/eval) channels, to HQ
AETC/A3Q. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program
[FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.) See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information. Request waivers to this instruction through
AETC/A3QF training channels to HQ AETC/A2/3/10. References to forms within this
instruction also equate to electronic products when authorized.
2                                                             AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1

1. General. This instruction outlines ground and flying training requirements for all aircrew
assigned as air advisors. It prescribes policy and guidance for training and currency of general
purpose force (GPF) air advisor crewmembers in AETC training programs, AETC air advisor
staff and trained crewmembers awaiting deployment according to AFI 11-202,Vol 1, Aircrew
Training. This instruction does not authorize deviations from the flight manual or other 11-series
instructions. The overall objective of the aircrew training program is to develop and maintain a
high state of mission readiness for immediate and effective employment in an air advisor role.
    1.1. Aircrew members entered into AETC pre-deployment flying training programs in
    preparation for air advisor duty, including AETC/A3-designated flight examiners, are
    authorized to perform in-flight duties on non-USAF aircraft IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation
    Management.
         1.1.1. Waivers. Policy and procedures are enacted to provide quality and consistency in
         training. Occasionally, unique circumstances may warrant special consideration and
         possible waiver of policy provisions. At the same time, because it is important to
         preserve fidelity of training and policy implementation throughout the command, a
         process must be established for review of proposed waivers.
         1.1.2. Waivers that change the intent of the policy outlined in this instruction are not
         authorized without AETC/A2/3/10 (T-2) approval. Unless otherwise stated in this
         document, Wing/CCs (T-3) are the approval authority for individual personnel
         exceptions to the policy outlined in this instruction caused by special or unusual
         circumstances.
         1.1.3. Coordinate T-2 waivers through AETC/A3QF as appropriate. Submit all T-2
         waiver requests through command channels in electronic format. Waiver requests must
         provide justification why the individual or unit cannot comply with requirements.
         AETC/A3QF will file a copy of approved waivers to this volume according to AFI 33-
         360, Publications and Forms Management.
         1.1.4. For the purpose of this regulation, due to the lack of a wing or group entity, all
         references to a wing or group functions will be fulfilled by AETC/A3Q (T-3). The
         waiver authority for this publication is HQ AETC/A2/3/10. Request waivers to this
         instruction through AETC/A3QF training channels to HQ AETC/A2/3/10.
         1.1.5. Do not deviate from the policies and requirements in this instruction without an
         approved waiver. Report deviations or exceptions to AETC/A3Q.
    1.2. Responsibilities.
         1.2.1. HQ USAF/A3O. See AFI 11-202, Vol 1, Aircrew Training.
         1.2.2. MAJCOMs.
              1.2.2.1. Air Education and Training Command. HQ AETC/A3Q functions as the
              Training Command with duties IAW AFI 11-202, Vol 1, Aircrew Training.
              1.2.2.2. HQ AETC/A3Q is responsible for air advisor aircrew training courses and
              oversees formal school courses and syllabus management in coordination with the
              contracted training providers.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                   3


                 1.2.2.2.1. Determine training requirements for day-to-day, contingency and
                 wartime operations.
       1.2.3. Units:
            1.2.3.1. There are no designated CONUS USAF units for air advisor aircraft. Each
            Performance of Work Statement (PWS), specific training contract or
            Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) will determine individual training venue
            requirements.
   1.3. Definitions. Attachment 1 provides terms, abbreviations, and acronyms used in this
   publication. A complete list of multi-service and AF brevity/acronyms is not included in this
   document.
   1.4. Training Records and Reports. Training records will be electronically forwarded to
   AETC A3QF for storage and disposition IAW contract performance standards, AFI 11-202,
   Vol 1, Aircrew Training and AFI 33-360, Publications and forms management after training
   completion. Flight training records will be kept for 1 year after completion of training, or
   through duration of air advisor deployment whichever is longer or for 2 years if removal
   from training or Flying Evaluation Board (FEB) action is taken. Completed flight evaluation
   form showing successful qualification in Aircraft/Crew Position will be placed in the
   individual’s Flight Evaluation Folder.
   1.5. Training Concepts and Policies:
       1.5.1. Safety/Operational Risk Management (ORM). Training programs/missions will
       be designed to achieve the highest degree of mission readiness/capability consistent
       with flight safety and resource availability. Organizations must fully engage the tenets
       of ORM to ensure that training risks do not outweigh benefits, but that realistic training
       is achieved whenever possible. Lessons learned from recent like-MDS mishaps should
       be integrated where possible in training plans/programs.
       1.5.2. Courses will be developed by the contractor providing the training and/or by HQ
       AETC/A3Q.
            1.5.2.1. Courses will be designed to train crews to meet user generated Mission
            Essential Task List (METL) items and IAW AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air Advisor
            Aviation Evaluation Criteria.
            1.5.2.2. Courses will be reviewed by HQ AETC/A3QF and approved by HQ
            AETC/A3Q. HQ AETC/A3Q will ensure all syllabus changes are coordinated
            through the AETC Contracting Squadron (if training is contractor-provided).
            1.5.2.3. Training may be conducted using the following methods when
            appropriate: Actual Aircraft, Simulator, and Aircraft Training Device (ATD) or
            Academic.
       1.5.3. Courses will include the following CRM training appropriate for initial
       qualification IAW AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Program, as
       supplemented:
           1.5.3.1. Situational Awareness
           1.5.3.2. Communications
4                                                              AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1

             1.5.3.3. Risk Management and Decision Making
             1.5.3.4. Task Management
             1.5.3.5. Mission Planning
             1.5.3.6. Briefing
             1.5.3.7. Debriefing
         1.5.4. Aircrew members undergoing qualification training will receive ground and
         flight instruction with a minimum of interruption, and complete training within the time
         specified by the syllabus. If student progress or other factors could result in the student
         not completing training within the specified time, notify HQ AETC/A3QF.
             1.5.4.1. AETC/A3QF will determine course of action by convening a progress
             review board (PRB) and either authorize additional training/sorties or removal
             from flight training. PRB will include Division Chief AETC/A3Q, Branch Chief
             AETC/A3QF, AETC/A3QV Stan/Eval function and aircraft SME/Evaluators as
             applicable.
                  1.5.4.1.1. FEB actions or removal from training will be IAW AFI 11-402,
                  Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Aviation Badges,
                  AETC Supplement, this instruction and additional applicable guidance as
                  required.
    1.6. In-flight Supervision: Aircrew members that are noncurrent, unqualified, or in any
    training program (upgrade, certification, corrective action, etc.) must fly under the
    supervision of an instructor in their crew position who is current and qualified/certified in
    those events. For the purposes of this paragraph, rotary wing flight engineers (FE), aerial
    gunners (AG) and special mission aviators (SMA) are considered the same crew position for
    mission events. Instructors must be current and qualified/certified in a specific event before
    instructing in that event. Under certain circumstances a qualified like-crew position may not
    be available. In these cases, training will not occur without a waiver.
2. Initial Qualification (IQT):
    2.1. IQT General. The underlying assumption of this paragraph is crew members selected to
    be air advisors are experienced, current, and mission qualified instructors in their respective
    USAF aircraft. Upon completion of the HQ AETC-approved air advisor syllabus, aircrews
    will be qualified in accordance with AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation
    Program and AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air Advisor Aviation Evaluation Criteria in their crew
    position in the appropriate aircraft. The initial flight evaluation will include an INIT QUAL
    and INSTR, (if applicable) evaluation in the applicable crew position. Initial Qualification
    Training is required for a crewmember to perform flying duties in their crew position.
         2.1.1. Prerequisites. Prospective aircrew members must meet formal training course
         prerequisites established by ETCA (Education and Training Course Announcements).
         Personnel selected to attend air advisor courses must meet course entry requirements
         published in the ETCA for their assigned advisor aircraft and crew position (Basic
         Qualification or Instructor). They must also meet the physical examination and
         physiological training requirements in AFI 11-202, Vol 1, Aircrew Training.
         Crewmembers that do not meet the above prerequisites or are otherwise unqualified
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                     5


        must be approved by HQ AETC/A3Q before beginning training. Info copies will be
        sent to the appropriate controlling function (I.E. MAJCOM) and AFPC. Follow
        qualification guidance in AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation
        Program and AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air Advisor Aviation Evaluation Criteria.
    2.2. Ground Training. Ground training may be tailored to the individual’s background and
    experience or unique local conditions. Available and current reference materials such as
    instructor guides and audiovisual programs should be used as supporting materials to the
    maximum extent possible. Crewmembers must complete all applicable ground training
    requirements listed in Table 1 before the initial qualification flight evaluation. All initial
    qualification ground/flight requisites in the syllabus of instruction (SOI), AETCI 36-2205,
    Vol 1, Formal Flying Training Administration and Management, this instruction, and
    AETCI 11-2AA,Vol 2, Air Advisor Aviation Evaluation Criteria will be completed before
    the initial qualification flight evaluation.
    2.3. Flying Training:
        2.3.1. Objectives. The formal course syllabus defines objectives and task requirements.
        2.3.2. AETC/A3QF may approve additional training flights (X-rides) for upgrades that
        must deviate from the approved training schedule or when an aircrew member
        encounters extended breaks in flight training (BIT sorties). The flying organization will
        annotate comments in the aircrew training record, the justification for additional flights,
        and the number of additional flights scheduled. Aircrew members requiring additional
        training because of performance/knowledge-based deficiencies may not be scheduled
        for additional flights under the provisions of this paragraph.
        2.3.3. Additional training due to student non-progression is available within the
        constraints of the course syllabus once approved IAW paragraph 1.5.4.1.
        2.3.4. Initial Qualification Evaluation. Sortie(s) will be flown IAW AFI 11-202, Vol 2,
        Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program and AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air Advisor
        Aviation Evaluation Criteria.
3. Mission Qualification (MQT) and Certification Training:
    3.1. MQT General. Training necessary to qualify/certify an aircrew member in a specific
    position to perform the MDS-specific operational mission. This section outlines the training
    requirements for mission qualification/certification for aircrew members. This section does
    not apply to aircrew members only maintaining BAQ. MQT completion is a prerequisite for
    MR status.
        3.1.1. Crewmembers will receive sufficient training to perform mission requirements,
        as directed by HQ AETC/A3QF. This does not include theater specific procedures or
        Local Area Orientation (LOA) requirements.
    3.2. MQT Methods. Aircrew members will attend the applicable initial MQT course
    whenever possible. In exceptional circumstances, when training at the formal school is not
    available within a reasonable period of time, individuals may accomplish in-theater MQT
    with HQ AETC/A3Q and COCOM approval.
6                                                             AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1

         3.2.1. Certification Training. Certifications do not require evaluations (but may be
         evaluated as part of a SPOT, No-Notice, or recurring evaluation) and are documented
         on the AF Form 4348, USAF Certificate of Aircrew Training or equivalent.
             3.2.1.1. Specific Certifications. This is certification training for aircrew members
             arriving direct from initial training, which is designed to complete instruction on
             specific flying events not adequately addressed at the training venue. This
             training includes certifications listed in applicable attachments and or tables that
             may or may not be required by the member’s new flying unit to maintain MR
             status.
             3.2.1.2. Instructor Certified Event Training Requirements. Applicable attachments
             and or tables define requirements for certifications authorized in this regulation
             for all aircrew members. Training will be conducted by an IP or IF as
             appropriate. AETC/A3Q will certify aircrew members in the flight events IAW
             this regulation. Table notes define training code status (i.e., non-grounding or other
             restrictions).
         3.2.2. Requisites. Unless otherwise dictated by this instruction, aircrew members must
         complete IQT before starting MQT. Prospective aircrew members must meet formal
         training course prerequisites established by ETCA and applicable AETC syllabus.
         3.2.3. Ground Training. Ground training may be tailored to the individual’s background
         and experience or unique local conditions. Available and current reference materials
         such as instructor guides and audiovisual programs should be used as supporting
         materials to the maximum extent possible. All mission qualification ground/flight
         requisites in the appropriate SOI, this instruction, and AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air
         Advisor Aviation Evaluation Criteria will be completed before the mission flight
         evaluation.
        3.2.4. Flying Training:
             3.2.4.1. Objectives. The formal course syllabus defines objectives and task
             requirements.
             3.2.4.2. Instructors must be current and qualified/certified in a specific event
             before instructing in that event.
4. Continuation Training (CT). Training in which aircrew members already qualified/certified
in their respective positions maintain their assigned level of proficiency. This section provides
guidance for maintaining currency. Currency requirements apply to AETC air advisor evaluators
who maintain currency as permanent advisor/evaluators assigned to HQ AETC. For deployed
aircrew, currency events and requirements are IAW applicable theater specific guidance. Those
qualified and awaiting deployment are bound by the currency requirements in applicable tables
as appropriate.
Note: HQ AETC A3Q and additional duty evaluator aircrew will log and track currencies
located in the applicable attachments at their primary USAF MDS Aviation Resource
Management office (ARM). HQ AETC/A3QV Stan/Eval will verify air advisor aircrew
evaluators are current and qualified prior to performing duty in their individual air advisor
aircraft.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                    7


   4.1. Ground Training Requirements. Table 1 Summarizes ground training requirements.
   Ground training requirements accomplished for any MDS aircraft may be used to fulfill
   requirements in Table 1. For ground training prescribed by other instructions, units must
   refer to those instructions for the latest requirement. Initial ground training accomplished
   during IQT/MQT may be credited toward CT requirements for the training cycle in which it
   was accomplished. It is recommended that applicable items in Table 1 be accomplished in
   the non-USAF aircraft in which the crewmember is being trained. Deploying crew members
   should ensure this training will remain current during their deployment period.
   4.2. Flying Training Requirements. All qualified USAF air advisor aircrew; including HQ
   Instructor/Evaluator/SME’s and those qualified and awaiting deployment are bound by the
   currency requirements in applicable tables as appropriate.
       4.2.1. HQ AETC/A3QF will arrange for required currency sorties following training for
       advisor aircrew awaiting deployment. Every effort should be made to ensure the
       member is current upon arrival in theater.
       4.2.2. Dual-logging of specific events between similar aircraft/equipment when
       authorized, is described in the crew members USAF MDS Volume 1 and or
       supplements thereof.
       4.2.3. Crewmembers are required to accomplish ground and/or ancillary training as
       required by this instruction and/or AFI 36-2201, Vol 1, Training Development,
       Delivery, and Evaluation, the ETCA, and HQ AETC/A3QF.
       4.2.4. Effective training is founded on crewmembers’ confidence in basic skills such as
       navigation, systems operation, Night Vision Goggles (NVGs), formation, instruments,
       and low level. Continuation Training programs must include regular, recurring
       exposure to the fundamentals of the air advisor flying mission.
       4.2.5. Crediting Currency. Crewmembers must perform the required events/sub-events
       in applicable tables to credit currency for that item/sortie. Flight currency may be
       credited in the following two manners:
            4.2.5.1. Current and Qualified/Certified. Aircrew members that are current and
            qualified/certified may credit currency if they perform the required events/sub-
            events for that item/sortie.
            4.2.5.2. Mission pilots, aircraft commanders and instructor pilots may credit
            events/sorties accomplished in either seat. All crew positions may log events
            accomplished while performing instructor or evaluator duty.
                4.2.5.2.1. Pilots in any upgrade already current and qualified in a specific event
                may credit events/sorties accomplished in the upgrade towards continuation
                training at the discretion of the instructor.
                4.2.5.2.2. Events accomplished on satisfactory evaluations/certifications may
                be credited toward currency requirements.
           4.2.5.3. Non-Current. Aircrew members delinquent in currency requirements must
           fly under the supervision of an instructor and perform sufficient repetitions of each
           delinquent item to demonstrate proficiency in all non-current events. Events
           performed to clear delinquent requirements may be credited to satisfy current
8                                                              AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1

            training requirements at the instructor’s discretion.
    4.3. Training Cycle. The crewmember training cycle is 12 months, January through
    December, and the ground training cycle is IAW Table 1 Aircrew members will complete
    training requirements during the appropriate training cycle unless specifically noted
    otherwise.
    4.4. Ground Training. Table 1 lists flight related ground training. AETC/A3Q will identify
    those events not required.
    4.5. Aircrew status. Air advisor aircrew members will be assigned aircrew status using the
    following criteria:
        4.5.1 Mission Ready (MR). A crew member who is available and qualified in the unit’s
        mission (completed mission certification and Local Area Orientation (LAO))
        Note: HQ AETC A3Q and additional duty evaluators’ aircrew do not require LAO to
        be MR.
        4.5.2. Non-Mission Ready (NMR). A crewmember that is unqualified, non-current or
        incomplete in required continuation training, or not certified to perform the unit
        mission. See paragraph 4.10 for specific guidance on crewmembers that are non-current
        or incomplete in required continuation training.
        4.5.3. Basic Mission Capable (BMC). A crewmember that has satisfactorily completed
        mission qualification training, is qualified in some aspect of the unit mission, but does
        not maintain MR status. The crewmember maintains familiarization in the command or
        unit’s operational mission.
        4.5.4. Basic Aircraft Qualification (BAQ). Aircrew may be designated BAQ after
        completion of applicable aircraft qualification training (initial or requalification).
        4.5.5. MR, BMC, and BAQ crewmembers will accomplish and/or maintain the
        requirements in AFI 11-202,Vol 1, Aircrew Training (for their respective status) and
        the appropriate events in the ground and semi-annual flying continuation tables in
        applicable attachments of this AETCI.
            4.5.5.1. Aircrew members will comply with the requirements defined in the
        applicable aircraft attachment to this instruction. These currency requirements are
        minimums. If a crewmember goes non-current for a BAQ flying event, refer to
        paragraph 4.10.
             4.5.5.2. Aircrew will be designated BAQ after completion of applicable aircraft
             qualification training (initial or requalification)
    4.6. BMC Continuation Training Requirements. Aircrew members will comply with the
    currency requirements listed in the applicable attachment. Aircrew members who are current
    in qualification events, but not in mission events are considered BAQ and will not be
    authorized to perform the applicable mission event(s).
    4.7. MR Continuation Training Requirements. Aircrew members will comply with the
    currency requirements listed in the applicable attachment.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                   9


   4.8. Multiple Qualification. Qualification in either an air advisor training program aircraft
   and a USAF Mission Design Series (MDS), or more than one air advisor program aircraft is
   authorized in accordance with AFI 11-202,Vol 1, Aircrew Training once validated by Air
   Component Commander, other applicable CCDR staff or controlling authority. HQ
   AETC/A3Q can authorize multiple qualifications for designated SEFEs in support of the air
   advisor mission. To maintain qualification/currency in multiple aircraft (to include series),
   crewmembers should perform an equitable distribution of events in each aircraft, unless
   otherwise directed. Students enrolled in the air advisor training course are authorized
   multiple qualified by AETC during official air advisor training unless otherwise stated in
   this regulation. This authorization does not transcend outside of the official air advisor
   training pipeline to other MAJCOMS.
   4.9. Specialized Training. Specialized training is training in special tactics or events as
   directed by HQ AETC/A3QF. This training may be conducted in conjunction with IQT,
   MQT, or CT.
   4.10. Recurrency Training:
       4.10.1. Non-current. Currency expires if an event is not accomplished at the end of the
       designated currency time period. Events are delinquent on the first day after the allotted
       time period, for example forty-five and 60-day requirements are non-current on the
       46th and 61st days following the last accomplished event, respectively. Non-currency
       status in any qualification or mission area prohibits unsupervised flight in that area.
       4.10.2. Recurrency Training. Aircrew member’s non-current in any event for up to 180
       days must fly under the supervision of an instructor IAW paragraph 4.2.5.3. and
       satisfactorily perform each delinquent item to demonstrate proficiency in non-current
       events. Events performed to clear delinquent requirements may be credited to satisfy
       current training requirements at the instructor’s discretion.
           4.10.1.3. Crewmembers non-current in any event over 180 days are
           unqualified/decertified in that event. Comply with requirements of paragraph
           4.11.1. for requalification and paragraph 4.12. for recertification.
   4.11. Requalification Training:
       4.11.1. Requalification Training. Requalification training is required for loss of
       qualification due to loss of currency exceeding 180 days or expiration of a flight
       evaluation. Complete requalification training IAW this AETCI. For loss of qualification
       due to a Q-3 evaluation, comply with AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Aircrew
       Standardization/Evaluation Program and AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air Advisor Aviation
       Evaluation Criteria. Requalification training may include proficiency advancement,
       tailoring the training to the individual based upon their experience, documented
       performance and formal training requirements as determined by AETC/A3QF.
       4.11.2. All requalification ground/flight requisites in the appropriate SOI, this AETCI,
       and AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air Advisor Aviation Evaluation Criteria will be completed
       before the requalification flight evaluation.
       4.11.3. Instructor Requalification. Aircrew members previously instructor-qualified in
       the MDS may be directly requalified to the instructor level. The amount of time
       unqualified as an instructor determines the appropriate formal school courseware to
10                                                            AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1

         use. See AFI 11-202, Vol 1, Aircrew Training for requalification training time
         requirements. Regardless of courseware utilized, accomplish the flight evaluation(s) to
         the instructor level.
         4.11.4. Loss of Currency up to 6 Months. An aircrew member must demonstrate
         proficiency with an instructor in all delinquent items.
         4.11.5. Loss of Currency Exceeding 6 Months. Complete training in all delinquent
         items (as applicable), additional training as directed by HQ AETC A3Q, and a
         requalification evaluation IAW AFI 11-202,Vol 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation
         Program and AETCI 11-2AA,Vol 2, Air Advisor Aviation Evaluation Criteria.
         4.11.6. Previously Qualified Air Advisors returning to the same advisory aircraft
         that are unqualified up to 24 months following a non-flying assignment or up to 36
         months following a flying assignment: Complete training in all delinquent items (as
         applicable), additional training as directed by HQ AETC A3Q, and a requalification
         evaluation IAW AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program and
         AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air Advisor Aviation Evaluation Criteria.
         4.11.7. Previously Qualified Air Advisors returning to the same advisory aircraft
         that are unqualified 24 or more months following a non-flying assignment, or 36
         or more months following a flying assignment: Complete the appropriate ETCA
         formal school flying training course and a flight evaluation IAW AFI 11-202, Vol 2,
         Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program and AETCI 11-2AA, Vol 2, Air Advisor
         Aviation Evaluation Criteria.
     4.12. Recertification Training:
         4.12.1. Recertification Training. Recertification training is required in each of the
         following situations:
             4.12.1.1. When a crewmember loses a basic qualification (QUAL) as defined in the
             applicable attachment to this regulation the individual will not perform mission
             (MSN) or certification events until requalified in the aircraft.
         4.12.2. For loss of certification due to a failed flight evaluation, the AETC/A3Q has
         authority to immediately recertify the individual after the flight evaluation is
         successfully completed. For all other situations, regain certification by completing the
         HQ AETC/A3QF approved courseware for that certification. All certification
         ground/flight requisites in the appropriate SOI, this AETCI, and AETCI 11-2AA, Vol
         2, Air Advisor Aviation Evaluation Criteria will be completed before the recertification.
5. Instructor Upgrade. All instructor candidates must meet the ETCA and HQ AETC/A3QF (if
applicable) listed prerequisites. HQ AETC/A3QF will review each instructor candidate's
qualifications.
6. Conversion and Difference Qualifications. Conversion training follows the guidance in the
appropriate Air Advisor Special Preparation syllabus. Difference training is authorized for
qualification in more than one aircraft in the same class/MDS of aircraft (i.e., single-engine
land/multi-engine land). The formal course syllabus identifies the minimum difference training.
No other difference training is authorized. Examples: UH-1H crewmembers may receive
“differences” training to be certified in the Huey II, whereas UH-1N crewmembers require a
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                     11


check ride to qualify in the Huey II. The UH-1H and the Huey II are both single-engine
helicopters, but the N-model Huey has two engines.
7. Senior Officer Training Coordination. All Senior Officer training is directed by AF/DPO in
coordination with MAJCOM Senior Leaders Management office and AMC/A3TF and
AETC/A3R. Questions regarding Senior Officer training courses, availability and prerequisites
can be forwarded to AETC/A3QF @ DSN 487-3755.
    7.1. AFI 11-202, Vol 1, Aircrew Training identifies senior officer qualification
    requirements. See formal course syllabus for additional guidance.
    7.2. Senior officer qualification is reserved for senior rated officer positions requiring
    operational flying (Aircrew Position Indicator (API) codes 6 and 8, see AFI 11-401). Senior
    officers will attend the Senior Officer Course. The SOC courses provide basic aircraft
    qualification and each syllabus is tailored to meet theater requirements. These requirements
    will be transmitted to HQ AETC/A3QF and an appropriate syllabus will be developed.
8. Combat Mission Training (CMT)
    8.1. Combat Mission Training (CMT). To meet validated theater mission requirements,
    additional tactical training may be required for either rotary-wing crew members or fixed-
    wing crew members. These programs are primarily designed to provide specialized tactical
    training to crew members with limited combat-related flying experience.
    8.2. Air Advisor Rotary Wing CMT. Training under this program does not meet the
    requirements of AFI 11-2UH-1N, Vol 2, UH-1N Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, Table A3.1,
    for any mission qualifications or certifications. Instead, this training provides familiarization
    for aircrew selected to deploy and adequate instructor training to continue the program.
        8.2.1. For non-AETC, UH-1N qualified aircrew, inter-fly is authorized according to
        AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, and AFI 11-2UH-1N, Vol 3, H-1 Helicopter
        Operations Procedures, as supplemented. For non-UH-1N aircrew, the 512 RQS/CC
        will issue authorization to perform in-flight aircrew duties as “required for the mission”
        according to AFI 11-401, Aviation Management.
        8.2.2. The following crew members shall attend Air Advisor Rotary Wing CMT:
            8.2.2.1.”UH-1 only” aircrew with no prior military tactical/combat experience shall
            attend the entire CMT course (academics and flight training), unless approved by
            HQ AETC/A3QF and/or USAFCENT A3T.
            8.2.2.2. Previously qualified Special Operations Forces (SOF)/Personnel Recovery
            (PR) rotary-wing pilots not qualified in a tactical aircraft at the time of their
            selection for the Air Advisor program shall attend the academic portion of CMT
            only.
            8.2.2.3. All SMA’s, regardless of background will attend the full course, with the
            flying portion of this instruction conducted by a CMT current/qualified UH-1N
            Instructor SMA, unless approved by HQ AETC/A3Q and/or applicable controlling
            agency.
12                                                        AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1

        8.2.2.4. Pilots who are qualified in a SOF/PR helicopter are not required to attend
        CMT. These tactically qualified crewmembers may attend CMT, but only with HQ
        AETC/A3QF approval.
     8.2.3. Only UH-1N CMT instructors and aircrew members in training will conduct
     Combat Mission Training program events and sorties. Exception: A UH-1N Day
     Tactical qualified instructor flight engineer will always be a member of the crew. Using
     this HQ AETC/A3Q approved guidance; all 512 RQS-qualified air advisor rotary wing
     combat mission training instructors will maintain currencies in:
        8.2.3.1. Night Vision Goggles (NVGs) Tactical Sortie, Aerial Gunnery, and NVG
        Tactical Aerial Gunnery according to AFI 11-2 UH-1N, Vol 1, UH-1N Helicopter
        Aircrew Training.
       8.2.3.2. Weapons employment according to approved AETC syllabus (AA-RW
     CMT).
     8.2.4. With AETC/A3QF approval, COCOM Air Expeditionary Advisor Squadrons
     standard operating procedures may be used for countermeasure procedures and
     weapons employment Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures. Where conflicts exist
     between these references and current AF instructions or technical orders, the current AF
     instructions        or        technical         orders         take          precedence.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                  13



Table 1. Ground Training Requirements.
ARMS              Event               Governing Directive     Crew       Frequency Notes
 ID                                                          Position
        Flight Physical                   AFI 44-170           All          455d            1, 6
        Physiological Training            AFI 11-403           All           60m             1
 G002   Marshalling Exam                  AFI 11-218           All           24m             3
 G090   Anti-hijacking                    AFI 13-207           All            B              3
 G130   Instrument Refresher course       This Policy         P, N        See Note 5         5
        (IRC)                          AFMAN 11-210
 G182   Hazardous Cargo Training          This policy           P             T              3
                                      USAF 11-2MDS V1
G182A Hazardous Cargo Training            This policy          LM            24m             3
                                      USAF 11-2MDS V1
 G230 CRM Refresher                       AFI 11-290           All            A             3, 16
                                      USAF 11-2MDS V1
G231 Initial Crew Resource                AFI 11-290           All        One Time
     Management (CRM)                 USAF 11-2MDS V1
ARMS             Event                Governing Directive    Crew    Frequency Notes
  ID                                                        Position
 TBD Combat Mission Training              This Policy       RWP, FE, One Time
                                                              AG,
                                                              FWP
 TBD Refresher Simulator                  This Policy          All      12m      14
 TBD Aircraft Mission Systems             This Policy       See Note    24m      15
      Refresher                                                18
 LL01 Life support familiarization      AFI 11-301 V1          All    One time 1, 4, 8
      training
 LL02 Egress training, ejection         AFI 11-301 V1       See Note 7        A         1, 2, 7
      seat (as required)
 LL03 Egress training, non-             AFI 11-301 V1       See Note 7        T         1, 2, 7
      ejection seat (as required)
 LL06 Life Support Equipment            AFI 11-301 V1          All            A              8
      training
 SS01 Local Area Survival                AFI 16-1301           All        One Time           8
 SS02 Combat SERE training               AFI 16-1301           All             T
 SS03 Conduct After Capture              AFI 16-1301           All             T
 SS05 Water Survival Refresher           AFI 16-1301           All             T
 SS06 Emergency Parachute                AFI 16-1301           All       Ejection 12m
      Training (EPT) (As                                                 Non-Ejection
      required per Aircraft)                                                   T
14                                                      AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1


 SS07 Contingency SERE               AFI 16-1301           All      IAW
      Indoctrination (CSI)                                        Combatant
                                                                  Command
                                                                  Direction
 SS08 Helicopter Emergency             16-1301          P, FE, AG     T
      Egress Device (HEEDS) (as
      required)
 SS20 Combat Survival Training       AFI 16-1301           All      One Time    9
      Wartime Level-C (S-V80-
      A)
 SS21 Wartime Level-B                AFI 16-1301           All      One Time    10
      (S-V88-A)
 SS22 Wartime Level-C (Combat        AFI 16-1301         See Note   One Time    11
  & Survival Training Top Off)                              12
 SS23 &
      Wartime Level-B (USAFA
      Combat Survival Training)
ARMS             Event            Governing Directive     Crew      Frequency Notes
  ID                                                     Position
 SS30 Underwater Egress Training     AFI 16-1301         See Note   One Time    12
      (S-V84-A)                                             13
 SS31 Water Survival Training,       AFI 16-1301         See Note   One Time    13
      Parachuting (S-V86-A)                                 14
 SS32 Water Survival Training (S-    AFI 16-1301         See Note   One Time    12
      V90-A)                                                13
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                 15


A-annual, B-biannual, T-triennial, m-monthly, d-due in number of days.

NOTES:
1. Grounding Items
2. Qualified Instructor Aircrew are only allowed to teach LL02, LL03 and must be current in
the event
3. These items may be credited for all aircraft flown
4. Accomplished during initial air advisor Aircraft upgrade and re-accomplish if new air advisor
aircraft is assigned
5. Log IRC upon completion of course. Complete the IRC every fourth quarter after completion
IAW AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Course (IRC) Program
6. IAW AFI 44-170, Preventative Health Assessment, Flight physicals become due 366 days
after the previous physical and expire after the 455th day or as indicated on the AF IMT 1042,
whichever occurs first. The required frequency may vary to address waivers and or individual
physical limitations (as determined by the Flight Surgeon) but in no case will exceed 455 days.
7. LL02 OR LL03 egress training will be determined by air advisor aircraft flown.
8. SS01 and LL01 are accomplished during initial advisor aircraft upgrade. This must be re-
logged if qualifying on a different aircraft. LL06 must be accomplished if qualifying on a new
Advisor Aircraft
9. Dual credits as SS21 if taken after 1 Jan 2009.
10. Expeditionary Conduct After Capture (ECAC) (S-V88-A) required if S-V80 taken before 1
Jan 2009.
11. This training is for USAF Academy graduates. Completion of the course meets wartime
level-C requirements. Prerequisite is SS23.
12. Rotary Wing requirement.
13. Fixed Wing requirement.
14. If simulator available. LM only if duty station is on the flight deck.
15. LM will attend airland and airdrop training applicable to the crewmember's qualification.
16. May be accomplished during simulator/refresher training
17. Mission systems refreshers are used, if required, based on MDS and mission specific
equipment and duties.

MICHAEL A. KELTZ, Major General, USAF
Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear Integration
16                                                         AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 19 Jan 2012
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 Sep 2004
AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training, 22 Nov 2010
AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 13 Sept 2013
AFI 11-202, Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 22 Oct 2010
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 Dec 2008
AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, 15 Oct 2012
AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program, 25 Feb 2009
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 Dec 2010
AFI 13-207, Preventative and Resisting Aircraft Piracy (Hijacking) (FOUO), 21 Jun 2010
AFI 36-2205, Volume 1, Formal Flying Training Administration and Management, 29 May 2009


Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not prescribe any forms.


Adopted Forms
AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 942, Record of Evaluation
AETC Form 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet


Abbreviations and Acronyms
ATD—Aircraft training device
BAQ—Basic aircraft qualification
BMC—Basic mission crewmember
CDS—Container Delivery Systems
CMT—Combat Mission Training
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CRM—Cockpit/Crew Resource Management
CSO—Combat Systems Operator
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                      17


CT—Continuation Training
FE—Flight examiner or flight engineer
FEB—Flying Evaluation Board
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
FW—Fixed-wing
FWP—Fixed-wing Pilot
IFE—Instructor Flight Engineer
IFR—Instrument Flight Rule
INSTR—Instructor
IP—Instructor Pilot
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
IW—Irregular Warfare
LM—Loadmaster
MDS—Mission Design Series
MP—Mission Pilot
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MR—Mission Ready
MSN—Mission
MSO—Mission Systems Operator
NVGs—Night Vision Goggles
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PR—Personnel Recovery
Q—Qualified
QA—Quality Assurance
QUAL—Qualification
R—Required Area
RW—Rotary-wing
RWP—Rotary-wing Pilot
SATB—Simulated Airdrop Training Bundle
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SOF—Special Operations Forces
SOI—Syllabus of Instruction
Stan/Eval—Standardization and Evaluation
18                        AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1

U—Unqualified
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                 19



                                        Attachment 2

                                  Fixed Wing Requirements

Table A2.1. Fixed-Wing Certifications.
 Course Description                ID        Code       P      MSO LM
 Aircraft Commander               TBD          O        X
                                This certification assesses the pilot’s ability to perform pilot-in-
                                command duties and responsibilities. Once certified, the pilot
                                may be assigned the pilot-in-command code on the flight
                                authorization as outlined in AFI 11-401, Aviation Management.
 Course Description                ID        Code       P      MSO LM
 Differences Training             TBD          O        X        X        X
                                Crew members will complete approved differences training on all
                                significant aircraft modifications.
 Course Description                ID        Code       P      MSO LM
 Evaluator                        TBD          O        X        X        X
                                 Flight examiner certifications will be accomplished IAW AFI
                                 11-202,Vol 2, AETC Sup 1
 Course Description                ID        Code       P      MSO LM
 Functional Check Flight (FCF)    TBD          O        X
 Certification (Aircraft        Crew members must complete an approved FCF certification
 Commander)                     program before acting as a primary aircrew member on FCFs.
 Course Description                   ID     Code        P      MSO LM
 Functional Check                    TBD       O         X        X        X
 Flight (FCF) Certification        Crew members must complete an approved FCF certification
 (P, MSO, LM)                      program before acting as a primary aircrew member on FCFs.
 Course Description             ID       Code        P      MSO LM
 Hot Refuel Operations         TBD         O         X        X        X
                             Crew members must complete an approved Hot Refuel
                             Certification syllabus prior to being certified to perform Hot
                             Refuel Operations. May be included in IQT/MQT.
 Course Description             ID       Code        P      MSO LM
 Low Cost Low Altitude (LCLA) TBD          O         X        X        X
                             Crew member must complete an approved LCLA training course.
                             Event may be accomplished during IQT/MQT
 Course Description             ID       Code        P      MSO LM
 Night Vision Goggle (NVG)     TBD         O         X        X        X
20                                                       AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1


                               Crew member must complete an approved NVG training course.
                               If a crew member is NVG certified and the unit or crew member
                               converts to a different type NVG, then academic training is
                               required. Any flight training is at the discretion of HQ
                               AETC/A3Q. May be accomplished during IQT/MQT.
 Course Description                ID       Code        P     MSO LM
 Unimproved Landing               TBD         O         X
 Certification                 Pilots will be trained and certified on unimproved airfields.
                               Unimproved airfields are airfields where runway acquisition and
                               ground operations are complicated by blowing snow, sand or dirt;
                               undulating terrain, or minimum runway lighting or markings.
                               Event may be accomplished during IQT/MQT.

Table A2.2. Fixed-Wing Consolidated Currency Requirements.
 Pilot Requirements             Notes    Event ID     60 90 120              Semi-Annual
                                                     Day Day Day
BAQ
Basic Sortie                                 TBD         X                         8
Proficiency Sortie                           TBD                                   1
Tactical Sortie                              TBD               X                   2
Emergency Procedures Sortie                  TBD                                   2
Unaided Night Landing                        TBD                    X              2
Instrument Approach                          TBD         X                         6
Power-On Stalls                              TBD                                   2
Penetration/Rapid Descent                    TBD                                   1
MISSION
Tactical Departure                           TBD               X                   1
Tactical Arrival                             TBD               X                   1
NVG Sortie                        2          TBD               X                   2
NVG Takeoff                       2          TBD               X                   2
NVG Landing                       2          TBD               X                   2
Reconnaissance, Surveillance and
                                  1          TBD                                   2
Target Acquisition (RSTA) Sortie
CDS/LCLA Airdrop                            TBD                                   2
MSO Requirements                 Notes    Event ID       60 90 180           Semi-Annual
                                                        Day Day Day
BAQ
Proficiency Sortie                           TBD         X                         4
Tactical Sortie                              TBD              X                    2
Emergency Procedures Sortie                  TBD                                   2
MISSION
NVG Sortie                        2          TBD               X                   2
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                      21


Reconnaissance, Surveillance and
                                  1           TBD                            2
Target Acquisition (RSTA) Sortie
Laser Spot Search and Track       1           TBD                            2
Laser Target Marking              1           TBD                            2
CDS/LCLA Airdrop                  2           TBD                            2
LM Requirements                  Notes      Event ID      60 90 180     Semi-Annual
                                                         Day Day Day
BAQ
Proficiency Sortie                            TBD          X                 4
Tactical Sortie                               TBD               X            2
Emergency Procedures Sortie                   TBD                            2
MISSION
NVG Sortie                          2          TBD               X           2
CDS/LCLA Airdrop                    2          TBD               X           2
NOTES:
1. May be accomplished in Part Task Trainer (PTT) or on aircraft
2. If required/qualified/certified.

* See USAF 11-2MDS, Volume 1, and or supplements for Dual-Log events.
22                                                             AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



Table A2.3. Qualification Flying Requirements.
                                                              Notes              Event ID
Pilot Requirements
Basic Sortie                                                        1                   TBD
Proficiency Sortie                                                  2                   TBD
Tactical Sortie                                                     3                   TBD
Emergency Procedure Sortie                                          4                   TBD
Unaided Night Sortie                                                5                   TBD
Instrument Approach                                                 6                   TBD
Power-On Stalls                                                     7                   TBD
Penetration/Rapid Descent                                           8                   TBD
Mission Systems Operator Requirements
Proficiency Sortie                                                  2                   TBD
Tactical Sortie                                                     3                   TBD
Emergency Procedure Sortie                                          4                   TBD
Loadmaster Requirements
Proficiency Sortie                                                  2                   TBD
Tactical Sortie                                                     3                   TBD
Emergency Procedures Sortie                                         4                   TBD
NOTES:
1.To credit a basic sortie, complete the following events:
1) Takeoff
2) Approach (Instrument or Visual)
3) Landing
2. To credit a proficiency sortie, Pilots will complete the following events. These events can be
logged over several sorties.
1) Precision Approach
2) Non-Precision Approach
3) Holding Pattern or Procedure Turn
4) Circling Approach
5) Simulated Engine-out Approach and Landing (only if allowed by the aircraft flight manual)
6) Simulated Engine-out Go-Around (only if allowed by aircraft flight manual)
7) VFR Pattern
8) Landings at each flap setting permitted by flight manual
MSO and LM proficiency sorties will include preflight of appropriate systems/equipment for the sortie,
completion of all applicable checklists required, at least one takeoff and landing, and post mission
procedures.
3.To credit a tactical sortie, complete at least one of the following events:
1) Tactical/Max Effort Take-off/Landing (Incl. Soft Field/Short Field)
2) Airdrop
3) Tactical Arrival/Approach (High or Low) and/or Departure.
4) Low Level Event
4.Minimum requirements to credit an emergency procedures sortie are (P): review of bold face,
simulated engine failure after takeoff (multi-engine only), emergency landing pattern from either
high or low key (single engine only) , simulated engine out approach and landing (multi-engine
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                   23


 only) and a simulated engine out approach and go-around (multi-engine only) Maneuvers will be
 IAW the airplane flight manual. Minimum requirements to credit an emergency procedure sortie are
 (MSO/LM): review of bold face, and at least two (2) simulated aircraft systems emergencies, and
 one (1) missions systems/airdrop emergency (as applicable)
 5. Any unaided landing accomplished (full stop, touch and go, stop and go) between the end of
 evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight.
 6. Any precision or non-precision approach may be flown and credited if the crew could safely land
 out of the Instrument Approach (IAP). While the entire IAP need not be flown, the portions from the
 final approach fix through the decision height or missed approach and either a landing or missed
 approach procedure or instructions will be accomplished.
 7. Perform IAW aircrew flight manual (if applicable)
 8. Transition from upper altitudes to a low-altitude approach or slowdown point and airdrop IAW
 aircraft flight manual. Crewmembers should practice penetration/Rapid descent from 10,000 feet
 AGL and above (if possible)
 * See USAF 11-2MDS Volume 1 for Dual-Log events.

Table A2.4. Mission Flying Requirements.
 Event                       Notes                             Event ID
 Tactical Departure                       1                                  TBD
                             Sub-Events                                      P   MSO LM
                   Required: Mission Planning                                X
                             Airfield Analysis                               X
                             Tactical Departure                              X
 Notes:

 1. Tactical Departure can be either Medium-High or Low Level tactical departure.

 For Medium-High use either spiral up (gear/flaps as soon as practical) at minimum bank
 angle to remain w/in desired airspace at charted max climb speed, or direct climb (gear up as
 soon as practical) flaps as required, climb at obstacle clearance until clear, then raise flaps
 and accelerate to charted max climb speed.

 For Low (gear/flaps as soon as practical), accelerate to enroute speed while climbing and
 turn to departure heading. Maintain appropriate day/night altitude; execute heading changes
 to remain unpredictable.
24                                                            AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



 Event                          Notes                         Event ID
 Tactical Arrival                            1                           TBD
                              Sub-Events                                 P   MSO LM
                    Required: Mission Planning                           X
                              Airfield Analysis                          X
                              Tactical Arrival                           X
 Notes:

 1. Tactical Arrivals will be visual only. Straight-In, Overhead, Downwind, Teardrop, Beam
 or configured Spiral Down can all credit a Tactical Arrival.
 Event                          Notes                   Event ID
 NVG Sortie                              1, 2                            TBD
                              Sub-Events                                 P   MSO LM
                    Required: Mission Planning                           X    X   X
                              NVG VLL, Airdrop (Sim or Actual) or        X    X   X
                              Airland
 Notes:

 1. Log an NVG event anytime an NVG event is flown to an NVG VLL event, NVG Airdrop
 or NVG Airland event. For MSO and LM, NVG threat scanning, NVG airdrop of actual
 CDS/LCLA or NVG Engine-running on/off-load ERO satisfies this requirement.

 2. May dual log with all BAQ, NVG Mission, and Airdrop events.
 Event                          Notes                         Event ID
 NVG Takeoff                             1, 2                            TBD
                              Sub-Events                                 P   MSO LM
                    Required: Mission Planning                           X
                              NVG Take-off                               X
 Notes:

 1. Takeoff may be accomplished from either the left or right seat.

 2. May dual log with NVG Sortie.
 Event                          Notes                         Event ID
 NVG Landing                            1, 2, 3                          TBD
                              Sub-Events                                 P   MSO LM
                    Required: Mission Planning                           X
                              NVG Landing                                X
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                             25


 Notes:

 1. Landing accomplished using NVG’s using standard overt or covert AFI 13-217 lighting
 patterns or standard airfield lighting, to include airfield lighting pattern (EALS)

 2. Landing may be accomplished from either the left or right seat.

 2. May dual log with NVG Sortie.
26                                                             AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



 Event                          Notes                           Event ID
 Reconnaissance,                             1, 2                             TBD
 Surveillance and Target
 Acquisition (RSTA) Sortie
                              Sub-Events                                      P      MSO LM
                    Required: Intelligence Scenario & Combat                  X       X
                              Mission Planning
                              Area Search Pattern (Min 5 NM2)                          X
                                Line of Communication Search Pattern                   X
                                (Minimum 10 NM)
                                Fixed (point) target acquisition (wide                 X
                                and narrow focus)
                                Mobile Target Tracking (minimum 3                      X
                                min)
                                Actual or simulated interface to C2           X        X
                                element
 Notes:

 1. Sortie is flown to acquire target(s) in any of the sub-categories, provided applicable
 essential elements of information (EEI’s) are satisfied.

 2. May be accomplished in flight or simulator.

 Event                          Notes                           Event ID
 Laser Spot Search and                        1                               TBD
 Track
                              Sub-Events                                       P     MSO LM
                    Required: Mission Planning                                        X
                                Target area search and track                           X
 Notes:
 1. May be accomplished in flight or simulator

 Event                          Notes                           Event ID
 Laser Target Marking                         1                               TBD
                              Sub-Events                                      P   MSO LM
                    Required: Mission Planning                                     X
                                Target marking                                         X
 Notes:

 1. May be accomplished in flight or simulator.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                     27



 Event                          Notes                          Event ID
 CDS/LCLA Airdrop                        1, 2                                 TBD
                              Sub-Events                                      P   MSO LM
                    Required: Mission Planning                                X    X   X
                                CDS/LCLA Bundle Loading                               X        X
                                CDS/LCLA Bundle Rigging                               X        X
 Notes:

 1. Pilots may log this event using actual CDS/LCLA bundles or simulated training bundles.
 If a planned or un-planned no-drop condition occurs after the completion of required
 checklists prior to “Green Light”, Aircraft Commanders will determine if enough training
 was accomplished for pilots to credit the event.

 2. MSO and LM log this event when an actual CDS/LCLA bundle is loaded, rigged, all
 required checklists are called complete prior to the “Green Light” call, and there is not a no-
 drop condition due to the MSO or LM.
28                                                              AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



                                         Attachment 3

                                  Rotary Wing Requirements

Table A3.1. Rotary Wing Certifications.
 Certifications1, 2
      NAME                 Position                    NAME                      Position
      Aircraft               (P)                        Hoist                   (FE, AG)
   Commander
 Functional Check            (AC)                    NVG Hoist                  (FE, AG)
    Flight (AC)
 Functional Check           (P, FE)               Parachute Drop                   All
   Flight (P/FE)
     Evaluator                All                    Cargo Sling                   All
      Fast Rope            (FE, AG)                  Hot Refuel                    All
        Rappel             (FE, AG)                 Defensive                      All
                                                 Suppressive Fire
     Rope Ladder           (FE, AG)              Aerial Gunnery                 (FE, AG)
         AIE                  (P)                    NVG Aerial                 (FE, AG)
                                                      Gunnery
      NVG AIE              (FE, AG)                  Day Water                (FE, AG)
NOTES:
1. Position: AC = Aircraft Commander, AG = Aerial Gunner, FE = Flight Engineer, P = Pilot
(all categories)
2. Evaluations completed with NVGs will qualify/credit corresponding day events.



 Table A3.2. Certification Training Requirements (1).
 Course Description               ID      Code       P      FE     AG
                                 TBD       O         X
        Functional Check        Trainees must complete an approved FCF certification program
    Flight(FCF) Certification before acting as a primary aircrew member on FCFs.
     (Aircraft Commander)
 Course Description                   ID       Code        P      FE     AG
                                     TBD         O         X       X
      Functional Check Flight       Trainees must complete an approved FCF certification program
     (FCF) Certification (P/FE)     before acting as a primary aircrew member on FCFs.

 Course Description                    ID     Code       P         FE   AG
                                      TBD      O         X
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                               29


                                Use approved courseware. Initial training should include at least
 Alternate Insertion/Extraction one "live personnel" event, if possible. AIE certification training
      (AIE) Certification       certifies the pilot to fly with any AIE device.
30                                                       AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



 Course Description            ID        Code         P       FE     AG
                              TBD          O                   X      X
                              Use approved courseware. Initial training should include at least
     NVG AIE Certification    one "live personnel" event, if possible. AIE certification training
                              certifies the pilot to fly with any AIE device.

 Course Description            ID       Code        P     FE     AG
                              TBD         O        X      X
                              Pilots and FEs must complete approved training before
          Cargo Sling         acting as primary aircrew members for cargo sling
          Certification       operations.

 Course Description            ID        Code       P      FE     AG
                              TBD          O                X      X
           Fast Rope          Use approved courseware. It is desired initial training include at
          Certification       least one "live personnel" event.


 Course Description             ID       Code       P       FE     AG
                               TBD         O                X       X
                             Use approved courseware. It is desired initial training include at
      Rappel Certification   least one "live personnel" event.

 Course Description            ID        Code       P      FE      AG
                              TBD          O                X       X
         Rope Ladder          Use approved courseware. It is desired initial training include at
         Certification        least one "live personnel" event.


 Course Description            ID       Code       P      FE     AG
                              TBD         O        X       X
        Parachute Drop        Pilots and Fes must complete approved training before acting as
         Certification        primary aircrew members for parachute drops (static-line or free-
                              fall).

 Course Description            ID       Code       P       FE    AG
                              TBD         O        X        X
                              Applicable aircrew must complete certification training
     Day Water Operations     before acting as primary aircrew members on day water
         Certification        operations.

 Course Description            ID       Code        P       FE      AG
                              TBD        O                  X        X
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                            31


                             Use approved courseware. Initial training should include at least
      Hoist Certification   one "live personnel" event, if possible. AIE certification training
                            certifies the pilot to fly with any AIE device.
32                                                            AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



 Course Description                  ID        Code         P       FE     AG
                                   TBD           O                  X       X
                                  Use approved courseware. Initial training should include at least
      NVG Hoist Certification     one "live personnel" event, if possible. AIE certification training
                                  certifies the pilot to fly with any AIE device.

 Course Description              ID        Code        P       FE    AG
                                TBD         O                  X      X
 Aerial Gunnery Certification Use approved CMT syllabus. Initial training will include at least
                              one "live fire" event, if possible.
 Course Description              ID        Code        P       FE    AG
                                TBD         O                  X      X
     NVG Aerial Gunnery       Use approved courseware. Initial training will include at least one
         Certification        "live fire" event, if possible.
 Course Description                 ID       Code     P      FE       AG
                                   TBD        O       X       X        X
                                   Aircrew must complete DSF training certification using approved
     Defensive Suppressive Fire   CMT syllabus (NVG Tactical Formation desired) before being
     (DSF) Certification          certified.

 Course Description                ID      Code       P      FE       AG
                                  TBD        O                X        X
                                  Aircrew must complete approved training before being certified.
     Hot Refuel Certification


 Course Description                 ID        Code       P       FE       AG
                                   TBD          O        X
                                  This certification assesses the pilot’s ability to perform pilot-in-
        Aircraft Commander        command duties and responsibilities. Once certified, the pilot
            Certification         may be assigned the pilot-in-command code on the flight
                                  authorization as outlined in AFI 11-401. Aircrew must complete
                                  approved DSF training certification (NVG Tactical Formation
                                  desired) before being certified.

 Course Description                 ID      Code        P       FE      AG
                                   TBD        O         X        X       X
     Evaluator Certification      Flight examiner certifications will be accomplished IAW AFI
                                  11-202, Vol 2, AETC Sup 1
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                               33


 NOTE:
 1. Training Codes:
 N = Non-grounding--the aircrew member may perform flight duties with the event not
completed, and may maintain CMR or BMC status depending on MAJCOM guidance.
 O = Other restrictions--the aircrew member may perform flight duties with the event not completed
 or overdue under the condition the mission profile does not include the specific event.
34                                                   AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



Table A3.3. Consolidated Rotary-wing Currency Requirements.
                                                    60   90     120
 Pilot Requirements              Notes Event ID     Day Day     Day Semi-Annual
 Qualification
 Basic Sortie                               TBD       X                      3
 Transition Sortie (day)                    TBD             X
 Emergency Procedures Sortie                TBD             X                3
 Night Sortie                        1      TBD             X
 Instrument Approach                        TBD             X
 Precision Approach                         TBD             X
 Non Precision Approach                     TBD             X
 Mission
 Day Remote Operations                      TBD             X
 Night Unaided Remote Operations            TBD             X
 NVG Remote Operations                      TBD             X
 Formation Sortie                           TBD             X
 NVG Formation Sortie                       TBD             X
 Day Tactical Sortie                        TBD             X
 NVG Tactical Sortie                        TBD             X
 NVG Sortie                                 TBD             X
 Defensive Suppressive Fire                 TBD                   X
 FE Requirements                 Notes Event ID     60   90     180
                                                    Day Day     Day Semi-Annual
 BAQ
 Basic Sortie                               TBD       X                      3
 Emergency Procedures Sortie                TBD             X
Night Sortie                       1       TBD             X
MISSION
Day Remote Operations                      TBD             X
NVG Remote Operations                      TBD             X
Day Tactical Sortie                        TBD             X
NVG Tactical Sortie                        TBD             X
Rope Ladder (If Applicable)                TBD                   X
Rappel (If Applicable)                     TBD                   X
Fast Rope (If Applicable)                  TBD                   X
NVG Sortie                                 TBD             X
Aerial Gunnery                             TBD                   X
NVG Aerial Gunnery                         TBD                   X
Cargo Sling (If Applicable)                TBD                   X
Defensive Suppressive Fire                 TBD                   X
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                     35



AG Requirements                                                60  90 120
                                    Notes Event ID             Day Day Day Semi-Annual
BAQ
Basic Sortie                                       TBD            X                            3
Night Sortie                           1           TBD                  X
MISSION
Day Remote Operations                              TBD                  X
Night Unaided                                      TBD                  X

NVG Remote Operations                                TBD                 X
Day Tactical Sortie                                  TBD                 X
NVG Tactical Sortie                                  TBD                 X
Alternate Insertion/Extraction                       TBD                 X
NVG Alternate                                        TBD                 X
Insertion/Extraction
Rope Ladder                                          TBD                        X
Rappel                                               TBD                        X
Fast Rope                                            TBD                        X
Aerial Gunnery                                       TBD                        X
NVG Aerial Gunnery                                   TBD                        X
Day Water Sortie                                     TBD                        X
Defensive Suppressive Fire                           TBD                        X
NOTES:
 1. A night sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires one hour of night time. Additionally, pilots
  must log ½ hour of primary time.
36                                                                AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



Table A3.4. BAQ Flying Requirements.
                                                                       Notes Event ID
Pilot Requirements
Basic Sortie                                                          1                TBD
Transition Sortie (day)                                               2                TBD
Emergency Procedure Sortie                                            3                TBD
Night Sortie                                                          4                TBD
Transition Sortie (night)                                             2                TBD
Instrument Approach                                                                    TBD
Precision Approach                                                                     TBD
Non Precision approach                                                                 TBD
Flight Engineer Requirements
Basic Sortie                                                          1                TBD
Emergency Procedure Sortie                                            3                TBD
Night Sortie                                                          4                TBD
Aerial Gunner Requirements
Basic Sortie                                                          1                TBD
Night Sortie                                                          4                TBD
NOTES:
 1. To Credit a basic sortie, complete the following events as applicable to crew position (P, FE,
  AG).
  Additionally, each pilot must occupy a front seat, and make a takeoff and a landing.
  Mission Planning                                    Taxi/Hover
  Performance Data                                    Takeoff Procedures
  Crew and/or Passenger Briefing                      Approach (instrument or visual) Crew
  Coordination                                        Landing Procedures
  Flight Clearance                                    Fuel Management

 2. A transition sortie consists of a basic sortie and a maximum performance takeoff, and marginal
 power takeoff, a normal approach and landing, and a steep approach to a touchdown.

 3. Pilots qualified in more than one aircraft must log one EP sortie in their primary aircraft each
 quarter. An EP sortie should be accomplished on a single flight. An emergency procedures sortie
 consists of a basic sortie and:
 Review of boldface procedures
 Autorotation
 Autopilot-off approach/landing
 Simulated single-engine approach and landing
  *Anything airframe specific/unique in the way of Emergency Procedures.

     4. A night sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires one hour of night time. Additionally, pilots
     must log ½ hour of primary time.

     5. Credit no more than one sortie per single calendar day.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                  37



Table A3.5. Remote Operations Events Requirements.
 Event                                                 Notes                           Event ID
 Day Remote Operations                                                                    TBD
 Night Unaided Remote Ops                              2,3,5                              TBD
 NVG Remote Operations                               1,2,3,4,6                            TBD
                                   Sub-Events                                        P    FE AG
                       Required: Mission Planning                                    X     X      X
                                   Navigation                                        X
                                   Remote landing and takeoff                        X     X      X
                                   Simulated maximum power                           X
                                   In-flight/terminal operations power               X
                                   considerations
                         Desired: Pinnacle/ridgeline landing                         X     X      X
                                   AIE (if applicable)                               X     X      X
                                   Slope landing                                     X     X      X
                                   Use of pyrotechnics                                     X      X
  Remote Notes:
  1. NVG events may satisfy night unaided requirements: i.e. NVG Remote Ops (TBD)
  accomplishes Night (Unaided) Remote Ops (TBD).
  2. Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified,
  but cannot perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
  3. Sortie/event accomplishments at night may be credited toward similar day requirements.
  4. NVG qualified pilots will only log NVG sorties while at a set of controls.
  5. A night sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of night time of which ½ hour must
  be primary.
  6. An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour
  must be primary.
38                                                            AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1




Table A3.6. Formation Flying Currency/Events Requirement.
  Event                                         Notes                           Event
 Formation Sortie                                  1                              ID
                                                                                 TBD
 NVG Formation Sortie                           1,2,3,4                          TBD
                                    Sub-Events                                      P    FE A
                         Required: Takeoff, approach, enroute, landing             X             G
                                    Lost visual procedures                         X
                                    Join-up                                        X
                                    Low-level                                      X
  Formation Sortie Notes:
  1. Each pilot must fly each required sub-event as both lead and wing to log a formation sortie.
  2. NVG events may satisfy day requirements: i.e. NVG Formation Sortie (TBD) accomplishes
  Formation Sortie (TBD).
  3. Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission
  qualified, but cannot perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
  4. An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½
  hour must be primary.


Table A3.7. Tactical Currency/Events Requirement.
  Event                                        Notes                         Event ID
 Day Tactical Sortie                                                           TBD
 NVG Tactical Sortie                            1,2,3                          TBD
                                   Sub-Events                                    P    FE AG
                       Required: Mission Planning                                X     X     X
                                   Low-level navigation                          X
                                   Authentication, TOT procedures                X
                                   Threat analysis/Evasive maneuvers             X     X     X
                                   Tactical approach and landing                 X     X     X
                         Desired: Low-level formation                            X
                                   Aerial Gunnery                                      X     X
  Tactical Sortie Notes:
  1. NVG events may satisfy day requirements: i.e., NVG TAC (TBD) accomplishes Day Tactical
  Sortie (TBD).
  2. Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified,
  but cannot perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
 3. An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour must
  be primary.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                    39



Table A3.8. Alternate Insertion/Extraction (AIE) Currency/Events Requirement.
 Event                                        Notes                     Event ID
 Alt Insertion/Ext (AIE)                        1                         TBD
 NVG AIE                                      1,2,3                       TBD
                               Sub-Events                                 P     FE            AG
                     Required: Mission Planning                           X     X
                               Equipment Preparation                            X             X
                               Pattern                                    X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)   X     X             X
                               Verbal Direction                           X     X             X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures               X     X             X
 AIE Notes:
 1. AIE devices are defined as: hoist, rappel, fast rope, and rope ladder. Any method
 meets currency requirement (TBD).
 2. AIE events accomplished at night may be credited toward similar day requirements.
 3. Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission
 qualified, but cannot perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
 Event                                             Notes                Event ID
 Hoist                                              1,2                       TBD
                               Sub-Events                                 P    FE AG
                     Required: Mission Planning                           X     X
                               Equipment Preparation/Inspection                 X  X
                               Pattern                                    X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)   X     X  X
                               Verbal Direction                           X     X  X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures               X     X  X
 Hoist Notes:
 1. AIE events accomplished at night fulfill appropriate currency.
 2. Hoist includes: Forest Penetrator, Stokes liter, rescue basket, or horse collar.
 Event                                       Notes                              Even
 Rope Ladder                                    1                                t ID
                                                                                TBD
                               Sub-Events                                        P      FE    AG
                    Required: Mission Planning                                   X      X
                               Equipment Preparation/Inspection                         X     X
                               Pattern                                           X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)          X      X     X
                               Verbal Direction                                  X      X     X
                               Departure/takeoff procedure                       X      X     X
 Rope Ladder Notes:
 1. AIE events accomplished at night fulfill appropriate currency.
40                                                            AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1



 Event                                     Notes                        Event ID
 Rappel                                       1                          TBD
                                Sub-Events                                P    FE     AG
                     Required: Mission Planning                           X     X
                               Equipment Preparation/Inspection                 X     X
                               Pattern                                    X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)   X     X     X
                               Verbal Direction                           X     X     X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures               X     X     X
   Rappel Notes:
 1. AIE events accomplished at night fulfills appropriate currency.
 Event                                     Notes                        Event ID
 Fast Rope                                    1                           TBD
                                Sub-Events                                P    FE     AG
                     Required: Mission Planning                           X     X
                               Equipment Preparation/Inspection                 X     X
                               Pattern                                    X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)   X     X     X
                               Verbal Direction                           X     X     X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures               X     X     X
   Fast Rope Notes:
 1. AIE events accomplished at night fulfills appropriate currency.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                                41



Table A3.9. NVG Sortie Currency/Events Requirement.
 Event                                        Notes                           Event ID
 NVG Sortie                                 1,2,3,4,5                           TBD
                                Sub-Events                                       P    FE AG
                     Required: Mission Planning                                 X      X    X
                                Performance Data                                X      X
                                Crew Coordination                               X      X    X
                                Crew and/or Passenger Briefing                  X      X    X
                                Flight Clearance                                X
                                Taxi/Hover                                      X
                                Takeoff Procedures                              X      X    X
                                Approach (instrument or visual)                 X      X    X
                                Landing Procedures                              X      X    X
                                Fuel Management                                 X      X
                                Verbal Direction                                       X    X
 NVG Sortie Notes:
 1. NVG events may satisfy night unaided requirements: i.e. NVG sortie (TBD) accomplishes
 Night (Unaided) Sortie (TBD).
 2. Sortie/event accomplishments at night may be credited toward similar day requirements.
 3. NVG qualified pilots will only log NVG sorties while at a set of controls.
 4. An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½
 hour must be primary.
 5. Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission
 qualified, but cannot perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified. Non-current NVG
 crewmembers are required to maintain unaided currency (i.e. TBD).
 Event                                        Notes                           Event ID
 NVG Transition Sortie                      1,2,3,4,5                           TBD
 Transition Sortie (Day)                                                        TBD
                                Sub-Events                                       P    FE AG
                     Required: Basic Sortie                                     X
                                Maximum Performance Takeoff                     X
                                Marginal Performance Takeoff                    X
                                Normal Takeoff and Landing                      X
                                Steep Approach to a Landing                     X
42                                                           AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1


 NVG Transition Notes:
 1. NVG events may satisfy night unaided requirements: i.e. NVG Transition Sortie (TBD)
 accomplishes Night (Unaided) Transition Sortie (TBD).
 2. Sortie/event accomplishments at night may be credited toward similar day requirements.
 3. NVG qualified pilots will only log NVG sorties in their primary crew position.
 4. Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission
 qualified, but cannot perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
 5. An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour
  must be primary.

Table A3.10. Aerial Gunnery Currency/Events Requirement.
 Event                                         Notes                          Event ID
 Aerial Gunnery                                                                 TBD
 NVG Aerial Gunnery                             1,2                             TBD
                                  Sub-Events                                     P   FE   AG
                       Required: Mission Planning                               X     X   X
                                  Equipment Preparation/Inspection                    X   X
                                  Verbal Directions/Defensive Supp Fire         X     X   X
                                  Gun System Employment (Live/Blank)                  X   X
                                  Gun System Malfunctions                             X   X
                         Desired: Authentication, TOT Procedures                X
                                  Threat Analysis/Evasive Maneuvers             X     X   X
                                  Tactical Approaches/Patterns                  X     X   X
                                  AIE (if applicable)                                 X   X
                                  Low Level Formation                           X
 Aerial Gunnery Notes:
 1. NVG events may satisfy day requirements: i.e. NVG Aerial Gunnery (TBD)
 accomplishes NVG Tactical Sortie (TBD) and Day Tactical Sortie (TBD). Aerial
 Gunnery (TBD) accomplishes Day Tactical Sortie (TBD)
 2. Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission
  qualified, but cannot perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
 Event                                      Notes                     Event ID
 Defensive Suppressive Fire                    1                        TBD
                                 Sub-Events                             P    FE           AG
                       Required: Mission Planning                       X     X           X
                                 Low-Level Navigation                   X
                                 Tactical Approaches and Patterns       X     X           X
                                 Threat Analysis/Evasive Maneuvers      X     X           X
                                 Verbal Direction                       X     X           X
                                 Gun System Employment (Live / Blank)         X           X
                       Desired: Low-Level Formation                     X

Table A3.11. Miscellaneous Mission Qualification Flying Currency/Events Requirement.
AETCI11-2AA, Volume 1                                                            43


 Event                                        Notes                     Event ID
 Cargo Sling Sortie                                                       TBD
                                 Sub-Events                                P    FE    AG
                       Required: Cargo Hook Functional Check                    X
                                 Pattern                                   X    X
                                 Verbal direction                          X    X
                                 Hookup                                         X
                                 Load Release                              X    X
 Event                                       Notes                      Event ID
 Day Water Sortie                                                         TBD
                                 Sub-Events                                P    FE    AG
                       Required: Cargo Hook Functional Check                    X
                                 Pattern                                   X    X
                                 Verbal direction                          X    X
                                 Hookup                                         X
                                 Load Release                              X    X
 Event                                       Notes                        Even
 Fast Rope Sortie                              1                           t ID
                                                                         TBD
                                 Sub-Events                                P    FE    AG
                       Required: Mission Planning                          X    X     X
                                 Equipment Preparation/Inspection               X     X
                                 Pattern                                   X    X     X
                                 Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal) X     X     X
                                 Verbal Direction                               X     X
                                 Departure/takeoff procedures              X
   Fast Rope Notes:
1. AIE events accomplished at night fulfills appropriate currency.
