                         DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                      AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND


                                                                            AETCGM2014-10-01

                                                                                11 February 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION

FROM: AETC/CC
     1 F Street, Suite 1
     JBSA Randolph TX 78150-4324

SUBJECT: AETC Guidance Memorandum for Standardized Installation Command and Control

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Commander, Air Education and Training Command, this AETC Guidance
Memorandum establishes the command guidance on Standardized Installation Command and
Control (IC2). The AF Incident Management System (AFIMS) is fully implemented IAW DoDI
6055.17 and AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and
Operations. However, it is still necessary to continue working toward standardization of
elements of the IC2 architecture, including physical location, common operating picture, and
communication suites. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. This publication does not apply
to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does not apply to the Air
National Guard (ANG).

2. Standards: Attached are the minimum AETC standards for key IC2 nodes, including the
Crisis Action Team (CAT), Command Post (CP), Emergency Operations Center (EOC),
Emergency Communications Center (ECC), and Emergency 9-1-1 (E9-1-1). Installations should
develop and maintain a current implementation plan to comply with these standards.

3. Physical Locations: Installations shall strive to achieve the following physical locations when
feasible and within fiscal realities.

  a. Locate the CAT and CP in the Installation Headquarters facility.

  b. Locate the collocated ECC (combined dispatch) in either the Fire Department or Security
Forces facility.

   c. The EOC will either be (1) collocated in the same facility as the ECC (with operational
separation); or (2) located in a separate facility determined by the Installation Commander, based
on the risk assessment. The EOC will not be collocated in the same facility as the CAT and CP.
  d. Facility projects to comply with this guidance will use existing corporate processes for
SRM and MILCON. This guidance memorandum will not be used to drive a bill to immediately
implement the relocation of any IC2 node. This guidance memorandum sets the standard, which
will be the goal for the desired end state all installations will work to achieve over time and
within fiscal realities.

4. E9-1-1: Installations should establish and maintain E9-1-1 capability. This will require an
agreement with the regional E9-1-1 authority to establish a “Public Safety Answering Point”
within the ECC on the installation. We expect the most economical way to achieve this
capability is via a lease with your local exchange carrier; however, installations must
individually assess the economics of leasing versus buying the capability. Resourcing to comply
with this guidance will use existing corporate processes for unfunded requirements or, if
necessary, 3080 investment equipment. Unfunded requirements will be submitted using the
normal corporate process used to prioritize and submit all unfunded requirements.

5. Common Operating Picture (COP): HQ AETC shall establish and maintain an enterprise
WebEOC Professional, which is low-cost Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) solution as their
COP. We recognize that the Air Force’s approved long-term solution is not expected to happen
until FY17 or later. As such, HQ AETC/A7O is pursuing Certification and
Accreditation/Authority to Operate for WebEOC Professional, and we anticipate implementation
in FY13.

6. Governance: Installations should continue to use the IC2 implementation planning team, as a
subgroup of their existing Emergency Management Working Group, to implement this guidance.
Installations shall update their IC2 POCs and implementation plan in accordance with this
guidance memorandum.

7. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).

8. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

9. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items.

10. If you have any questions regarding this guidance memorandum, please contact HQ
AETC/A7O, at DSN 487-1778.
11. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.




                                                   ROBIN RAND
                                                   General, USAF
                                                   Commander


4 Attachments:
1. AETC Standard – CAT and CP
2. AETC Standard – EOC
3. AETC Standard – ECC
4. AETC Standard – E9-1-1

DISTRIBUTION:
(listed on last page)
               HQ AETC

Installation Command and Control Standard

           Crisis Action Team
                   And
            Command Post




                  Version 2

                 14 Jan 2014
Scope.
   Identify minimum standards for the Crisis Action Team (CAT) and the Command Post (CP)
   at AETC installations. The AETC policy constitutes a vision of what capabilities AETC
   bases will be working toward to achieve standardization of C2 capabilities, while recognizing
   current funding constraints and timing to fully implement the standards.

1. Advocacy & Resources.

   a. HQ AETC Directorate: OPR: A2/3O
      OCR: A6O, A7O, A7S, FM
   b. HQ AETC Panels: Flying Training, Technical Training, & Education
                      Installation Support Panel

2. Facility.

   a. Collocated in Installation HQ facility
   b. Operational separation maintained between CAT/CP functions, i.e., the CAT and CP will
      be in the same building, they are not required to be in the same room unless the
      installation mission drives them to be located in the same room. Due to the nature of the
      CP operations and requirement for controlled area, it may be more advantageous for the
      CAT to be located in a physically separate area so that radios, cell phones and PDAs can
      be used during normal CAT operations. Installations will develop and maintain a current
      implementation plan to comply with these standards.
   c. To the maximum extent possible, the CP (Restricted/Controlled Area) should be certified
      for open storage of classified. If the mission of the entire CP does not require open
      storage, the minimum requirement is the Emergency Action (EA) cell.
   d. Facility & electronic equipment EMSEC & COMPUSEC certified/accredited.

3. Communications.
     Communications requirements listed below will be identified based on mission
     requirements. It is not the intention of this standard to require all capabilities at every
     installation. Rather these are the capabilities that are available. Based on the mission and
     capability required to accomplish the mission, installations will validate the required
     capabilities and take the necessary actions to acquire those capabilities to ensure mission
     accomplishment.
   a.    Integrated Command & Control Console
   b.    SIPRNet / NIPRNet Workstations
   c.    Secure / Non-Secure Facsimile
   d.    Non-Secure Telephone Equipment
   e.    Secure Telephone Equipment (STE, SVOIP, Omni, etc).
   f.    Cellular Telephone
   g.    Land Mobile Radio Base Station (transmit/receive on all installation nets)
   h.    HF/UHF/VHF Radio – excluding Goodfellow AFB, TX
   i.    Command Post Alerting Network (COPAN) – HQ AETC only
4. Warning Systems.
   (Reference Standard: AETC I-Plan for Installation Warning Systems, 12 Aug 04)

     a.   Giant Voice (OPR: A3OC, OCR: A6O & A7C)
     b.   Telephone Alerting System (OPR: A3OC, OCR: A6O)
     c.   Network Alerting System (OPR: A3OC, OCR: A6O)
     d.   Commanders Critical Information Channel (OPR: PA)

5. Detection and Surveillance.

     a. Camera Feeds – Installation Entry Gates, Airfield, Critical Facilities
     b. The installation IC2 IPT will ensure the installation Communications Plans Flight is
        included in planning for all necessary camera feeds to the CAT and/or CP.
     c. CP will meet controlled area requirements for protection level 3 or 4 resources (if
        required by the installation mission. OPR: A3OC)

6.   Mission Command & Control.

     a. Global Decision Support System (GDSS) – For Altus AFB, Keesler AFB, and Maxwell
        AFB only
     b. Local flight following/monitoring system capability (i.e., Training Integration
        Management System (TIMS))”

7. Emergency Response C2 – Common Operating Picture.

     a. AETC Enterprise WebEOC Professional which is the interim until final decision on AF
        directed Emergency Response C2 Common Operational Picture is received

8. Mapping.

     a. AETC GeoBase System (OPR: Civil Engineer)

9. Facility Damage Assessment.

     a. AETC Damage Assessment Tool (DAT) (OPR: Civil Engineer)

10. Display.

     a. Multi-Function Flat Panel Displays
     b. Cable TV Feed
     c. Video Teleconference Feed / Defense Connect On-line (DCO) equipped with video
  Air Education and Training Command

Installation Command and Control Standard

      Emergency Operations Center




                  Version 2


                 14 Jan 2014
1. Scope. Identify minimum standards for the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) at AETC
   installations. The AETC policy constitutes a vision of what capabilities AETC bases will be
   working toward to achieve standardization of C2 capabilities while recognizing current
   funding constraints and timing to fully implement the standards. Capabilities identified for
   the EOC will be tailored / adapted for incorporation in installation Mobile Emergency
   Operations Centers (MEOC) / Mobile Communications Centers (MCC).

2. Advocacy & Resources.

   a. HQ AETC Directorate: A4/7
   b. HQ AETC Panel: Installation Support

3. Facility.

   a. Collocated with Emergency Communications Center (ECC) or separate stand-alone
      location based on risk assessment.
   b. Operational separation of EOC, ECC and Base Defense Operations Center (if in same
      facility)
   c. Non-Secure Area

4. Communications.

   a.   NIPRNet Workstations
   b.   Non-Secure Facsimile
   c.   Non-Secure Telephone Equipment
   d.   Cellular Telephone
   e.   Land Mobile Radio Base Station (transmit/receive on all installation nets)
   f.   Satellite Communications (data and voice) if required for data and voice exchange
        between EOC, MEOC and MCC.

5. Surveillance.

   a. Camera Feeds – Installation Entry Gates, Airfield, Critical Facilities
   b. The installation IC2 IPT will ensure the installation Communications Plans Flight is
      included in planning for all necessary camera feeds to the EOC.

6. Emergency Response C2 – Common Operating Picture.

   a. WebEOC Professional (interim to final decision on AF directed Emergency Response C2
      Common Operational Picture)

7. Mapping.

   a. AETC GeoBase System (w/Emergency Response Tools suite) (OPR: Civil Engineer)
   b. Joint Warning and Reporting Network NIPRNet (OPR: Civil Engineer)
   c. Joint Effects Model NIPRNet (OPR: Civil Engineer)
8. Facility Damage Assessment.

   a. AETC Damage Assessment Tool (DAT) (OPR: Civil Engineer)

9. Display.

   a. Multi-Function Flat Panel Displays
   b. Cable TV Feed
   c. Defense Connect On-line (DCO) equipped with video capability
  Air Education and Training Command

Installation Command and Control Standard

    Emergency Communications Center




                  Version 2

                 14 Jan 2014
1.   Scope. Identify minimum standards for the Emergency Communications Center (ECC)
     at AETC installations. The AETC policy constitutes a vision of what capabilities AETC
     bases will be working toward to achieve standardization of C2 capabilities while
     recognizing current funding constraints and timing to fully implement the standards.

2.   Advocacy & Resources.

     a.    HQ AETC Directorate: OPR: A4/7
           OCR: A6O, A2/3O
     b.    HQ AETC Panel: Installation Support

3.   Facility.

     a. Collocated (combined dispatch) at either (1) SFS/Base Defense Operations
        Center (BDOC) Facility; or (2) the Fire Department
     b. Emergency Operation Center (EOC) may be collocated in same facility; with
        operational separation (not in same room)
     c. ECC is a controlled area

4.   Communications.

     a.   Enhanced 9-1-1 Dispatch (w/ recording capability); see separate standard
     b.   NIPRNet Workstations
     c.   Non-Secure Facsimile
     d.   Non-Secure Telephone Equipment
     e.   Cellular Telephone
     f.   Land Mobile Radio Base Station (transmit/receive on all installation nets)
     g.   Primary & Secondary Crash

5.   Detection and Surveillance.

     a. Camera Feeds – Installation Entry Gates, Airfield, Critical Facilities
     b. Intrusion Detection / Security Alarm Control System
     c. Fire Alarm Control System
     d. The installation IC2 IPT will ensure the installation Communications Plans
        Flight is included in planning for all necessary detection and surveillance feeds to
        the ECC.

6.   Emergency Response C2 – Common Operating Picture.

     a. WebEOC Professional (interim to final decision on AF directed Emergency
        Response C2 Common Operational Picture)
7.   Mapping.

     a. AETC GeoBase System (w/ Emergency Response Tools suite) (OPR: Civil Engineer)

8.   Display.

     a. Multi-Function Flat Panel Displays
     b. Cable TV Feed
     c. Defense Connect On-line (DCO) equipped with video capability for BDOC as mini-
        mum
  Air Education and Training Command

Installation Command and Control Standard

             Enhanced 9-1-1




                  Version 2

                 14 Jan 2014
1. Scope. Minimum standards for Enhanced 9-1-1 (E9-1-1) service at AETC installations.

2. Advocacy & Resources.

   c. HQ AETC Directorate: OPR: A6O
      OCR: A7O, A7S, A2/3O, FM
   d. HQ AETC Panels: SC Panel

3. Requirements for E9-1-1 Service.

   a. JITC and IA accredited solution: Provide a Joint Interoperability Test Command
      (JITC) certified and Information Assurance (IA) accredited solution or provide a
      migration plan to migrate from current equipment and configuration to JTIC certified and
      IA accredited solution.

   b. Workstation Hardware and Software: Provide hardware and software for minimum
      two primary 9-1-1 workstations and two alternate location workstations at each AETC
      installation. Dispatcher may require telephone/radio headset interface, Push-to-Talk
      (PTT) handset, on-site spare parts (crash kit) for minor repairs, (2) 9-1-1 Computer
      Telephony (CTI) Answering Positions, 20.1 Viewable Touch Screen LCD Monitors,
      Management Information System (MIS), Integrated Hotline Extensions.

   c. E9-1-1 Log On: Users will be able to log on with a user name and password; however,
      CAC login preferred. The user identification shall determine configuration settings. The
      Center Manager will only approve standard desktop settings or individually customized
      settings. Individual settings will be recorded by the user logon. All setup differences
      shall be the result of setup preferences and security levels, through user logon.

   d. Redundancy: Provide dual identical subsystems for redundancy in case of failure IAW
      the National Emergency Number Association (NENA) and Public Law 108-494 (23 Dec
      04). Ensure no loss of calls while in progress. In the case of complete failure, ensure
      capability to operate remotely via the service provider.

   e. ALI and ANI Capabilities: E9-1-1 must be integrated with the ALI (Automated
      Location Information) controller and the ANI (Automated Number Indication) controller.
      Transferred calls shall display correct ALI and ANI at each workstation. In the event the
      ALI is not properly transmitted or is incomplete the dispatcher shall be able to manually
      query the ALI database in order to receive complete ALI.

   f. Caller Identification: “Caller Identification” must be displayed and recorded on all
      incoming calls.

   g. CAD Interface: The ALI controller must interface with existing Computer Aided
      Dispatch (CAD) system or a mapping system, where available. Some E9-1-1
   installations utilize CAD, whereas all AETC Fire Departments use the ACES-FD
   program.

h. Immediate Call / Data Transfer: The dispatcher shall have the ability to transfer any
   calls to another dispatcher console position or to any Public Safety Answering Point
   (PSAP) in the local area. Allow for single-button transfers to the appropriate agencies
   based on Emergency Service Number (ESN) associated with each individual PSAP.
   Additionally, have a simple method of transferring calls from each E9-1-1
   Communications System workstations to other agencies. Provide audio breakout for
   transmit and receive an off-hook audio capability. At a minimum (#) Law enforcement
   answering points, (#) fire station points, (#) EMS points and (#) PSAP will be provided.
   Number will be unique to each installation.

i. Connectivity: Access to the local exchange carrier (LEC) for E9-1-1 services shall
   include all connectivity to be IAW local E9-1-1 entities.

j. Abandoned Calls: Allow for abandoned calls to be retrieved for call back capability.

k. Call Ringing: The dispatcher shall have the ability to select distinctive ring tones
   depending on various factors. The Ring of E9-1-1 must be different from typical
   telephone rings in the office. The dispatcher must be able to distinguish the differences
   between standard administrative lines and emergency calls.

l. Call Dialing: The dispatcher shall be able to dial a telephone number either through
   telephone handset, keyboard, and/or touch screen. Speed dial displays must include drop
   down pages. At a minimum (#) police answering points, (#) fire station points, (#) EMS
   points and (#) PSAP (Public Safety Answering Points) will be provided. Number will be
   unique to each installation.

m. Call Transfers: Provide the capability to perform Selective, Fixed and Manual transfers
   to expedite emergency transfers to other emergency service agencies and PSAPs.

n. Six Way Conferencing: The dispatcher shall have the ability to enable a six way
   conference between the caller and other internal workstations, PSAPs, or emergency
   service agencies. The system must maintain the conference even if the dispatcher
   disconnects from the call.

o. Electronic Telephone Directory: The dispatcher shall have the ability to store
   telephone numbers in an electronic phone book with unlimited number of entries, have
   the ability to store, and dial up to 20 digit numbers. The phone book shall have partitions
   to allow grouping of phone numbers.

p. ADA Compliance: Provide full-featured TDD/TTY (Telephone Device for the Deaf)
   capabilities at each station as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
   Automatically detect data communications rate in both Baudot and ASCII and adjust
   accordingly. The dispatcher shall be able to move from data to voice without
   interruption. There must be the ability to handle voice carryover (VCO) and hearing
   carryover (HCO). Include call back of TDD/TTY transmissions and be capable of
   recording the messages transmitted. TDD/TTY challenge button shall also be available.
   This allows the dispatcher to manually challenge a TDD/TTY call in case of malfunction.
   The TDD/TTY shall allow for a minimum of eight pre-programmed messages.

q. Data Storage: Capture/record and archive/store all voice and data information on all E9-
   1-1 lines. This service shall be connected to the existing Law Enforcement, Fire and/or
   EMS recorder. Information must be able to be recorded for future “playback” during
   quality assurance and/or questionable calls. Immediate “playback” capability must be
   provided for quick reference during emergencies. All E9-1-1 voice /data information
   must be archived for future access IAW with local directives. Controls must exist to limit
   access to information to essential personnel only.

r. Management Reports: A Management Information System (MIS) shall provide the
   ability to create customized reports to show statistical call answer and abandoned
   information on a workstation, dispatcher, trunk group, and line or site basis. System shall
   provide a means to measure total call volume for each category, plus provide call
   averages on time to answer, hold period and length of call on a line or by dispatcher as
   identified by the dispatcher’s sign on.

s. Telephones / Existing Integrated Command and Control Voice Capability: For
   installations that do not have existing integrated command and control voice capability to
   connect E9-1-1 voice, provide at a minimum 4 telephones (2 for backup) available for
   each installation E9-1-1 Communications Center. Telephones must be able to
   accommodate all existing voices lines and various circuits and have the capability for
   future expansion. For locations that do have the integrated command and control voice
   capability, to provide full operational capability on the console.

t. Trunks and Hot Lines: Provide a minimum two E9-1-1 trunks based on number of
   dispatchers and size of installation. Additionally, provide (#) “hot” lines or ring-down
   circuits as required for key installation personnel and command and control facilities or
   entities. (#) of ring-down circuits, and (#) of designated “one-button” transfer must be
   provided. The “one-button” transfer is also used to transfer E9-1-1 calls to the other local
   community E9-1-1 PSAPs.

u. Service Support: This requirement must include a 24-hour, seven days per week
   maintenance agreement for catastrophic (1 hour), critical (4 hours) and routine (next
   business day) maintenance and/or repair for all workstations computers and software.
   Remote maintenance “troubleshooting” service that successfully satisfies the problem
   constitutes as a response.

v. Remote Access: Provide means for equipment vendor and/or maintenance staff to
   remotely access 9-1-1 equipment for maintenance and repair. Security measures shall be
   enacted to guard against unauthorized access.
w. Comprehensive Training: Provide complete training for the staff and dispatchers. All
   training shall include basic operations as well as basic “troubleshooting” for end-users.

x. Technical and User Operation Manuals: Provide two sets of technical and user
   operation manuals for all E9-1-1 equipment provided.

y. Software, Hardware, Equipment Maintenance and Upgrades: Provide maintenance
   and upgrades of all equipment, software and hardware.

z. Federal, State and Local Standards, Mandates and Directives: Must meet all
   Federal, State, local E9-1-1 Standards, Mandates and Directives as well as National
   Emergency Number Associations (NENA).

aa. E9-1-1 Services to Wireless Phone Callers: Provide the capability to receive and
    display Phase I and Phase II E9-1-1 calls, including the call-back numbers (CBN) and
    geographic coordinates of callers, from Wireless/Cellular Service Providers IAW Public
    Law 106-81 (26 Oct 99). Coordinate with each 9-1-1 entity to evaluate the impact of
    routing wireless 9-1-1 calls to each installation PSAP and implement as warranted.

bb. Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS): All critical 9-1-1 components, including the 9-
    1-1 call-taking equipment/workstations, ALI modems, network interfaces and TTY/TDD
    devices shall be on a UPS capable of providing a minimum of 15 minutes reserve power.
    The 15 minute period will allow ample time for the automatic start-up of emergency
    generators.

cc. Mapped ALI – Provide the means to automatically plot and graphically display the street
    address or geographic coordinates provided within ALI. The dispatcher shall also have
    the ability to locate an address, intersection, or street, measure, and do basic map
    navigation. The system will differentiate between the type of call (landline, VoIP,
    wireless Phase I, wireless Phase II) and display a discrete icon to assist the dispatcher in
    identifying the type of call.

dd. System must be IP enabled to accept and be fully inter-operational with unified
    communications (UC) and voice over internet protocol (VoIP) voice, text, email, and
    video inputs.
DISTRIBUTION:

AETC HQ Directors/Chiefs of Special Staff

AU/CC
55 LeMay Plaza South, Suite 120
Maxwell AFB AL 36112-6335

2 AF/CC
721 Hangar Road, Suite 102
Keesler AFB MS 39534-2804

AFRS/CC
550 D Street West, Suite 1
JBSA Randolph TX 78150-4527

12 FTW/CC
1 Washington Circle, Suite 1
JBSA Randolph TX 78150-4559

14 FTW/CC
555 7th Street, Suite 205
Columbus AFB MS 39710-1000

17 TRW/CC
351 Kearney Blvd, Suite 220
Goodfellow AFB TX 76908-4122

33 FW/CC
1007 Nomad Way, Bldg 1315
Eglin AFB FL 32542-6018

37 TRW/CC
1701 Kenly Avenue, Suite 201
JBSA Lackland TX 78236-5103

42 ABW/CC
50 LeMay Plaza South
Maxwell AFB AL 36112-6334

47 FTW/CC
561 Liberty Drive, Suite 1
Laughlin AFB TX 78843-5230
56 FW/CC
14185 West Falcon Street
Luke AFB AZ 85309-1629

58 SOW/CC
4249 Hercules Way SE
Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5861

59 MDW/CC
2200 Bergquist Drive, Suite 1
JBSA Lackland TX 78236-9908

71 FTW/CC
246 Brown Parkway, Suite 224
Vance AFB OK 73705-5015

80 FTW/CC
1911 J Avenue, Suite 1
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2051

81 TRW/CC
720 Chappie James Avenue, Suite 204
Keesler AFB MS 39534-2604

82 TRW/CC
419 G Avenue, Suite 1
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2941

97 AMW/CC
100 Inez Blvd, Suite 1
Altus AFB OK 73523-5047

149 FW/CC
107 Hensley Street, Suite 1
JBSA Lackland TX 78236-0103

150 WG/CC
2251 Air Guard Road SE
Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5875

162 FW/CC
1650 East Perimeter Way
Tucson AZ 85706-6052


173 FW/CC
211 Arnold Avenue, Suite 11
Klamath Falls OR 97603-2111

189 AW/CC
112 CMSgt Williams Drive, Suite 103
Little Rock AFB AR 72099-4802

314 AW/CC
318 CMSgt Williams Drive, Suite 113
Little Rock AFB AR 72099-4976

306 FTG/CC
9206 Airfield Drive, Suite 1
USAF Academy CO 80840-2060

336 TRG/CC
1015 West Survival Loop, Suite 200
Fairchild AFB WA 99011-8648

340 FTG/CC
375 J. Street West, Suite 1
JBSA Randolph TX 78150-4532

381 TRG/CC
1472 Nevada Avenue, Suite 112
Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-5327

502 ABW/CC
2080 Wilson Way
JBSA Fort Sam Houston TX 78234-7680

944 FW/CC
14708 West Sabre Street
Luke AFB AZ 85309-1722
