BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AETC INSTRUCTION 36-2206
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                                                      4 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                        AIRCREW GRADUATE EVALUATION
                                                                           PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AETC/A3F                                                             Certified by: AETC/A3F
                                                                          (Col Otto D. Habedank)
Supersedes:    AETCI 36-2206, 21 April                                                    Pages: 6
               2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-26, Total Force
Development, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training and its AETC
Supplement. It provides specific guidance on the Aircrew Graduate Evaluation Program
(AGEP). This publication applies to all Air Education and Training Command (AETC) flying
training units and courses. It also applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units under AETC oversight. If a conflict exists between this
instruction and a service contract, the contract takes precedence until the contract can be
modified. Subordinate units may supplement this instruction. Forward proposed supplements to
AETC/A3F for coordination prior to approval. Submit recommended changes to this instruction
using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to AETC/A3F. Final approval
authority for changes to this instruction is AETC/A2/3/10. Waiver authority is AETC/A3F or
AETC/A3Z. For ANG, route change requests through NGB/A3O to AETC/A3Z. This
publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records
Disposition Schedule. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision assigns AETC/A3F as the OPR for the AGEP; implements a change to the rating
scale. The rating scale changed from a 5 point scale to a 6 point scale.
 2                                                        AETCI36-2206 4 DECEMBER 2013


1. Scope.
     1.1. This instruction provides AGEP guidance to all AETC undergraduate and graduate
     formal training units (FTU) conducting flying training, including ANG units gained by
     AETC and AFRC FTUs. (Exceptions: Conduct aircrew survival training graduate
     evaluations in accordance with AETCI 36-2207, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape
     [SERE] Training Systems Evaluation. Civil Air Patrol-USAF and 306 Flying Training Group
     units not involved in initial flight screening (IFS) are exempt from AGEP requirements.)
     Formal flying training includes IFS, all initial and advanced undergraduate pilot training
     (UPT), Euro-NATO joint jet pilot training (ENJJPT), pilot instructor training (for UPT and
     ENJJPT), introduction to fighter fundamentals, AETC-owned FTUs, enlisted courses taught
     at the Center of Excellence, combat systems officer training, electronic warfare officer
     training, weapons director training, and air battle management training. AGEP is on the Air
     Force Portal Application A-Z list, as, AGEP-IFT – Aircrew Graduate Evaluation Program –
     Introductory Flight Training (AETC) https://www.my.af.mil/agepiftprod. AGEP provides
     a formal data gathering and reporting mechanism to help syllabus managers assess mission
     accomplishment and training quality as defined in AFH 36-2235, Volume 8, Information for
     Designers of Instructional Systems, Application for Aircrew Training.
2. Goal.
     2.1. As part of the instructional systems development continuum, feedback gathered through
     the AGEP is used to ensure AETC formal flying training course graduates meet customer
     requirements. The AGEP goal is to provide training program managers and senior leaders a
     comprehensive assessment of training effectiveness and areas of improvement.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. AETC/A3F (AGEP office):
        3.1.1. Serves as the AGEP manager.
        3.1.2. Reviews proposed supplements, and resolves AGEP questions.
        3.1.3. Manages system security, establishes initial user roles to access the AGEP server
        for administrative functions, edits and assigns roles to AGEP users.
        3.1.4. Provides coordination and support to the responsible branch within AETC/A3F
        and AETC/A3Z to change, add, edit or update syllabus surveys and syllabus stops
        (Example: Prerequisite to be completed before the next syllabus lesson).
        3.1.5. Assists base survey administrators (BSA), course managers, supervisors, and users
        with AGEP database data and reports.
        3.1.6. Notifies BSAs when significant changes are made to the AGEP website or user’s
        manual.
        3.1.7. Maintains an online AGEP user’s manual.
        3.1.8. Ensures data is available for analysis and provide BSAs, course managers, and
        supervisors with report preparation guidance. Helps prepare additional reports, as
        requested by training program managers and customers for use at course training
        standards and syllabus conferences, fighter cross-tell conferences, “road show” briefings,
        command performance metrics, etc.
AETCI36-2206 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    3


     3.1.9. Advocates AGEP surveys (GradEval) from gaining major commands (MAJCOM)
     on AETC flying training programs. When graduates depart AETC, the AGEP relies on
     inter-MAJCOM cooperation for feedback on AETC programs.
     3.1.10. Establishes and maintains a point of contact (POC) list for POC’s at as many
     non-AETC gaining bases as possible. Posts the POC list on the AGEP website;
     “members of the POC list can receive reminders to complete surveys.” Encourages
     AETC BSAs to contact POC’s at gaining bases to solicit wing training program feedback.
  3.2. Base Survey Administrator (BSA). The BSA:
     3.2.1. Is appointed by the operations group commander or equivalent to manage the
     AGEP at each AETC formal flying training location. Additional POC’s may be
     appointed at subordinate levels at unit discretion.
     3.2.2. Is the overall AGEP wing-level POC.
     3.2.3. Conducts AGEP training for wing evaluators and other local users as deemed
     necessary.
     3.2.4. Establishes contact with follow-on training units and gaining units to solicit AGEP
     feedback on wing programs. A BSA and POC listing is maintained on the AGEP
     website. A proactive BSA plays a key role in achieving desired return rates from gaining
     units.
     3.2.5. Is responsible for local AGEP student administration: Uses the AGEP database to
     assign students to their classes, move held-over students from one class to another, and
     graduate and move students from one training location to another. Note: This function
     may be delegated to a registrar position, or equivalent, if one exists, but it is still the
     BSA’s responsibility to ensure compliance. AETC/A3F (AGEP office) is available to
     assist with AGEP student administration, but primary responsibility resides with the
     BSA.
  3.3. Evaluators.
     3.3.1. Evaluators complete surveys. Evaluators include primary supervisors, formal
     course instructors, and, when contractual provisions permit, contracted instructors.
     Service contracts should include the requirement to complete GradEvals.
     3.3.2. The preferred evaluator is the student’s primary instructor or, if there is no primary
     instructor, the immediate supervisor.
     3.3.3. Evaluators contact the BSA for assistance or to report database problems as
     students not in the database or not enrolled in the proper training course. In the BSA’s
     absence, evaluators may contact AETC/A3F (AGEP office) for assistance.
  3.4. AETC/A2/3/10:
     3.4.1. Sets AGEP policy and approves all changes to this instruction.
     3.4.2. Delegates waiver authority to AETC/A3F and AETC/A3Z for application of
     AGEP requirements in the syllabuses they manage.
  3.5. AETC/A3F and AETC/A3Z:
 4                                                         AETCI36-2206 4 DECEMBER 2013


        3.5.1. Develop, review, and implement specific survey questions to meet the AGEP goal
        for each assigned course.
        3.5.2. Provide customer feedback-based survey question updates during every syllabus
        revision.
        3.5.3. Provides survey questions to address syllabus changes.
        3.5.4. Within each syllabus, identifies if AGEP stops are waived when not required.
4. AGEP Orientation and Training:
     4.1. Initial Orientation. Each instructor course includes a discussion of the AGEP as part of
     syllabus orientation.
     4.2. Other Training. BSAs conduct training as required for evaluators. AETC/A3F (AGEP
     office) is available to answer questions and assist as required. Contact information is
     maintained on the AGEP website.
5. AGEP Execution:
     5.1. Syllabus Stops.
        5.1.1. All AETC-owned syllabuses must include syllabus stops mandating when surveys
        must be completed. Syllabus provisions may include a window that opens at an
        appropriate point in training at which time the student becomes eligible for the survey,
        concluding with the syllabus stop. The survey must be completed before training can
        proceed. Gaining supervisors must administer surveys at the specified training points. To
        assist in this effort, AETC/A3F (AGEP office) uses the AGEP system to generate an E-
        mail to the appropriate BSA at a given time after a student enters training. The BSA then
        notifies each student’s evaluator that the GradEval is due. It is critical that the BSA
        continue to follow-up until each GradEval is completed.
     5.2. Purpose of Surveys.
        5.2.1. AETC/A3F and AETC/A3Z syllabus managers provide AETC/A3F (AGEP
        office) survey questions to be inserted into the AGEP. These questions are the
        foundation upon which the AGEP is based. Syllabus developers and program managers
        review and validate their survey questions periodically, or at least at every syllabus
        revision. Surveys are linked to training requirements within each syllabus. They are
        designed to determine if graduates are trained to meet customer requirements and
        prepared to begin the next phase of training and/or ready for operational duty. Do not use
        student names. AGEP surveys provide feedback on training systems, including syllabus
        content and training resources. Syllabus developers and program managers use this
        feedback to determine if program changes are needed.
     5.3. Completion of Surveys:
        5.3.1. Survey questions use a rating scale of 1 to 6 (1, 2 and 3 are below standard; 4, 5
        and 6 meet or exceed standard). Although comments are not required, they are requested
        for any rating of 1, 2, 3 or 6. This ensures proper evaluation of syllabus areas that do not
        meet the training standard or far exceed the standard. Paragraphs 5.2.1.1 through 5.3.1.6
        provide additional information on the rating scale.
AETCI36-2206 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                               5


         5.3.1.1. A Rating of 1 - Unacceptable.            Skill/knowledge is unacceptable.
         Unacceptable amount of additional training or assistance is required.
         5.3.1.2. A Rating of 2 - Unsatisfactory. Skill/knowledge is unsatisfactory.
         Significant additional training or assistance is required.
         5.3.1.3. A Rating of 3 - Marginal. Skill/knowledge is below expectations.
         Additional training or assistance is required.
         5.3.1.4. A Rating of 4 - Satisfactory. Skill/knowledge is as expected. Student is
         adequately prepared to begin this course or duty.
         5.3.1.5. A Rating of 5 - Excellent. Skill/knowledge exceeds expectations. All
         training or assistance normally required or planned was significantly reduced.
         5.3.1.6. A Rating of 6 - Outstanding. Skill/knowledge far exceeds expectations.
         Training or assistance normally required or planned was unnecessary.
     5.3.2. Sufficient space for comments is included in each survey. Do not use student
     names. Input substantive comments focusing on areas where the student lacked
     proficiency or was not well prepared by the previous course of instruction.
  5.4. Reports.
     5.4.1. Squadron-level and above supervisors and the BSA have full access to various
     AGEP reports. If a required report is not available in the AGEP report suite, request it
     through the appropriate syllabus manager in AETC/A3F or AETC/A3Z, who will review
     the request and forward to AETC/A3F (AGEP office) for inclusion in AGEP.
     5.4.2. Squadron, group, and wing commanders or their representatives may review
     reports, review individual student evaluations, and enter comments. There is no
     requirement to enter commander comments.
     5.4.3. AETC/A3F (AGEP office) can generate custom reports from the AGEP database
     if needed. Contact information is maintained on the AGEP website.




                                         TIMOTHY M. ZADALIS
                                         Major General, USAF
                                         Director of Intelligence, Operations
                                         And Nuclear Integration
 6                                                     AETCI36-2206 4 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training, 22 Nov 2010 and its AETC Supplement, 6 Apr 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 Sep 2011
AFH 36-2235, Volume 8, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems, Application for
Aircrew Training, 1 Nov 2002
AETCI 36-2207, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Training Systems
Evaluation, 2 Oct 2000
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGEP—Aircrew Graduate Evaluation Program
ANG—Air National Guard
BSA—Base Survey Administrator
ENJJPT—Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training
FTU—Formal Training Unit
GradEval—Aircrew Graduate Evaluation survey
IFS—Initial Flight Screening
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
UPT—Undergraduate Pilot Training
