BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
AIR FOR DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON                                    INSTRUCTION 32-101

                                                                                   31 JULY 2012

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                    OPERATION OF THE JACOB E. SMART
                                                           STRATEGIC PLANNING AND
                                                              DEVELOPMENT CENTER

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFDW/CCP                                                          Certified by: AFDW/CC
                                                             (Major General Darren W. McDew)
                                                                                      Pages: 15


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 32-10, Installations and Facilities, and
establishes the procedures for scheduling and conducting conferences, symposiums, meetings,
events and training sessions in the United States Air Force Jacob E. Smart Building, located on
Joint Base Andrews (JBA) Naval Air Facility Washington, Maryland. This publication applies
to all Air Force District of Washington (AFDW) staff agencies, mission partners, Department of
Defense (DoD), and other federal agencies. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve
Command units and the Air National Guard. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information
Management System Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/
afrims/rims.cfm Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office
of primary responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

1. General.
   1.1. Commander’s Intent. The commander’s intent is fourfold: (1) to ensure mission
   effective, state-of-the-art conference and communications capabilities; (2) to ensure the
   security and safety of conference attendees and classified information; (3) to optimize facility
   usage; and, (4) to maintain a world-class professional conference environment. Therefore,
   the Smart Building and this instruction prioritize mission, security, resource management and
   professionalism above all other considerations. The Commander, Air Force District of
 2                                                                  AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012


     Washington (AFDW/CC), recognizes the Smart Building will be in high demand and
     requests for use will likely exceed availability of the facility. Therefore, the AFDW/CC is
     the final approval authority for the master event calendar (MEC) and for any exceptions to
     this policy. The AFDW/CC has delegated routine approval for and management of the MEC
     and for minor exceptions to policy to the Smart Building Director (AFDW/CCP).
     1.2. Smart Building information can be accessed on AFDW’s public website under JBA
     links at http://www.afdw.af.mil/units/smartcenter/index.asp.
     1.3. The Smart Building operating hours are 0700-1700, Monday through Friday, excluding
     Federal holidays. Events will take place between the hours of 0800 and 1630. This is a
     civilian and contractor-operated facility with monetary penalties associated with overtime
     compensation. Conference project officers (POs) or customers are not authorized to obligate
     the U.S. government to any amount above that which is already appropriated. Exceptions for
     extended hours to support mission-critical events must be approved by the Smart Building
     Director on a case-by-case basis.
     1.4. The Smart Building is designed to host large, multi-day conferences. Prohibited
     activities include all changes of command, promotion, and retirement ceremonies and related
     social activities for these ceremonies; and, banquets, award ceremonies and other events held
     solely for a social occasion or purpose.
     1.5. No expositions or public displays for general audiences are allowed. If space is needed
     for displays that directly support conferences objectives, displayed items must be restricted to
     the area immediately outside the conference room used. The plan for any display must be
     reviewed by the Smart Building Director and approved at least 2 weeks prior to conference
     date. Space for tech expos may be obtained from other facilities such as The Club at
     Andrews or The Courses at Andrews Club House.
     1.6. To reserve a room at the Smart Building, the PO must complete a scheduling request.
     The request will be made via e-mail (smart.center@afncr.af.mil), in person or by telephone
     to the Smart Building Program Coordinator at Defense Switched Network (DSN) 612-6500,
     commercial 240-612-6500. Note: To serve as an event PO, an individual must be an active/
     current Federal Government employee, i.e., military, DoD civilian, etc. (contractors cannot
     serve as primary POs).
     1.7. The Smart Building is committed to promoting a healthy and safe environment and is a
     tobacco-free facility. Federal law and AF instruction prohibit smoking within the Smart
     Building or within 50 feet of the doorways, walkways and parking lots. Tobacco products, to
     include smokeless (dip, snuff, chew, etc.) are permitted in the designated tobacco use area
     which is located on the southeast side of the building.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Smart Building staff is responsible for providing the overall management and the
     coordination of day-to-day operations.
        2.1.1. Open and secure the facility each day. The Smart Building staff will be on duty 1
        hour prior to, during and 30 minutes after any event to operate equipment, load briefings,
        secure the facility and resolve any issues that may arise in support of scheduled events.
AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012                                                                      3


     2.1.2. Operate and maintain the facility and provided equipment. The Smart Building
     staff will manage the configuration of the facility, i.e., set up event or meeting rooms
     according to the preconference meeting plans.
     2.1.3. Assist the conference host’s PO in providing/coordinating audio/visual (A/V)
     requirements and support.
     2.1.4. Brief the PO on the proper use of the facility, as well as on the facility and
     equipment operations policies.
     2.1.5. The Smart Building Program Planner and staff are available to assist the PO with
     planning information and providing contacts for other base support such as lodging,
     transportation and catering.
  2.2. Project Officer:
     2.2.1. The PO is the client representative of the conference host’s organization who is
     responsible for coordinating and arranging all host-required support specific to their
     event held at the Smart Building. By signing the Smart Building usage agreement, the
     PO obligates the host’s compliance with its terms.
     2.2.2. Ensure the event stays within the time approved. Project officers may enter the
     building 1 hour prior to the event start time for setup with attendees entering no earlier
     than 0730. Project officers must end their event at 1630 to allow 15-20 minutes to collect
     materials and exit the facility by 1700.
     2.2.3. Check in and out every day with Smart Building staff to review daily
     requirements.
     2.2.4. Ensure attendees adhere to the rules and policies of the Smart Building.
     2.2.5. Enforce fire code by never exceeding the room seating capacity.
     2.2.6. Provide one augmentee support staff member for every 75 attendees to cover the
     hours of 0700-1645. Duties include, but are not limited to securing participant cell
     phones/portable electronic devices (PED), answering a dedicated phone line, taking
     messages, and keeping the event, prefunction and common areas clean and organized.
     2.2.7. Be on site before, during and after all event activities. If PO duties are delegated
     to another individual prior to the event start date or during an event, the new PO will be
     briefed on Smart Building policies/procedures and the usage agreement will be amended
     and signed.
     2.2.8. The PO is responsible for briefing, directing, and supervising any and all host-
     required augmentee staff necessary to support their event.
     2.2.9. The PO will provide all briefing materials and electronic files and media to the
     Smart Building A/V staff at least 2 business days prior to the event. The PO will be
     notified of current A/V capabilities and support software when making reservations. All
     briefing materials must be compatible with Smart Building A/V equipment and
     computers.
     2.2.10. The PO is responsible for coordination, provision, and reimbursement of all costs
     associated with the delivery and return of any required equipment and/or support not
 4                                                                  AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012


        already available in the facility or provided by the Smart Building. This includes support
        and services provided by 11th Wing (11 WG) and 844th Communications Group/744th
        Communications Squadron (844 CG/744 CS).
        2.2.11. The PO must provide the Smart Building staff a written notice for any type of
        secure communications requirements at the preconference planning meeting. The PO
        will contact their secure communications element and have them coordinate directly with
        the Smart Building technical staff to arrange Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
        (SIPRNET) access requirements. All communication regarding classified event
        requirements will be accomplished through secure communication channels.
            2.2.11.1. The PO will coordinate with the Smart Building video teleconference
            (VTC) facilitator at the planning meeting to outline the necessary technical
            requirements.
        2.2.12. The PO will adhere to security responsibilities for classified events and
        heightened force protection (FP) conditions IAW AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism and local
        antiterrorism and FP policies.
            2.2.12.1. The PO will adhere to the Smart Building information protection (IP)
            procedures for classified events (see Attachment 2).
        2.2.13. The PO will conduct an end-of-day walk-through with the event planner to
        ensure all event-related materials are removed and to inspect for any damage to the
        facility or equipment. The PO will provide an AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization,
        for the cost of any repairs or extra cleaning necessary caused by the event or its guests.
        2.2.14. The PO agrees to adhere to 11 WG guidance as it applies to the Smart Building
        during real-world crisis (e.g., civil disturbances, natural disasters, major accidents, etc.).
3. Scheduling.
     3.1. When requesting a reservation at the Smart Building, the hosting organization’s PO will
     provide, at a minimum, the title of the conference or event, preferred date(s), principal
     attendees, total number of attendees, security classification, organizational government
     purchase card account number or fund cite, PO’s name, telephone number, and e-mail
     address.
     3.2. Smart Building administrative staff will optimize the use of the facility by assigning
     conference rooms according to group size, technical requirements, and security classification.
        3.2.1. The PO will notify the program coordinator as soon as possible should a
        cancellation be necessary. Rescheduling for another date will require a separate
        approval.
     3.3. The Smart Building was established to satisfy a high demand by Air Force Secretariat
     and Headquarters Air Force sponsors for adequate conferencing facilities in the National
     Capital Region. For this reason, AFDW/CC will give Secretary of the AF (SECAF) and
     Chief of Staff of the AF (CSAF), as the principal users, a scheduling priority over all other
     requests for conference center usage. In addition, AFDW/CC will afford other DoD Service
     Secretaries and Chiefs the same privilege for events they host to the maximum extent
     practicable. All other events will be scheduled in the order received on a space-available
     basis but are subject to being displaced by the principal users should the need arise.
AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012                                                                       5


   Rescheduling and accommodating displaced events will be coordinated by the Smart
   Building staff to the maximum extent practicable.
      3.3.1. Reservations for events in the Smart Building will be accepted as follows:
          3.3.1.1. Reservations for events with durations of 4 or more days may schedule up to
          12 months in advance of event start date.
          3.3.1.2. Reservations for events with durations of 3 days may schedule up to 9
          months in advance of event start date.
          3.3.1.3. Reservations for events with durations of 2 days may schedule up to 6
          months in advance of event start date.
          3.3.1.4. Reservations for events with durations of 1 day or less may schedule up to 3
          months in advance of event start date.
   3.4. Reservation Approval
      3.4.1. Upon receipt of a reservation request, the Smart Building staff will contact the PO
      to review it in order to reach an accord on which requirements can be satisfied.
      3.4.2. Once an accord is reached, the Smart Building staff will send an e-mail that
      reiterates the accord and to request PO confirmation.
      3.4.3. Within 5 business days after written receipt of the PO confirmation, the Smart
      Building will notify the PO via e-mail whether the reservation request has been approved.
      3.4.4. Smart Building reservations are not officially scheduled until the PO receives the
      approved reservation confirmation e-mail.
      3.4.5. It is important to note that an approved Smart Building reservation does not denote
      11 WG/CC coordination or approval. Separate coordination is required with the 11
      WG/CC.
   3.5. An approved reservation does not obligate AFDW or the 11 WG to provide additional
   support. It is incumbent on the PO to secure any additional support (i.e., security, protocol,
   transportation, etc.) should it be required.
   3.6. To maintain schedule integrity and allow for Smart Building maintenance and
   communications/information systems maintenance, no requests for reservations will be
   accepted less than 3 weeks prior to the event start date.
4. Planning Scheduled Events.
   4.1. Once reservations are approved and no less than 4 weeks prior to the event start date,
   the Smart Building staff will contact the PO to schedule a mandatory preconference planning
   meeting to review event requirements, coordinate support requests and review applicable
   policies. The PO, alternate PO, support personnel, and briefers (if possible) should attend
   this meeting and receive a user responsibilities briefing.
      4.1.1. The PO will select room configuration at the preconference planning meeting so
      that the Smart Building staff can ensure the areas are set up and resourced as required
      prior to the start date of the event. The PO then signs the user agreement and all
      applicable forms.
 6                                                                AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012


        4.1.2. Parking is available for 427 vehicles with 10 designated as handicapped
        accessible. All parking spaces are reserved exclusively for Smart Building event
        attendees, Smart Building staff and those providing direct event support. The PO will
        coordinate with the Smart Building staff for distinguished visitor (DV) parking spaces
        and for any required security controls. All spaces are on a first-come, first-served basis.
        4.1.3. Event POs must keep the Smart Building staff informed of all changes that impact
        event sequence or support. Final agendas are required by the Smart Building staff no
        later than 2 business days prior to event start date and will include a list of attendees.
     4.2. If Air Force DVs, flag officers, or equivalent (O-7 or above) who are not already
     assigned to JBA are the host or among the event attendees and require either lodging,
     transportation or both (reference AFI 36-2901, General Officers Visiting the Washington DC
     Area), the PO will coordinate their visit with AFDW/CCP, Visiting General Officers Office
     at DSN 612-6458/6456/ 6459/commercial 240-612-6458/6456/6459.
     4.3. The Smart Building will conduct a mandatory dry run with the PO no later than 1
     business day prior to the start of all events. It is highly recommended that, whenever
     possible, briefers, augmentees, other host support staff and event security managers (ESM),
     when required, attend. The PO is required to ensure all briefing material has been provided
     to the Smart Building staff prior to the dry run.
        4.3.1. Should VTC be an event element, the PO is responsible for notifying and
        coordinating VTC contacts to test connectivity at least 1 week before event start date.
        4.3.2. All other PO-provided equipment that is required for the event must be made
        available at the dry run to ensure compatibility and functionality.
5. Communications Capabilities.
     5.1. The Smart Building has a local area network (LAN) with access to the Air Force
     National Capital Region domain Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET).
     5.2. Any SIPRNET service required must be identified on the reservation request. The
     Smart Building staff will coordinate with 844 CG or sponsoring JBA mission partners for
     preparation.
     5.3. An unclassified copier and fax machine are available for customer use. The PO will be
     referred to the Defense Automated Printing Service office at (301) 981-2206 if their
     requirements exceed more than 50 copies of a single original.
     5.4. Secure telephones are available in the DV office suites for DV use. Requested use by
     others must be coordinated through the Smart Building staff.
     5.5. The Smart Building does not maintain or have classified laptops available for use.
     5.6. Audio/Visual Support. The Smart Building technical staff will operate A/V equipment
     for every event in the Executive Conference Room and the Auditorium. The A/V equipment
     in the other conference rooms will be operated by the Smart Building technical staff or the
     PO, if Smart Building staff deems that complexity of requirements can be adequately met by
     the PO and their augmentees. The PO will coordinate with the Smart Building A/V staff for
     training of augmentees.
6. Information Security. Information security (IS) procedures are outlined in Attachment 2.
AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012                                                                        7


7. Provision of Food and Beverages.
   7.1. Beverages are allowed to be consumed but not served in all event rooms. Food and
   beverage consumption and serving are permitted in the prefunction areas immediately
   outside the event rooms and in the DV office suites. The PO must request approval for food
   and beverage consumption and serving in the reservation request.
   7.2. The PO may contract for catering services with The Club at Andrews Catering
   Department (301-568-3100), The Courses at Andrews Club House (301-981-4653), or a
   commercial provider. It is the responsibility of the PO to sponsor all off-base caterers entry
   to the base with food and serving supplies. The POs will be held responsible for any damage
   caused by their caterer.
   7.3. Exception to Policy for Food Catering Services. Secretary of the Air Force, Under
   SECAF, CSAF, Vice CSAF, and Assistant Vice CSAF and other service equivalents may
   request an exception to policy for events they host. The requesting command protocol and
   POs are responsible for coordinating with the Smart Building staff to ensure that the hired
   caterers accomplish set-up before and teardown after the event. Additional instructions will
   be provided to ensure security, appearance, and upkeep of the Smart Building facility.
   7.4. Exception to Policy for Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages. The Smart Building is
   not a designated facility for alcoholic beverage consumption. In accordance with AFI 34-
   219, Alcoholic Beverage Program, clubs (golf and bowling) are the primary providers of
   alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption. Generally, the consumption of alcoholic
   beverages is reserved for designated social facilities such as The Club at Andrews and other
   nonappropriated facilities. Any requests for exception to policy as stated in this or any other
   paragraph of this instruction must be submitted to and approved by 11 WG/CC or installation
   commander.
   7.5. Due to limited Smart Building food service capacity and the likelihood of concurrent
   events with food service and consumption, staggered break times may be required. The
   Smart Building staff will coordinate between and rely on the respective POs cooperation to
   minimize conflict and/or disruption while maintaining agenda integrity.
8. Emergency Situations.
   8.1. Emergency Evacuation: An evacuation may be called for any situation, e.g., fire, bomb
   threat, etc., that is likely to threaten the safety of building occupants. Smart Building staff
   personnel will direct the evacuation of the facility.
   8.2. Weather and Natural Disasters: The 11 WG/CC will determine when to cease Smart
   Building operations due to severe weather.
   8.3. Power Outages: In the event of a power outage, the Smart Building generator will
   supply power to the Executive Conference Room. The remaining event rooms will be
   without power.
8                                                                   AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012


    8.4. Shelter-In-Place: Shelter in Place (SIP) is a precautionary measure to keep attendees
    safe while remaining indoors. During an emergency, e.g., hazardous materials, chemical or
    biological materials, or terrorist activity, attendees will be directed by Smart Building staff to
    SIP.




                                               DARREN W. MCDEW, Major General, USAF
                                               Commander, Air Force District of Washington
AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012                                                                      9


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January 1997
DoD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, February 2006
DoD Directive 2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Program, 18 August 2003
DoD Instruction 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism Standards, 2 October 2006 w/Change 2 of 8
December 2006
DoD Directive 5230.20, Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals, 22 June 2005
DoD Directive 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments
and International Organizations, 16 June 1992
USDI(I) Memorandum, April 16, 2004, Interim Information Security Guidance
USDI(I) Memorandum, April 1, 2005, Facilitating Classified Visits Within the Department of
Defense
Defense Security Academy, Procedural Guidance for Conducting DoD Classified Conferences,
July 2008
Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 703, Protection of Sensitive Compartmented
Information (SCI) and Sources & Methods
Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 705.1, Physical and Technical Security Standards for
Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities
DOD 5105.21-M-1, Sensitive Compartmented Information Administrative Security Manual,
August 1998
AFI 36-2901, General Officers Visiting the Washington DC Area
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities
AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Program
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
A/V—Audio/Visual
DoD—Department of Defense
DV—Distinguished Visitor
ESM—Event Security Manager
 10                                                   AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012


FP—Force Protection
IAW—In Accordance With
IS—Information Security
IP—Information Protection
IR—Infrared
ISO—Installation Security Officer
JBA—Joint Base Andrews
LAN—Local Area Network
MEC—Master Event Calendar
NIPRNET—Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PED—Portable Electronic Devices
PO—Project Officer
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SIP—Shelter-In-Place
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
TS—Top Secret
TSWA—Temporary Secure Working Area
USB—Universal Serial Bus
VTC—Video Teleconference
AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012                                                                         11


                                          Attachment 2
                        INFORMATION SECURITY PROCEDURES

A2.1. Purpose. This attachment outlines procedures for preparing, processing, providing IS,
and conducting DoD-sponsored classified events at the Smart Building.
A2.2. Smart Building Rooms. The Smart Building can host classified events to the secret level
in all of its event rooms. Each room’s capacity, capability and stipulations are identified in Table
A2.2. as followed:

Table A2.1. – Room Identification.




   A2.2.1. The Small Meeting and Multi-Function rooms can be divided and both halves of
   each room can be used for classified discussions to the Secret level only if used for the same
   event. In no case can unclassified discussions occur in one half during classified discussion
   in the other half when the room is divided.
   A2.2.2. The Auditorium, Executive Conference Room, Large Meeting Room, DV Office
   Suites and DV Conference Room were constructed to Temporary Secure Working Area
   (TSWA) standards. Use of these areas for classified discussion at the sensitive
   compartmented information (SCI) level can occur after completion of an AF Special Security
   Office security vulnerability assessment; discussion and electronic presentation up to the TS
   level cannot occur without the assessment.
       A2.2.2.1. A TSWA is defined as a temporarily accredited facility that is used no more
       than 40 hours monthly for the handling, discussion and/or processing of SCI, but where
       SCI should not be stored.
 12                                                              AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012


A2.3. Event Room Preparation for Classified Settings
   A2.3.1. An event reservation identifying the rooms(s), discussion classification requirements
   and IP arrangements must be approved a minimum of 4 weeks in advance of the start of the
   event.
   A2.3.2. Requests for event classification changes from an unclassified to a classified setting
   must be identified no less than 2 weeks in advance of the event start date and will not
   commence without specific approval from the applicable security oversight office through
   the Smart Building Director.
   A2.3.3. No requests for event classification changes from an unclassified to a classified
   setting will be accepted within 2 weeks of the event start date. Should the successful conduct
   of the event require a change to a classified setting, a new event reservation request must be
   submitted through the normal procedures.
   A2.3.4. Multiple-day events with unclassified and classified elements should be structured to
   separate all classified elements from days with unclassified elements.
   A2.3.5. For classified discussions at the secret level in the Small Meeting Room and Multi-
   Function Room, the PO can act as or appoint a host ESM who is responsible for providing
   personnel to control access from all areas.
   A2.3.6. All event rooms are maintained in an unclassified setting. To elevate any room to a
   classified setting to accommodate an event’s requirements, the Smart Building staff will
   oversee the necessary technical reconfiguration within the Smart Building room and conduct
   a mandatory dry run with the event PO/requestor and/or ESM the day prior to the event or
   usage start date.
   A2.3.7. No room used in a classified setting will revert to an unclassified setting until after
   the completion of a PO/ESM inspection and sweep to ensure all classified material is
   properly secured.
   A2.3.8. No room will remain in a classified setting overnight. Rooms used for classified
   purposes will revert to an unclassified setting at the conclusion of each day after a PO/ESM
   inspection and sweep to ensure all classified material is properly secured.
A2.4. Security Procedures During Classified Events:
   A2.4.1. The ESM is responsible for establishing and maintaining personnel access to the
   room(s) and for the protection of any classified material used or generated during the
   meeting. Other cleared agency personnel, or contractors with appropriate personnel security
   clearances, may assist with security requirements for these meetings under the direction of
   the ESM.
   A2.4.2. The ESM must provide the Smart Building a list of the individuals who are
   authorized access to secure events no less than 3 business days in advance of the scheduled
   start of the event. It is incumbent on the ESM to ensure those individuals are engaged in
   legitimate government business and have a legitimate need to know.
   A2.4.3. The ESM must provide the Smart Building confirmation that all attendees requiring
   access have had their clearance/access level verified before allowing their entry to the event
   room. Proof may be through confirmation of the attendee’s clearance level in the Joint
AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012                                                                      13


   Personnel Adjudication System or with a properly completed visit request from the
   attendee’s security manager or facility security officer.
   A2.4.4. The event room(s) will be secured from unauthorized access. The ESM must post
   cleared sentries at all room entrances to restrict access to only those who possess the
   appropriate security clearance and need to know while the classified event is in progress.
   The ESM shall provide authenticated entry authorization lists to all posted sentries who shall
   perform 100% identification checks when personal recognition cannot be determined.
   A2.4.5. The event room(s) will be secured from visual surveillance. The ESM is responsible
   for ensuring classified information used during the event is not made visible to persons
   outside the room.
   A2.4.6. The event room(s) will be secured from audio surveillance. The ESM is responsible
   for ensuring no discussion of classified information is conducted outside the secure room(s)
   and that a minimum distance outside secure room(s) is maintained to preclude unauthorized
   individuals from intelligibly overhearing secure communications.
   A2.4.7. At the conclusion of each day of the event, the ESM must conduct a visual
   inspection of the room(s) to ensure all classified materials have been secured. It is the
   responsibility of the ESM to appropriately dispose of any material that inadvertently remains.
A2.5. Portable Electronic Devices (PEDs):
   A2.5.1. In accordance with AFSSI 7702, Emission Security Countermeasure Review, the
   following requirements regarding PEDs within secure event room(s) are applicable to all
   personnel working in or visiting any Smart Building secure area. For secure events in the
   Executive Conference Room, individuals should use the storage lockers in the adjacent
   corridors immediately outside the room with ESM oversight. For secure events in other
   rooms, PEDs will be collected from individuals outside the room(s).
   A2.5.2. The following PEDs are NOT permitted in secure facilities:
      A2.5.2.1. Unofficial PEDs (except those listed in subparagraph 1.6.4.).
      A2.5.2.2. Two-way transmitting devices such as cellular telephones and two-way pagers
      (see subparagraph 1.6.3).
      A2.5.2.3. Recording devices (such as MP3 players, still and video cameras) that have
      any photographic, audio, video, or optical recording capability, including all associated
      media.
      A2.5.2.4. Common access card readers for government Blackberry devices.
      A2.5.2.5. Data storage devices such as universal serial bus (USB), FireWire, and
      PCMCIA devices, to include thumbnail drives, data wrist watches and all other plug-and-
      play devices capable of storing data.
      A2.5.2.6. PEDs that have infrared (IR) or radio frequency wireless capability.
      A2.5.2.7. Communications attachments (e.g., LAN cards and modem cards) must also be
      removed from PEDs before entering the secure area.
 14                                                             AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012


      A2.5.2.8. Personal digital assistants, such as a Palm Pilot, Pocket PC or Blackberry may
      not be used or approved for processing or storage of classified materials or for connection
      to classified information systems.
   A2.5.3. The following items are permitted only if issued by the Smart Building staff or are
   required to perform official duties:
      A2.5.3.1. Two-way transmitting equipment.
      A2.5.3.2. Government-owned unclassified laptops configured to meet minimum
      technical security requirements per ICD 703 to disable digital, audio and image recording
      and IR capabilities, and with explicit written permission from the ISO.
   A2.5.4. The following PEDs may be introduced into the secure facility:
      A2.5.4.1. Personally owned medical devices.
      A2.5.4.2. Electronic calculators, electronic spell checkers, wrist watches and data diaries
      without USB or other data interfaces.
      A2.5.4.3. Receive-only pagers and beepers. Audio and video equipment with only a
      playback feature (no recording capability), or with the record feature disabled/removed.
      A2.5.4.4. PEDs that have only IR wireless capability or IR ports if the IR feature is
      disabled.
      A2.5.4.5. Government-owned classified laptops configured and accredited in accordance
      with ICD 703.
   A2.5.5. TEMPEST and technical surveillance countermeasures equipment will be admitted
   into classified room(s) prior to the introduction of classified material.
A2.6. Storage
   A2.6.1. The Smart Building does have safes for the temporary storage of information,
   materiel and equipment classified at the secret or below level. Arrangements for their use
   should be made a minimum of 5 business days in advance when possible.
   A2.6.2. For storage of information, materiel and equipment classified at the top secret or
   higher level, the ESM must coordinate with AFDW/A2 at DSN 612-6083. Arrangements
   should be made a minimum of 5 business days in advance when possible.
A2.7. Additional Considerations
   A2.7.1. The ESM must contact the 11th Security Support Flight K9 Unit at DSN 858-5212
   at least 5 business days prior to the event start date to schedule a canine explosive sweep of
   the room(s), if required. The sweep must be scheduled to occur the morning of the event
   prior to the arrival of attendees.
   A2.7.2. At any time, the entire Smart Building may be required to serve as a relocation site
   in support of AFDW/HAF continuity of operations (COOP) plans. Should this become
   necessary, all events would be cancelled until normal operations return. The AFDW COOP
   OPR user in such a scenario would assume all responsibility to satisfy facility/installation
   security, IS and FP requirements.
AFDWI32-101 31 JULY 2012                                                               15


  A2.7.3. Additional security measures necessary to satisfy threat assessment requirements
  may be identified and implemented at any time.
