BY ORDER OF THE                                 AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
THE COMMANDER AIR FORCE                                      MISSION DIRECTIVE 135
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
                                                                                 25 MAY 2011



                                                  844TH COMMUNICATIONS GROUP AIR
                                                    FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFDW/A5                                         Certified by: HQ AFDW/CC (Maj Gen
                                                                          Darren W. McDew)
Supersedes:   AFDWMD 135, 15 July 2006                                              Pages: 4


This mission directive states the mission of the 844th Communications Group, communicates
responsibilities of the Group to subordinate organizations and assigned personnel, and explains
the organizational relationship between the Group, Air Force District of Washington (AFDW)
and HQ USAF (HAF). This is an updated mission directive to reflect organizational changes
since the 844th Communications Group was activated on 7 June 2006.

This directive implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-1, Mission Directives, and Air Force
Mission Directive 13, Air Force District of Washington, which defines the mission,
responsibilities and organizational relationships of Headquarters Air Force District of
Washington (HQ AFDW), Joint Base Andrews-Naval Air Facility Washington (JBA-NAFW),
Maryland. This Mission Directive does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm . Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command to AFDW/A5X, 1535 Command Drive, Suite A110, Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect organizational changes in the 844 Communications Group
(844 CG) missions and organization since its activation on 7 June 2006. It reflects the re-
 2                                                                AFDWMD135 25 MAY 2011


designation of the 316th Wing to the 11th Wing. It clarifies in garrison support the 844 CG will
provide to the 89th Airlift Wing, the Pentagon, Joint Base Andrews Naval Air Facility
Washington (JBANAFW), Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling (JBAB) and tenant units on these bases
as well as clarifies 844 CG responsibilities to execute AF Executive Agent responsibilities to the
National Military Command Center (NMCC). It renames the Deputy Group Commander as
Deputy Group Director and removes the JBAB Support Division from the organization.
1. Mission. The 844th Communications Group provides communications and information
technology systems and services for Camp David, the National Military Command Center
(NMCC), HQ USAF, the Air Force District of Washington (AFDW) and other organizations in
the National Capital Region (NCR). The Group provides travel communications support to the
Secretary of Defense, the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, the USAF Chief of Staff and other
senior leaders. The Group organizes, trains, equips and deploys expeditionary combat support
forces for homeland operations and worldwide Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEFs).
While in garrison, the Group provides comprehensive communications and information
management support to DoD, HQ USAF, HQ AFDW and subordinate Wings, 89th Airlift Wing
and other wings and tenant units at or supported by JBAB, JBANAFW and the Pentagon. When
tasked, the Group provides support to Joint Forces Headquarters National Capital Regions
(JFHQ-NCR) and to United States Northern Command (NORTHCOM).
2. Command. The 844th Communications Group reports to HQ AFDW.
     2.1. Organization Structure. The organizational structure of the 844th Communications
     Group is according to AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, and HQ USAF approved
     variance to the structure.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Group Commander (CC):
        3.1.1. Report directly to the Commander, AFDW.
        3.1.2. Command the forces of the 844th Communications Group.
        3.1.3. Organize, train and equip Group forces for worldwide AEF deployment and
        homeland operations within the NCR to include support of the 320th Air Expeditionary
        Wing and Joint Task Force-National Capital Region (JTF-NCR).
     3.2. Deputy Group Director (CD):
        3.2.1. Assist Commander in performance of duties and responsibilities. In Commander’s
        absence, act as the Commander in most matters affecting the Group.
        3.2.2. Be responsible to the Commander for the overall efficient operation of the Group
        staff.
        3.2.3. Manage Group travel, temporary duty assignments, manpower and manning.
     3.3. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM):
        3.3.1. Serve as the principal advisor to the Commander and staff on matters of health,
        welfare, morale and the proper utilization of enlisted personnel within the Group.
     3.4. Executive Officer (CCE):
AFDWMD135 25 MAY 2011                                                                       3


     3.4.1. Provide general oversight of staff administrative matters and exercise tasking
     authority for all Group organizations.
  3.5. Knowledge Operations Center (CCK):
     3.5.1. Provide information presentation, collaboration tools, workflow architect, records
     management, content management, database integration and information access
     management to the 844 CG.
  3.6. Operational Support (SCO):
     3.6.1. Provide financial advice, cost and economic analysis and services including
     budget requirements, execution and accounting to Group organizations.
     3.6.2. Direct Information Assurance activities for the Group to include oversight of
     customer processes throughout the NCR.
     3.6.3. Manage Group contract activities and oversee hardware/software configuration
     management.
     3.6.4. Serve as office of primary responsibility for Group Compliance Inspection
     Program and Self Inspection Program.
     3.6.5. Create and execute exercises to evaluate Group performance and readiness.
     Oversee Exercise Evaluation Team efforts with participation from other parts of the 844
     CG.
  3.7. Plans and Implementation (SCX):
     3.7.1. Serve as office of primary responsibility to facilitate Group coordination of
     operational war, contingency and support plans in accordance with HQ AFDW, HQ
     USAF and DOD directives.
     3.7.2. Manage all projects including Enterprise Command, Control, Communications
     and Computers systems planning and plans support. This includes base-level projects
     ensuring the centralization of all projects with communications requirements.
     3.7.3. Manage Group requirements processing, engineering, technical solutions, system
     integration and implementation of communication and information technology systems to
     include functions related to MAJCOM operational oversight.
     3.7.4. Provide project and program management of downward directed and local
     programs including support for MILCON and other Civil Engineering initiatives.
     3.7.5. Manage Group deployment and training programs.
  3.8. 744th Communications Squadron (744 CS):
     3.8.1. Operate and maintain communications and information systems and a network
     control center; provide administrative communications and customer training; and
     provide technical and systems support for wings, tenant organizations and federal
     agencies at JBANAFW and JBAB, to include the 11th Wing, 79th Medical Wing and all
     tenant units. Provide DSN telecommunications gateway services for the NCR; maintain
     meteorological and navigation systems throughout the NCR including Camp David and
     the Pentagon.
4                                                                AFDWMD135 25 MAY 2011


       3.8.2. Manage all base-level communication system requirements documents for
       telecommunication installations and activations (Voice, Data, equipment, etc).
       3.8.3. Provide COMSEC material and secure voice support on both JBAB and
       JBANAFW.
       3.8.4. Provide radio frequency spectrum management to AFDW.
       3.8.5. Manage Communication Systems Information Records (CSIR) for both JBAB and
       JBANAFW including GeoBase/Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS)
       storage.
       3.8.6. Manage circuit actions and commercial communications requirements on behalf of
       AFDW.
    3.9. 844th Communications Squadron (844 CS):
       3.9.1. Operate and maintain communications and information systems and a network
       control center and provide technical and systems support at the Pentagon for HQ USAF
       and other Air Force organizations, as directed.
       3.9.2. Manage all HAF communication system requirements in accordance with 844th
       Communications Group policies.
       3.9.3. Execute Air Force Executive Agent responsibilities for the National Military
       Command Center to include requirements and program management, Secure Console
       operations, engineering, installation and maintenance support for unique Command and
       Control systems in the NMCC, the Office of the Secretary of Defense Crisis Coordination
       Center and the Air Force Operations Center. Provide NMCC facility engineering and
       maintenance to include primary/back-up power, Heating Ventilation and Air-
       Conditioning (HVAC), plumbing and electrical support and High Altitude
       Electromagnetic Pulse (HEMP) facility engineering and maintenance.
       3.9.4. Provide continuous command, control, communications and computer support to
       the Secretary of Defense, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Chief of Staff of the Air
       Force and other senior officials during all local and worldwide travel.




                                            DARREN W. MCDEW, Major General, USAF
                                            Commander, Air Force District of Washington
