BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF                                         MISSION DIRECTIVE 134
WASHINGTON (AFDW)
                                                                                  26 MAY 2011



                                                                       79TH MEDICAL WING


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFDW/A3/5                                                      Certified by: AFDW/CC
                                                                  (Maj Gen Darren W. McDew)
Supersedes:   AFDWMD134, 14 Jul 2006                                                   Pages: 6


This mission directive states the mission of the 79th Medical Wing (79 MDW), communicates
responsibilities of the Wing to subordinate organizations and assigned personnel, and explains
the organizational relationship between the Wing, HQ Air Force District of Washington
(AFDW), HQ USAF (HAF), and Joint Task Force-Capital Medical (JTF-CAPMED).

This directive implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-1, Mission Directives, and Air Force
Mission Directive 13, Air Force District of Washington, which defines the mission,
responsibilities, and organizational relationships of Headquarters Air Force District of
Washington (HQ AFDW), Joint Base Andrews-Naval Air Facility Washington, MD. This
Mission Directive does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air
National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847.
Recommendation for Change of Publication through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command to AFDW/A5X, 1535 Command Drive, Suite A 110, Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Mission directive outlines the 79 MDW relationship with JTF-CAPMED and incorporates
Joint Basing changes due to Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) 2005.
 2                                                                 AFDWMD134 26 MAY 2011


1. Mission.
     1.1. The 79 MDW is the Air Force’s single medical voice for planning and implementing
     Air Force and joint solutions within the National Capital Region (NCR). Organizes trains,
     equips, and provides medical forces for Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF)
     deployments, Homeland Operations, and support of joint operations within the
     NCR. Executes General Dentistry Residency, Graduate Medical Education training
     programs, and a multitude of enlisted medical training programs. Responsible for providing
     medical support to Presidential, Congressional, Joint, and Air Staff special airlift missions.
     79 MDW forces are Tactical Control (TACON) to JTF-CAPMED and may be tasked to
     support JTF-CAPMED operations.
2. Command. The 79 MDW reports to HQ AFDW.
     2.1. Organization Structure. The 79 MDW is organized in accordance with AFI 38-101, Air
     Force Organization and HQ USAF-approved variances.
     2.2. Organization Changes. Requests to change the organizational structure of 79 MDW
     must be made in accordance with AFI 38-101 through 11 FSS/FSMM.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Wing Commander (CC):
        3.1.1. Report directly to the Commander, HQ AFDW who is dual-hatted as the
        Commander, 320th Air Expeditionary Wing (320 AEW), when activated.
        3.1.2. Command the forces of the 79th Medical Wing.
        3.1.3. Serve as AFDW Surgeon General as the primary advisor to the AFDW/320 AEW
        Commander and staff on all aspects of Air Force NCR medical capabilities.
        3.1.4. Organize, train, and equip Wing medical forces for AEF deployments and
        Homeland Operations within the NCR and worldwide.
        3.1.5. Serve as the Commander, Air Force medical component to JTF-CAPMED. Liaise
        and coordinate peacetime medical care and emergency response operations within the
        NCR and posture AFDW medical forces for presentation to JTF-CAPMED. On order,
        provide liaison to JTF-CAPMED Joint Operations Center (JOC).
        3.1.6. Be prepared to serve as Deputy Commander, JTF-CAPMED providing support to
        Joint Task Force-National Capital Region (JTF-NCR) operations as authorized by Joint
        Chiefs of Staff/US Northern Command (JCS/USNORTHCOM).
        3.1.7. Liaise with JTF-CAPMED regarding steady-state Air Force medical capabilities
        and readiness for Homeland Operations in the NCR.
     3.2. Vice Wing Commander (CV):
        3.2.1. Assist the Commander in performance of duties and responsibilities. In
        Commander’s absence, act as the Commander in matters affecting the Wing and as
        AFDW Surgeon General in matters affecting the NCR.
     3.3. Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCC):
AFDWMD134 26 MAY 2011                                                                         3


     3.3.1. Serve as the principal advisor to the Commander and staff on matters of health,
     welfare, morale, and the proper utilization of enlisted personnel within the Wing.
  3.4. Director of Staff (DS):
     3.4.1. Responsible to the Commander for overall efficient operation of the Wing staff.
     3.4.2. Manage all staff administration activity including performance evaluations,
     promotion recommendations, disciplinary action, travel, temporary duty assignments, and
     records management; manage Wing staff manpower and manning; and exercise tasking
     authority for all Wing organizations.
  3.5. Medical Operations and Plans (SGAX):
     3.5.1. Serve as the principal medical readiness advisor to the Commander and staff; act
     as medical readiness liaison to HQ AFDW, 11th Wing, 89th Airlift Wing, and 844th
     Communications Group.
     3.5.2. Responsible for the overall management of the Wing readiness program to
     organize, train, equip, and provide medical forces for AEF deployments, Homeland
     Operations, and joint operations within the NCR.
     3.5.3. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
  3.6. Chief of Medical Staff (SGH)
     3.6.1. As Medical Services Director, ensure overall quality of medical care delivered by
     the Wing.
     3.6.2. Serve as consultant on medical and credentialing issues for the Wing.
     3.6.3. Act as consultant and subject matter expert in the aerospace medicine medical
     specialty to include aerospace medicine clinical oversight; aeromedical consultancy;
     aerospace medicine program planning and oversight; education and training of medical
     staff on aeromedical; preventive, occupational and operational medicine fundamentals;
     and operational interface and human weapon system enhancement.
     3.6.4. Serve as Wing representative to the AF/SG Medical Operations Panel to develop
     Air Force medical policies and implementation.
     3.6.5. Mentor all Wing Medical Corps personnel on professional development as both
     officers and physicians, to include assignments and career counseling; serve as Wing
     representative to the Air Force Medical Corps Development Team.
  3.7. Command Nurse (SGN):
     3.7.1. Serve as senior nurse and the chief nurse executive for the Wing. Direct the Wing
     nurse mentoring program to include assignments and career counseling.
     3.7.2. Responsible for the practice of quality nursing and nursing services in all Wing
     Military Treatment Facilities (MTFs).
     3.7.3. Represent the Wing’s active duty nurses as Senior Corps Chief at Air Force Nurse
     Corps Developmental Team meetings; execute Nurse Corps programs and policies for the
     Wing.
     3.7.4. Serve as consultant on nursing related issues for the Wing.
4                                                                 AFDWMD134 26 MAY 2011


       3.7.5. Responsible for Wing Education and Training Divisions and Patient Advocacy
       Programs.
    3.8. Administrator (SGA)
       3.8.1. Serve as senior medical administrator for the Wing.
       3.8.2. Coordinate Wing resource and facility requirements; secure and manage medical
       resources and information, limiting institutional risk; establish and maintain external
       organizational relationships essential for health care operations.
       3.8.3. 79 MDW relies on the 11th Wing Comptroller Squadron (11 CPTS) support for
       779 MDG and AFDW/A8 for 579 MDG comptroller support.
       3.8.4. Direct the 79 MDW Medical Service Corps mentoring program to include
       assignments and career counseling.
       3.8.5. Serve as the Commander’s primary representative for joint National Capital
       Region BRAC integration efforts developing, coordinating, executing, and monitoring
       implementation of integration initiatives affecting the Wing.
       3.8.6. Represent the Commander at NCR Integration meetings with various agencies.
    3.9. Protocol (CCP):
       3.9.1. Serve as primary advisor to Commander, staff, and subordinate units on protocol
       issues affecting the Wing.
       3.9.2. Prepare and coordinate distinguished visitor itineraries; serve as office of primary
       responsibility for official visits and social functions hosted by the Commander and Wing
       changes of command; advise and guide on group and squadron changes of command,
       retirements, and promotion ceremonies.
    3.10. Public Affairs (PA):
       3.10.1. Provide counsel to the Commander, staff, and subordinate units on public
       matters, media, and community relations affecting the Wing’s mission.
       3.10.2. Develop information strategies to achieve the Wing’s mission while maintaining
       national security.
       3.10.3. Comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
       Privacy Rule to protect the privacy of individually identifiable information.
    3.11. Medical Legal Consultant (MLC):
       3.11.1. Advise the Commander on all medical legal matters affecting the Wing and other
       AFDW units, as well as legal offices at Joint Base Andrews-Naval Air Facility
       Washington (JBA-NAFW) and Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling (JBAB).
    3.12. 779th Medical Group (779 MDG): The 779th Medical Operations Squadron (779
    MDOS),
    779th Medical Support Squadron (779 MDSS), 779th Aerospace Squadron (779 AMDS),
    779th Dental Squadron (779 DS), 779th Surgical Operations Squadron (779 SGC) and the
    Pentagon Flight Medicine Clinic (PFMC) are designated and assigned units. Maintain
    medical readiness for worldwide contingencies, provide specialized health care and dental
AFDWMD134 26 MAY 2011                                                                      5


  care at JBA-NAFW to beneficiaries in the NCR, and sponsor professional training programs.
  Medically support Presidential and Congressional special airlift missions and global
  Aerospace evacuation
     3.12.1. 779 MDOS: Provide comprehensive inpatient and outpatient medical and
     physical and occupational medicine care for NCR beneficiaries at JBA-NAFW. Execute
     graduate and undergraduate medical education training. Support Presidential and
     Congressional Special Airlift Missions. Manage the drug testing program for Air Force
     personnel at JBA-NAFW. Provide ambulatory services for personnel at JBA-NAFW.
     3.12.2. 779 MDSS: Provide essential ancillary and support services to 779 MDG units
     and staff to include laboratory, pharmacy, nutritional medicine, resource management,
     medical logistics, facility management, biomedical equipment repair, commanders’
     support staff, information systems, and TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration
     (TOPA).
     3.12.3. 779 AMDS: Provide aerospace medicine health care services at JBA-NAFW for
     aerospace medicine eligible NCR beneficiaries; provide aerospace medicine medical
     support for global Aerospace evacuation to include Wounded Warrior support in the 779
     Aeromedical Staging Facility (ASF). Provide medical care and supervision of all care to
     the personnel in the Presidential Support Program (PSP) and Personal Reliability
     Program (PRP) at JBA-NAFW. Execute environmental and public health services for
     JBA-NAFW.
     3.12.4. 779 DS: Provide comprehensive global readiness dental services at JBA-NAFW
     for NCR beneficiaries.
     3.12.5. 779 SGC: Provide outpatient and inpatient surgical services, OB/GYN, surgical
     sub-specialties to include ophthalmology, orthopedics, ENT, limited plastic surgery,
     podiatry, radiology, urology and limited vascular care at JBA-NAFW to beneficiaries in
     the NCR. Host Navy sleep lab.
     3.12.6. PFMC: Provide Aerospace Medicine health care services at the Pentagon for
     eligible NCR beneficiaries, to include SECDEF, SECAF, CSAF and other senior DOD
     officials and eligible personnel administratively attached to the 11th Wing. Manage
     medical care for Pentagon personnel in the Personal Reliability Program (PRP). The
     PFMC reports directly to the 779 MDG/CC.
  3.13. 579th Medical Group (579 MDG): The 579th Medical Operations Squadron (579
  MDOS), 579th Medical Support Squadron (579 MDSS), and 579th Dental Squadron (579
  DS) are designated and assigned units. Maintain medical readiness for worldwide
  contingencies, provide health care and dental care at JBA-NAFWB and the Pentagon to NCR
  beneficiaries, and sponsor an advanced dental residency program.
     3.13.1. 579 MDOS: Provide comprehensive outpatient medical care at JBAB and the
     Pentagon for NCR beneficiaries and geographically-separated personnel administratively
     attached to the 11th Wing. Manage the drug testing program for Air Force personnel at
     the Pentagon and at geographically separated units administratively attached to the 11th
     Wing.
6                                                        AFDWMD134 26 MAY 2011


    3.13.2. 579 MDSS: Provide essential ancillary and support services to 579 MDG units
    and staff to include laboratory, radiology, pharmacy, resource management, medical
    logistics, facility management, biomedical equipment repair, medical readiness,
    commanders’ support staff, information systems, and TRICARE Operations and Patient
    Administration (TOPA).
    3.13.3. 579 DS: Provide comprehensive global readiness dental services at JBAB, the
    Pentagon and Ft Meade for NCR beneficiaries and geographically-separated personnel
    administratively attached to the 11th Wing. Direct a one-year Advanced Education in
    General Dentistry (AEGD) Residency training program.




                                      DARREN W. MCDEW, Major General, USAF
                                      Commander, Air Force District of Washington
