BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF                                              INSTRUCTION 10-3
WASHINGTON (AFDW)
                                                                            19 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                     Operations

                                                AFDW CONTINGENCY SUPPORT CENTER



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFDW/A4RX                                                        Certified by: AFDW/A4/7
                                                                           (Col Peter A. Sartori)
                                                                                       Pages: 16


This instruction implements AF Mission Directive 13, Air Force District of Washington
(AFDW), AFDW Mission Directive 131. This instruction provides guidance and procedures and
grants authority to the Contingency Support Center (CSC) to oversee logistics, installations and
mission support to the Air Force District of Washington (AFDW) in the National Capital Region
(NCR). The CSC oversees all Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) actions/issues related to
operations, mission capable (MICAP) parts, re-supply, fuels, maintenance, transportation,
acquisition, readiness, anti-terrorism and security throughout the NCR. The CSC performs as
ECS Control Center in the event of emergencies, contingencies, deployments or exercises. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard
(ANG) Units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847 (1535 Command Drive, Suite CD310 Andrews AFB, MD 20762). See Attachment 1
for a glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                          AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012



                                          Chapter 1

                         ORGANIZATION AND RELATIONSHIP

1.1. The CSC gives the AFDW/CC immediate access to ECS, logistics, installations and
mission support information during contingency operations. It supervises ECS actions
related to mobilizations, deployment, employment, sustainment and redeployment.
1.2. In the event of emergencies, contingencies, deployments or exercises, the AFDW/CC
may direct activation of the CSC with functional staff (A-Staff) representation.
1.3. During normal daily operations (0700-1600), the CSC functions as AFDW/A4R/M
Readiness Cell and maintains the capability to inform the Commander of minor crises and
emerging phases of more serious situations. The CSC Director may choose to increase CSC
hours of operation and/or manning levels up to 24/7 coverage as indicated in Chapter 5,
“Operation and Manning Requirements.” Tasking and situational awareness is maintained
through the AFDW Staff using the normal suspense system, focus briefings and staff meetings.
1.4. When activated the CSC supports day-to-day civil engineering, security forces,
contracting, logistics, installations and mission support situational awareness for Homeland
Operations support missions including communication between JFHQ-NCR, JTF-NCR
J4, HQ USAF, AFDW Command Center, 11 WG, 79 MDW, 844 CG and other
Department of Defense (DoD) organizations.
1.5. The CSC consists of a Director, Operations Officer (OPSO), Logistics Planner,
Administrator and functional representatives. The CSC Director is the senior staff officer or
civilian appointed by the AFDW/A4/7 Director. Staff representatives represent their Directors
and respond to CSC Director/Operations Officer direction.
1.6. The CSC is comprised of seven functional areas – 1) Logistics Plans, 2)
Transportation, 3) Supply/Fuels, 4) Aircraft Maintenance, 5) Force Protection, 6) Civil
Engineer and 7) Contracting. Each area is assigned different tasks and responsibilities, all of
which contribute to the completion of CSC responsibilities listed in Chapter 3. Representatives
working in the CSC should have working knowledge of procedures and directives pertinent to
their assigned area of expertise as well as basic command and control functions.
AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                     3


                                          Chapter 2

                         CSC FUNCTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Monitor contingency support, consequence management and logistical coordination
during exercises and contingencies.
2.2. Establish essential communications links with JFHQ-NCR, JTF-NCR J4, AF
Operations Group (AFOG), AFDW Command Center, deploying units, employing and
supported units and other DoD organizations.
2.3. Monitor tasked unit deployment requirements from reception through redeployment.
2.4. Compile logistics, installations and mission support inputs for the Situation Report
(SITREP), after-action reports and other requested reports.
2.5. Expedite resolution of logistics, installations and mission support concerns. Identifies
and up-channels all shortfalls and limiting factors (LIMFACs) as they occur and conducts
follow-up resolution. Shortfalls and LIMFACs are reported and included as action items on the
SITREP.
2.6. Validate inter-service/intra-service support and mutual aid support arrangements.
2.7. Maintain awareness of subordinate unit resources (personnel/equipment/facilities).
2.8. Sustain constant communication with lateral agencies and lower echelons to ensure
rapid reporting of the following: battle damage; Unexploded Ordnance (UXO); Chemical,
Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) alert/contamination; fire; enemy/terrorist activity
and all natural/industrial disasters. CSC representatives will rapidly coordinate with Explosive
Ordnance Disposal (EOD), Security Forces, fire and disaster response teams to mitigate damage
and threat.
2.9. Establish and maintain continuity books (each CSC Representative) containing, as a
minimum: recall rosters, key points of contact listing, samples of required functional area
reports/briefings (i.e., aircraft maintenance status report) and functional area checklists.
Additionally, each CSC Representative will maintain and execute checklists for Disaster
Emergency Response/Reporting, Force Protection Condition (FPCON) implementation
management, Ability to Survive and Operate (ATSO) exercises and other checklists as
determined by the CSC Director or CSC Operations Officer.
2.10. Ensure timely dissemination of requested support from AFDW and associate
units/agencies to the required support directorate.
 4                                                                AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012


                                            Chapter 3

                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. AFDW Commander.
     3.1.1. Directs AFDW CSC activation/deactivation.
3.2. AFDW/A4/7.
     3.2.1. Implements the activation of the CSC.
     3.2.2. Ensures information is provided to the AFDW/CC on the requirement for controlling,
     collecting, recording and displaying logistics and infrastructure information during CSC
     operations.
     3.2.3. Ensures the timely augmentation of the CSC and directs recall of trained personnel
     from affected AFDW Directorates.
     3.2.4. Designates highly qualified trained staff officers, NCOs, civilian personnel or
     contractors to serve as CSC Representatives. Ensures these individuals are aware of their
     duties as listed in this OI.
     3.2.5. Ensures CSC Representatives are prepared to report immediately to staff the CSC for
     24/7 operations when directed. Sustain CSC manning until released by the CSC Director.
     3.2.6. Updates CSC rosters quarterly, at a minimum and sends updates to the CSC for
     posting/ distribution.
3.3. AFDW/A6.
     3.3.1. Acts as focal point for all communications support.
     3.3.2. Augments computer support to the CSC as needed. The CSC possesses the following
     systems:
        3.3.2.1. Twenty Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) computers, twenty
        Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) computers, one Secure
        Terminal Equipment (STE) phone, one secret-capable fax machine, one unclassified-
        capable fax machine, twenty0 phones and one Tactical Local Area Network Encryption
        (TACLANE).
     3.3.3. When the CSC is activated, response time for computer support is 60 minutes.
3.4. CSC Director & Representatives. See Attachment 2 for responsibilities aligned by the
Emergency Support Functions of the National Response Framework.
     3.4.1. CSC Director. The CSC Director is responsible for overall command and control of
     AFDW Homeland Operation support missions. CSC Director derives command and control
     authority directly from the AFDW/A4/7 Director for all internal and external customer
     support operations. The CSC Director also supports AFDW/320th Air Expeditionary Wing
     (AEW) Command Center operations by way of liaising with the A4/7 Command Center
     Representative. The CSC Director coordinates with agencies across functional lines and
     outside the NCR for logistics and other mission support requirements. He/she ascertains the
AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                     5


  adequacy of logistics support available to the AFDW/CC on a daily basis and recommends
  asset realignment for enhanced mission capability. The CSC Director will:
     3.4.1.1. Direct all CSC operations and outline procedural guidance.
     3.4.1.2. Monitor contingency support operations and complete executive summaries,
     briefings and presentations to the Commander and/or Command Center, as needed.
     3.4.1.3. Prepare operations briefing in accordance with (IAW) AFDW battle rhythm for
     the AFDW/CC and A4/7 Director.
     3.4.1.4. Inform the AFDW/A4/7 Director and appropriate functions of all potential
     mission-limiting factors, shortfalls, potential and actual problems.
     3.4.1.5. Coordinate with external units on logistics support issues.
     3.4.1.6. Coordinate with leadership for realignment of assets as required based on
     mission requirements.
     3.4.1.7. Coordinate with CSC functional representatives on all responsibilities within
     their scope.
     3.4.1.8. Ensure CSC members are briefed at shift change on all open actions and other
     significant items.
     3.4.1.9. Periodically review listings of open/closed items from the Daily Operations Log.
     3.4.1.10. Ensure preparation of an after action/lessons learned report.
     3.4.1.11. The CSC Director and Operations Officer will prepare for a minimum
     operation for one hour in the designated alternate location in the event of an emergency
     evacuation/relocation.
     3.4.1.12. Provide SITREP and Commander’s update inputs to AFDW Command Center
     A4/7 Representative as appropriate (may require SIPRNET transmissions).
  3.4.2. CSC Operations Officer. The CSC OPSO reports directly to the CSC Director.
  Responsibilities include the overall management of all contingency support operations.
  He/she supervises, supports and coordinates all logistics activities with agencies across
  functional lines and oversees and ascertains the adequacy of logistics assets and resources
  available to the CSC Director on a daily basis and directs all assigned CSC personnel. The
  CSC Operations Officer will:
     3.4.2.1. Act as the CSC Director in his/her absence or when authority is delegated.
     3.4.2.2. Remain on an on-call status when not physically in the CSC.
     3.4.2.3. Develop work schedules to ensure the CSC is manned for 24/7 operations.
     3.4.2.4. Ensure continuity between activation levels and across shifts.
     3.4.2.5. Develop procedures to operate under less-than-optimum conditions such as
     forced relocation, communications outage, fire, natural disaster, etc.
     3.4.2.6. Ensure Emergency        Action    checklists   are   available   for   anticipated
     scenarios/emergencies.
     3.4.2.7. Monitor all daily AFDW contingency support operations.
6                                                             AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012


       3.4.2.8. Confer with the CSC Director on all potential mission-limiting factors.
       3.4.2.9. Coordinate with above wing-level agencies for asset realignment as required.
       3.4.2.10. Manage exercises, contingency preparation and execution.
       3.4.2.11. Coordinate with the Transportation Representative on asset realignment.
       3.4.2.12. Assist in development and delivery of the A4/7 Situation Briefing to the
       Command Center.
       3.4.2.13. Monitor Time-Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD) taskings; Monitor the
       11WG’s execution and beddown of personnel and assets as they arrive at the employment
       site.
       3.4.2.14. Monitor War Reserve Materiel (WRM) release activities to ensure they are
       accomplished according to AFI 25-101, WRM Program Guidance and Procedures.
    3.4.3. Administrative Representative will:
       3.4.3.1. Act as the CSC Client Support Technician (CST) to coordinate and solve
       communications issues.
       3.4.3.2. Maintain AFDW Key Personnel Roster
    3.4.4. Logistics Plans Representative will:
       3.4.4.1. Work closely with the Administrative Representative to ensure the CSC is
       equipped with SIPRNET computers, classified secret storage capability, NIPRNET
       computers, STE, a secret-capable fax machine, an unclassified-capable fax machine,
       cable TV, sufficient phone lines available for all functions, cell phones, Land Mobile
       Radios (LMR), Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) access, Logistics Module
       (LOGMOD) access, projection capability, color laser printer, black and white laser
       printer and a copy machine (secret capable).
       3.4.4.2. Collect/review data from CSC Representatives and provide inputs to the CSC
       Director/Operations Officer for the SITREP.
       3.4.4.3. Enforce information security procedures defined in AFI 31-401, Information
       Security Program Management, and provide training as necessary.
       3.4.4.4. Submit recommendations during emergency situations to the CSC Operations
       Officer and/or CSC Director, as necessary, in the event of crisis or urgent operations.
       3.4.4.5. Ensure all significant activities are logged, tracked and turned over to on-coming
       Plans Officer/Civilian at shift change.
       3.4.4.6. Monitor TPFDD movements into and within the NCR via Joint Operation
       Planning and Execution System (JOPES)/Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and
       Execution Segment (DCAPES) movement reports, Global Decision Support System
       (GDSS), Global Transportation Network (GTN) and Single Mobility System (SMS).
       Inform the CSC Director and OPSO of occurrences having adverse impact on operations.
       3.4.4.7. Act as primary liaison with JTF, CSC and AFDW Command Center A4/7
       Representative regarding Unit Line Number (ULN) movement status and resolving
       movement concerns/conflicts.
AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                     7


     3.4.4.8. Review the combatant commander's TPFDD and determine the readiness status
     of logistics plans forces tasked in the TPFDD.
     3.4.4.9. Monitor the mobilization, deployment, employment and redeployment of
     logistics plans forces in the TPFDD.
     3.4.4.10. Perform other tasks as assigned by the CSC Director or OPSO.
  3.4.5. Transportation Representative will:
     3.4.5.1. Monitor transportation contingency data received from subordinate units, higher
     headquarters and other transportation agencies.
     3.4.5.2. Prepare transportation input for inclusion in the Commander's SITREP,
     addressing any significant transportation related events adversely impacting operations,
     (i.e., status of critical vehicles, critical personnel shortages or serious port backlogs).
     3.4.5.3. Establish communications with each key transportation agency within the NCR.
     3.4.5.4. Provide transportation assistance to other functional areas in the CSC. Assess
     transportation feasibility for unit moves, available transportation resources and estimated
     closure times.
     3.4.5.5. Track and report status of critical vehicles such as Materiel Handling Equipment
     (MHE), refueling vehicles, fire trucks and runway sweepers supporting the contingency.
     Coordinate redistribution of assigned assets when deemed appropriate.
     3.4.5.6. Monitor status reports and incoming message traffic to determine required
     vehicle reallocation actions needed to sustain operations within the NCR. Respond to
     requests for replacement vehicles by issuing redistribution orders or requesting higher
     headquarters assistance.
     3.4.5.7. Maintain situational awareness over all modes of movement requirements
     throughout the NCR.
     3.4.5.8. Coordinate with TMO/Air Terminal Operations (ATO) on passenger and cargo
     movement requests.
     3.4.5.9. Monitor pallet, net and air cargo backlogs status at all aerial ports and ground
     transportation locations throughout the NCR. Monitor passenger and cargo movements.
     3.4.5.10. Sustain capability to track cargo in Cargo Movement Operations System
     (CMOS) and Global Transportation Network (GTN) and provide status updates as
     required.
     3.4.5.11. Complete after-action report upon CSC deactivation. Interest items covered
     should include discussion of any problems hindering operations, effective work-arounds
     implemented and observations/recommendations for the improvement of CSC operations.
     3.4.5.12. Review the combatant commander's TPFDD and determine the readiness status
     of transportation forces tasked in the TPFDD.
     3.4.5.13. Monitor the mobilization, deployment, employment and redeployment of
     transportation forces in the TPFDD.
     3.4.5.14. Perform other tasks as assigned by the CSC Director or OPSO.
8                                                            AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012


    3.4.6. Supply/Fuels Representative will:
       3.4.6.1. Report or identify supplies/fuels support and establish channels to resupply each
       Air Force Forces (AFFOR) (or as tasked) unit within the NCR.
       3.4.6.2. Inform the CSC Director on all asset availability, shipments, estimated arrival
       dates, support equipment status and shortfalls, fuel capability and LIMFACs.
       3.4.6.3. Determine supply personnel and equipment needed to support NCR
       requirements. Identify supply Unit Type Codes (UTCs) to support aviation UTCs and
       prepare a JOPES worksheet to load the UTCs into Global Command and Control System
       (GCCS).
       3.4.6.4. Respond to all validated sourcing requests for spares. Establish and coordinate
       resupply channels for deploying units. Perform follow-up actions, initiate command
       supply assistance requests, review supply difficulty reports on requisitions/shipments and
       resolve any supply related issues.
       3.4.6.5. Track and initiate follow-up details for MICAP items and coordinate on supply
       assist messages for parts in question.
       3.4.6.6. Coordinate supply support for other operating locations within the NCR.
       3.4.6.7. Conduct research, analyze trends and identify MICAP drivers to reduce Total
       Not Mission Capable Supply (TNMCS) rate and improve aircraft support.
       3.4.6.8. Compute and refine fuels personnel and equipment requirements to support the
       NCR.
       3.4.6.9. Determine mobile fuels support equipment and provide information to JTF-NCR
       and AFDW Command Center A4/7 Representative as required.
       3.4.6.10. Determine appropriate fuels UTCs and non-standard UTC requirements and
       maintain close coordination with the OPSO for any changes in tasking.
       3.4.6.11. Monitor and coordinate corrective action according to Petroleum
       Damage/Deficiency Reports (REPOL) and fuels shortfalls. Take action to eliminate
       LIMFACs and provide inputs to ensure fuels support.
       3.4.6.12. Review the combatant commander's TPFDD and determine the readiness status
       of supply/fuels forces tasked in the TPFDD.
       3.4.6.13. Monitor the mobilization, deployment, employment and redeployment of
       supply/fuels forces in the TPFDD.
       3.4.6.14. Perform other tasks as assigned by the CSC Director or OPSO.
    3.4.7. Aircraft Maintenance Representative will:
       3.4.7.1. Obtain aircraft maintenance support, establish resupply channels and support
       contingency operations and ensure the CSC Director is informed of all issues pertaining
       to aircraft maintenance requirements, availability, transportation, personnel, delivery
       dates and shortfalls.
       3.4.7.2. Validate aircraft maintenance UTCs to support aviation UTCs. Compute aircraft
       maintenance requirements.
AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                      9


     3.4.7.3. Draft messages to appropriate agencies involving aircraft maintenance
     requirements, location and date required.
     3.4.7.4. Maintain close liaison with other CSC functions for changes in requirements.
     3.4.7.5. Establish/coordinate/monitor       aircraft    movement      requirements       for
     channel/strategic/intra-theater airlift, maritime shipping and/or intra-theater rail or line
     haul in GCCS.
     3.4.7.6. Perform follow-up actions and resolve any aircraft maintenance issues.
     3.4.7.7. Track aircraft servicing response times.
     3.4.7.8. Coordinate with 1st Helicopter Squadron (1HS) and up-channel supply/fuels
     issues.
     3.4.7.9. Monitor aircraft TNMCS status and coordinate with 1HS Mission Control to
     correct discrepancies.
     3.4.7.10. Act as NCR focal point for CAMS management, data entry and aircraft/MICAP
     status monitoring. Flightline Logistics Representatives will have unimpeded access to
     CAMS.
     3.4.7.11. Review the combatant commander's TPFDD and determine the readiness status
     of aircraft maintenance forces tasked in the TPFDD.
     3.4.7.12. Monitor the mobilization, deployment, employment and redeployment of
     aircraft maintenance forces in the TPFDD.
     3.4.7.13. Perform other tasks as assigned by the CSC Director or OPSO.
  3.4.8. Contracting Representative will:
     3.4.8.1. Be the focal point for directing and implementing contracting policies for the
     purchase of supplies, services and construction in the NCR.
     3.4.8.2. Identify additional contracting manpower requirements during operations.
     3.4.8.3. Establish relationships with HHQ for rear-echelon support to implement and
     manage UTC taskings for contracting support from stateside contracting activities.
     3.4.8.4. Review the combatant commander's TPFDD and determine the readiness status
     of contracting forces tasked in the TPFDD.
     3.4.8.5. Monitor the mobilization, deployment, employment and redeployment of
     contracting forces in the TPFDD.
     3.4.8.6. Perform other tasks as assigned by the CSC Director or OPSO.
  3.4.9. Civil Engineer (CE) Representative will:
     3.4.9.1. Monitor the status of NCR facilities, airfield and services to include such
     activities as beddown of NCR operations, maintenance, construction, emergency war
     damage repair, crash and rescue, fire suppression, explosive ordnance disposal, nuclear,
     biological and chemical warfare defense and air base operability forces.
10                                                           AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012


     3.4.9.2. Coordinate actions between Air Staff, AFDW and JFHQ-NCR J4 on such
     matters as status and allocation of engineering resources, environmental issues, urgent
     construction funding and equipment fielding.
     3.4.9.3. Assist supported forces in redistributing, sourcing and prioritizing CE assets.
     3.4.9.4. Review the combatant commander's TPFDD and determine the readiness status
     of engineer forces tasked in the TPFDD.
     3.4.9.5. Monitor the mobilization, deployment, employment and redeployment of civil
     engineer forces in the TPFDD.
     3.4.9.6. Perform other tasks as assigned by the CSC Director or OPSO.
  3.4.10. Force Protection Representative will:
     3.4.10.1. Obtain information concerning the current situation/threat/contingency actions.
     3.4.10.2. Serve as the primary representative on force protection matters.
     3.4.10.3. Provide assistance and guidance for responding personnel.
     3.4.10.4. Review the combatant commander's TPFDD and determine the readiness status
     of force protection forces tasked in the TPFDD.
     3.4.10.5. Monitor the mobilization, deployment, employment and redeployment of force
     protection forces in the TPFDD.
     3.4.10.6. Perform other tasks as assigned by the CSC Director or OPSO.
AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                      11


                                           Chapter 4

                      COMMAND AND CONTROL PROCEDURES

4.1. General. In order to ensure positive control over contingency operations, CSC
representatives must establish and maintain a responsive and reliable communications system
with JFHQ-NCR J4/JTF-NCR J4, AFDW Command Center, 89 AW Air Terminal Operation,
Andrews Operations Center (11WG/CP), Emergency Operations Center (EOC), 1HS Mission
Control, Installation Deployment Control Centers (IDCC) and operational-support agencies at all
times. The CSC Director must ensure the immediate relay of critical information to superior,
lateral and subordinate agencies. The CSC provides critical logistics, mission support
command/communications during all exercises and contingencies. The CSC fulfills AFDW-
level responsibilities IAW AFI 10-403 and JOPES Publications.
4.2. Representatives within the CSC will:
   4.2.1. Be prepared to man the CSC 24-hours a day, 7 days a week, during
   exercise/contingencies as directed by AFDW commander. At a minimum, the CSC will be
   manned with one fully- trained OPSO and one fully-trained Log Plans Representative.
   4.2.2. Establish and maintain physical security requirements IAW AFI 31-401, Information
   Security Program Management and local installation guidance if applicable. The CSC is a
   limited-access area and visitor entry will be strictly controlled through a single entry point.
   Personnel assigned to the CSC will control access and publish an Entry Authorization List
   (EAL) to all reps. The EAL provides a verification of security clearances and must be
   updated and approved by the AFDW/A4/7 Director on a quarterly basis. Personnel not listed
   on the EAL must be escorted. However, if classified processing is in-progress, or if classified
   information is displayed, the escorted individual's security clearance must be verified through
   the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) before access is granted.
   4.2.3. Maintain an electronic events log documenting daily shift activities and significant
   events/incidents. CSC personnel will make each events log available to the CSC Director
   and OPSO for daily review and will maintain electronic copies and other key documents
   regularly.
   4.2.4. Possess, at a minimum, a secret security clearance. Each representative will complete
   AF Form 2586, Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate. This form will be signed by the
   CSC Director as the approving official and kept on file in the CSC area.
   4.2.5. Personnel assigned must not have negative quality factors (i.e., unfavorable security
   information file)as they will serve in sensitive positions managing classified information
   daily and communicating frequently with senior AFDW, JFHQ and HQ USAF leadership.
   Additionally, assigned personnel with additional duties will not be excused from CSC duties.
 12                                                        AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012


                                          Chapter 5

                   OPERATION AND MANNING REQUIREMENTS.

5.1. Tier 3 Operations. The CSC will be staffed for 24/7 operations using two 12-hour shifts.
Manning the CSC 24/7 will require 10 positions per shift as follows:
#Position/Function
1      CSC Director
1      CSC Operations Officer
1      Administrator
1      Logistics Plans Representative
1      Transportation Representative
1      Supply/Fuels Representative
1      Maintenance Representative
1      Civil Engineering Representative
1      Security Forces Representative
1      Contracting Representative
5.2. Tier 2 Operations. Full or tailored activation for normal or extended operations using
overlapped daily 8-12 hour shifts.
5.3. Tier 1 Operations. Minimum manning necessary to maintain situational awareness.
5.4. Normal Operations. CSC Representatives operate from their normal work areas during
normal duty hours.




                                           DARREN W. MCDEW, Major General, USAF
                                           Commander, Air Force District of Washington
AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012                                                           13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 Jan 97
JFHQ-NCR State Funeral Plan, 16 May 06
Air Force Doctrine Document 3-27, Homeland Operations, 17 Sep 10
AF Mission Directive 13, Air Force District of Washington (AFDW), 6 Jun 08
AFI 10-207, Command Posts, 4 Apr 08
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 Jan 07
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 Dec 06
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 Jan 08
AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures, 2 May 05
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO), 08 Oct 09
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 Nov 05, IC1-19 Aug 09
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 Jun 05
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations, 24 May 06
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
USAF State Funeral Support Plan, 30 Sep 10
AFDW Instruction 10-2, AFDW Command Center, 15 Oct 07
AFDW Mission Directive 131, AFDW, 26 May 11
AFDWI 10-1, Alert Notification/Recall Procedures, 27 Nov 06

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEW—Air Expeditionary Wing
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOG—Air Force Operations Group
ATO—Air Terminal Operations
ATSO—Ability to Survive and Operate
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear
CC—Commander
 14                                                   AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012


CE—Civil Engineer
CMOS—Cargo Movement Operations System
CONPLAN—Contingency Plan or Concept Plan
CST—Client Support Technician
CSC—Contingency Support Center
DCAPES—Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segment
DoD—Department of Defense
EAL—Entry Authorization List
ECS—Expeditionary Combat Support
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
FOUO—For Official Use Only
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
GCCS—Global Command and Control System
GTN—Global Transportation Network
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HQ—Headquarters
IDCC—Installation Deployment Control Center
JFHQ—NCR—Joint Force Headquarters-National Capital Region
JOPES—Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
JTF—NCR—Joint Task Force-National Capital Region
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
LOGMOD—Logistics Module
MHE—Material Handling Equipment
MICAP—Mission Capability
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
NCR—National Capital Region
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Network
OPSO—Operations Officer
REPOL—Petroleum Damage and Deficiency Report
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Network
SITREP—Situation Report
AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012                        15


STE—Secure Terminal Equipment
TACLANE—Tactical Local Area Network Encryption
TMO—Transportation Management Office
TNMCS—Total Not Mission Capable Supply
TPFDD—Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data
ULN—Unit Line Number
USAF—United States Air Force
UTC—Unit Type Code
UXO—Unexploded Ordnance
WRM—War Reserve Materiel
 16                                                          AFDWI10-3 19 JANUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 2
       EMERGENCY SUPPORT FUNCTIONS (ESF) AND ESF RESPONSIBLE CSC
                          REPRESENTATIVES

Table A2.1. Emergency Support Functions (ESF) and ESF Responsible CSC
Respresentative.
ESF #                     ESF Title                        CSC OPR             CSC OCR(s)
  1                     Transportation                 Transportation Rep
  2                    Communications                         N/A
  3             Public Works & Engineering                  CE Rep
  4                      Firefighting                       CE Rep
  5               Emergency Management                      CE Rep
  6           Mass Care, Emergency Assistance,                N/A
                 Housing & Human Services
   7          Logistics Management & Resource              Supply Rep            Log Plans,
                           Support                                              Contracting,
                                                                               Transportation,
                                                                                 & CE Reps
   8          Public Health & Medical Services                 N/A
   9                  Search & Rescue                          N/A
  10         Oil & Hazardous Materials Response            Fuels Rep              CE Rep
  11          Agriculture & Natural Resources                  N/A
  12                       Energy                            CE Rep
  13               Public Safety & Security            Security Forces Rep
  14          Long-Term Community Recovery                     N/A
  15                   External Affairs                        N/A

Note: The assignment of a CSC Rep to an ESF does not mean that the CSC Rep is technically
proficient in all responsibilities associated with the ESF. The CSC Rep is only the POC for
matters within the scope of the ESF relating to the responsibility of responding to the AFDW and
the CSC.
