BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF                                             INSTRUCTION 44-101
WASHINGTON
                                                                              6 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                         Medical

                                                 PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION (PAD)
                                                                          PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 779 MDG/SGOML                                      Certified by: 779 MDG/SGOML (Lt Col
                                                                                Mark Kolasa)
                                                                                    Pages: 8


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical Operations. It
establishes the policies and procedures for the Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Program and
standardizes Air Force District of Washington (AFDW) precedence, guidance and resource
utilization within the National Capital Region (NCR). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication does apply to the Air National Guard
(ANG), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and/or their units. This instruction is applicable
to assigned and attached units who are tenant organizations on Joint Base Andrews and Joint
Base Anacostia-Bolling. It applies retroactively to all sites that have installed public access
automatic external defibrillators (AEDs) prior to the effective date of this instruction. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Installation Commander: Oversees the operation of the PAD program. Ensures each
   organization with an AED appoints a unit individual as the Site Coordinator to meet
   guidelines set forth in this document. The PAD program is not a “medical” program; it is a
   “user” program. The Installation Commander provides installation control of this “user”
   program, through the respective unit commanders and unit Site Coordinators. The
2                                                            AFDWI44-101 6 JANUARY 2011


    Installation Commander is provided medical support for the PAD program by the MDG/CC
    with services provided by the PAD Program Coordinator, PAD Physician Consultant,
    Resuscitative Medicine Coordinator, and Medical Logistics and Maintenance as defined
    below.
    1.2. Medical Group Commander (MDG/CC): Is responsible to the Installation Commander
    to ensure all PAD medical objectives are maintained and provide professional guidance on
    PAD program administration. The MDG/CC appoints the Physician Consultant, Program
    Coordinator and the Resuscitative Medicine Coordinator for the PAD program.
    1.3. PAD Program Coordinator: Oversees the placement and use of the AEDs purchased by
    the installation’s units to include partner units. Coordinates the PAD program with the
    Installation Commander or designee and Site Coordinators by serving as liaison to medical
    resources to include: PAD Physician Consultant, Resuscitative Medicine Coordinator, the
    Medical Group Medical Equipment Repair Flight, and the Cardiac Life Support Committee
    (CLSC). Evaluates the program’s overall performance and ensures compliance with
    standards.
       1.3.1. Maintains copies of the Site Coordinator and Target Responder appointment
       letters (see Attachment 1).
       1.3.2. For quality assurance, ensures review of all Event Summary Sheets and Code
       Summary Data by the PAD Physician Consultant (see Attachment 3) to verify that the
       patient was treated according to the American Heart Association (AHA) Heartsaver AED
       standards and manufacturer’s guidelines with focus on scene safety, efficiency, speed,
       ability to troubleshoot and interactions with professionals and bystanders. The Code
       Summary Data is downloaded from the AED as per paragraph 1.11.3. Forwards a copy
       of the Event Summary Sheet to the PAD Physician Consultant and the local civilian
       review authorities if required. Ensures any feedback from the PAD Physician Consultant
       or CLSC is provided to the site of AED use. Ensures any lessons learned from a recent
       event are given to other sites where AEDs are located as appropriate. Recommends
       additional training when needed or when recommended by the CLSC. Maintains copies
       of the Event Summary Sheets. Notes any trends in program.
       1.3.3. Serves as a consultant for sites that want to purchase AEDs. Coordinates purchase
       requests with the requesting unit and the PAD Physician Consultant. Provides guidance
       on implementing this instruction.
       1.3.4. Ensures that all sites with an AED conform to guidelines for training of Targeted
       Responders. Ensures that all sites perform regular AED maintenance.
    1.4. PAD Physician Consultant. The Physician Consultant is a physician, proficient in
    emergency medical services protocols and basic life support (BLS). Serves as a medical
    consultant to the Installation Commander or designee, MDG/CC, and the PAD Program
    Coordinator in regards to the use of AEDs.
       1.4.1. Has direct medical oversight over the PAD program and its participants. Reviews
       facilities program in light of most current scientific literature to ensure compliance with
       standards.
AFDWI44-101 6 JANUARY 2011                                                                  3


     1.4.2. For quality assurance, reviews all Event Summary Sheets and Code Summary
     Data to verify the patient was treated according to the AHA Heartsaver AED standards
     and manufacture’s guidelines with focus on scene safety, efficiency, speed, ability to
     troubleshoot and interactions with professionals and bystanders. Prepares a summary of
     findings and presents this summary to the CLSC quarterly. Event Summary Sheets and
     Code Summary Data are maintained as quality assurance documents.
  1.5. CLSC (Cardiac Life Support Committee). For quality assurance, reviews event
  summary of findings as presented by the PAD Physician Consultant with focus on the
  identification of lessons learned and system deficiencies. Provides the PAD Program
  Coordinator feedback and recommendations for training and PAD system improvements.
  CLSC findings are reported to the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff at its next
  scheduled meeting.
  1.6. Resuscitative Medicine Coordinator. The coordinator oversees the Heartsaver AED
  training for appointed Site Coordinators and Targeted Responders. Ensures the training is
  conducted per AHA Heartsaver AED standards and includes, but is not limited to. how to:
  activate the emergency medical services, perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation for the
  adult, and use the AED.
  1.7. Commander of sites with an AED. Appoints in writing a Site Coordinator and Targeted
  Responders. Sends appointment letters to the PAD Program Coordinator.
  1.8. Commander of site that wants an AED. Prior to purchasing an AED, contacts the PAD
  Program Coordinator. The coordinator provides guidance on purchase to include guidance
  on placement of the AED at the site as well as on a written protocol for the use of the AED.
  The site will incur the cost of purchasing the AED and any supplies needed for operating the
  AED. The Program Coordinator forwards the request, including the proposed placement and
  written protocol for use of the AED, to the PAD Physician Consultant for review of medical
  appropriateness. Once approved, purchases will be made through medical logistics using the
  requesting unit’s funds.
  1.9. Site Coordinator. The Site Coordinator is a member of the unit where the AED is
  deployed. The coordinator at a minimum maintains certification with Heartsaver AED, but it
  is highly recommended he/she obtains certification as a Heartsaver AED instructor. He/she
  must be appointed in writing by the unit commander. The Site Coordinator reports to the unit
  commander on issues related to the PAD program. The coordinator ensures:
     1.9.1. The AED is properly stored, inspected, and maintained in accordance with (IAW)
     the manufacturer’s guidelines. Maintains inspection and maintenance documentation. If
     the AED is used, returns it to a state of readiness as soon as possible as per the
     manufacturer’s guidelines. Purchases supplies required for use with the AED. Contacts
     the Medical Group Equipment Repair Flight to conduct the periodic AED inspections as
     defined by manufacturer but at a minimum time interval of once per year. Also contacts
     the Medical Equipment Repair Flight if the AED has any mechanical issues or problems
     that he/she can’t resolve. Serves as the equipment custodian for the AED. Ensures AED
     is on the site’s equipment account.
     1.9.2. Unit Targeted Responders are designated and that he/she and the Targeted
     Responders remain current on cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)/AED training.
 4                                                            AFDWI44-101 6 JANUARY 2011


        Maintains training documentation.       Coordinates the training with the Resuscitative
        Medicine Coordinator.
        1.9.3. An Event Summary Sheet is completed each time the AED is used. Forwards the
        summary sheet to the PAD Program Coordinator within 48 hours.
        1.9.4. Arranges for Traumatic Stress Response (TSR) debriefing sessions to be provided
        to all individuals providing assistance in an emergency situation.
     1.10. Targeted Responders. A core group of personnel most likely to be called upon to use
     the AED will be identified as Target Responders within their facility based upon staffing,
     type of facility, continuity and risk. The responders at a minimum maintain current
     certification with CPR/AED use. If present they respond to all medical emergencies that
     occur at their site as trained. After the emergency, they complete the Event Summary Sheet
     and forward it to the Site Coordinator.
     1.11. Medical Logistics and Maintenance.
        1.11.1. Procurement and receipt of AEDs will be coordinated by the purchasing unit with
        the nearest medical logistics office. Each unit’s Site Coordinator will be responsible for
        recurrent visual and operational checks using manufacture’s recommended timing and
        functional operations checklist.
        1.11.2. The nearest medical equipment repair center (MERC) inspects the AEDs
        purchased by units including partner units annually or upon the request from the Site
        Coordinators. The MERC assists the Site Coordinator to resolve any mechanical issues
        or problems.
        1.11.3. The MERC downloads the Code Summary Data after emergency use of the AED.
        The Site Coordinator will bring the device to the medical maintenance office for the
        download. The download will be provided to the PAD Program Coordinator and PAD
        Physician Consultant for a quality assurance review and presentation to CLSC. The
        Biomedical Equipment Technician (BMET) will inspect the device for damage and
        perform an operational check. If the device is in good working order it will be returned to
        the unit.
        1.11.4. The MERC maintains a roster of AED locations, Site Coordinators and contact
        information; and updates this information during preventative maintenance checks or at
        time of any new purchase. The MERC provides this information to the PAD Program
        Coordinator.
2. AED Placement. The key to surviving Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD) is early CPR and
defibrillation when indicated. The PAD Program Coordinator and PAD Physician Consultant
will provide guidance to units on appropriate placement strategies based upon resuscitative
medicine guidelines upon unit/installation commander’s request. In general the AEDs should be
placed in central locations with easy access and next to a telephone. The location of the AED
needs to be clearly annotated via signage. They should be placed to minimize response times to
potential victims. It helps to have the AEDs near trained personnel who would normally respond
to a cardiac rescue, but everyone (including untrained employees) must know where the AEDs
are located and how to activate the EMS system.
AFDWI44-101 6 JANUARY 2011                                                            5


3. AED Use. AEDs are to be used as per the manufacturer’s and American Heart Association
standards and the site’s AED use protocol.




                                        DARRELL D. JONES, Major General, USAF
                                        AFDW Commander
 6                                                           AFDWI44-101 6 JANUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Federal Register E9-19555, Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Program in Federal
Facilities
DoD 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program
AFMLO Guidance Document 02-01
Public Law 106-505, Public Health Improvement Act of 2000, Title IV, Subtitle A, Cardiac
Arrest Survival Act (CASA); (H.R. 2498)
Public Law 106-129, 42 U.S.C. 241 Note, Healthcare Research and Quality Act of 1999, Section
7
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations
AFI44-102, Medical Care Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AED—Automated External Defibrillators
AHA—American Heart Association
BMET—Biomedical Equipment Technician
CLSC—Cardiac Life Support Committee
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
MERC—Medical Equipment Repair Center
PAD—Public Access Defibrillation
SCD—Sudden Cardiac Death
MDG/CC—Medical Group Commander

Terms
Automatic External Defibrillator—a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses
potentially life threatening cardiac rhythm disturbances in a patient and is able to treat them
through defibrillation, the application of electrical therapy which stops the abnormal pattern,
allowing the heart to reestablish an effective rhythm.
Public Access Defibrillators—automatic external defibrillators that are intended for the use by
non-medically trained individuals in public locations.
“User” Program—although medical has a large supporting role, it is the individual installation
unit that decides whether to participate in the PAD program and, if so, maintains the equipment
in a state of readiness, ensures personnel are trained in its use, and operates the equipment when
necessary.
AFDWI44-101 6 JANUARY 2011                                                               7


                                        Attachment 2
                                 APPOINTMENT LETTER

                                                                              Date

MEMORANDUM FOR (ex.:79th MDG Public Access Defibrillation Program (PAD)
Coordinator)

FROM: Your site’s name

SUBJECT: Appointment Letter for PAD Program Site Coordinator
A1.1. (Name, squadron/office symbol) has been appointed as the Site Coordinator for the
site’s PAD Program. He/she will fulfill the responsibilities IAW AFDWI44-101.
A1.2. The following personnel have been appointed as Targeted Responders for the site’s PAD
Program:
They will fulfill the responsibilities IAW AFDWI44-101.
A1.3. If you have any questions please contact me at
                                                                      Signature
                                                                      Duty Title
 8                                                                    AFDWI44-101 6 JANUARY 2011


                                               Attachment 3
                                      EVENT SUMMARY SHEET

 When completed, fax to 579/779th MDG/PAD PROGRAM COORDINATOR @ XXX-
XXX-XXXX
                   Location of event:                                       Date of event:
                                  Time of event (or when victim discovered):
     Was the event witnessed? YES NO                   If yes, name of person that witnessed event:

                                            PAD site coordinator:
                                              Victim’s name:
                                           Name(s) of responder(s):
                                                      1)
                                                      2)
                                                      3)
                                                      4)
                                                      5)
                    Was 911 called?                                           YES NO
                                             If yes, at what time:
       Was CPR given before AED arrived?                                      YES NO
   If yes, name(s) of responders that gave CPR:
                            1)
                            2)
                            3)
                            4)
                            5)
Were shocks given?
            If yes, total number of shocks:
                                                  Did victim:
                            Resume breathing?                             YES NO
                Regain consciousness?                                       YES NO
     Time victim transferred to the emergency
                      department:
      Any problems encountered/comments?


                                  Printed name of person completing sheet:
                                Daytime and nighttime contact phone numbers.
                                   PAD Program Coordinator comments:



                                    PAD Program Coordinator signature:
                                         Date reviewed and signed:
                                   PAD Physician Consultant signature/date
     This is a Quality Assurance Document protected from release, disclosure and admissibility
                     pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1102, Quality Assurance Act of 1986
