BY ORDER OF THE                                  AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
THE COMMANDER AIR FORCE                                       MISSION DIRECTIVE 131
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
                                                                                  26 MAY 2011



                                                  HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE DISTRICT
                                                        OF WASHINGTON (HQ AFDW)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFDW/A3/5                                     Certified by: AFDW/CC (Maj Gen Darren
                                                                                W. McDew)
Supersedes:   AFDWMD131, 11 July 2006                                             Pages: 13
              and AFDWMD132, 11 Jul
              2006


This directive implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-1, Mission Directives, and Air Force
Mission Directive 13, Air Force District of Washington, which defines the mission,
responsibilities, and organizational relationships of Headquarters Air Force District of
Washington (HQ AFDW), Joint Base Andrews-Naval Air Facility Washington, MD. This
Mission Directive does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air
National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command to AFDW/A5X, 1535 Command Drive, Suite A 110, Andrews AFB, MD 20762.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

HQ Air Force National Capital Region (HQ AFNCR) was inactivated on 24 October 2007. HQ
AFNCR was a subordinate headquarters to HQ AFDW and served as the Air Force component to
Joint Force Headquarters-National Capital Region (JFHQ-NCR). HQ AFDW replaced AFNCR
as the Air Force component to JFHQ-NCR and is responsible for planning and coordinating
Homeland Operations in the National Capital Region (NCR). When the JFHQ-NCR transitions
 2                                                              AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011


to the Joint Task Force-National Capital Region (JTF-NCR), the 320th Air Expeditionary Wing
(320 AEW) activates as or, if already activated, becomes the Air Force component of the JTF-
NCR. AFDW is the Air Force supporting command to Joint Task Force-Capital Region Medical
(JTF-CAPMED).

This Mission Directive incorporates Joint Basing changes due to Base Realignment and Closure
(BRAC) 2005, adds AFDW/PK/CSS/CCK/CCEA/IP responsibilities and modifies AFDW/A4/7
responsibilities due to the conversion of A7K to PK. This mission directive delineates missions
and assigned duties applicable to HQ AFDW in both its worldwide Air Force service role and its
JFHQ-NCR Air Force component role. Missions and duties previously outlined in AFDW
Mission Directive 132, HQ Air Force National Capital Region (HQ AFNCR) are now included
in this mission directive.
1. MISSION.
     1.1. AFDW is a Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) to the Chief of Staff, USAF and serves as the
     Air Force service component to JFHQ-NCR and the supporting command to JTF-CAPMED.
     1.2. AFDW is the designated single Air Force voice for planning and implementing Air
     Force and joint solutions concerning the NCR.
     1.3. AFDW will perform the major command functions of organizing, training, and
     equipping assigned forces located within the NCR for worldwide employment and Air and
     Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) deployments worldwide.
     1.4. AFDW executes specified Military Department statutory responsibilities for
     administration and support of Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and assigned Air Force units
     and personnel within the NCR and worldwide. AFDW prepares for, and when directed,
     conducts Homeland Operations in the NCR.
2. COMMAND.
     2.1. Organization Structure. HQ AFDW is organized in accordance with AFI 38-101, Air
     Force Organization and HQ USAF-approved variances.
     2.2. Organization Changes. Requests to change the organizational structure of HQ AFDW
     must be made in accordance with AFI 38-101 through AFDW/A1.
3. RESPONSIBILITIES.
     3.1. HQ AFDW Commander (CC) will:
        3.1.1. Respond to the Vice Chief of Staff, Air Force (VCSAF) for Air Force
        administration and support functions.
        3.1.2. Execute Service responsibilities for administration and support to HAF, assigned
        Air Force units, designated forward operating areas, DoD agencies, US federal executive
        departments, and other assigned and attached Air Force personnel within the NCR and
        worldwide.
        3.1.3. Exercise Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) authority and administer
        military justice as the General Court-Martial Convening Authority over AFDW military
        personnel within the NCR and attached Air Force personnel worldwide.
AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011                                                                        3


     3.1.4. Plan, coordinate, execute, and maintain situational awareness of, and, as directed,
     deploy and employ Air Force assets and forces for ceremonial events and Homeland
     Operations within the NCR. Organize, train, and equip, and, on order, attach AFDW
     forces to combatant commands for AEF deployments and participation in Homeland
     Operations.
     3.1.5. Liaise, plan, and coordinate with JFHQ-NCR regarding Homeland Operations in
     the NCR Joint Operating Area (JOA).
     3.1.6. Be prepared to serve as Commander Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR FORWARD)
     for Air Force forces assigned and attached to the JTF-NCR.
     3.1.7. Serve as Commander, 320 AEW, upon activation, and exercise ADCON for all
     Air Force forces assigned and attached to 320 AEW.
     3.1.8. Serve as supporting commander to JTF-CAPMED.
  3.2. Vice Commander (CV) will:
     3.2.1. Assist the AFDW Commander in the performance and execution of duties and
     responsibilities.
     3.2.2. Serve as AFDW Commander in the Commander’s absence.
     3.2.3. Advise in the formulation of policies, guidance and resources affecting the
     Command.
     3.2.4. Serve as Chairman of the AFDW Council; collaborate and synchronize efforts of
     the AFDW staff.
  3.3. Senior Individual Mobilization Assistant (IMA) will:
     3.3.1. Serve as the Vice Commander, 320 AEW when activated.
     3.3.2. Serve as the AFDW Command Center Director, as needed, in support of JTF-NCR
     contingencies and National Security Special Events (NSSE).
     3.3.3. Support and advise the Commander on all issues involving Reserve affairs, and is
     the focal point for integrating Total Force policies.
  3.4. Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCC) will:
     3.4.1. Serve as the principal advisor to AFDW Commander and staff on matters of
     health, welfare, morale, and proper utilization of enlisted personnel within the Command.
     3.4.2. Serve as the functional manager for first sergeants in AFDW organizations.
     3.4.3. Advise in the formulation of policies, guidance, and resources affecting the
     Command.
  3.5. Director of Staff (DS) will:
     3.5.1. Serve as the primary advisor to the AFDW Commander for maintaining overall
     unity of effort of the AFDW staff. Facilitate and maintain AFDW’s strategic plan.
     3.5.2. Facilitate information flow between HAF staff/Joint Organizations and HQ
     AFDW by establishing and maintaining a streamlined workflow process for HQ AFDW.
4                                                                AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011


       3.5.3. Plan and oversee day-to-day administrative and policy support of the HQ AFDW
       A-Staff and Special Staff in accordance with the Commander's intent.
    3.6. Air Force Reserve Advisor to the Commander (RE) will:
       3.6.1. Serve as primary advisor to the AFDW Commander and staff in formulating and
       implementing policies, guidance, and resources pertaining to Air Force Reserve and Air
       National Guard forces gained by AFDW through mobilization, man-days, and drill status.
    3.7. Commander’s Action Group (CCX) will:
       3.7.1. Assist the AFDW Commander in developing and articulating the vision for
       AFDW. Write speeches and briefings for the AFDW Commander and prepare the
       Commander for key decision forums.
       3.7.2. Orchestrate special projects and serve as the legislative liaison for annual Senate
       and Congressional visits by the AFDW Commander and Wing Commanders.
       3.7.3. Serve as AFDW Section Commander (AFDW/CCQ).
    3.8. Commander’s Support Staff (CSS) will:
       3.8.1. Manage awards and decorations, unit fitness program, unfavorable information
       files (UIF), promotions, in-processing, out-processing, reenlistment, line of duty
       determinations, Article 15 actions, Letters of Reprimand/Letters of Counseling
       (LORs/LOCs), etc.
       3.8.2. Manage the Preventive Health Assessment (PHA) program.
       3.8.3. Serve as the Group Control Center (GCC) for interaction with the Installation
       Command Post (ICP), Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and the AFDW Command
       Center.
    3.9. AFDW Knowledge Operations Center (CCK) will:
       3.9.1. Perform records management, Microsoft SharePoint oversight, Community of
       Practice website design, office mail management, Defense Travel System (DTS) support
       and client related services functions.
       3.9.2. Serve as the Vehicle Control Officer (VCO) and provide AFDW Command Center
       administrative support.
    3.10. Commander’s Executive Services (CCEA) will:
       3.10.1. Manage and maintain key programs for AFDW Command Section and Special
       Staff. Provide AFDW Commander’s meeting support and the information flow between
       the Command Section, HQ AFDW A-Staff and Special Staff Directorates, Wings and
       HAF.
       3.10.2. Superintendent also serves as HQ AFDW First Sergeant.
    3.11. Information Protection (IP) will:
       3.11.1. Provide an environment for HQ AFDW subordinate units and other supported
       customers to access and exchange information required to protect information assets and
       empower commanders with effective processes and structure to conduct risk management
       across the command.
AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011                                                                        5


     3.11.2. Provide a single resource to resolve information protection issues impacting the
     AFDW Commander’s ability to carry out assigned missions through the DRU Security
     Advisory Group (SAG).
  3.12. Chaplain (HC) will:
     3.12.1. Advise AFDW Commander and staff on matters of religion, morality, quality of
     life, and morale for assigned/attached personnel.
     3.12.2. Provide policy, guidance, and staff oversight to the AFDW installation Chaplain
     Corps functions; manage Chaplain Corps manpower, personnel, professional
     development, readiness, and assignment actions to provide religious ministries during
     daily operations, exercises, and contingencies in the NCR.
     3.12.3. Be prepared to serve as State Funeral chaplain for the President of the United
     States (POTUS).
  3.13. Staff Judge Advocate (JA) will:
     3.13.1. Serve as legal advisor to the AFDW Commander and staff.
     3.13.2. Process all legal actions and perform all legal reviews relating to the AFDW
     mission.
     3.13.3. Provide policy guidance for AFDW subordinate legal offices.
     3.13.4. Provide legal support for AFDW customer contracts.
     3.13.5. Provide General Court-Martial Convening Authority support and supervise
     adverse personnel actions for three installations (Joint Base Andrews, Joint Base
     Anacostia-Bolling and Ft Meade) and designated Airmen worldwide.
     3.13.6. Provide legal advice to the Air Force Security Forces Center concerning all Air
     Force inmates assigned to central corrections facilities.
     3.13.7. Serve as lead counsel for base-level and AFDW environmental matters.
     3.13.8. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
  3.14. Safety (SE) will:
     3.14.1. Provide MAJCOM-level oversight for HQ AFDW, AFDW subordinate units, 14
     Field Operating Agencies (FOA), 10 AF Elements and HAF Agencies.
     3.14.2. Oversee, evaluate, and coordinate Federal, DoD, and Air Force Occupational
     Safety and Health programs.
     3.14.3. Plan, direct, and evaluate the AFDW occupational, industrial, contractual, traffic
     and sports and recreation mishap prevention programs.
     3.14.4. Manage the analysis, control, and elimination of significant safety risks. Develop
     overall training objectives for safety personnel throughout AFDW.
     3.14.5. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
  3.15. Command Surgeon (SG) will:
6                                                               AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011


       3.15.1. Serve as primary advisor to the AFDW Commander and staff on all aspects of
       Air Force NCR medical capabilities; ensure AFDW medical forces are organized,
       trained, and equipped for worldwide AEF deployments and employments in the NCR.
       3.15.2. Supervise and monitor the delivery of healthcare to Air Force personnel and their
       families provided at NCR USAF medical treatment facilities.
       3.15.3. Serve as the Commander Air Force medical component to JTF-CAPMED.
       Liaise and coordinate peacetime medical care and emergency response operations within
       the NCR and posture AFDW medical forces for presentation to JTF-CAPMED. On
       order, provide liaison to JTF-CAPMED Joint Operations Center (JOC).
       3.15.4. Liaise with JFHQ-NCR Surgeon and JTF-CAPMED regarding steady-state Air
       Force medical capabilities and readiness for Homeland Operations in the NCR.
       3.15.5. Advise in the formulation of medical policies, guidance, and resources affecting
       AFDW.
       3.15.6. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center. If the Medical
       Control Center (MCC) is activated and operational, representation in the AFDW
       Command Center will generally not be required.
    3.16. Protocol and Ceremonies (CCP) will:
       3.16.1. Serve as OPR for AFDW ceremony and protocol issues in the NCR; plan,
       execute and prepare for official visits and social functions hosted by the AFDW
       Commander.
       3.16.2. Coordinate with Air Force NCR OPRs on Air Force Chief of Staff foreign
       counterpart full-honors arrival and wreath laying ceremonies; General Officer funerals,
       promotions and retirements; CSAF hosted ceremonies; and AFDW lodging and
       transportation of General Officers TDY or PCS to the NCR. Serve as Air Force OPR for
       the Visiting General Officer Program in the NCR.
       3.16.3. Coordinate/schedule Air Force conferences in the Air Force Conference Center
       and office of coordinating responsibility for HAF conferences at the Joint Base
       Anacostia-Bolling Club.
       3.16.4. Coordinate with JFHQ-NCR Protocol in its role as executive agent for military
       ceremonies and public events in the NCR. Lead Joint Protocol Cell for JFHQ-NCR State
       Funeral Planning.
    3.17. Public Affairs (PA) will:
       3.17.1. Collaborate across the AFDW command structure to provide timely, useful, and
       accurate information to the AFDW commander, the media, public, and other
       stakeholders.
       3.17.2. Establish and maintain effective relations with local, regional, and national
       media, providing them accurate information on issues related to the AFDW mission,
       assets, and resources.
AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011                                                                         7


     3.17.3. Plan and coordinate news media visits and interviews with AFDW commanders
     and staff. Identify issues/problems within the NCR that may negatively impact the
     public’s perception of the Air Force and propose actions for resolution.
     3.17.4. Serve as the designated spokesperson on matters pertaining to AFDW/Air Force
     operations within the NCR and handle Public Affairs issues as they relate to the Air
     Force within the NCR.
     3.17.5. Advise AFDW commanders on expected effects of military operations on the
     opinion of the American public and on the local public within the NCR; coordinate with
     civilian agencies and community leaders to ensure effective integration of the increased
     military presence in the civilian community during contingencies/NSSEs; coordinate with
     external headquarters and government agencies for the expeditious implementation of
     Public Affairs policies and guidance.
     3.17.6. Conduct an outreach (Community Relations) program that encourages
     surrounding communities to support Air Force efforts.
     3.17.7. Produce AFDW Command Information products that transmit timely and
     accurate information to AFDW personnel; conduct media awareness training for senior
     leaders.
     3.17.8. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
     3.17.9. Acts as Air Force Public Affairs lead for JFHQ-NCR State Funeral Planning.
  3.18. Inspector General (IG) will:
     3.18.1. Execute the Air Force Inspector General program within the NCR. Provide
     oversight for management, tracking, and resolution of IG complaints, Congressional
     Inquiries, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, and Fraud, Waste, and Abuse
     programs within AFDW.
     3.18.2. Provide oversight of the AFDW Inspection Program. Interface with Air Force
     Inspection Agency (AFIA) ensuring inspection program is in compliance across AFDW.
  3.19. Manpower, Personnel, and Services (A1) will:
     3.19.1. Provide MAJCOM-equivalent manpower, personnel, and services support.
     3.19.2. Manage AFDW organization and personnel accountability, assignments, civilian
     personnel, education, equal opportunity, individual mobilization augmentees, force
     development, promotion, quality force, recognition, separation, testing, training, services
     support, and family readiness programs.
     3.19.3. Coordinate with JFHQ-NCR/J1 and provide accountability for personnel
     assigned or attached to JTF-NCR. Coordinate with AFNORTH/A1 and provide
     accountability for personnel assigned, attached, or supporting JTF-NCR.
     3.19.4. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
  3.20. Intelligence (A2) will:
8                                                                 AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011


       3.20.1. Monitor, gather, and disseminate all-source intelligence for AFDW operations in
       the NCR. Oversee AFDW intelligence integration with JTF-NCR/JFHQ-NCR during
       Homeland Operations and exercises in the NCR.
       3.20.2. Direct and coordinate AFDW interface with NCR intelligence fusion operations,
       liaising with relevant law enforcement, counterintelligence, and national intelligence
       agencies.
       3.20.3. Provide Threat Indicators and Warnings to the AFDW Commander, Directors,
       and subordinate Wing Commanders.
       3.20.4. Fulfill installation intelligence responsibilities to tenant organizations and
       provide intelligence support for Force Protection.
       3.20.5. Develop pre-deployment intelligence briefings for all Air Force personnel
       assigned within and deploying from the NCR.
       3.20.6. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
    3.21. Operations, Plans, and Requirements (A3/5) will:
       3.21.1. Serve as primary advisor to AFDW Commander and staff for policy, guidance,
       and resources on all matters relating to operations, planning, readiness, exercises, and
       requirements.
       3.21.2. Lead, develop and implement command and control for AFDW operations by
       organizing, training personnel for, and equipping the AFDW Command Center; monitor,
       assess, plan, execute, report, and maintain continuous situational awareness of assigned
       or attached Air Force forces within the NCR.
       3.21.3. Serve as OPR for deliberate and adaptive planning; produce coherent and
       executable service and support plans. Plan, prepare for, and when directed, conduct
       Homeland Operations.
       3.21.4. Serve as OPR for planning and executing HQ AFDW and HAF Continuity of
       Operations (COOP) plan. Determine essential functions, manage relocation facilities,
       and train and organize HAF personnel for emergency evacuation.
       3.21.5. Serve as OPR to plan, coordinate, and execute Air Force emergency evacuation
       in support of Continuity of Government (COG) and COOP within the NCR; coordinate
       directly with appropriate Total Air Force forces, installations, JFHQ-NCR, Pentagon
       Force Protection Agency, and other responsible agencies.
       3.21.6. Coordinate all Air Force issues related to Presidential State Funeral planning
       including direct coordination with appropriate Air Force units, installations, and agencies,
       as well as JFHQ-NCR.
       3.21.7. Serve as OPR for AFDW Mission Directives, Concept of Operations (CONOPS),
       doctrine review, and requirements development.
       3.21.8. Plan and prepare for Air Force activities related to Counter-Chemical, Biological,
       Radiological and Nuclear (C-CBRN) operational planning, analysis, and capabilities
       within the NCR. Coordinate directly with appropriate Total Air Force forces,
       installations, JFHQ-NCR and other responsible agencies concerning AF C-CBRN within
AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011                                                                      9


     the NCR. Identify and integrate C-CBRN operational capabilities for NORTHCOM/JTF-
     NCR missions within the NCR. Co-chair the combined Emergency Management/C-
     CBRN Working Group with A4/7.
     3.21.9. Provide C-CBRN research, scientific and technical analysis, assessments,
     integration, and application of operational solutions to augment and enable AFDW
     support to the JFHQ-NCR missions in a CBRN environment. Provide AFDW C-CBRN
     policy and operational strategy, plans and mission capability requirements.
     3.21.10. Serve as OPR for coordinating, training, and exercising in preparation for
     Homeland Operations and execution of USAF support plans. Develop and execute
     realistic training opportunities to prepare AFDW personnel for all tasked missions.
     Coordinate with JFHQ-NCR and other supported agencies to ensure AFDW assets are
     prepared to execute all tasked missions.
     3.21.11. Serve as the AFDW functional OPR for Joint Operation Planning and Execution
     System (JOPES). Manage the AFDW AEF Cell. Manage the AFDW Office of
     Functional Area Manager Oversight (OFAMO). Coordinate AEF issues across AFDW
     functional areas and other DoD agencies as directed.
     3.21.12. Provide MAJCOM oversight and support to AFDW flying operations, including
     1st Helicopter Squadron (1 HS). Review and coordinate 1 HS Program Objective
     Memorandum (POM) budget process. Serve as Functional Area Manager for AFDW
     aircrew.
     3.21.13. On order, report and monitor Air Force forces assigned and attached to 320
     AEW and JTF-NCR; direct operational aspects of the AFDW/320 AEW Command
     Center and transmit and receive tasking orders.
     3.21.14. On order, provide the Air Component Coordination Element (ACCE) to JTF-
     NCR on behalf of the USNORTHCOM Joint Force Air Component Commander
     (JFACC). Serve as direct representative of JFACC (1AF/AFNORTH) to CDR JTF-NCR.
     3.21.15. On order, provide the Commander, Task Force Incident Awareness and
     Assessment (TF-IAA) on behalf of the JTF-NCR/CC. Develop and maintain IAA
     CONOPS in coordination with AFNORTH, JFACC and JFHQ-NCR. Prepare for and
     execute TF-IAA operations in support of the JFACC and JTF-NCR.
     3.21.16. Be prepared to provide 320 AEW Section Commander.
     3.21.17. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
  3.22. Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (A4/7) will:
     3.22.1. Serve as the directing and coordinating authority for AFDW logistics, security
     forces, and civil engineering.
     3.22.2. Establish and provide MAJCOM oversight of policy, guidance, and procedures
     for logistics, installations, and mission support for assigned personnel worldwide while
     supporting the Combatant Commanders (COCOM), JFHQ-NCR, and NCR customers
     including POTUS, SAF, HAF, and other federal and civil agencies.
10                                                              AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011


     3.22.3. Review and coordinate 11th Security Forces Group (11 SFG), 11th Civil
     Engineering Squadron (11 CES) and 11th Logistics Readiness Squadron (11 LRS) POM
     budget process. Serve as Functional Area Managers for all three functional areas.
     3.22.4. Plan, execute, and prepare for Air Force NCR Emergency Management (EM),
     CBRN non-medical response, fire emergency services, security forces, military working
     dog, and explosive ordnance disposal capabilities. Coordinate directly with Total Air
     Force forces, installations, JFHQ-NCR and other responsible agencies concerning AF
     EM and CBRN non-medical response within the NCR.
     3.22.5. Provide Base Operating Support (BOS) management in the NCR for civil
     engineering, security forces, logistics and comprehensive logistics support to all assigned
     units and personnel.
     3.22.6. Plan, coordinate, and monitor Aerial Port of Debarkation/Embarkation
     (APOD/APOE) operations at Joint Base Andrews for joint reception, staging, onward
     movement and integration (JRSOI).
     3.22.7. Provide logistics and asset management inputs to JFHQ-NCR Joint Planning
     Groups and NCR exercises.
     3.22.8. Liaise with HQ USAF on all Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) and force
     protection related movement of Air Force personnel onto AFDW installations.
     3.22.9. Plan, prepare for, and monitor Air Force logistics equipment, resources, War
     Reserve Materiel, and asset management activities in support of Base Support Installation
     (BSI) initiatives in the NCR.
     3.22.10. Serve as the AFDW AEF Reporting Tool (ART) Program Manager. Oversee
     and coordinate all AEF Unit Type Code (UTC) ART issues among AFDW staff,
     subordinate units, HAF, and Air Force Elements.
     3.22.11. Chair the AFDW Antiterrorism Working Group and co-chair the combined
     Emergency Management/C-CBRN Working Group with A3/5. Advise the AFDW
     Commander on appropriate force protection and emergency response options for Air
     Force forces in the NCR.
     3.22.12. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
     3.22.13. Support and coordinate on all strategic basing initiatives with the AFDW OPR
     (A8).
     3.22.14. Support and coordinate on all contingency beddown actions within the NCR.
     3.22.15. Provide MAJCOM oversight and coordinate with the Air Force Center for
     Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE) over all Military Family Housing
     privatization issues at Joint Base Andrews-Naval Air Facility Washington and Joint Base
     Anacostia-Bolling.
     3.22.16. Provide MAJCOM oversight and coordinate with the Air Force Civil Engineer
     Support Agency (AFCESA) over all utility privatization issues at Joint Base Andrews-
     Naval Air Facility Washington.
AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011                                                                      11


     3.22.17. Serve as the primary liaison to Federal and State regulatory agencies including
     the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) Region 3, Maryland
     Departments of Environment and Natural Resources, and the US Army Corps of
     Engineers (USACE), Baltimore District.
     3.22.18. Establish, coordinate and sustain the geo-spatial common operating picture
     (GEO-Base). Coordinate with AFDW/A6 as necessary to ensure commonality between
     systems.
     3.22.19. Ensure compliance with the Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling and the Joint Base
     Andrews-Naval Air Facility Washington Installation Support Memorandum of
     Agreement (MOA).
     3.22.20. Provide MAJCOM oversight and coordinate with all Joint Base Andrews tenant
     unit MAJCOMs and/or headquarters for all current and long range plans.
     3.22.21. Provide MAJCOM oversight and coordinate with all functional communities
     tasked with upgrades to facilities and/or infrastructure at Joint Base Andrews. This
     includes, but is not limited to, the Air Force Services Agency, Army and Air Force
     Exchange Service (AAFES), Defense Commissary Agency (DECA), and Defense
     Logistics Agency (DLA) Fuels.
     3.22.22. Provide MAJCOM oversight of the Military Construction (MILCON);
     Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization (SRM); housing privatization; and other
     long-term facility investment programs and coordinate related requirements with
     AFDW/A8.
     3.22.23. Serve as the AFDW representative to the National Capital Planning
     Commission (NCPC).
     3.22.24. Chair the infrastructure Working Group (IWG) and provide a forum for the
     Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG), Asset Management Working Group
     (AMWG), and the Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council, as required
     by Air Force Instruction.
  3.23. Communications (A6) will:
     3.23.1. Serve as primary advisor for policy, guidance and resources relating to
     communications, Information Technology (IT) and command and control systems.
     3.23.2. Serve as AFDW Chief Information Officer and direct related AFDW activities.
     3.23.3. Represent Air Force interests on all joint and interagency communications and IT
     issues in the NCR.
     3.23.4. Coordinate with AFDW A3/5 to ensure AFDW’s Command, Control,
     Communications, Computers, and Intelligence (C4I) capabilities are adequate to meet
     mission needs and communications and IT are addressed as part of the operational
     planning and execution process.
     3.23.5. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
  3.24. Programs and Financial Management (A8) will:
12                                                              AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011


     3.24.1. Perform programming and financial management for HQ AFDW and its
     subordinate units. Serve as primary advisor for budgets of AFDW assigned units and Air
     Force elements; perform cost analysis studies; administer financial policies and
     programs; and provide accounting services for AFDW, HAF, NCR tenant organizations,
     and assigned Air Force elements worldwide.
     3.24.2. Serve as OPR to plan, execute and prepare for funds programming through the
     Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) and other strategic programming documents;
     ensure FYDP planning for military construction, manpower and other major cost drivers
     are accurately developed and represented in corporate Air Force review processes.
     3.24.3. Interface with HAF and SAF/FM on AFDW financial plans and programs
     matters.
     3.24.4. Maintain, develop, and deploy financial systems to all Air Force organizations in
     the NCR.
     3.24.5. Provide policy, guidance, and resources for the Manager’s Internal Control
     Program, Non-Appropriated Fund activities, and the Report of Survey program for Air
     Force organizations in the NCR.
     3.24.6. Provide HQ AFDW interface with JFHQ-NCR counterparts; identify, analyze,
     track, and report AFDW costs and participation in operational missions. Establish
     Emergency Special Program (ESP) codes and certify funds availability for exercises and
     operational missions.
     3.24.7. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
  3.25. Analyses, Assessment, and Lessons Learned (A9) will:
     3.25.1. Serve as primary advisor for operational analysis and lessons learned to support
     and enhance decision making; facilitate effectiveness and efficiency initiatives across the
     range of AFDW operations and exercises.
     3.25.2. Plan, execute, and prepare for Lessons Learned support to AFDW and JFHQ-
     NCR exercises and operations planning, and after action processes.
     3.25.3. Provide policy guidance, training, and resources for the AFDW Air Force Smart
     Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21) program; facilitate AFSO21 initiatives and
     related continuous process improvement activities throughout AFDW. Liaise with
     SAF/USMS on AFDW AFSO21 initiatives.
     3.25.4. Conduct command-directed studies, analyses and assessments of AFDW
     processes and programs. Facilitate strategic planning and cross-functional evaluations of
     operational requirements and modernization and recapitalization of systems and
     programs.
     3.25.5. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.
  3.26. Contracting (PK) will:
     3.26.1. Be responsible for all Air Force contracting support falling within the AFDW/CC
     mission areas. Serve as AFDW’s Senior Contracting Official for AFDW Contracting
AFDWMD131 26 MAY 2011                                                                  13


    Activities and is the principal business advisor to the AFDW/CC with regard to
    contracting matters.
    3.26.2. Provide specialized, operational, and purchase card contracting support by
    developing and executing fiscally responsive acquisition strategies and innovative
    sourcing solutions for effective and professional service for customers in the NCR.
    3.26.3. Serve a dual role as an execution directorate in addition to providing command
    level policy guidance and Headquarters oversight to 11th Contracting Squadron.
    3.26.4. On order, provide representation to the AFDW Command Center.




                                       DARREN W. MCDEW, Major General, USAF
                                       Commander, Air Force District of Washington
