BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF                                             INSTRUCTION 10-101
WASHINGTON
                                                                            7 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                      Operations

                                                            ALERT NOTIFICATION/RECALL
                                                                          PROCEDURES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFDW/A3O                                                          Certified by: AFDW/A3/5
                                                                       (Col Ronald B. Baldinger)
Supersedes:    AFDWI 10-1, 27 November                                                 Pages: 22
               2006


This instruction implements AFPD10-2, Readiness. It extends the guidance in AFI 36-3803,
Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National Emergencies,
establishing procedures for alerting, recalling, and accounting for Headquarters (HQ) Air Force
District of Washington (AFDW) staff personnel in the event of national emergencies,
contingencies or other events, as directed by the AFDW Commander or designated
representative. Additionally, it establishes the requirement of HQ AFDW staff agencies and
directorates to produce recall rosters, facilitating timely notification/recall of personnel. This
instruction satisfies the requirements of JBAI 10-218 and applies to HQ AFDW A/Special Staff
and assigned or attached Air Reserve Component (ARC) personnel. Changes to the procedures
in this publication are not authorized without approval of HQ AFDW/A3. The reporting
requirements in this AFDWI are exempt from licensing in accordance with AFI 33-324,
paragraph 2.11.10., The Information Collections and Reports Management Program Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections. Submit recommendations
for improvements and/or changes using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, to HQ AFDW/A3O, 1500 W. Perimeter Rd, Ste 5370, Joint Base Andrews, MD
20762. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)            Records       Disposition        Schedule         (RDS)         located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfrn.
 2                                                                                     AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

        1.      General Policy. .......................................................................................................         2
        2.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................     3
        3.      Personnel Categories. .............................................................................................             3
        4.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................         3
        5.      Recall Rosters. .......................................................................................................         6
        6.      Recalls. ...................................................................................................................    7
        7.      Implementation Procedures. ..................................................................................                   8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 12

Attachment 2—HQ AFDW PYRAMID NOTIFICATION/RECALL                                                                                               15

Attachment 3—SAMPLE RECALL ROSTER                                                                                                              16

Attachment 4—SAMPLE BACK OF RECALL ROSTER                                                                                                      17

Attachment 5—SAMPLE COMM-OUT RECALL ROSTER                                                                                                     19

Attachment 6—SAMPLE COMM-OUT RECALL MAP                                                                                                        20

Attachment 7—STRENGTH REPORT                                                                                                                   21

Attachment 8—ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT                                                                                                             22


1. General Policy.
     1.1. The Andrews Regional Command Post (ARCP) functions as the AFDW Watch with
     duties to initiate the HQ AFDW notification/recall system when the AFDW Operations
     Center is not activated.
     1.2. HQ AFDW Recall Procedures consist of three types used to contact personnel. Recall
     for Notification, Recall to Duty, and Recall for Accountability. Unless otherwise indicated in
     this instruction, the term Recall applies to all three types.
     1.3. Recalls and personnel strength reporting should be conducted without public
     announcement (news media) unless the declaring authority advises differently. Do not
     display signs in public that indicate a recall is in progress, unless directed otherwise by the
     declaring authority.
     1.4. For notification tests and recall to duty, civilians/contractors will be contacted as
     directed by the declaring authority but will not be placed on standby or recalled to duty
     without explicit direction of the AFDW Commander or designated representative.
        1.4.1. Placing a civilian on standby or recalling them to duty incurs additional costs and
        will only be done in the event of an emergency.
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     3


       1.4.2. Contractor personnel should not be placed on stand-by or recalled unless such a
       provision is specifically addressed in their contract.
   1.5. Personnel placed on telephone standby will remain in the immediate vicinity (i.e.,
   within hearing distance) of their telephone or carry a cell phone while awaiting further
   instructions. They will be available for immediate recall and will report for duty at their
   regularly scheduled time unless otherwise directed.
   1.6. During a recall to duty, crew/shift workers should follow their current duty schedule and
   remain on telephone standby unless otherwise directed.
   1.7. Depending on the situation, certain personnel may be excused from the recall, as
   determined by specific governing directives or the director.
2. Purpose. The purpose of the HQ AFDW Recall Procedures provides timely notification,
recall personnel to duty, or accomplish personnel accountability. The type of information passed
using these procedures includes, but is not limited to, national emergency, natural disaster,
changes in information, force protection, hurricane conditions, or other time-sensitive
information requiring broad dissemination.
   2.1. National emergencies or other contingencies require the AFDW Commander to possess
   the capability to notify personnel or recall them to their place of duty.
3. Personnel Categories.
   3.1. Mission Essential Military Personnel. Personnel deemed necessary to ensure military
   missions identified as “essential” are performed.
   3.2. Civilian Emergency Essential Personnel (E-E). Civilian personnel deemed necessary to
   ensure military missions identified as “essential” are performed. (See glossary for official
   definition)
   3.3. Key Position Civilian. Civilian personnel with unique or scarce managerial or technical
   skills required for a wartime mission. (See glossary for official definition)
   3.4. Non-Essential Personnel. Personnel who can delay reporting for short periods of time
   (hours to days) without serious mission impact.
   3.5. Contractor Personnel. Contractor personnel should not be used to make notifications
   unless such a provision is specifically addressed in their contract.
4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. AFDW Operations Center Director. When activated, the AFDW Operations Center
   Director is responsible for overall execution of the HQ AFDW recall. Following execution,
   the HQ AFDW Group Control Center (GCC) will manage, collect applicable data, and keep
   the Operation Center Director informed on the status of personnel accountability. During
   non-activation periods, the AFDW Watch will initiate the HQ AFDW recall.
   4.2. AFDW Director of Staff (DS).
       4.2.1. Will establish, manage, and equip the HQ AFDW GCC. The GCC is the entity
       and/or location that includes person(s) collecting recall or accountability information for
       all A/Special Staff Unit Control Centers (UCCs). The DS will also account for the
       AFDW Commander and his/her support staff.
4                                                        AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


       4.2.2. Will ensure that a sufficient number of GCC personnel are appointed, trained, and
       equipped for 24/7 operations. Personnel should not be assigned duties that would conflict
       with the operation of the GCC.
       4.2.3. Will ensure a sufficient number of personnel are appointed, trained, and equipped
       as HQ AFDW representatives to the 11th Wing Crisis Action Team (CAT) to support
       24/7 operations. Personnel should not be assigned duties that would conflict with the
       operation of the CAT.
    4.3. HQ AFDW GCC.
       4.3.1. Will collect and report HQ AFDW recall status.
       4.3.2. Will pass emergency information, accomplish appropriate checklists, oversee the
       UCCs accomplishment of checklists, and maintain a log of events.
       4.3.3. This centralized point should be manned NLT 45 minutes after initiation time (IT),
       in order to collect and report HQ AFDW personnel data to the HQ AFDW CAT
       Representative. The GCC will consolidate reports and submit to the CAT Representative
       during all recalls unless otherwise directed.
       4.3.4. Is appointed as the HQ AFDW Commanding Officer Representatives (COR) with
       AFPAAS access to fulfill AFI 36-3803 requirements.
       4.3.5. Will have a designated primary and alternate operating location. In addition, the
       GCC will have the capability to operate virtually in a dispersed mode of operations and
       provide mobile phone numbers to UCCs in order to enable personnel reporting during
       shelter or evacuation events.
       4.3.6. Will keep the Operation Center Director informed on the status of recalls when the
       Operation Center is activated and as required by the Operation Center Director.
       4.3.7. Will develop a Continuity Binder IAW directions provided on the HQ AFDW
       GCC-UCC SharePoint site.
       4.3.8. Acts as the “UCC” for A/Special Staff that are not required to have their own
       UCC.
    4.4. HQ AFDW Crisis Action Team (CAT) Representative. Will represent the HQ AFDW
    Staff during all 11th Wing CAT recalls. The CAT representative will collect HQ AFDW
    recall data from the HQ AFDW GCC and submit it to the 11th Wing CAT.
    4.5. AFDW/A1R.
       4.5.1. During Air Force Total Force Accountability drills, will consolidate personnel data
       via Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System (AFPAAS
       https://afpaas.af.mil).
       4.5.2. Will coordinate with the 11th Wing Installation Personnel Readiness office for
       AFDW subordinate and Administrative Control (ADCON) units, tracking AFDW
       accountability as directed by AFI 36-3803 Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with
       Natural Disasters or National Emergencies.
    4.6. All A/Special Staff.
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                       5


       4.6.1. A1, A3/5, A4/7, FM, and PK will establish a UCC. The UCCs will report data to
       the GCC. The remaining A/Special Staff will report information directly to the GCC.
       Reporting will begin within 1 hour following IT.
Note: A6 reports recall information to the 844th GCC and is not included in the HQ AFDW
GCC accountability numbers.
       4.6.2. A/Special Staffs will designate a Point of Contact (POC) for maintaining recall
       rosters. POCs will be identified on the published roster. POCs will include the HQ
       AFDW GCC for distribution of revised rosters monthly or when changes occur.
       4.6.3. Ensure strength reporting procedures are established and consistent with the
       procedures set forth in this instruction.
       4.6.4. Ensure recall procedures are executable when communications are inoperable or
       impaired.
          4.6.4.1. A/Special Staff Directors will ensure comm-out procedures/recall rosters are
          as efficient as possible and personnel are familiar with the procedures.
          4.6.4.2. When applicable, consolidate comm-out efforts with other A/Special Staff
          directors to to minimize the number of personnel that have to travel to any one
          area/neighborhood.
       4.6.5. Include the recall preformatted scripted messages (Attachment 4) on the back of
       recall rosters or on a separate page accompanying the recall roster.
       4.6.6. Ensure each member is briefed on the organizations recall procedures, standby
       procedures unique to their job and respective unit to include updating personal
       information in the Installation Warning System.
       4.6.7. Identify civilian employees in Key/E-E positions and annotate these individuals on
       the unit’s recall roster. Properly document their Key/E-E responsibilities in the civilian
       personnel core documents.
       4.6.8. Identify mission essential military personnel, Individual Mobilization Augmentees
       (IMAs), and unit reservists on the recall roster.
       4.6.9. Determine whether civilian, contractor, assigned reserve personnel and shift
       workers will be recalled, if not directed by the declaring authority. Recalling a civilian or
       contractor to duty incurs additional costs and should only be done in the event of an
       emergency.
   4.7. HQ AFDW UCCs
       4.7.1. Will develop a Continuity Binder IAW directions provided on the HQ AFDW
       GCC-UCC SharePoint site.
       4.7.2. Will provide the GCC with an appointment letter and ensure a sufficient number
       of UCC personnel are appointed, trained, and equipped for 24/7 operations. Personnel
       should not be assigned duties that would conflict with the operation of the UCC.
       4.7.3. Will have a designated primary and alternate operating location. In addition, the
       UCCs will have the capability to operate virtually in a dispersed mode of operations.
 6                                                          AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


        4.7.4. Must have a military member, at minimum, assigned as the primary or alternate
        UCC member. A/Special Staff Directorates will not assign only civilian personnel to
        execute UCC duties. Reference paragraph 1.3.1.
     4.8. Each individual.
        4.8.1. Ensure personal information is current on recall rosters and keep latest recall roster
        readily available at all times, in a secure location to protect personally identifiable
        information (PII).
        4.8.2. When receiving the recall message, read back the received message to ensure it
        was understood.
        4.8.3. Contact personnel as specified on the recall roster immediately upon notification.
        4.8.4. When using a recall roster, you must establish 2-way communication (voice, text,
        or e-mail) with the individual. Leaving a message with another person, on an answering
        machine/voice mail, or not receiving a reply from a text or e-mail does NOT constitute
        contact with that person. If accountability is being conducted after an emergency event,
        personnel cannot be considered accounted for based on contact with them earlier in the
        day.
        4.8.5. When unable to contact an individual within five (5) minutes go to the next
        person(s) on the roster and continue the recall process, passing on to the next person the
        name(s) of those not contacted before you. Do NOT delay notification or reporting but it
        is your responsibility to ensure contact is made at the earliest opportunity.
        4.8.6. Note the time of contacted.
        4.8.7. The last person in a recall chain will notify their UCC that they have been
        contacted and pass on the name(s) of those not contacted.
        4.8.8. If applicable, report to duty location in the appropriate uniform. Do NOT delay
        for personal grooming, meals, etc.
        4.8.9. If conducting a comm-out recall:
            4.8.9.1. Obey all traffic laws and do not place yourself in danger.
            4.8.9.2. Do not enter an area that has been closed or cordoned off by authorities.
            4.8.9.3. You are not authorized to enter someone’s home without their invitation.
            4.8.9.4. If you suspect someone is in danger notify proper authorities.
            4.8.9.5. If the person is not home, move to the next person/address and make note of
            the skipped address. It is permissible to leave a note, but leaving a note does not
            constitute notification.
            4.8.9.6. Keep track of your mileage used while making notifications.
5. Recall Rosters. All recall rosters must include the following:
     5.1. Annotated “For Official Use Only” (FOUO).
     5.2. A privacy act statement, “This roster is subject to the “Privacy Act of 1974,” 5 U.S.C.
     552a. Personal privacy information regarding government employees and members of the
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     7


   Armed Forces is protected, as implemented by AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program.
   Information is being collected to allow for alert notifications procedures and is for official
   intra-governmental use only.”
   5.3. Release of unlisted numbers is NOT authorized without permission of the individual.
   Rosters must include statement, “Release of phone numbers and other personal data is NOT
   authorized without permission of the individual”.
   5.4. Required Instructions. Provide all necessary recall instructions. As a minimum include
   the following “Instructions for Use”:
       5.4.1. Reporting instructions when required actions and notifications are complete.
       Include who to contact (those at the end of the recall roster), normally the UCC.
       5.4.2. Phone number for the UCC and where to report during a recall to duty.
   5.5. Personnel Listings. Identify IMAs, unit reservists, Key/E-E civilians, and mission
   essential military personnel. List personnel by rank, name, duty phone, and home/cell phone.
   It is recommended that addresses be included to facilitate “communications-out” notification
   procedures. Directors and Key/E-E personnel may be identified by duty title.
   5.6. Standard Format Terminology for Recalls. The formatted terminology will be identified
   on the back of the recall roster (Attachment 4).
   5.7. Recall Roster Methods.
       5.7.1. Line Method. Personnel are listed sequentially in either a vertical or horizontal
       line diagram. This method is used when a small number of personnel must be recalled.
       5.7.2. Pyramid Method. Each person will call multiple individuals who will, in turn, call
       others. This method is used in organizations with large numbers of personnel.
       5.7.3. Combination Method. A technique using both line and pyramid methods is
       appropriate in large organizations with several subordinate groups. Example: An
       organization with several divisions could begin a recall by using the line method to notify
       several key senior individuals who in turn notify subordinates using the pyramid method.
   5.8. Comm-Out Recall Rosters (Attachment 5 and 6). Group rosters logically by
   geographic areas to facilitate quickest possible notifications. When possible, on-base
   personnel will be contacted first, then notifications will expand to the surrounding
   communities. The Comm-Out pyramid roster should be well organized and most likely not
   mirror the main recall roster due to grouping of geographical areas.
6. Recalls. The nature of the situation and higher headquarters’ direction determines the
personnel who will be recalled. It is paramount that individuals respond in an expeditious and
safe manner. If recalled to duty, personnel must report in the appropriate duty uniform.
   6.1. Scope of Recall.
       6.1.1. Complete. Used by the Commander to recall, notify, and/or account for all
       personnel for either exercise or actual situations. It is initiated by the Commander or
       designated representative.
 8                                                           AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


        6.1.2. Selective. Used when a situation requires the recall of certain personnel, such as
        the AFDW Operations Center representatives. The declaring authority responsible for
        handling the crisis initiates this recall.
        6.1.3. Organizational. Used by an organization’s director to recall his/her personnel.
     6.2. Notification/Recall Scripts. To prevent confusion in relaying instructions, this
     procedure dictates use of preformatted scripts to pass notification/recall information.
     Personnel will read the scripted message verbatim to ensure accurate passage of information.
     The preformatted scripts are identified in Attachment 4.
7. Implementation Procedures. Upon direction from the AFDW/CC, delegated authority (i.e.
AFDW/A3/5) or installation CC to conduct a recall, the following procedures will be followed to
contact HQ AFDW personnel:
     7.1. The AFDW Watch or the AFDW Operations Center, when activated, will contact the
     AFDW/CV to execute a HQ AFDW recall.
     7.2. The AFDW/CV will use the HQ AFDW Command Recall Roster to initiate the recall.
     7.3. Upon contact, each A/Special Staff will initiate their recall.
        7.3.1. Each A/Special Staff UCC will activate for personnel to report to and for data
        collection purposes. A/Special Staffs without a UCC will report information directly to
        the GCC. Reporting will begin within 1 hour following IT. UCCs will implement
        strength or accountability reporting IAW para 7.6 – 7.7. Up-channel reporting
        procedures are used to allow the GCC and UCCs to track personnel strengths and ensure
        follow-up notification as required.
        7.3.2. When contacted by a competent authority, all personnel will take appropriate
        action as directed without delay. Do NOT delay for personal grooming, meals, etc.
     7.4. The AFDW/DS will activate the HQ AFDW GCC.
        7.4.1. The GCC will consolidate reports and submit HQ AFDW personnel strength and
        accountability numbers to the HQ AFDW CAT representative and Operations Center
        Director, as required, during all recalls unless otherwise directed.
        7.4.2. The GCC will automatically initiate recall for accountability following any events
        requiring shelter or evacuation of HQ AFDW personnel.
     7.5. HQ AFDW CAT Representative will collect the applicable recall data from the HQ
     AFDW GCC and submit it to the 11th Wing CAT.
     7.6. Unit Requirements. Develop procedures to track progress of the recall and contact
     personnel missed during the recall. Accountable personnel are defined as all active duty,
     reserve, guard, and civilian personnel assigned to a unit. Unit assigned reserve and guard
     personnel must be accounted for during all recalls, whether or not on man days. Units must
     ensure procedures are developed to contact personnel missed during the initial recall and
     continue trying to reach those individuals until contact is made. Reaching an individual's
     answering machine, pager, voice mail or a household/family member is not considered
     notification. Direct contact must be made with the individual member.
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    9


     7.6.1. Strength Reporting Procedures. The UCCs will accomplish strength reporting for
     all recalls unless specifically directed otherwise. Reporting procedures differ for a
     notification tests or recall for notification (personnel are contacted but not required to
     report for duty), recall to duty (personnel are required to report for duty), and recall for
     accountability.
        7.6.1.1. Notification Tests or Recall for Notification (personnel are not required to
        report for duty). A/Special Staffs will use Attachment 7 for hourly status reports to
        the GCC until 100% notification is achieved. UCCs will transfer information from
        the Accountability Report for Pyramid Notifications worksheet to the HQ AFDW
        GCC-UCC Workspace Accountability Reporting SharePoint site. GCCs will
        consolidate UCC reports using Attachment 7 and forward the information to the HQ
        AFDW CAT representative and operations center director, as required.
            7.6.1.1.1. The total numbers assigned, on leave, temporary duty (TDY)/deployed
            and total contacted will include civilians unless otherwise directed by the pyramid
            notification declaring authority.
            7.6.1.1.2. Non-duty hours. During tests of the pyramid notification system or
            informational notifications during non-duty hours, A/Special Staffs may assign an
            individual as the central point of contact (POC) for reporting accountability rather
            than standing up their UCC. Unit POCs are responsible for forwarding hourly
            accountability reports in accordance with (IAW) para 7.6.2.1 to the GCC.
        7.6.1.2. Recall to Duty (personnel report for duty). A/Special Staffs will use
        Attachment 7, using the format as described below, for hourly status reports to the
        GCC until 100% recall is achieved. UCCs will transfer information from the Unit
        Strength Report for Recall to Duty worksheet to the HQ AFDW GCC-UCC
        Workspace Accountability Reporting SharePoint site. The GCC will consolidate
        UCC reports using Attachment 7 and forward that information to the HQ AFDW
        CAT representative and operations director, as required.
            7.6.1.2.1. Column A: Total Military Assigned - Total number of military
            personnel assigned. The unit is required to provide this number.
            7.6.1.2.2. Column B: Total Military NPFD (Not Present For Duty) - Total
            number of military absent on temporary duty, leave, on approved crew rest, shift
            workers, or in the hospital. The unit is required to provide this number.
            7.6.1.2.3. Column C: Total Military Available - Total number of military
            personnel available (Column A minus Column B). This number may be larger
            than the total number assigned due to the availability of reservists or Air National
            Guard members available for duty.
            7.6.1.2.4. Column D: Total Military PFD (Present For Duty) - Total number of
            military personnel physically PFD. The unit is required to provide this number.
            7.6.1.2.5. Column E: Total Military Available for BMP (Base Manpower Pool) -
            Total number of military personnel available for the BMP. The unit will report
            the number of personnel who are not needed to fulfill the unit tasking based on
            the scenario or situation and will make those personnel available to the BMP.
10                                                        AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


             This is extremely important during situations such as natural disasters.
             7.6.1.2.6. Column F. Total Civilian Assigned. Total number of civilians assigned
             to the unit, including non-appropriated funds positions and interns.
             7.6.1.2.7. Column G. Total Civilians Available for Duty. Total number of
             civilians contacted and available for duty if needed (does not include civilians
             who are on any form of leave or TDY).
         7.6.1.3. Recall for Accountability. A/Special Staffs will use Attachment 8, using
         the format as described below, for hourly status reports to the GCC until 100%
         accountability is achieved. UCCs will transfer information from the Accountability
         Report for Pyramid Notifications worksheet to the HQ AFDW GCC-UCC Workspace
         Accountability Reporting SharePoint site. The GCC will consolidate UCC reports
         using Attachment 8 and forward the information to HQ AFDW CAT representative
         and operations director, as required.
             7.6.1.3.1. Column A: Total Assigned - Total number of military and civilian
             personnel assigned to the A/Special Staff. The unit is required to provide this
             number.
             7.6.1.3.2. Column B: Total on Leave/TDY - Total number of military and
             civilians absent on temporary duty or leave. The unit is required to provide this
             number.
             7.6.1.3.3. Column C: Total Contacted - Total number of military and civilian
             personnel contacted and accounted for.
             7.6.1.3.4. Column D: % Contacted – Total contacted divided by total assigned.
             7.6.1.3.5. The total numbers assigned, on leave, temporary duty (TDY)/deployed
             and total contacted will include civilians unless otherwise directed by the pyramid
             notification declaring authority.
             7.6.1.3.6. Non-duty hours. During tests of the pyramid accountability system
             during non-duty hours, A/Special Staffs may assign an individual as the central
             POC for reporting accountability rather than standing up their UCC. Unit POCs
             are responsible for forwarding hourly accountability reports In Accordance With
             (IAW) para 7.6.2.3 to the GCC.
  7.7. Strength and accountability reports will reflect figures “as of IT + 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 hours,
  etc. (attachment 7 and 8)”. UCCs will update the HQ AFDW GCC-UCC Workspace
  Accountability SharePoint site NLT 15 minutes after the "as of" times. Late reports will be
  reported by the GCC to the HQ AFDW CAT representative as "No Report". Continue
  strength reporting until directed to terminate or the unit reaches 100% accountability.
  7.8. Actual recall for notification or recall to duty of personnel on leave, pass or TDY within
  or outside the local area will be at the discretion of the A/Special Staff Director, if not
  previously determined by the AFDW Commander or designated representative.
     7.8.1. Personnel on a contingency TDY will not normally be recalled.
     7.8.2. If contact is authorized, individuals who are on leave or pass should be contacted
     by any available means (i.e. cell phone, social media, etc.).
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   11


     7.8.3. If an emergency could have affected or may affect personnel who are on leave,
     pass, or TDY, personnel should be contacted to ensure receipt of emergency information
     and status of their safety during post-event accountability.
  7.9. Release from Recall.
     7.9.1. Release from recalls is directed by the AFDW Commander or designated
     representative.
     7.9.2. Release announcement will normally be sent out by the ARCP when the AFDW
     Operations Center is not activated, or pyramid recall stating, “Recall is terminated” (or
     similar wording). Personnel are released to their normal duties.
  7.10. Comm-Out Recall. Recall notification procedures for situations when normal
  communications are not available or degraded. Upon the AFDW/CC or installation CC
  direction to conduct a comm-out recall, the following procedures will be followed to contact
  HQ AFDW personnel:
     7.10.1. The AFDW/A3 will attempt contact with the AFDW/CV or DS by any means
     available (i.e. social media, text messaging, e-mail, etc.) and request assistance in
     implementing the pyramid recall and alert notification.
     7.10.2. A/Special Staff Directors will implement their respective comm-out recall plans
     IAW para 4.6.4. Directors should consider using any available means to contact
     personnel (i.e. social media, text messaging, e-mail, etc.) prior to driving to individual’s
     residence during adverse weather or hazardous situations
     7.10.3. Strength and accountability reporting will be conducted IAW para 7.6 – 7.7 via
     any means available (i.e. social media, text messaging, e-mail, etc.).




                                           RONALD B. BALDINGER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director, Operations, Plans, & Readiness
 12                                                     AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012
AFI 10-2501 Change 3, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations,
29 April 2013
AFI33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National
Emergencies, 21 Dec 2010
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, 21 Jul 1994
JBAI 10-218, Pyramid Notification/Recall Procedures, 5 April 2012

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFPAAS—Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System
AFRIMS—Air Force Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ARCP—Andrews Regional Command Post
BMP—Base Manpower Pool
CAT—Crisis Action Team
DS—Director of Staff
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GCC—Group Control Center
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
NPFD—Not Present For Duty
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PFD—Present For Duty
POC—Point of Contact
PRC—Personnel Readiness Center
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    13


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCC—Unit Control Center

Terms
Civilian Emergency Essential (E-E) Personnel (Per AFDW/A1)—A federal civilian position
that must be filled in the event of a crisis, and which, if vacant, would seriously impair the
functioning of a federal agency or office. In the event of a crisis, the incumbent, or designated
alternate, must continue to perform the E-E duties until relieved by proper authority. The
incumbent, or the designated alternate, may be required to take part in readiness exercises.
Employees cannot vacate these positions during national emergency or mobilization without
seriously impairing the capability of the organization to function effectively. The employees
should be notified of their E-E position and annotated on the employee’s PD or Memo for
Record in the employee’s personnel file.
Command Post (CP)—A unit or sub-unit’s headquarters where the commander and the staff
perform their activities. In combat, a unit or sub—unit’s headquarters is often divided into
echelons.
Crisis Action Team (CAT)—A staff formed by the commander to plan, direct, and coordinate
forces in response to contingencies, crises, natural/manmade disasters, or wartime situations. The
CAT develops courses of action and executes the commander's and HHQ’s directives. The
composition and function of the CAT is largely mission driven and therefore a MAJCOM or unit
commander prerogative. However, membership for the CAT is most frequently a combination of
the commander’s senior staff and special staff which includes a CP representative. The
composition of a CAT varies according to the situation.
Group Control Center (GCC)—The group control center is an entity within each group level
organization activated during crisis. The control center acts as the liaison between the group and
the group commander responsible to relay, pertinent information, collect and report their
respective unit data.
Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)—A member of the ready reserves who is
designated to relieve an active duty member, for deployment or when the seriousness of the
contingency warrants their use in place of an active duty member. IMAs are subject to recall
according to their current duty status and will be recalled by their “report to” unit (per their
orders), which may not necessarily be their unit of assignment.
Initiation Time (IT)—The time the recall or strength reporting was initiated.
Key Position Civilian (AFI 36—507) - A federal civilian position in the United States or US
territories that must be filled during a national emergency or mobilization, and which, if vacant,
would seriously impair the functioning of a federal agency or office. Employees cannot vacate
these positions during war or national emergencies without seriously impairing the mission.
Employees occupying these positions must have unique or scarce managerial or technical skills
required by the wartime mission. The position would be very hard to fill after mobilization and
no alternative arrangement is available that will fulfill these functions during a mobilization.
 14                                                       AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


The employees should be notified of their Key position and annotated on the employee’s
Personnel Description (PD) or Memo for Record in the employee’s personnel file.
Recall Procedures—Recall procedures are the requirements implemented to either notify or
recall base personnel during crisis. The procedures are used to disseminate timely notification,
recall personnel to duty, or recall personnel for accountability.
Shift Work—Generally applies to duty performed outside of normal duty hours on a
regular basis. Usually organizations that run 24—hour operations including weekends.
Unit Control Center (UCC)—The unit control center is an entity within each squadron level
organization activated during crisis. The control center acts as the liaison between the squadron
and the squadron commander responsible to relay, pertinent information, collect and report their
respective unit data.
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                            15


                                   Attachment 2
                 HQ AFDW PYRAMID NOTIFICATION/RECALL

Figure A2.1. HQ AFDW Pyramid Notification/Recall.
 16                                                 AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                     Attachment 3
                             SAMPLE RECALL ROSTER

Figure A3.1. Sample Recall Roster.
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                           17


                                     Attachment 4
                       SAMPLE BACK OF RECALL ROSTER

Figure A4.1. Sample Back of Recall Roster.
18   AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                          19


                                   Attachment 5
                     SAMPLE COMM-OUT RECALL ROSTER

Figure A5.1. Sample Comm-Out Recall Roster.
 20                                              AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                  Attachment 6
                      SAMPLE COMM-OUT RECALL MAP

Figure A6.1. Sample Comm-Out Recall Map.
AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013                             21


                                      Attachment 7
                                 STRENGTH REPORT

Figure A7.1. Unit Strength Report for Recall to Duty.
 22                                                  AFDWI10-101 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                     Attachment 8
                            ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT

Figure A8.1. Accountability Report for Pyramid Notifications.
