BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF                                                             INSTRUCTION 34-101
WASHINGTON
                                                                                                              14 MARCH 2012

                                                                                                      Specialty Management

                                                                          CEREMONIAL RESOURCE SUPPORT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.E-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFDW/CCP                                                                                Certified by: AFDW/CC
                                                                                   (Major General Darren W. McDew)
Supersedes:   AFDWI 34-1, 10 Dec 2009                                                                       Pages: 32


This instruction establishes policies and procedures for Ceremonial Resource Support in
accordance with (IAW) AFI 34-1201, Protocol. This instruction standardizes Air Force District
of Washington (AFDW) precedence, guidance and resource utilization within the National
Capital Region (NCR). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG), Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and/or their units. This instruction is applicable to assigned and attached
units who require ceremonial resource support from AFDW. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement has been revised and must be completely reviewed.

       1.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................   2
       2.     Resource Management ...........................................................................................    7
 2                                                                                         AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


        3.      Military Funerals ....................................................................................................      9
        4.      Individual and AFDW Bi-Monthly Retirements ...................................................                             14
        5.      Changes of Command ............................................................................................            15
        6.      Arrivals and Wreath Layings .................................................................................              17
        7.      Promotions .............................................................................................................   19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             20

Attachment 2—MILITARY HONORS FUNERAL AUTHORIZED RESOURCE
             SUPPORT (ANC)                                                                                                                 23

Attachment 3—INDIVIDUAL AND AFDW MONTHLY RETIREMENT AUTHORIZED
             RESOURCE SUPPORT                                                                                                              25

Attachment 4—CHANGE OF COMMAND AUTHORIZED RESOURCE SUPPORT                                                                                 27

Attachment 5—ARRIVAL AND WREATH LAYING AUTHORIZED RESOURCE
             SUPPORT                                                                                                                       29

Attachment 6—PROMOTIONS AUTHORIZED RESOURCE SUPPORT                                                                                        31

Attachment 7—HANGAR 3 EVENTS AUTHORIZED RESOURCE SUPPORT                                                                                   32


1. Roles and Responsibilities.
     1.1. Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (OASD(PA)). Maintains
     approval authority and responsibility for all appearances by Armed Forces musical and
     ceremonial units during national and overseas tours (particularly those likely to attract
     national media attention).
     1.2. Joint Force Headquarters National Capital Region (JFHQ-NCR). United States
     Northern Command (USNORTHCOM) headquarters for land-based homeland defense,
     defense support to civil authorities and incident management in the NCR to include
     identifying capabilities the military can provide in case of a National Special Security Event
     (NSSE) such as a presidential inauguration or state funeral.
     1.3. United States Army Military District of Washington (MDW). The OASD(PA) has
     delegated to the Director, Ceremonial and Special Events, MDW, the approval authority for
     routine requests for Armed Forces (joint-level affairs) musical and ceremonial support in the
     NCR. This assures consistent interpretation of policy among the military services. MDW
     personnel forward requests for musical or ceremonial support from members of Congress, as
     well as requests for exception to policy, to OASD(PA).
     1.4. Office of the Secretary of the Air Force for Public Affairs (SAF/PA). Functional
     manager of the band career field; establishes overall management policy for community
     relations support, affecting both band and honor guard operations.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                      3


  1.5. Air Force District of Washington (AFDW). AFDW is a direct reporting unit (DRU) to
  the Chief of Staff, USAF, and serves as the Air Force service component to JFHQ-NCR.
  Serves as the single designated Air Force voice for planning and implementing ceremonial
  missions and homeland operations in the NCR.
     1.5.1. AFDW/CCP (Ceremonies and Protocol) is the OPR for Air Force ceremonial and
     protocol support within the NCR. Directly supports SecAF, CSAF, USECAF, VCSAF,
     CVA, CMSAF, AFDW/CC, and Air Force general officers in the NCR by coordinating
     ceremonial support requirements between customers and AFDW units and personnel.
         1.5.1.1. AFDW/CCP is the designated representative of AFDW/CC to plan, commit
         and coordinate AFDW resources to meet customer ceremonial and protocol needs in
         the best interests of the USAF.
         1.5.1.2. Establishes policy, standards, processes and procedures for AFDW to
         accomplish its ceremonial mission through close coordination with participating
         units. These areas include, but are not limited to: notification, planning, coordinating
         and committing AFDW assets; scripting, practicing, briefing; and setting-up/breaking
         down ceremonial areas as applicable.
         1.5.1.3. Acts as approval and scheduling authority for the Air Force ceremonial lawn,
         located on Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling (JBAB).
  1.6. AFDW Manpower Personnel and Services (AFDW/A1). Provides AFDW/CCP, on
  request, a list of all employees in AFDW with hearing impairment. AFDW/Contracting
  (AFDW/PK) contracts interpreters for the hearing impaired as requested.
     1.6.1. AFDW Manpower and Services (AFDW/A1). Processes Special Morale and
     Welfare (SM&W) fund requests for refreshments and floral tributes for spouses of
     military members participating in AFDW’s bi-monthly retirement ceremony.
  1.7. 11th Wing Public Affairs and Joint Base Anacostia-BollingPublic Affairs (11 WG/PA
  and JBAB/PA) act as media liaisons for ceremonies and events sponsored by AFDW and will
  provide an on-site media escort when requested.
     1.7.1. Ensure ceremony messages are posted on appropriate installation marquees if
     requested.
     1.7.2. Provide up-to-date media interest information to appropriate agencies.
     1.7.3. Publicize ceremonies and events if requested.
     1.7.4. Provide photography support for historical purposes and participants. Honorees
     will receive one disc of photographs; hosts will receive sets upon request not later than
     (NLT) 1 week after the ceremony. Photographers will arrive at ceremony site 45 minutes
     prior to start of ceremony.
     1.7.5. Provide graphics support, as requested.
     1.7.6. 11 WG/PA and JBAB/PA manage community partner attendance at events by
     sending invitations, taking responses, greeting/seating community partners if requested
     by AFDW/CCP.
4                                                             AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


    1.8. JBAB maintains an Air Force Element (AFELM) and is the host installation for the Air
    Force’s Ceremonial Lawn and the Bolling Club. It provides logistical and infrastructure
    support for ceremonial activities as specificed in the JBAB MOA.
       1.8.1. The Facilities and Environment Directorate (J4) will:
           1.8.1.1. Clean distinguished visitor routes leading to and from ceremony sites.
           1.8.1.2. Ensure the ceremonial site is watered, mowed, edged, weeded and swept as
           appropriate NLT 1 workday prior to ceremonies held on the lawn. Spot cleaning will
           be accomplished as needed NLT 1 hour prior to a ceremony. Maintain the
           ceremonial lawn. Includes: Area sprayed for insects, bushes and trees groomed,
           landscaping walkways, and walls and bleachers clean and in good repair. During the
           period of April through September, uses the AFDW/CCP tracker for monthly
           maintenance, watering and mowing schedule.
           1.8.1.3. Coordinate quiet hours 30 minutes prior to and 1 hour after all outdoor
           ceremonial events with contractors (construction, recycling and refuse removal, etc.).
       1.8.2. The Operations Directorate (J3) will:
           1.8.2.1. Provide on-site representative(s) for overall traffic control and parking area
           security before, during and/or after ceremonies. Representative will coordinate NLT
           1 hour prior to event with the AFDW/CCP project officer.
           1.8.2.2. Close and control parking areas NLT 0600 the day of ceremonies at the
           ceremonial lawn.
           1.8.2.3. Close down vehicle traffic in front of the Mitchell Center (Bldg P-20) NLT
           30 minutes prior to the start of a ceremonial lawn ceremony. Allow traffic flow in
           front of Mitchell Center to resume NLT 30 minutes after ceremony completion.
           1.8.2.4. Provide vehicle escort and intersection control for CSAF International Full
           Honors Counterpart Arrival ceremonies as needed.
           1.8.2.5. Perform a security check as needed of ceremonial areas 1 hour prior to
           events.
       1.8.3. The Warfighter and Family Readiness Directorate (J9) will:
           1.8.3.1. Coordinate with appropriate agencies for cleaning outdoors within 50 feet of
           J9 facilities where indoor ceremonies may take place, to include area litter patrol and
           landscaping.
           1.8.3.2. Provide support for primary and inclement weather ceremony sites at J9
           facilities. Funding requirements will come from sponsoring organizations.
           1.8.3.3. When requested, ensure tent from outdoor recreation is in place 30 minutes
           before outdoor bi-monthly retirement ceremonies on the ceremonial lawn .
           1.8.3.4. The Supply Directorate (J4S) will ensure contracts for construction or
           maintenance on JBAB include language, as appropriate, providing for quiet hours as
           specified in paragraph 1.8.1.3 of this instruction.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                     5


  1.9. 11th Wing (11 WG). Ensure the support of assigned organizations to the AFDW
  ceremonial mission.
     1.9.1. 11th Mission Support Group (11 MSG)
        1.9.1.1. The 11th Civil Engineer Squadron (11 CES) will:
            1.9.1.1.1. Clean DV routes leading to and from ceremony/event sites.
            1.9.1.1.2. Ensure the ceremonial/event location (as appropriate) is painted, walls
            patched, light bulbs replaced, carpet cleaned, and swept NLT 1 workday prior to
            events held at the location. Spot cleaning will be accomplished as needed NLT 1
            hour prior to a ceremony/event. Maintain the event location. Includes: area
            sprayed for insects, ceiling tiles replaced, entryways, sidewalks, and seating clean
            and in good repair.
        1.9.1.2. The 11th Force Support Squadron (11 FSS) will:
            1.9.1.2.1. Coordinate with appropriate agencies for cleaning outdoors within 50
            feet of facilities where indoor ceremonies may take place, to include area litter
            patrol and landscaping.
            1.9.1.2.2. Provide primary and inclement weather event sites. Funding
            requirements will come from sponsoring organizations.
        1.9.1.3. The 11th Logistics Readiness Squadron (11 LRS) will:
            1.9.1.3.1. Provide DV transportation as requested in accordance with AFDW
            Supplement to AFI 24-301.
     1.9.2. The 11th Contracting Squadron (11 CONS) will ensure contracts for construction
     or maintenance on Joint Base Andrews-NAFW to include language, as appropriate,
     providing for quiet hours as specified in paragraph 1.9.1.1.3 of this instruction.
     1.9.3. The 11th Security Forces Group (11 SFG) will:
        1.9.3.1. Provide on-site representative(s) for overall traffic and parking control
        before, during and after ceremonies/events when required for mass attendess.
        Representative will report 1 hour prior to event to the AFDW/CCP project officer.
        1.9.3.2. Close and control parking areas NLT 0600 the day of event.
        1.9.3.3. Close down vehicle traffic at event location as appropriate NLT 30 minutes
        prior to the event start time. Allow traffic flow to resume NLT 30 minutes after event
        completion as needed.
        1.9.3.4. Provide vehicle escort and intersection control as needed.
        1.9.3.5. Perform a security check as needed of event areas 1 hour prior to event.
     1.9.4. 11th Operations Group (11 OG). Train, organize, equip the USAF Band (BA),
     the USAF Honor Guard (HG) and Arlington National Cemetery Chaplain Corps (HC-A)
     to perform ceremonial mission. Ensure the support of all assigned organizations to the
     ceremonial mission.
        1.9.4.1. Will ensure Mitchell Center is available for all events scheduled for the Air
        Force Ceremonial Lawn.
6                                                           AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


          1.9.4.2. Reference 11 WG events calendar and assist organizations in scheduling
          events to keep schedule conflicts to a minimum.
          1.9.4.3. HG. Establish standards for honors; maintain and employ a ceremonial
          capability to represent the USAF at public and official ceremonies.
          1.9.4.4. Provide appropriate elements for AFDW and Air Staff-sponsored events.
          1.9.4.5. Bear official awards, decorations and/or presentations made on behalf of the
          USAF. Will not be used as personal gift bearers at events.
          1.9.4.6. Display US, USAF, and State and Territorial flags 2 hours prior to the start
          of Ceremonial Lawn ceremonies and ceremonies in Hangar 3 at Joint Base Andrews-
          NAFW.
          1.9.4.7. Provide appropriate visual aids for pre-ceremony briefing, when requested.
          1.9.4.8. Conduct a ―talk-through‖ 1 hour before ceremonies, or when dictated by
          script, with AFDW/CCP to verify sequencing, peculiarities and/or last-minute
          changes to scripts.
          1.9.4.9. BA. Will coordinate and provide musical products and services worldwide
          in support of DoD and USAF community relations programs, Air Force recruiting,
          troop morale, and preservation of our military and national heritage; provide
          appropriate elements for Joint, Air Staff-sponsored and AFDW events.
          1.9.4.10. Conduct a ―talk-through‖ 1 hour before ceremonies, or when dictated by
          script, with AFDW/CCP to verify sequencing, peculiarities and/or last-minute
          changes to scripts when requested.
          1.9.4.11. Arlington National Cemetery (ANC) Air Force Chaplaincy (11 OG/HC-A).
          Lead for religious services for Air Force committals, memorials, or rites at ANC.
          HC-A plans and executes religious committals, memorials, or rites within ANC for
          USAF active duty, veterans, and their dependants. Chaplains may provide other
          services (invocations, benedictions, etc) for AFDW ceremonies as resources permit.
          1.9.4.12. Ensures religious committals, memorials, or rites are conducted in
          accordance with the requested faith denomination, within the guidelines set forth by
          ANC.
          1.9.4.13. May escort visiting chaplains or civilian clergy conducting religious
          committals, memorials, or rites at ANC. When not available, the Arlington National
          Cemetery Representative escorts the civilian clergy.
          1.9.4.14. May present the US flag(s) to NOK, unless the NOK or higher headquarters
          has requested otherwise. In the absence of a military chaplain, a HG member will
          present the flag.
    1.10. 79th Medical Wing (79 MDW). Will provide medical support for ceremonies (wing-
    level and above) that may require on-scene medical support on a-case-by-case basis. The
    MDG/CC or designee will evaluate and approve requests for medical support for on base
    ceremonies. Requests for off base medical support must be submitted to 79 MDW/SGAX.
    The 79 MDG will not routinely provide an ambulance for ceremonies given proximity of
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                      7


   medical facilities and timely emergency response. When an ambulance is in place, it may be
   diverted for an emergency call to provide emergency response.
   1.11. 844th Communications Group (844 CG). Will provide set-up and technical support for
   public address systems NLT 1 hour prior through ceremony conclusion as required in
   attached annexes. Set-up includes two podiums, appropriate speakers for expected audience,
   and operational testing of equipment. May also include wireless microphone use.
2. Resource Management
   2.1. General. Resources will be used to provide ―world-class‖ support to honorees and hosts
   while ensuring the safety and health of Air Force personnel. All AFDW units and personnel
   must set and maintain reasonable and consistent levels of support regarding ceremonies and
   protocol. Ceremonial resource support levels, as defined by this AFDWI, are based upon the
   rank, position, or level of the honoree, as well as resource availability. Protocol assistance
   will be provided when the event is hosted by theSecAF, CSAF, USECAF, VCSAF,
   AF/CVA, also known as ―the top five,‖ the CMSAF, or the AFDW/CC, when tasked by
   Headquarters Air Force Protocol (AF/CVAP) or directed by the AFDW/CC.
   2.2. Prioritization of Honorees. The following listing is used to help determine the priority
   in which AFDW employs ceremonial resources. It does not reflect either the State or
   Defense Department’s official order of precedence listings and must not be used in lieu of the
   official listings when determining DV protocol precedence.

         Tasked to AFDW by MDW                       Tasked to AFDW by Honoree’s Office
President                                        Secretary of the Air Force
Vice President                                   Chief of Staff, USAF
Secretary of State                               Under Secretary of the Air Force
Secretary of Defense                             Vice Chief of Staff, USAF
US Senators                                      USAF General Officers (four-star)
US Representatives                               Deputy and Assistant Secretaries, USAF
Deputy Secretary of Defense                      Assistant Vice Chief of Staff, USAF
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff            Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
Vice Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff             USAF Lieutenant Generals
Combatant Commanders                             AFDW Commander
Assistant Secretaries of Defense                 Other USAF General Officers

   2.3. Scheduling Resources. Due to limited resources, events should be scheduled as far in
   advance as possible. Workload of participating units and personnel must be considered when
   planning events. In some cases, it may be necessary to change unit schedules or
   modify/downgrade ceremonies to meet mission requirements.
       2.3.1. AFDW/CCP functions as the central office for planning, coordinating, and
       requesting resources in concert with project officers.
           2.3.1.1. AFDW/CCP acts as event OPR for the following AFDW events:
              2.3.1.1.1. AFDW/CC-hosted official events.
              2.3.1.1.2. 11 WG, 79 MDW, AFELM and 844 CG changes of command.
8                                                           AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


              2.3.1.1.3. AFDW bi-monthly retirements.
              2.3.1.1.4. Military Funeral Honors at ANC for general officers, airmen who die
              as a result of wounds received in action, and repatriations.
           2.3.1.2. AFDW/CCP will act as office of collateral responsibility (OCR) for the
           following events:
              2.3.1.2.1. General officer promotions, retirements and changes of command
              (agency or general’s office is OPR for event).
              2.3.1.2.2. Air Chief Arrivals and Wreath Laying (OPR is Headquarters Air Force
              International Affairs (AF/CVAI)).
              2.3.1.2.3. Any ceremony in which the AFDW/CC is a member of the official
              party (i.e. providing remarks, but not hosting ceremony)
       2.3.2. Appointed project officers will meet with AFDW/CCP to obtain ceremony
       briefing/checklist for events. When organizations are managing events and DVs are in
       attendance or participating, coordinate unit efforts with AFDW/CCP to ensure proper
       etiquette, protocol and ceremonial standards.
       2.3.3. Non-MDW/JFHQ-NCR requests for BA and HG support must be in writing to the
       11 OG scheduling office.
           2.3.3.1. Non-MDW/JFHQ-NCR requests for more than HG and/or BA support for
           ceremonies or events must be coordinated with AFDW/CCP.
    2.4. Cancellations/Modifications/Downgrades. May occur when a Presidential, Joint, or
    higher precedence request requires support, when resources are not available, or in case of
    inclement weather. For AFDW sponsored events, AFDW/CCP will coordinate with all
    affected units and personnel.
       2.4.1. Environmental Factors and Hazardous Conditions. For outdoor scheduled events
       with BA and/or HG participation, inclement weather changes will be made NLT 2 hours
       prior by the OPR. The OPR will inform AFDW/CCP who will notify the host and
       honoree of the event that the inclement weather plan has been implemented. Prior to an
       event when hazardous conditions are anticipated, consideration may be given to reducing
       the number of airmen exposed to the elements or modifying the ceremony to shorten or
       delete certain aspects. The OPR will consider cancelling any event when the wind-chill
       or heat index factors exceed medical guidelines or when atmospheric conditions threaten
       the safety and health of personnel. For outdoor scheduled events with no BA or HG
       participation, weather decision calls will be made by the host.
    2.5. Event Location. There are various ceremonial locations within AFDW. The sponsor is
    responsible for acquiring and paying any fees associated with the ceremony location. When
    AFDW/CCP is the OPR, they will reserve facilities. Any fees for use will be paid for by the
    sponsoring unit IAW AFI 65-601.
       2.5.1. The following are approved ceremonial locations for AFDW supported events:
           2.5.1.1. Air Force Ceremonial Lawn, JBAB.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                         9


          2.5.1.2. JBAB and Joint Base Andrews-NAFW Clubs, Community Centers,
          Theaters.
          2.5.1.3. Pentagon.
          2.5.1.4. Air Force Memorial, Arlington, VA.
          2.5.1.5. Arlington National Cemetery (ANC).
          2.5.1.6. Tomb of the Unknowns, ANC.
          2.5.1.7. Women in Military Service for America Memorial, ANC.
      2.5.2. The outdoor season runs from the beginning of April through the end of
      September. AFDW/CCP is the OPR for scheduling the ceremonial lawn. From October
      to March, requests must also be approved by JBAB/J4 to confirm the lawn care and
      fertilizing will not conflict with a requested ―out-of-season‖ date.
      2.5.3. Quiet Hours. To ensure the highest quality environment for events, project
      officers must coordinate quiet hours for their events with all affected activities. As a
      guideline, quiet hours should be in effect 30 minutes prior to, and 1 hour after the planned
      start of an outdoor event. At a minimum, project officers will coordinate quiet hours with
      the appropriate command post and civil engineer squadron.
      2.5.4. The ceremonial lawn is used for Air Force unit events and for individual
      ceremonies for which the honoree is in the rank of O-7 and above. The AFDW/CC is the
      approval authority for exceptions.
      2.5.5. Maintenance Hangar 3 may be used for Air Force organizational ceremonies and
      events. It is used for individual ceremonies in honor of SECAF and CSAF only.
      Requests for use of the hangar may be made through the 89 MXG/CC, and users will
      comply with 89th Airlift Wing Instruction 21-125. AFDW support is provided to
      ceremonies/events in Hangar 3 as specified in Attachment 7.
   2.6. Transportation. As needed and prescribed in the attached annexes and appropriate
   transportation directives, the OPR will arrange transportation for hosts, honorees and
   ceremony participants.
   2.7. Event Briefs. When requested by AFDW/CC, AFDW/CCP will prepare an event brief
   for ceremonies using AFDW resources which involve the top five, CMSAF, or AFDW/CC.
   The event brief will include major responsibilities of tasked units, participants, timelines, and
   event sequences. The brief will be scheduled NLT 2 business days before the scheduled
   event.
3. Military Funerals
   3.1. General. This chapter applies only to funerals supported at ANC. Eligibility for burial
   in ANC is covered by 32 CFR 553 and Army Regulation 290-5. Resource support for
   funerals outside ANC is defined in DoDD 1300.15. Funerals have varying levels of support
   IAW DoD, Joint Service and USAF directives.
      3.1.1. The Superintendent, ANC, is responsible for coordinating military funerals
      conducted within ANC.
10                                                         AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


         3.1.1.1. The overall responsibility for the set-up of a funeral in ANC rests with the
         ANC funeral director/representative. Content of the funeral can be influenced by
         weather, grave location, family desires, and air traffic.
         3.1.1.2. In accordance with 11 OG weather contingency plans, the HG OIC/NCOIC,
         as the 11 OG/CC representatives, has the authority to modify/downgrade ceremonial
         support based on safety considerations.
         3.1.1.3. Funeral services within ANC will proceed promptly at the scheduled time.
  3.2. State Funeral. In honor of the President of the United States, former Presidents,
  President-elects, or individuals specifically designated by the President. Per SecAF
  guidance, AFDW/CC is appointed the Air Force Executive Agent for Presidential State
  Funerals. In this regard,HQ AFDW is authorized direct coordination with appropriate Air
  Force units, installations and agencies. The AFDW/CC has designated AFDW/A3/5
  (Operations and Plans) as the principal Air Force planner and liaison to JFHQ-NCR and
  MDW. This ceremony is highly intensive, consisting of large taskings for AFDW operations
  and logistical support (see USAF State Funeral Support Plan). AFDW/CCP is the lead agent
  for the Joint Protocol Cell as designated by MDW.
  3.3. Official Funeral. In honor of the Vice President of the United States, Chief Justice of
  US Supreme Court, Cabinet members, other government officials or foreign civil dignitaries
  when specifically designated by the President. Per SecAF guidance, AFDW/CC is appointed
  the Air Force Executive Agent for Official Funerals. In this regard, HQ AFDW is authorized
  direct coordination with appropriate Air Force units, installations and agencies. The
  AFDW/CC has designated AFDW/A3/5 as the principal Air Force planner and liaison to
  JFHQ-NCR (see USAF State Funeral Support Plan). If designated by MDW, AFDW/CCP is
  the lead for the Joint Protocol Cell.
  3.4. Special Military Funeral. In honor of the Deputy Secretary of Defense, former
  Secretary of Defense; Secretaries of the Army, Navy, and Air Force; Chairman, Joint Chiefs
  of Staff; five-star generals and fleet admirals; Joint Chiefs of Staff; Commandant, US Coast
  Guard, other persons specifically designated by the Secretary of Defense, foreign military
  personnel when designated by the President. Per SecAF guidance, AFDW/CC is appointed
  the Air Force Executive Agent for Special Military Funerals. In this regard, HQ AFDW is
  authorized direct coordination with appropriate Air Force units, installations and agencies.
  The AFDW/CC has designated AFDW/A3/5 as the principal Air Force planner and liaison
  to JFHQ-NCR. If designated by MDW, AFDW/CCP is the lead for the Joint Protocol Cell.
  3.5. Military Honors. The HG and the BA provide proper military honors for funeral
  services in ANC. The conduct of the ceremony is the responsibility of AFDW/CCP,
  Arlington National Cemetery Chaplain Corps, BA and HG (see Figure A2.1).
  3.6. Sequences of Events. With the exclusion of remarks, deviations to traditional and
  protocol sequences are discouraged. Situations that impact the authorized sequence of events
  must be coordinated by the event OPR with affected organizations. Flyovers are strictly
  regulated. Bolded items are general officer specific. Note: Proper protocol mandates
  military personnel to present arms when remains are in motion and during honors. Civilians
  should place their right hand over their heart.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                         11


                STANDARD HONORS FUNERAL (CHAPEL)
                               Arrival of Remains
                         Remains Transfer into Chapel
                                 Chapel Service
                          Remains Transfer to Hearse
                        Funeral Procession to Gravesite
                    Remains Transfer from Hearse to Grave
                           Flyover (when authorized)
                          Religious/Interment Service
                   Military Honors (3 volleys of seven, Taps)
                      Personal Flag Furling and Casing
                         US Flag Folding/Presentation
                 Additional Flag Presentation (when authorized)
                    Air Force Arlington Lady Presentation
                           Departure of Honor Guard
                     Medal Presentation (when authorized)
                                  Condolences
               STANDARD HONORS FUNERAL (GRAVESITE)
                               Arrival of Remains
                           Remains Transfer to Grave
                           Flyover (when authorized)
                          Religious/Interment Service
                   Military Honors (3 volleys of seven, Taps)
                      Personal Flag Furling and Casing
                           Flag Folding/Presentation
                 Additional Flag Presentation (when authorized)
                    Air Force Arlington Lady Presentation
                           Departure of Honor Guard
                     Medal Presentation (when authorized)
                                  Condolences

                STANDARD HONORS FUNERAL (MODIFIED)
                              Arrival of Remains
                           Remains Transfer to Grave
                          Religious/Interment Service
                   Military Honors (3 volleys of seven, Taps)
                      Personal Flag Furling and Casing
                                 Flag Folding

                               Flag Presentation
                 Additional Flag Presentation (when authorized)
                           Departure of Honor Guard
                     Medal Presentation (when authorized)
                                  Condolences
12                                                           AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


                         FULL HONORS FUNERAL (CHAPEL)
                                     Arrival of Remains
                                      Musical Honors
                               Remains Transfer into Chapel
                                       Chapel Service
                              Remains Transfer onto Caisson
                              Funeral Procession to Gravesite
                                      Musical Honors
                         Remains Transfer from Caisson to Grave
                                 Flyover (when authorized)
                                Religious/Interment Service
                             Military Honors (3 volleys, Taps)
                            Personal Flag Furling and Casing
                                 Flag Folding/Presentation
                       Additional Flag Presentation (when authorized)
                          Air Force Arlington Lady Presentation
                              Departure of Honor Guard/Band
                           Medal Presentation (when authorized)
                                        Condolences

                        FULL HONORS FUNERAL (TRANSFER)
                                     Arrival of Remains
                                      Musical Honors
                               Remains Transfer to Caisson
                                 Flyover (when authorized)
                              Funeral Procession to Gravesite
                                      Musical Honors
                         Remains transfer from Caisson to Grave
                                Religious/Interment Service
                             Military Honors (3 volleys, Taps)
                            Personal Flag Furling and Casing
                                 Flag Folding/Presentation
                       Additional Flag Presentation (when authorized)
                          Air Force Arlington Lady Presentation
                              Departure of Honor Guard/Band
                           Medal Presentation (when authorized)
                                        Condolences
  3.7. Support. Figure A2.1 identifies AFDW resource support for military funerals. Support
  is based upon the rank, position or status of the deceased (active duty, retired or veteran from
  USAF, Reserve and Guard). Increased levels of support are discouraged to avoid the
  appearance of favoritism to any individual or organization or creating precedence. In
  instances of special consideration and higher headquarters involvement, close coordination
  with Air Staff and ANC is required.
     3.7.1. Retirees and Veterans. Retirees and veterans (with an honorable discharge) are
     authorized support at their retirement or discharge rank. See Figure A2.1.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                      13


     3.7.2. Dependents. Pallbearers are provided (when resources are available) for
     dependents only within ANC. Military honors are not authorized for dependents.
     3.7.3. Double Interments. Double interment services are authorized an extra set of
     pallbearers to carry the additional casket. If both deceased are cremated, extra
     pallbearers are not authorized.
     3.7.4. Flyovers. Flyovers are authorized for all military personnel with aeronautical
     ratings (or in training for a rating); active or retired 3- and 4-star generals regardless of
     aeronautical rating; non-rated career aviators (13BX officers, 1AXXX enlisted
     crewmembers, i.e., flight engineers, loadmasters, boom operators); non-career aviators
     (nurses, medical technicians, intelligence, etc.) when they die in the line of duty while
     performing aviation duties; active or retired Air Force military personnel awarded the
     Medal of Honor or Air Force Cross; active or retired Air Force aviators who achieved
     five or more officially recognized aerial victories; and dignitaries of the Armed Forces
     and Federal government. Waiver must be approved by USAF/VCSAF. Flyovers are
     coordinated between AF/A3O-AOBA, ANC and AFDW/A1S Ground control personnel
     are normally provided by ACC/A3, Langley AFB VA.
     3.7.5. DV Transportation. As indicated in Attachments 2-4, DV transportation is
     authorized in certain circumstances. Transportation may include sedans, vans and buses.
     Family transportation for repatriations and funerals for Airmen who die as a result of
     wounds received in action are authorized to and from the NOK’s hotel. Sedans normally
     are used for the general officer host. (Reference AFDW Supplement 1, AFI 24-301,
     paragraph 3.8.2 and 3.8.3.)
     3.7.6. Protocol Support.      When requested by AF/CVAP, AFDW/CCP provides
     specialized support to high-level funerals. Support may include scripting, coordinating
     with appropriate agencies, briefings, escorting, and DV guest management.
     3.7.7. Special Music. A BA bugler will sound the authorized version of Taps at all
     USAF services at ANC, retired and active duty member funerals within a 50-mile radius
     of the NCR and other special funerals as directed by the 11 OG/CC. ―Echo Taps‖ is not a
     recognized military honor and is not authorized. The BA may honor requests for special
     selections currently in their repertoire. These will be played as indicated in the
     authorized sequence of events. Musical support that is provided by the family will occur
     only after the flag presentation and the departure of the BA and HG.
     3.7.8. HC-A takes the lead for religious services for military committals, memorials, or
     rites at ANC. Chaplains, with the assistance from NOK or other designated family
     members, plan and prepare religious committals, memorials, or rites when requested.
     3.7.9. Media Support. When requested by JFHQ-NCR Public Affairs, AFDW/PA will
     provide media escort support for high-level funerals at ANC.
  3.8. Transfer Funerals. Transfers occur when there is no chapel service.
 14                                                         AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


4. Individual and AFDW Bi-Monthly Retirements.
   4.1. General. Support for retirement ceremonies is based on the rank of the retiree, not the
   host or personnel in attendance (except when hosted by the top five; CMSAF or AFDW/CC;
   Chapter 2, Paragraph 1). AFDW supports individual general officer retirement ceremonies
   when resources allow. For all other ranks, AFDW provides a group bi-monthly retirement
   ceremony for military personnel with records maintained by MPFs within AFDW (to include
   Reserve component members). Personnel who are qualified to participate in the bi-monthly
   retirement ceremony may participate up to 3 months prior to or 3 months after their official
   retirement date. Air Force service members not serviced by MPFs within AFDW may
   request special permission from AFDW/CCP to participate in a ceremony and may be
   included on a space-available basis when additional resources are not required. Reference
   AFI 36-3203 for further guidance.
   4.2. Civilians/Active Duty Non-Participants. Active duty personnel in AFDW choosing not
   to participate in AFDW’s bi-monthly retirement ceremony are entitled to an individual
   retirement ceremony using unit resources at their supervisor’s or commander’s discretion.
   Civilians in AFDW may not participate in AFDW’s bi-monthly retirement ceremony.
   However, they are entitled to an individual retirement ceremony using unit resources at their
   supervisor’s or commander’s discretion.
   4.3. Bi-Monthly Retirement Ceremony. The three AFDW bi-monthly retirement ceremonies
   during the spring and summer months (April–September) are performed on the United States
   Air Force Ceremonial Lawn, located on Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling (JBAB). In the event
   of inclement weather, the ceremony is held at the James Stewart Theater or the Bolling Club.
   During the fall and winter months (October–March), three ceremonies are held at the Club at
   Andrews, Joint Base Andrews.
   4.4. Sequence of Events. This is the traditional, authorized sequence of events for outdoor
   retirement ceremonies within AFDW. Indoor sequences are modified due to space
   limitations. Bolded items are general officer specific.

                             Official Party Pre-Ceremony Brief
                                     Opening Narration
                                       Arrival Fanfare
                                          March On
                                  Presentation of Command
                                      Musical Honors
                                 Advancement of the Colors
                                      National Anthem
                                          Invocation
                                       Host Remarks
                          Retiree Segment/Decoration Presentation
                             Retirement Certificate Presentation
                                     Letters Presentation
                       Spouse Segment/Spouse Certificate Presentation
                                    Posting of the Colors
                                      Honoree Remarks
                                       Pass in Review
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                    15


                                   Musical Tribute
                        Honoree Remarks (AFDW bi-monthly only)
                                   Closing Narration
                                    Air Force Song
                                      Departure
  4.5. Support. Figure A3.1 identifies AFDW resource support for individual and group
  retirement ceremonies. Support for individual retirement ceremonies is based on the rank or
  position of the honoree, not the host or personnel in attendance.
     4.5.1. Floral Presentations. AFDW/CCP provides floral tokens for retirees’ spouses who
     are participating in the AFDW bi-monthly retirement ceremony. The
     corsages/boutonnieres are presented at the pre-ceremony briefing on behalf of all the men
     and women of the Air Force.
     4.5.2. Receptions. AFDW/CCP organizes the reception for the bi-monthly retirement
     ceremony and offers advice on receptions for individual retirements.
     4.5.3. Receiving Lines. AFDW/CCP will offer advice, guidance and/or orchestration of
     receiving lines for authorized individual retirees. Participants in the AFDW bi-monthly
     retirement ceremony will have the option to have AFDW/CCP orchestrate receiving lines
     for each retiree.
     4.5.4. Programs. Programs will be provided for the AFDW Bi-Monthly Retirement
     Ceremony by AFDW/CCP. For individual retirement ceremonies, programs are the
     responsibility of the retiree’s organization.
     4.5.5. Special Music. A musical tribute may be provided at the end of an individual
     retirement ceremony that is supported by AFDW.The tribute consists of a patriotic
     medley performed in honor o fthe retiree’s service. For outdoor ceremonies, the tribute is
     played at the conclusion of the pass in review. The tribute consists of a patriotic medley
     performed in honor of the retiree’s service. No other special musical request will be
     honored. Vocalists may perform at indoor ceremonies and are only authorized to sing the
     US National Anthem. The Ceremonial Brass does not provide musical accompaniment
     for vocalists or other musicians.
     4.5.6. Transportation. Transportation is authorized for personnel officially taking part in
     the ceremony (host, honoree, troops, band, protocol, Comm Public Address) as long as
     transport to or from the event does not include a stop at their domicile. IAW AFI 24-301,
     government-provided transportation is not authorized to members, guests, or family
     members who are attending the ceremony.
5. Changes of Command
  5.1. General (Figure A4.1.). This chapter addresses typical resources applied to changes of
  command and identifies the support AFDW authorizes for each level.
  5.2. Sequence of Events. The following is the traditional, authorized sequence of events for
  an outdoor change of command ceremony. Indoor sequences are modified due to space
  limitations. Bolded items are general officer specific.
16                                                         AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


                             Official Party Pre-Ceremony Brief
                                     Opening Narration
                                       Arrival Fanfare
                                 Presentation of Command
                                      Musical Honors
                                    Inspection of Troops
                                Advancement of the Colors
                                      National Anthem
                                         Invocation
                                          Remarks
                                            (Host)
                                     Award Presentation
                                          Remarks
                                  (Outgoing Commander)
                                    Change of Command
                                      Posting of Colors
                                          Remarks
                                  (Incoming Commander)
                                       Pass in Review
                                      Musical Tribute
                                      Closing Narration
                                       Air Force Song
                                          Departure
  5.3. Support. Ceremonial support for changes of command is determined by the level of the
  unit. Formations will be composed of members assigned to the unit changing command. The
  unit guidon/flag is entrusted to the unit first sergeant or senior enlisted person during the
  change of command sequence.
     5.3.1. The SecAF/CSAF/CMSAF. Though the Secaf, CSAF and CMSAF usually do not
     participate in a change of command when they depart, they are included in Figure A4.1.
     Typically, they would have a farewell/welcoming ceremony with resources following
     closely what is listed in Figure A4.1.
     5.3.2. For the 11 WG, 79 MDW, AFELM and 844 CG, AFDW/CCP is the OPR, IAW
     para 2.3.1.1.2 . The out-going commander will appoint a POC to work closely with
     AFDW/CCP. The POC is responsible for providing AFDW/CCP all pertinent
     documentation in a timely fashion, producing the program, and providing the formation
     and additional support personnel. At a minimum, the HG will provide a formation (size
     and number of flights in the formation will depend on available resources), a Commander
     of Troops (COT).
     5.3.3. Group/Squadron. Out-going group/squadron commanders will appoint a POC to
     coordinate, plan and orchestrate their change of command. The POC is responsible for
     the entire ceremony. The corresponding wing protocol offices advise and guide (i.e.,
     script template, invitation/program samples, checklists, training, etc.). AFDW/CCP is the
     OPR when AFDW/CC is the host. 5.4. Training. For the 11 WG, 79 MDW, AFELM and
     844 CG changes of command, AFDW/CCP and the HG will provide one training
     rehearsal for key personnel within 3 days of the event. Unit POC should contact
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                     17


      AFDW/CCP to schedule. At a minimum, the COT, flight commanders, and guidon
      bearers must attend. A full rehearsal with all personnel (excluding official party) will be
      scheduled 2 hours prior to the ceremony start time.
6. Arrivals and Wreath Layings
   6.1. General. This chapter addresses typical resources applied to CSAF Counterpart visits
   for Air Force arrival and wreath laying ceremonies at the Air Force Memorial or ceremonial
   lawn (outdoor) or the Bolling Club (indoor). This chapter also reflects the authorized
   resources for CSAF counterpart wreath laying ceremonies at the Tomb of the Unknowns in
   ANC, Air Force Memorial and general wreath laying support for private organizations IAW
   AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program. Counterpart ceremonies are hosted by CSAF or
   designated representative. Figure A5.1. identifies the level of support AFDW provides for
   Full Honors Arrivals and wreath laying ceremonies. HC-A may provide support for wreath
   layings at the Air Force Memorial and ANC as resources permit.
   6.2. Sequence of Events. The following is the authorized sequence of events for Full Honors
   Arrivals and wreath laying ceremonies. A Full Honors Arrival Ceremony which includes a
   wreath laying is only performed at the Air Force Memorial. Indoor Full Honors Arrival
   ceremonies are modified appropriately. The CSAF counterpart arrivals generally occur on
   Tuesday of the week of the visit.

Full Honors Arrival (FHA) with Award (Outdoor)     FHA without Award (Outdoor)
Arrival of Dignitary                               Arrival of Dignitary
Pre-ceremony Briefing                              Pre-ceremony Briefing
Opening Remarks                                    Opening Remarks
Arrival Fanfare                                    Arrival Fanfare
March On                                           March On
Presentation of Command                            Presentation of Command
Musical Honors                                     Musical Honors
Inspection of Troops                               Inspection of Troops
Advancement of the Colors                          Foreign National Anthem (see note 1)
To the Color                                       US National Anthem (see note 1)
Medal Presentation                                 Closing Remarks
Posting of the Colors                              Air Force Song
Foreign National Anthem (see note 1)               Departure
US National Anthem (see note 1)
Closing Remarks
Air Force Song
Departure

FHA with Award, Wreath Laying (Outdoor)         FHA with Wreath Laying, no Award (Outdoor)
Arrival of Dignitary                              Arrival of Dignitary
Pre-ceremony Briefing                             Pre-ceremony Briefing
Opening Remarks                                   Opening Remarks
Arrival Fanfare                                   Arrival Fanfare
March On                                          March On
Presentation of Command                           Presentation of Command
 18                                                     AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


Musical Honors                                 Musical Honors
Inspection of Troops                           Inspection of Troops
Advancement of the Colors                      Foreign National Anthem (see note 1)
To the Color                                   US National Anthem (see note 1)
Medal Presentation                             Color Team Repositions
Posting of the Colors                          Honor Guard Formation March Off
Foreign National Anthem (see note 1)           Official Party Repositions
US National Anthem (see note 1)                Wreath Laying Sequence
Honor Guard Formation March off                Muffled Ruffles/Taps
Cordon Marches on                              Departure
Color Team Repositions
Official Party Repositions
Wreath Laying Sequence
Muffled Ruffles/Taps
Departure

FHA with Award (Indoor)                        FHA without Award (Indoor)
Arrival of Dignitary                           Arrival of Dignitary
Pre-ceremony Briefing                          Pre-ceremony Briefing
Opening Remarks                                Opening Remarks
Arrival Fanfare                                Arrival Fanfare
Presentation of Command                        Presentation of Command
Musical Honors                                 Musical Honors
Inspection of the Troops                       Inspection of the Troops
Medal Presentation                             Foreign National Anthem (see note 1)
Foreign National Anthem (see note 1)           US National Anthem (see note 1)
US National Anthem (see note 1)                Closing Remarks
Closing Remarks                                Air Force Song
Air Force Song                                 Departure
Departure

Wreath Laying (Tomb of the Unknowns)
Arrival of Dignitary
Event Pre-brief in ANC Trophy Room
Dignitary and Host escorted to top of stairs
Opening Narration
March On
Advancement of the Colors
To the Color
Dignitary and Host down stairs to the mat
Foreign National Anthem (see note 2)
US National Anthem (see note 2)
Wreath placed by Dignitary
Muffled Ruffles and Taps
Return to Trophy Room
Tour and Presentations
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                    19


Retiring of the Colors
Honor Guard and Band Departure
Official Party Departure

Note 1 – Counterpart arrival only, otherwise drummer and bugler only.
Note 2 – Counterpart arrivals only.
7. Promotions.
   7.1. General (Figure A6.1). A ceremony recognizing the advancement in rank and/or
   responsibility of an individual. AFDW support of a promotion ceremony is based on the
   rank of promotee, not the host or other personnel in attendance. AFDW supports individual
   promotions starting with the promotion to grade O-7 and above, as resources permit, and they
   are conducted indoors only. Promotions to the rank of O-6 and below are the responsibility of
   the individual’s organization and supervisor or commander.
   7.2. Sequence of Events. The following is the traditional, authorized sequence of events for
   promotions. Bolded items are general officer specific.
                                     Ceremony Pre-brief
                                     Opening Narration
                                       Arrival Fanfare
                                      Musical Honors
                                  Presentation of the Colors
                                      National Anthem
                                         Invocation
                                       Remarks (Host)
                                      Promotion Order
                                  Pinning of Rank Insignia
                                    Reaffirmation of Oath
                                 Unfurling of Personal Flag
                                     Remarks (Honoree)
                                      Closing Narration
                                       Air Force Song
                                          Departure




                                           DARREN W. MCDEW, Major General, USAF
                                           Commander, Air Force District of
                                           WashingtonCommander
 20                                                       AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
32 CFR 553, TITLE 32—Military Reservations and National Cemeteries, Army National
Cemeteries
DoD Directive 1300.15—Military Funeral Support
DoD Directive 5410.18—Community Relations
DoD Instruction 5410.19—Armed Forces Community Relations
Army Field Manual 143-2—State, Official, and Special Military Funerals
Army Field Manual 36-2203—Drill and Ceremonies
Army Regulation 290-5—Army National Cemeteries
AFPD 34-12—Air Force Protocol
AFI 34-242—Mortuary Affairs Program
AFI 24-301—Transportation Vehicle Operations
AFDW Supplement to AFI 24-301
AFI 34-1201—Protocol
AFP 34-1202—Guide To Protocol
AFI 36-3203—Service Requirements
AFI 65-601V1—Budget Guidance and Procedures
USAF State Funeral Support Plan

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/CVAI—Headquarters Air Force International Affairs
AF/CVAP—Headquarters Air Force Protocol
ANC—Arlington National Cemetery
COT—Commander of Troops
CSAF—Chief of Staff, US Air Force
CVA—Assistant Vice Chief of Staff, US Air Force
DV—Distinguished Visitor
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
JFHQ—Joint Forces Headquarters
JBAB—Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling
KIA—Killed in Action
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                  21


MOH—Medal of Honor
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
NCOIC—Non-commissioned in Charge
NCR—National Capital Region
NLT—Not Later Than
NOK—Next of Kin
NSSE—National Special Security Event
OIC—Officer in Charge
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PC—Personal Color
POC—Point of Contact
S&Ts—State and Territorial
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
USECAF—Under Secretary of the Air Force
VCSAF—Vice Chief of Staff, US Air Force

Terms
Joint Service—Refers to the use of multiservice (Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force and
Coast Guard) ceremonial support. Support requests/taskings for Joint support originate from
MDW. Joint Service ceremonies include but are not limited to funerals, full honor arrivals,
wreath layings, cordons, and Ambassador Credential Presentations, which are conducted at
various locations throughout the NCR.
Full Honors Arrival—A ceremony conducted in honor of a foreign counterpart, DV or remains
upon arrival to the United States and/or the NCR. Hosted or presided over by the CSAF or other
high-ranking official.
Full Honors Wreath Laying Ceremony—A ceremony conducted by foreign counterpart or
distinguished visitor during their visit to the United States and/or for special observances
whereby they lay a wreath in tribute to deceased American military personnel. When in
conjunction with a CSAF counterpart visit, this ceremony is normally conducted the day of the
full honor arrival ceremony and takes place at the Tomb of the Unknowns, ANC or the Air Force
Memorial. The ceremony is normally hosted by the CSAF, CSAF representative or other high-
ranking official.
Military Honors Funeral—A ceremony interring the remains of a person with a military
connection as prescribed in referenced directives or instructions. Resource requirements and
support are based primarily upon the rank of the individual. Other factors may include duty
position, military ratings/achievements, military status upon demise, and funeral location.
 22                                                            AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


Change of Command—A ceremony where responsibility of command is transferred from one
commander to another. Within the NCR, AFDW will participate in ceremonies, with varying
levels of support, from the group level up to Air Staff level.
Promotion—A ceremony recognizing the advancement in rank and/or responsibility of an
individual. AFDW resource support of a promotion ceremony is based on the rank of promotee,
not the host or other personnel in attendance. The AFDW supports individual promotions
starting with brigadier general (O-7). AFDW will provide resource support to individual
promotions hosted by the AFDW/CC. Promotions to the rank of colonel (O-6) and below, to
include civilian promotions, are the responsibility of the individual’s organization, supervisor or
commander. These individuals may request individual ceremonies from their commanders with
support obtained from their unit.
Retirement Ceremony—A ceremony officially recognizing the retirement of Air Force
personnel after required years of service. AFDW resource support of retirement ceremonies is
based on the rank of the retiree, not the host or other personnel in attendance. AFDW supports
both individual retirement ceremonies and bi-monthly group events, individual retirement
ceremonies starting at the rank of O-7 and above. AFDW provides a group bi-monthly
retirement ceremony. This ceremony is authorized for military personnel retiring at the rank of
O-6 and below whose records are maintained by an AFDW subordinate unit. AFDW will
provide resource support to individual retirements hosted by the AFDW/CC. AFDW, as an
organization, will not provide resource support to individual retirements for the rank of O-6 and
below. Individuals in the rank of O-6 and below may request individual ceremonies from their
commanders with support obtained from their unit.
Event OPR—Organization or person authorized to bring together all supporting elements to
produce a smooth-running event. Adheres to relevant standards and regulatory guidance while
making decisions to meet customer needs and desires. In cases of AFDW-sponsored, a
supported or hosted event, the designated OPR has on-site approval authority for modifications
or last-minute changes affecting events (within established standards, policies and instructions).
Official Functions—Functions financed by appropriated or nonappropriated funds or sponsored
by a commander for the ―esprit de corps‖ of active-duty troops (dinings-in, dinings-out; hail and
farewells; holiday receptions). Musical support is provided at no cost by band members as a duty
assignment and compensatory time is authorized.
Unofficial Functions—Functions financed or sponsored by private organizations or held in
quarters by a commander for events that do not qualify for official funds.
Musical Honors—Military musical honors are reserved for military and national dignitaries or
authorized civilian personnel. Foreign civilian and military officials occupying positions
comparable to these US Officials will receive equivalent honors consisting of Ruffles and
Flourishes and the appropriate Honors march as authorized.
Top Five—SecAF, USECAF, CSAF, VCSAF and CVA.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                         23


                                   Attachment 2
   MILITARY HONORS FUNERAL AUTHORIZED RESOURCE SUPPORT (ANC)

Figure A2.1. Military Honors Funeral Authorized Resource Support (ANC).
                   MOH &      Retired    Active Duty,   CMSAF        Standard
                   Retired    Officer   Repatriations    E-9          Honors
                    O-10      (O-6 &    & KIA@ ANC                      &
                    thru     below) &                              E-8 thru E-1
                    O-7         E-9                                 (non KIA)
HG
Color Team         Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     Yes1
Firing Party       Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     Yes
Pallbearers6       Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     Yes
COT                Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     No
Flights8           Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     No
Flight Sergeant9   Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     No
Right Guide9       Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     No
Guidon             Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     No
OIC7               Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     Yes
NCOIC7             Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     Yes
PC Bearer4         Yes       No              No           No      No
Traffic Control    Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     Yes
Caisson            Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     No
AFDW/CCP
General Officer    Yes       No              Yes          Yes     No
Host Escort
Family Escort3     No        No              Yes          No      No
Event OPR3         Yes       No              Yes          Yes     No
Script3            Yes       No              Yes          Yes     No
BA
C-Brass            Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     No
Drummer            No5       No5             No5          No5     No
Bugler             No5       No5             No5          No5     Yes
HC-A
Escort             Yes       Yes             Yes          Yes     Yes
Event OPR          No        Yes             Yes          No      Yes
11 LRS
Gen Officer Host   Yes       No              Yes          Yes     No
Transportation2
PA
Photographs (1     Yes       No              Yes          Yes     No
set per flag)3
    24                                                        AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


1
  Denotes resource provided only for active duty deaths.
2
  DV transportation usually consists of a DV sedan to transport the host and escort to the
funeral and back. All repatriation funerals and casualty of war funerals, regardless of rank,
are authorized transportation support for the immediate family from their temporary lodging
to the funeral and back.
3
  Repatriations regardless of rank are provided support accordingly.
4
  POW/MIA flag will be provided as required, regardless of rank.
5
  Drummer and bugler are included as part of the C-Brass support. If the C-Brass is
unavailable or upon NOK request in lieu of C-Brass, drummer and bugler are authorized.
6
  Eight pallbearers are authorized to carry the casket. Six pallbearers are authorized if the
remains are cremated. Double interment services are authorized an extra set of pallbearers to
carry the additional casket. If both deceased individuals are cremated, extra pallbearers are
not authorized.
7
  OIC is preferred for O-1 through O-10 funerals. NCOIC is preferred for all other funerals.
8
  Size and number of flights in troop formation dependent upon resources available.
9
  One flight sergeant and one right guide per flight in the troop formation.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                  25


                                       Attachment 3
 INDIVIDUAL AND AFDW MONTHLY RETIREMENT AUTHORIZED RESOURCE
                           SUPPORT

Figure A3.1. Individual and AFDW Bi-Monthly Retirement Authorized Resource Support.
                      SECAF        O-8, O-7         Under     AFDW/CC        AFDW monthly
                       CSAF                       Secretary7                  (O-6 & below)
                      CMSAF                         Ass’t
                      O-10,O-9                   Secretaries7
AFDW/CCP
Event OPR               Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes             Yes
Script                  Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes             Yes
DV Seating              Yes11         Yes           Yes           Yes             Yes
Reception Assist         No           No            No            Yes             Yes
Receiving Line          Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes             Yes
Programs                No2           No2           No2           Yes             Yes
Invitations/RSVP        No3           No3           No3           Yes             Yes4
HG
Color Team6              Yes          Yes            Yes          Yes             Yes
COT9                     Yes          No             No           Yes             Yes
Flights9,15              Yes          No             No           Yes             Yes
Flight Sergeant9,14      Yes          No             No           Yes             Yes
Right Guide10,14         Yes          No             No           Yes             Yes
Guidon9                  Yes          No             No           Yes             Yes
OIC                      Yes          Yes            Yes          Yes             Yes
NCOIC                    Yes          No16           Yes          Yes             Yes
PC Bearer             As needed    As needed      As needed As needed          As needed
Narrator                 Yes          Yes            Yes          Yes             Yes
Award Bearer(s)          Yes          Yes            No           Yes             Yes
Escort(s)                 If      If Available   If Available If Available     As needed
                      Available
Cordon                  Yes1          No            No12         Yes1             No12
Place S &Ts              Yes          Yes           No           Yes              Yes
Drill Team              Yes13         No            No           Yes13            No
BA
C-Brass                Yes            No            No            Yes             Yes
Quintet or Vocalist    Yes            Yes           Yes           Yes             Yes
(Indoor)
Recorded Music5        No             No             No           No              No
HC-A
Invocation          As needed     As needed       As needed    As needed       As needed
    26                                                        AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012



                      SECAF         O-8, O-7        Under     AFDW/CC         AFDW monthly
                       CSAF                       Secretary7                   (O-6 & below)
                      CMSAF                         Ass’t
                      O-10,O-9                   Secretaries7
SFS8
                      SECAF         O-8, O-7        Under     AFDW/CC         AFDW monthly
                       CSAF                       Secretary7                   (O-6 & below)
                      CMSAF                         Ass’t
                      O-10,O-9                   Secretaries7
Traffic Control         Yes            No            Yes        Yes                  Yes
LRS8
DV Transportation     Yes           As needed        Yes           Yes               No
Trans Site Control As needed           No         As needed        No                No
CES8
Site Preparation      Yes              Yes            Yes          Yes               Yes
844 CG
Public Address        Yes              Yes            Yes          Yes               Yes
PA
Photographs (2 sets)  Yes              Yes            Yes          Yes               Yes
1
  Determined by rank of presiding official. SECAF/CSAF=19; O-10=17; O-9=15; O-8=13; O-
7=11; below O-7, no cordon.
2
  Honoree’s office provides.
3
  Invitations prepared by honoree’s office. RSVPs provided to AFDW/CCP 3 days prior to event.
4
  25 Invitations provided by AFDW/CCP to each honoree. Honorees provide RSVPs to
AFDW/CCP 3 days prior to event.
5
  Recorded music is only used when BA resources are not available.
6
  Five person Color Team is authorized for AFDW/CC and AFDW monthly retirements, in order
to incorporate the AFDW Colors. If the ceremony is held indoors, four person Color Team is
authorized.
7
  Under Secretaries and Assistant Secretaries of the AF are authorized indoor ceremonies.
8
  Provided by unit IAW AFI 24-301 on respective installation of event. Only authorized for
events held on JBAB or Joint Base Andrews-NAFW.
9
  For retirements in conjunction with a change of command ceremony, personnel are unit
provided.
10
   When troop formation is unit provided, no right guides are utilized.
11
   AF/CVAP will prepare DV Seating for Top 5 and CMSAF individual retirement ceremonies.
12
   Cordon will be provided (in accordance with note 1) if a general officer hosts the retirement.
13
   Subject to availability.
14
   One flight sergeant and one right guide per flight in the troop formation.
15
   Size and number of flights in troop formation depend upon resources available.
16
   Provided within detailed personnel.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                      27


                                      Attachment 4
           CHANGE OF COMMAND AUTHORIZED RESOURCE SUPPORT

Figure A4.1. Changes of Command Authorized Resource Support.
                      SECAF       AFDW/CC     11 WG/CC    79 MDW       Group/
                       CSAF                                844 CG     Squadron
AFDW/CCP13
Event OPR               Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         No5
Script                  Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         No5
Advice/Guidance         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes6
Programs/Invites        No          Yes         Yes3        Yes3        No5
Training Rehearsal      Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes
HG
Color Team               Yes         Yes         Yes        Yes9         No
COT                      Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
Flights7                 Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
Flight Officers8         Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
Right Guides8            Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
Guidon                   Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
OIC/Briefer              Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
NCOIC                    Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
PC Bearer             As needed   As needed   As needed   As needed   As needed
Narrator                 Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
Award Bearer(s)          Yes         Yes         Yes         No          No
Escort(s)             As needed   As needed   As needed      No          No
Cordon2                  Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         No
Wall Guards              Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         No
S&T Set-up               Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         No
BA
C-Brass                 Yes12       Yes         Yes            Yes       No
Quintet or Vocalist     Yes         Yes         Yes            Yes       No
(Indoor)
Recorded Music          No4         No4          No            No4      Yes
HC-A
Invocation            As needed   As needed   As needed   As needed   As needed
SFS10
Traffic Control         Yes         Yes         Yes            Yes       No
LRS10
DV Transportation        Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         No
Trans Site Control    As needed   As needed   As needed   As needed      No
CES10
Site Preparation        Yes         Yes         Yes            Yes       No
 28                                                          AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012



                      SECAF       AFDW/CC        11 WG/CC           79 MDW            Group/
                       CSAF                                          844 CG          Squadron
PA
Photographs (2             Yes           Yes             Yes              Yes                No
sets)
AFDW/DS
Wing Detail                Yes           Yes             Yes1             Yes1               No
844 CG
Public Address             Yes           Yes             Yes              Yes               No11
1
  Unit provided.
2
  Determined by rank of presiding official. SECAF/CSAF=19; O-10=17; O-9=15; O-8=13; O-
7=11; below O-7, no cordon.
3
  Invitations will be approved and printed by AFDW/CCP. Programs must be approved by
AFDW/CCP.
4
  Recorded music is only an option when resources are not available.
5
  If the AFDW/CC is the host, AFDW/CCP prepares invitations, acts as event OPR, and writes
script. Unit POC will send out invitations and take RSVP’s. Program will be approved by
AFDW/CCP. Reception will be the unit POC’s responsibility.
6
  Protocol office within respective organization will provide advice and guidance.
7
  Size and number of flights in troop formation dependent upon resources available.
8
  One flight sergeant and one right guide per flight in the troop formation.
9
  Five person Color Team is authorized in order to incorporate the Hosting Unit Colors. If the
ceremony is held indoors, four person Color Team is authorized.
10
   Provided by unit on respective installation of event. Only authorized for events held on JBAB
or Joint Base Andrews-NAFW. Vehicle support is authorized for those who have an official
role in organization change of command ceremonies.
11
   744 CS/OL-B supports events at ceremonial lawn. Other events supported based on location
and availability. Ceremonial lawn events take precedence.
12
    If not on Ceremonial Lawn, unit must coordinate directly with 744 CS/OL-B for support.
13
    Changes of Command not noted in the chart in which general officers are the honorees will be
supported by AFDW as specified in para 2.3.1.2.1.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                        29


                                    Attachment 5
     ARRIVAL AND WREATH LAYING AUTHORIZED RESOURCE SUPPORT

Figure A5.1. Arrival and Wreath Laying Authorized Resource Support.
                     SECAF/CSAF             SECAF/CSAF Wreath         Other Wreath
                   Counterpart Arrival           Laying                 Layings4
HG
Color Team                 Yes                       Yes6                 No
COT                        Yes                       No                   No
Flights                    Yes7                      No                   No
Flight Officers            Yes8                      No                   No
Right Guides               Yes8                      No                   No
Guidon                     Yes                       No                   No
OIC                        Yes                       Yes                 Yes11
NCOIC                      Yes                       Yes                 Yes11
Foreign National           No                        Yes1                 No
Color Team
PC Bearer                  Yes                       Yes9                 No
Narrator                   Yes                       Yes                  No
Award/Wreath               Yes                       Yes                 Yes10
Bearer(s)
Cordon                     Yes2                      Yes2                 No
AFDW/CCP
Event OPR                  Yes                       Yes                  No
Script                     Yes                       Yes                  No
Advice/Guidance            No                        No                   Yes
BA
C-Brass                    Yes                       Yes                  No
Recorded Music             No                        No                   No
Bugler                     Yes                       Yes                  Yes
Drummer                    Yes                       Yes                  No
HC-A
Invocation (on          As needed                  As needed              No
request)
JBAB/J3
Traffic Control            Yes5                       No                  No
PA
Photographs (2             Yes                       Yes                  No
sets)
JBAB/J4
Site Preparation           Yes5                       No                  No
844 CG
Public Address             Yes                       No3                  No
    30                                                       AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012

1
  Foreign national team consists of two rifle guards and a bearer for the foreign national flag.
Only applies to Wreath Layings at the Tomb of the Unknowns.
2
  For CSAF Wreath Layings at the Tomb of the Unknowns, cordon will be 11. For CSAF
Arrivals/ Wreath Layings at the Air Force Memorial, cordon will be 19.
3
  If ceremony includes remarks, public address support will be required.
4
  Only for official ceremonies at the Air Force Memorial. Based solely on resources available.
5
  Only for Arrival Ceremonies held on the Ceremonial Lawn.
6
  For CSAF Wreath Layings at the Tomb of the Unknowns, two 4-man Color Teams will be used.
For CSAF Wreath Layings at the Air Force Memorial, one 4-man Color Team will be used. For
CSAF Wreath Layings at the Air Force Memorial with foreign dignitaries, one 5-man Color
Team will be used to incorporate the foreign national flag.
7
  Size and number of flights in troop formation dependent upon resources available.
8
  One flight sergeant and one right guide per flight in the troop formation.
9
  Only for CSAF Wreath Layings at the Air Force Memorial.
10
   Ceremonial Guardsman will perform as both Narrator and Wreath Bearer.
11
   OIC or NCOIC is required, not both.
AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012                                                                  31


                                       Attachment 6
                 PROMOTIONS AUTHORIZED RESOURCE SUPPORT

Figure A6.1. Promotion Authorized Resource Support.
                                       O-9 & Above        O-8 & O-7           SES
  HG
  Color Team                               Yes               Yes               No2
  OIC                                      Yes               Yes               No
                                                                3
  NCOIC                                    Yes               No                Yes4
  PC Bearer(s)                             As Needed         No3               Yes4
  Narrator                                 Yes               Yes               No
                                                                3
  Award Bearer(s)                          Yes               No                No
  Escort(s)                                As Needed         No                No
  AFDW/CCP
  Event OPR                                Yes               Yes               No
  Script                                   Yes               Yes               No
  Reception Assistance                     No                No                No
  Advice/Guidance                          Yes               Yes               Yes
  BA
  Quintet or Vocalist                      Yes               Yes               No
  Recorded Music                           No1               No1               Yes
  Vocalist                                 No                No                No
  HC-A
  Invocation                               As needed         As needed         As needed
  844 CG
  Public Address                           Yes               Yes               No
  PA
  Photographs                              Yes               Yes               No
1
  Recorded music is only an option when BAresources are not available.
2
  Individual may obtain flags directly from the Honor Guard or AF/CVAP if in Pentagon.
3
  Provided within detailed personnel.
4
   NCOIC and PC Bearer provided for first promotion to SES
 32                                                        AFDWI34-101 14 MARCH 2012


                                       Attachment 7
             HANGAR 3 EVENTS AUTHORIZED RESOURCE SUPPORT

Figure A7.1. Hangar 3 Events Authorized Resource Support.
                                       SECAF CSAF
HG
Color Team                             Yes
OIC                                    Yes
NCOIC                                  Yes
PC Bearer(s)                           As Needed
Narrator                               Yes
Award Bearer(s)                        Yes
Escort(s)                              As Needed
AFDW/CCP
Event OPR                              Yes
Script                                 Yes
Reception Assistance                   Yes
Advice/Guidance                        Yes
BA
Quintet or Ceremonial Brass            Yes
Recorded Music                         No1
Vocalist                               As needed
HC-A
Invocation                             As needed
844 CG
Public Address                         Yes
PA
Photographs                            Yes
11 WG
Protocol                               Yes
Detail Troops                          Yes
SFG                                    Yes
LRS                                    Yes
CES                                    Yes
FSS                                    Yes
PA                                     Yes
1
  Recorded music is only an option when BA resources are not available.
