                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                       WASHINGTON DC




                                                                             AFGM2014_34-04
                                                                      (Formerly AFGM 34-03)

                                                                             25 September 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum (AFGM) on Special Compensation for
Assistance with Activities of Daily Living
Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this memorandum.
        By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this AFGM provides instructions
regarding the immediate implementation of Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction
(DoDI) 1341.12, Special Compensation for Assistance with Activities of Daily Living
(SCAADL). Compliance with this publication is mandatory. Compliance with this policy is
mandatory. In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director
of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel,
and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy for special compensation for assistance
with activities of daily living programs. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be
supplemented at any level; all MAJCOM level supplements must be approved by the Human
Resource Strategic Board prior to certification and approval. To the extent its direction is
inconsistent with other Air
Force publications; the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management. See the Attachment to this memorandum for policy guidance.
       Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum
are maintained in accordance with the Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records;
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
Records Disposition Schedule.
       This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected
publication, whichever is earlier.


                                                   DANIEL R. SITTERLY
                                                   Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
                                                   (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
Attachment:
Policy Guidance
                                           Attachment

Air Force Special Compensation For Assistance With Activities Of Daily Living (Scaadl)

References: (1) DoDI 1341.12, Special Compensation for Assistance with Activities of Daily
Living, 31 August 2011 (Incorporating Change 1, 24 May 2012)

(2) Title 37 United States Code (USC) Section 439 - Special compensation: members of the
uniformed services with catastrophic injuries or illnesses requiring assistance in everyday living

(3) Title 10 USC § 61 – Retirement or Separation for Physical Disability

(4) DD Form 2948; Special Compensation for Assistance with Activities of Daily
Living (SCAADL) Eligibility

(5) Zip Code Stipend Calculator 2014, developed by the Health Administration
Center, Chief Business Office, Veterans Health Administration

(6) DoD Instruction 1300.24, Recovery Coordination Program (RCP), 1
December 2009


1. Purpose: This policy establishes procedures and assigns responsibilities to implement
Special Compensation for Assistance with Activities of Daily Living (SCAADL) payments to
eligible Airmen authorized by Title 37 USC § 439.

2. Applicability: This guidance applies to both Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air Force Reserve
(AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) Airmen who have a permanent catastrophic injury or
illness that was incurred or aggravated in the line of duty and meets the criteria outlined in this
document.

3. Intent: To provide a special monthly compensation to eligible Airmen to offset and
compensate designated caregivers for the time and assistance they provided to a catastrophically
injured and/or ill Airman.

4. Policy: Authorizes compensation to Airmen to offset the economic burden borne by primary
caregivers providing non-medical care, support, and assistance for the Airman. SCAADL may be
paid in addition to any other pay and allowance to which the Airman is entitled and authorized.
This program is voluntary and is not retroactive.

5. Responsibilities:

a. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1), in collaboration with
the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF),
is responsible for SCAADL Air Force policy and oversight of funding.


b. SAF/FMBO: Is responsible for funding guidance.
c. Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG): Is responsible, through the local MTF, for ensuring a
licensed DoD physician certifies eligibility of Airmen who qualify for SCAADL and for
identifying and submitting any changes in eligibility and tier rating IAW the guidance within this
document. The RegAF component is responsible for the care and case management of ARC
Airmen that are eligible or participate in this program. Any references to Medical Unit or Senior
Physician made in this document are defined as active duty Air Force medical treatment facilities
or physicians.

d. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC): Manages and implements the SCAADL program for
AF/A1 and ensures the timely identification of qualified Airmen, processing of applications,
submission for payment, tracking recipients and reporting required data to DoD, SAF/MR and
AF/A1 as required.

6. Qualification:

a. Primary Care Managers (PCM), Inpatient Physicians, Medical Case Managers (MCM),
Recovery Care Coordinators (RCC), Nonmedical Care Managers (NMCM) and other members
of the Recovery Team (RT) (Reference: DoDI 1300.24 for definitions and responsibilities)
involved in the care and recovery of wounded, ill and injured Airmen are responsible for the
early identification of Airmen who are potentially qualified for SCAADL while they are still
inpatients. Near the end of an Airman’s inpatient stay, the RCCs or MCMs should inform the
Airman and their caregiver of the SCCADL benefit, their potential eligibility to receive the
benefit upon becoming an outpatient, and the process by which they may apply.

b. To be eligible to receive SCAADL, an Airman must:

1. Be certified by a licensed DoD or Veterans Administration (VA) physician to have a
permanent catastrophic injury and need assistance from another person to perform the personal
functions required in everyday living or require constant supervision. In the absence of such
assistance, the Airman would require hospitalization, nursing home care, or other residential
institutional care.



2. Be an outpatient and no longer determined to be an inpatient at a military treatment facility,
VA medical center, civilian hospital, nursing home, or other residential institutional care.
Although individuals may be temporarily placed in an inpatient status during the month for tests,
examinations, or treatment, they remain eligible for the full monthly SCAADL payment
provided they are in outpatient status the majority of the month (i.e., more than 15 days a
month).

3. Have a designated primary caregiver who provides assistance with at least one of the
following Activities of Daily Living (ADL) due to the Airman’s:

a. Inability to dress or undress him or herself.

b. Inability to bathe or groom in order to keep self clean and presentable.
c. Frequent need of adjustment of any special prosthetic or orthopedic appliances which by
reason of the particular disability cannot be done without aid (this will not include the adjustment
of appliances which normal persons would be unable to adjust without aid, such as supports,
belts, lacing at the back, etc.).

d. Inability to toilet or attend to toileting without assistance.

e. Inability to feed him or herself through loss of coordination of upper extremities or through
extreme weakness or inability to swallow.

f. Incapacity, physical or mental, which requires care or assistance on a regular basis to protect
the Service member from hazards or dangers incident to his or her daily environment.

4. In addition to meeting at least one of the criteria in subparagraph (b)(3), above, each of the
following must apply to the Airman:


a. Requires continual medical management or be at high risk for personal injury or otherwise
unable to live independently in the community without caregiver support;

b. Without continuing personal care services at home, the Airman would require institutional
care at a hospital, nursing home, or other residential facility; and

c. The member is not currently provided or authorized services by another entity such as Tricare
provided in-home care services or other government funded support specifically designed to
provide primary caregiver services.

7. Program Administration

a. Medical Unit Personnel:

1. Are responsible at the local medical unit to determine initial eligibility and monitor
SCAADL eligibility every 180 days or when the Airman’s condition changes that might warrant
a change in SCAADL payment.

2. Will forward the completed DD Form 2948, Special Compensation for Assistance with
Activities of Daily Living (SCAADL) Eligibility, to AFPC/DPFW

3. Will provide training or references/resources to ensure the designated caregiver has the
necessary skills to assist with the Airman’s ADL care needs.

4. Medical unit commander or senior physician will adjudicate any appeal by the patient
concerning the medical assessment documented on the DD Form 2948

b. AFPC/DPFW

1. Submit completed and signed claims to Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS)
NLT 5 work days from receipt, through the Case Management System (CMS). The CMS case
will contain the completed and signed DD Form 2948.
2. Submit the completed and signed DD Form 2948 to DFAS NLT 24 - 48 hours after receipt to
ensure prompt payment.

3. Ensure DFAS receives, as a minimum, the following documentation to effect timely
SCAADL payments:

a. The completed DD Form 2948

b. A calculation of the monthly payment to be paid to the Airmen IAW DoDI 1341.12.

4. Submit to DFAS a monthly certified payment authorization spreadsheet for qualified Airmen
receiving compensation.

5. Coordinate with the VA to ensure any Airman identified to receive SCAADL is not enrolled
in the VA program prior to submitting the SCAADL benefit to DFAS.

6. Notify DFAS to terminate SCAADL payment within 24 – 48 hours when notified by the
medical unit the Airman is no longer eligible for the benefit IAW this instruction and DoDI
1341.12

7. Seek resolutions for non-receipt of payment to an Airman for their caregiver and will notify
DFAS when it is determined payments to the Airman should be suspended.

8. Provide AF/A1 with annual funding requirements.

9. Coordinate with the Airman’s unit commander to resolve any pay related issues.

10. Update OSD SCAADL spreadsheet NLT 27th of each month.

c. Airman or designated guardian:

1. Review and sign the DD Form 2948

2. Submit requests for appeal of tier rating determination to Primary Care
Manager (PCM).


3. Notify RCC or PCM of any changes to residency as that may have a direct impact on the
entitlement.

d. Recovery Team Members are responsible for the following:

1. Contacting potentially qualified Airmen or designated guardian and make them aware of
their eligibility to apply for SCAADL.

2. Briefing the Airman and designated representative and family on the program as outlined in
DoDI 1341.12.
8. Payment Determination:

a. A DD Form 2948, “Special Compensation for Assistance with Activities of Daily Living
(SCAADL) Eligibility.” must be completed.

b. The determination an Airman is catastrophically disabled shall be made by a licensed DoD or
VA physician.

1. For the purposes of this program, an Airman that is catastrophically disabled has a permanent
severely disabling injury, disorder, or illness incurred or aggravated in the line of duty that
compromises the ability of the afflicted person to carry out ADL to such a degree that the person
requires personal or mechanical assistance to leave home or bed, or constant supervision to avoid
physical harm to self or others.

2. ADL is defined in DoDI 1341.12 as follows: Feeds (including special diets), dresses and
shelters; personal hygiene services; observation and general monitoring; bowel training or
management (unless abnormalities in bowel function are of a severity to result in a need for
medical or surgical intervention in the absence of skilled services); safety precautions; general
preventive procedures (such as turning to prevent bedsores); passive exercise; transportation; and
other such elements of personal care that can reasonably be performed by an untrained adult with
minimal instruction or supervision. ADL may also be referred to as “essentials of daily living” as
defined in part 199.2(b) of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations (Reference (f)). For the purposes
of eligibility for SCAADL, ADL and “personal functions required in everyday living” are the
same.



c. The installation MTF is responsible for identifying inpatient individuals eligible for the
program based on projected need for assistance with ADLs and will initiate and complete DD
Form 2948. Airmen that are outpatients may be identified by any member of the RT or the
family and the MTF will, when notified of a potential qualified applicant, initiate and complete
the DD Form 2948.

1. The person completing the DD Form 2948 must ensure the identification section on the form
includes the Airman’s address with a valid zip code. The zip code is vital in determining the
dollar amount paid to the Airman

2. The scoring section of the DD Form 2948 includes two areas that the physician must
complete.

a. The first determines the level of assistance required for the seven areas considered as ADL.
These include eating, grooming, bathing, dressing, toileting, assistance with a prosthetic or other
device, and difficulty with mobility. Each area is graded on a scale of 0 to 4 with zero being
“Complete Independence” and four being “Total Dependence”.

b. The second scoring area covers the Airman’s need for supervision and/or protection and
provides evaluation of such things as difficulty with planning/organizing, safety risks, difficulty
with sleep regulation, and difficulty with recent memory. Seven areas in all using the same
scoring scale as detailed above.
c. Both area scores are added together to determine the total score for the Airman. The total
score is used to place the Airmen in one of three tiers used to determine payment

d. The last section of the form requires the person completing the form to sign it and should
also have the physician’s signature. The Airman must acknowledge the assessment and may
appeal the scoring decision if he or she disagrees with the physician’s determination. The
Airman must sign the form or, in those instances where the Airman cannot sign, their legally
designated representative may sign on his or her behalf. Once the scoring is complete, the
Airman will be rated as follows:

1. Low Tier (Tier 1): Airman who scores 1 – 12 will be presumed to require 10 hours of
caregiver assistance per week.

2. Medium Tier (Tier 2): Airman who scores 13 – 20 will be presumed to require 25 hours per
week of caregiver assistance.

3. High Tier (Tier 3): Airman who scores 21 or higher will be presumed to need a full-time
caregiver who provides 40 hours of personal care services per week.

e. The tier level, along with the zip code of the Airman’s residence, are entered into a calculator
provided by DFAS to determine the amount of the monthly benefit, paid to the Airman to help
the caregiver. The higher the tier level, the higher the pay. For example, an Airman in a, Tier 1
at zip code 22408 would receive $543.75 per month and Tier 2 at same zip code would receive
$1359.38. There is also a difference based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics cost for care in each
zip code i.e., Tier 3 in zip code 22408 would pay $2175.00 per month while Tier 3 in zip code
91210 would pay $2274.18.

f. As the Airman progresses through recovery, if their ability to care for themselves changes,
they will be reevaluated for SCAADL eligibility and their scores may decrease or increase
causing a change in the amount of pay received each month.

g. The start of SCAADL payment is based on the date the physician signs the DD Form 2948.
If there is a delay in processing, the pay date remains the day the doctor signed the form and the
Airman will be paid any amount owed from that date in their first payment. Payment is
identified on the Airman’s Leave and Earnings Statement as “Save Pay”.

h. If the Airman was determined to have been eligible prior to the doctor’s signature, the date
the pay begins will remain the date the doctor signed the form and payment will not be
retroactive.

i. SCAADL payment amounts are based on geographic location and the level of care required.
Payment amounts can change when an Airmen moves and/or when their condition changes.

9. Application Process:

a. Airmen who qualify for SCAADL are not required to self-identify, although they may. It is
the responsibility of the RCC or NMCM to ensure the Airman designated as having a
catastrophic condition, along with the Airman’s family and/or caregiver are thoroughly
counseled and advised on the SCAADL program prior to discharge from inpatient status. In
those instances where the Airman is not identified during their inpatient status, the counseling
will be conducted as soon as possible. Counseling will cover:

1. What makes the Airman eligible for SCAADL.


2. The requirement to designate a primary caregiver to provide non-medical care, support, and
assistance.

a. The caregiver does not have to be a family member, but cannot be another military member.

b. The designated primary caregiver does not have to be the only person to provide care, but is
the person the Airman has designated as having primary responsibility for coordinating and
ensuring care is provided.

3. How long the Airman can expect to receive SCAADL, what constitutes eligibility (or loss of
eligibility), and the requirements for transition to the Veterans Affairs (VA) program that is the
equivalent of SCAADL.

4. The amount of monthly compensation stated in the DD Form 2948 or an estimate based on
each tier level if the physician has yet to complete the DD Form 2948.

b. The counseling should be documented by the RCC or NMCM in the notes section of the
Comprehensive Recovery Plan.

10. Appeals Process

a. The Airman has the right to appeal the physician’s assessment on the DD Form
2948 if he or she feels the determination is incorrect. The Airman, or their legal representative
when necessary, will sign the form after the physician has made their determination. Since some
physicians will do a records-only review as their clinical evaluation to determine the level of care
required for activities of daily living or supervision/protection required, the Airman may believe
the ratings do not adequately reflect their current situation. If the Airman believes their situation
merits another look, they may appeal by indicating their preference to do so in the designated
area in the signature block of the DD Form 2948. The Airman or designated caregiver may
submit a statement with their appeal to help convey to their medical reviewer their concerns and
why they warrant reconsideration of SCAADL.

b. Once the Airman has indicated their desire to appeal, the DD Form 2948 will be submitted to
AFPC/DPFW to begin payment based on the initial score and AFPC/DPFW will ensure the MTF
has submitted the case to the Medical Unit Commander or senior physician for review. The
Commander or senior physician will determine whether they will conduct the review for the
appeal themselves or whether they will appoint another physician (other than the original
physician) to conduct the review. In the case where the original scoring was based on a records
review only, the physician handling the appeal will conduct a personal clinical evaluation rather
than a records review, to determine if the original scores should be adjusted.
c. The reviewing physician will make the final determination and will submit a revised DD
Form 2948, with the Airman’s signature, to AFPC/DPFW within 30 days of the original
assessment to minimize potential overpayment or underpayment to the Airman. Once submitted,
this will be considered the final adjudication of the Airman’s current situation.

11. Continuous Evaluation.

a. Throughout the course of care, treatment, and time the Airman’s situation may change
significantly. The medical unit, PCM or RT members will review SCAADL eligibility every
180 days, or when the Airman’s condition changes, to ensure the Airman is receiving the proper
compensation for their caregivers. While the hope is the Airman continues to improve and
become self-sufficient, some situations may exist where the Airman may digress in their
recovery and require a greater amount of care. Maintaining visibility on this program will help
minimize the financial burden on the Airman and the family.

b. SCAADL can be adjusted sooner than every 180 days based on changes in the progress of
the Airman and only requires a new evaluation from a VA or DoD physician and submission of
the DD Form 2948 to update the level of care being provided. Any adjustment to scores on the
DD Form 2946 will be processed for changes in payment as soon as the form is received by
AFPC/DPFW.

12. Termination of Compensation.

a. Qualified Airmen will continue to receive payments from the date the DD Form
2948 is signed until the earliest date of the following conditions:

1. The last day of the month during which a 90-day period ends that begins on the date of the
separation or retirement of the Airman (e.g., March 1, 2014 + 90 days = June 1 2014 (last day of
entitlement in June 30, 2014)).


2. The last day of the month during which the Airman dies.

3. The last day of the month during which a physician determines the Airman is no longer
afflicted with the catastrophic injury or illness. An Airman is not entitled to SCAADL if the
Airman is no longer afflicted with a catastrophic illness or injury but has not met with a
physician. RCCs and NMCMs will assist in identifying SCAADL recipients that have returned
to a state of self-sufficiency. The RCC and/or NMCM will notify the Airman that their
SCAADL will be stopped pending a physician’s evaluation in order to minimize the chance of
overpayment to the Airman resulting in potential indebtedness to the government.

4. The last day of the month preceding the month during which the Airman begins receiving
compensation under the VA caregiver program.

b. Recovery Team members should assist qualified Airmen in applying for the VA caregiver
program 30 days prior to separation or retirement (including medical retirement) date to facilitate
an uninterrupted reception of benefits for the Airman.
