                                    DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                 WASHINGTON DC




OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                                                                                     AFGM2014-33-03

                                                                                           9 April 2014

      MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
                     MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

      FROM: SAF/CIO A6
            1800 Air Force Pentagon
            Washington DC 20330-1800

      SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum 33-03 - Microsoft Windows XP End-of-Life

      Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

              By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Guidance Memorandum immediately
      implements guidance for using and supporting Microsoft Windows XP beyond its end of life.
      Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent
      with other Air Force publications; the information herein prevails in accordance with Air Force
      Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
              Windows XP extended support is reaching end of life on 8 April 2014. It is Air Force
      policy that all systems (Major Commands, Functionals, Program Element Organizations,
      Medical, etc.) using Windows XP, regardless of support, will transition to a current operating
      system within one generation not later than 14 April 2016. Approved operating systems are
      directed by the Air Force’s Target and Implementation Baselines through the use of the Standard
      Desktop Configuration. The term “system” applies to all network connected computers, stand-
      alone systems, isolated network enclaves, platform IT and platform IT systems. In addition, the
      system owners are liable for the cost of remediating the exploitation of any system exploited as a
      result of running Windows XP past 8 April 2014.
              Defense Information Systems Agency Windows XP Security Technical Implementation
      Guide (STIG) version 6, release 1.31 states, “Effective 8 April 2014, using Windows XP is a
      CAT I (Category 1) network vulnerability finding” as “Windows operating systems that are no
      longer supported by Microsoft for security updates are not evaluated or updated for
      vulnerabilities leaving them open to potential attack.” Therefore, Security Control Assessors
      (SCAs), formerly known as Certification Authorities, will assess unsupported Windows XP
      systems as a CAT I finding.
              Air Force organizations must plan for the transition to a supported operating system to
      ensure continued support and availability. System owners requiring Windows XP beyond the
      end of life date, 8 April 2014, will be required to enroll in the Air Force Enterprise Custom
Support Agreement (CSA) and provide their transition plan to a current operating system.
System owners will need to budget for their fair share of the CSA. Details on CSA enrollment,
funding amount, timeline and funds transfer process will be provided by the SAF/CIO A6.
Questions regarding the CSA can be forwarded to SAF/CIO A6 Capabilities Division,
usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.a3cc-a6cc-capability@mail.mil.


       Questions regarding this policy can be forwarded to the SAF/CIO A6 Strategy Division,
usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.a3cs-a6cs-strategy-and-policy@mail.mil. This memorandum
becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date signed, or upon publication of this
guidance in an AF instruction, whichever is earlier.




                                                   MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                   Chief, Information Dominance and
                                                    Chief Information Officer
