                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                   OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF
                                     UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                       WASHINGTON DC 20330


                                                                              AFGM2013-51-03

                                                                              6 OCTOBER 2014
MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
             MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: AF/JA
      1420 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington, DC 20330-1420

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum, Implementing the Discovery/Litigation Hold
         Process

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

       By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this AF Guidance Memorandum is reissued to
immediately implement the Air Force’s Discovery/Litigation Hold Processes. Compliance with
this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air
Force publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management.

        Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this AFGM are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

        In advance of the release of an AF publication incorporating this new guidance, the
Attachment to this Memorandum reissues the guidance in AFGM51-1, dated 18 October 2011,
and is effective immediately. This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from
the date of this Memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the
affected publication, whichever is earlier.



                                                      CHRISTOPHER F. BURNE
                                                      Lieutanant General, USAF
                                                      The Judge Advocate General

Attachment:
Implementing the Discovery/Litigation Hold Process
ATTACHMENT

Implementing the Discovery/Litigation Hold Process

The below new guidance is effective immediately.

(New) DISCOVERY/LITIGATION HOLD PROCESS MANUAL

Chapter 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS

Chapter 2—INITIATING THE DISCOVERY/LITIGATION HOLD PROCESS

Chapter 3—SEARCHING FOR AND IDENTIFYING POTENTIALLY RELEVANT
          INFORMATION

Chapter 4—PRESERVING POTENTIALLY RELEVANT INFORMATION

Chapter 5—COLLECTING POTENTIALLY RELEVANT INFORMATION

Chapter 6—PROCESSING, REVIEWING, ANALYZING, AND PRODUCING
          POTENTIALLY RELEVANT INFORMATION

Chapter 7—LIFTING THE LITIGATION HOLD

FIGURE 2.1—FORMAT FOR SEARCH REQUEST & LITIGATION HOLD MEMO
            FOR DISTRIBUTION THROUGH AFRO

FIGURE 2.2— FORMAT FOR SEARCH REQUEST & LITIGATION HOLD MEMO
            FOR DIRECT DISTRIBUTION

FIGURE 7.1— FORMAT FOR A NOTICE TO LIFT LITIGATION HOLD

ACRONYMS
DEFINITIONS




                                                               1
                                             Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1 Purpose. This document provides guidance on and establishes procedures to ensure the
Air Force meets its discovery obligations to search for, identify, preserve, and collect documents,
tangible things, and electronically stored information (ESI) during litigation or in matters that it
reasonably expects to litigate.

1.2     Background.

1.2.1 The 2006 Amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (FRCP or Rules)
established procedures that apply explicitly to ESI and provide a framework for addressing the
legal and ethical obligations to preserve this evidence. The new procedures make the process of
preserving information more visible to adversaries by requiring counsel to identify all actual and
potential sources of relevant materials and information.

1.2.2 The Rules make clear that litigants have an obligation to search for and to preserve
potentially relevant materials and information when it is reasonably anticipated that litigation
will ensue. In addition, they expose parties to sanctions when efforts to preserve are not
undertaken in a timely manner, or if undertaken, are inadequate. A failure to conduct a
reasonable search or preserve material could result in one or more court-ordered sanctions,
including:

1.2.2.1 Imposing monetary sanctions in an amount to cover reasonable expenses, including
attorneys’ fees, caused by the failure;

1.2.2.2 Drawing an “adverse inference” against the Air Force concerning the material it failed
to preserve;

1.2.2.3    Precluding the Air Force from introducing certain evidence or calling certain witnesses;

1.2.2.4 Issuing an adverse finding (i.e., a court order against the Air Force on an issue or the
merits of a case); and

1.2.2.5    Holding the Air Force and Air Force officials in contempt.

1.2.3     For purposes of this guidance, understanding the following terms is important:

1.2.3.1    The term “Documents”:

1.2.3.1.1 Applies to writings, printed words, drawings, graphs, charts, lithographs,
photographs, images, sound recordings, maps or plans, and any other form of printed material,
stored in any medium from which information can be obtained either directly, or if necessary,
after translation by the responding party into a reasonably usable form. See FRCP, Rule 34.



                                                                                                   2
1.2.3.1.2 It is generally understood the term also includes ESI, so that a party is not required to
differentiate between the two when making a discovery request. See FRCP, Rule 34—Comment,
2006 Amendment, Subdivision (a).

1.2.3.1.3 Other items, such as microfilm or microfiche would qualify under this definition, but
are also subject to discovery as tangible items.

1.2.3.2   The term “Electronically Stored Information”:

1.2.3.2.1 Is information stored in an electronic medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
See FRCP, Rule 34—Comment, 2006 Amendment, Subdivision (a), for further guidance.

1.2.3.2.2 ESI is generally understood to encompass: e-mails and attachments; webpages and
databases; electronic word processing files, spreadsheets and presentations; digital image,
graphic, and sound files stored in the memory of computers, magnetic disks (such as computer
hard drives and floppy disks, optical disks (CDs and DVDs)), and flash memory (such as
“thumb” drives or “flash” drives). It also encompasses information stored on servers, networks,
desk tops, lap tops, home computers, backup tapes and servers, and other portable storage
devices, such as Personal Digital Assistants, and mobile and smart phones.

1.2.3.3 As used throughout this document, the phrase “information” and “information and
material” generally refers to any and all document, tangible item, or ESI that would be
responsive to civil discovery under FRCP, Rule 34.

1.3   Applicability and Scope

1.3.1 These procedures apply to individuals, units, and organizations at all levels of the United
States Air Force (Air Force), including Active Duty personnel, civilian employees, contractors
who provide records or information technology management services to Air Force assets, Air
National Guard (ANG) members while in Federal service, and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) members in Title 10 status (collectively Air Force personnel.)

1.3.1.1 This guidance describes procedures for requesting, initiating, implementing, and
removing “holds” on Air Force information and material.

1.3.1.2 The preservation obligations described in this document with respect to litigation holds
supersede any conflicting Air Force policy, guidance, or instructions, including record retention
and destruction policies and practices found in the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.

1.3.1.3. Other legal obligations (such as those imposed by the Federal Records Act, the
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), and the Privacy Act) to preserve and protect information
may also apply.

1.3.2 The duty to preserve is broader than the duty to produce, and parties must make
reasonable efforts to locate and preserve all potentially relevant information and material.


                                                                                                  3
1.3.3 Air Force obligations to search for and identify, preserve, and collect information and
materials in discovery apply to all official information (see definition in AFI 51-301, paragraph
9.2.6) created or maintained by Air Force personnel in the course of their duties, to include
classified and unclassified information and draft documents, regardless of whether the
information is considered an official record.

1.3.3.1   Classified items. Discovery obligations apply to classified information.

1.3.3.1.1 Air Force personnel shall search for, identify, and preserve potentially relevant
information regardless of its classification.

1.3.3.1.2 Only personnel with the requisite security clearances can conduct a search of
classified information.

1.3.3.1.3 If classified information is identified as potentially relevant, it must be preserved and
referenced in a manner consistent with its classification. Care must be taken not to preserve or
store classified information in an unsecure environment or on non-classified networks.

1.3.3.1.4 If classified information needs to be collected at a later stage in the discovery process,
it may only be transmitted in a manner consistent with its classification. Care must be taken not
to transmit classified information to an unauthorized recipient or in an unauthorized manner.

1.3.4 Most information generated by individuals, units, and organizations is now ESI. ESI is
stored on servers, databases, networks, hard drives, and portable storage devices. To meet its
discovery obligations, the Air Force must search these locations for potentially relevant
information.

1.3.4.1 No special permission to search servers, databases, networks, hard drives, or portable
storage devices for ESI is required to meet discovery obligations in civil litigation. Air Force
records management policy, common law, developing case law, and the FRCP provide the legal
basis for the discovery/litigation hold process in civil suits.

1.3.4.2 In law enforcement/criminal investigation matters, special authority may be required to
access stored network data. The Designated Accrediting Authority for the Air Force Network
(AFSPC A6) has delegated this authority to installation commanders. However, permission of
the Designated Accrediting Authority, or its delegate, is not required to access stored network
data in civil litigation.

1.3.4.3 AFI 33-100 requires Air Force information system users to sign AF Form 4394
acknowledging that the systems are provided for U.S. Government use only, belong to the U.S.
Government, and that most information contained on them is not considered private to the
individual and may be searched and communications disclosed for any U.S. Government-
authorized purpose.

1.3.4.4 SAF/CIO A6 has designated Network Operations Elements (NOE) as the functional
area experts (see AFMAN 33-363_AFGM 1) to:

                                                                                                    4
1.3.4.4.1 Provide technical advice and assistance to individuals, units, and organizations
searching for, preserving, and collecting potentially relevant ESI, making sure to maintain ESI in
its native file format and in a manner that minimizes changes to metadata.

1.3.4.4.2   Search networks for potentially relevant ESI.

1.3.4.4.3 Establish a read-only, access-limited, secure location for storage of potentially
relevant ESI located in searches of network and other locations.

1.3.5 Law Enforcement and Defense Functions. The requirement to search for, identify, and
preserve potentially relevant information applies to documents, tangible things, and ESI in the
possession, custody, or control of Air Force. It includes law enforcement (e.g., Security Forces,
Office of Special Investigations, Military Prosecutors) and defense functions (e.g., Area Defense
Counsel).

1.3.5.1 Special exemptions or privileges may apply to information maintained by law
enforcement (e.g., investigatory/law enforcement file privilege, informant privilege, confidential
report privilege, attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine) or defense functions
(e.g., attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine). These exemptions or privileges
may preclude or prohibit the collection and production of protected information; however, they
do not relieve the Air Force of its initial obligations to search for, identify, and preserve.

1.3.5.2 Privileges may be limited or qualified, and even absolute privileges may be waived.
The existence of an exemption or privilege and its scope are subject to judicial review and
determination.

1.3.5.3 Law enforcement and defense functions are required to comply with the search,
identification, and preservation requests included in the civil discovery/litigation hold process.

1.3.5.3.1 Requiring law enforcement and defense functions to comply with the initial civil
discovery/litigation hold procedures of searching for, identifying, and preserving potentially
relevant information does not constitute an unauthorized search of that information. Moreover,
nothing in the civil discovery/litigation hold process constitutes a “search authorization” of law
enforcement and defense functions.

1.3.5.3.2 Affected law enforcement and defense functions may assert any special exemptions
or privileges, if necessary, at the collection and production phases of the civil discovery process.

1.3.5.4 Requiring the search, identification, and preservation of potentially relevant
information in civil litigation will ensure that the Air Force complies with its civil discovery
obligations, yet maintains the ability to operate its unique law enforcement and defense
functions. In furtherance of these goals:

1.3.5.4.1   Managing Attorneys must:


                                                                                                     5
1.3.5.4.1.1 Limit the distribution of any civil discovery/litigation hold to include only those
specific law enforcement and defense functions known or suspected to have the possession,
custody, or control of information potentially relevant to the civil litigation.

1.3.5.4.1.2 Initiate the discovery/litigation hold process for defense functions by sending any
request or hold to AFLOA/JAJD at usaf.pentagon.af-ja.mbx.afloa-jajd-workflow@mail.mil.
AFLOA/JAJD will, in turn, help facilitate compliance with the discovery/ litigation hold process.

1.3. 5.5.1.3 Not collect or produce any information from law enforcement or defense functions
who assert an exemption or privilege, unless the collection has been directed by a higher-level
legal authority or compelled by a court of competent jurisdiction. In such cases, the Managing
Attorney must first consult with the Department of Justice.

1.3. 5.4.2 The Air Force Records Office must:

1.3. 5.4.2.1 Limit the distribution of any civil discovery/litigation hold so that it is not sent to
law enforcement or defense functions, unless directed by the Managing Attorney. Generally,
Managing Attorneys should send a specifically-targeted request or hold to the affected office.
(See section on directly distributed holds, below.)

1.3. 5.4.2.2 Ensure network searches do not include servers, databases, networks, computers,
accounts, or other repositories of ESI that belong to law enforcement or defense functions.

1.3. 5.4.3 Law enforcement and defense functions must:

1.3. 5.4.3.1 Contact the Managing Attorney with questions about the scope of the
discovery/litigation hold.

1.3. 5.4.3.2 Ensure the search for and preservation of potentially relevant information are
conducted by individuals covered by any asserted exemption or privilege.

1.3. 5.4.3.3 Prepare an appropriate Privilege Log identifying any potentially relevant
information and any exemption or privilege.

1.3.5.4.3.4 Ensure the Managing Attorney is aware of any exemptions or privileges, so that
they may be asserted in the civil discovery proceedings.

1.3.5.4.3.5 Complying with these procedures will help ensure that courts do not find a waiver
of any exemption or privilege for a failure to identify covered information or a failure to assert
the exemption or privilege.


Chapter 2

INITIATING THE DISCOVERY/LITIGATION HOLD PROCESS


                                                                                                       6
2.1 When to Initiate the Discovery/Litigation Hold Process. The need to ensure
documents, tangible things, and ESI are preserved applies in existing litigation and matters
where a party “reasonably anticipates litigation.”

2.1.1 Reasonable anticipation of litigation. Reasonable anticipation of litigation arises when an
organization is on notice it may become involved in litigation. The mere possibility of litigation
will not trigger the duty to preserve documents, tangible things, and ESI; litigation must be likely
to occur, based on credible facts and circumstances.

2.1.1.1   Air Force as Plaintiff.

2.1.1.1.1 Initiating the discovery/litigation hold process should not wait until the lawsuit is
filed, if litigation is reasonably anticipated.

2.1.1.1.2 Initiating the discovery/litigation hold process may be appropriate at an early stage
depending on the status of any on-going investigation, the positions of the opposing parties,
whether there have been any early attempts at settlement negotiations, the quality of the available
evidence, and other circumstances.

2.1.1.1.3 If Managing Attorney is in consultation with the Department of Justice about
litigation, he/she should consider discussing whether and when to initiate the discovery/litigation
hold process.

2.1.1.2   Air Force as Defendant.

2.1.1.2.1 The discovery/litigation hold process should be initiated when the Air Force first
learns another party is preparing a lawsuit against it.

2.1.1.2.2 Agency knowledge of a lawsuit includes, but is not limited to: obtaining credible
information that it is the target of legal action, receiving a letter from opposing counsel
indicating an intent to file suit, receiving a written request to preserve information in advance of
litigation to be filed, or any other circumstance that lead the agency to reasonably anticipate the
filing of a lawsuit.

2.1.1.3   Air Force as Non-Party.

2.1.1.3.1 Discovery obligations may exist in situations where the Air Force is not, and may
never be, a party to a lawsuit.

2.1.1.3.2 If Air Force personnel, through the receipt of a valid subpoena or court order, are
aware that they may have possession, custody, or control of documents, tangible things, or ESI
potentially relevant to a lawsuit not directly involving the Air Force, but related to their official
duties or seeking the release of official information, they must immediately contact their
servicing legal office who will contact the HAF-level office responsible for the litigation.



                                                                                                        7
2.1.1.3.2.1 AFLOA/JAC or AFLOA/JAQ will assign a Managing Attorney to coordinate with
the applicable release authority (see AFI 51-301—Chapter 9) and to contact the Department of
Justice to discuss whether to seek a protective order under FRCP, Rule 26(c), file a motion to
quash or modify the subpoena under Rule 45(c)(3), or to comply.

2.1.1.3.2.2 If it is determined that the agency should comply with the subpoena or order, the
Managing Attorney will initiate the discovery/litigation hold process.

2.1.2 Administrative claims. Normally, the receipt of an administrative claim alone will not
mean the Air Force should reasonably anticipate litigation.

2.1.2.1 Unlike the private sector, federal agencies are often authorized or required by law to
develop robust administrative claims programs that allow claimants a forum through which they
may petition the government for a redress of their grievances without the need for, or as a
prerequisite to the filing of, litigation. Such programs usually provide procedural and
substantive due process protections, including an opportunity to be heard, to present and review
evidence, and to receive a timely adjudication of the claim and any subsequent reconsideration or
appeal.

2.1.2.2 It is Air Force policy to establish and administer vigorous programs to expeditiously
investigate and process all administrative claims for or against the Air Force and to promptly pay
meritorious claims in the amount necessary to restore (within the guidelines of law and Air Force
instructions) the claimant, as nearly as possible, to his or her position before the incident on
which the claim is based. (See, AFPD 51-5—Military Legal Affairs, Section A, paragraphs 2
and 3.)

2.1.2.3 The Air Force relies on its administrative claims programs as an avenue to quickly and
efficiently resolve issues and disputes with claimants. Consistent with stated policy, the Air
Force participates in these programs with the goal of fully considering the matter and resolving,
remedying, addressing, explaining, or eliminating the issue or dispute in question. The vast
majority of administrative claims that the Air Force acts upon do not result in court-filed
litigation.

2.1.2.4 Additionally, the filing of an administrative claim results in an investigation or fact
gathering that assembles relevant, substantive information and documentation about the issue or
dispute.

2.1.2.4.1 The gathering of facts and information occurs at a relatively early stage in the
administrative claim process such that the likelihood of the non-preservation of relevant
information is greatly minimized.

2.1.2.4.2 The gathered facts and information are then placed into an administrative record or
claim file, which is preserved under an agency Records Disposition Code. It would be unduly
burdensome to initiate a separate discovery/litigation hold process that would largely duplicate
the information and documentation already gathered in the administrative claims process,
especially when the claims do not normally result in litigation.

                                                                                                    8
2.1.2.5 However, attorneys handling administrative claims should monitor individual claims
and initiate the discovery/litigation hold process if the facts and circumstances warrant.

2.1.2.5.1 By way of example only, in matters where there has been or is expected to be
significant media or Congressional interest, in high-dollar disputes, or where the appellate
avenue for the administrative claim involves more than a de novo petition to district court, then
the facts and circumstances may warrant the initiation of the discovery/litigation hold process.
(For instance, administrative claims under the Contract Disputes Act heard before the Boards of
Contract Appeals are usually high-dollar, high-visibility matters appealed directly to the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In such administrative claims, issuing a discovery/litigation
hold may be the norm.)

2.1.2.5.2. AFLOA/JAC and AFLOA/JAQ may issue guidelines for when attorneys should
initiate the discovery/litigation hold process in particular types of administrative claims
processed by their Divisions.

2.1.3 Proportionality. The duty to preserve potentially relevant information does not extend to
every shred of paper or piece of data maintained by the Air Force. Rather, search and
preservation obligations are governed by standards of reasonableness and proportionality.

2.1.3.1 FRCP, Rule 26(b) defines the scope and limits of discovery once a case is in litigation.
(Note: common law or other duties to preserve evidence may exist before the filing of a
complaint.)

2.1.3.2 Rule 26(b)(1) acknowledges that “[a]ll discovery is subject to the limitations imposed
by Rule 26(b)(2)(C).”

2.1.3.3   Rule 26(b)(2)(C) limits the scope of discovery if:

(i) the discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or can be obtained from
some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive;

(ii) the party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity to obtain the information by
discovery in the action; or

(iii) the burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit, considering
the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties’ resources, the importance of the
issues at stake in the action, and the importance of the discovery in resolving the issues.

2.1.3.4 Although Rule 26(b)(2)(C) mandates that a court—on motion or on its own—limit the
frequency and extent of discovery when these limitations are present, Rule 26(b)(1) applies these
limitations to discovery without the need for court intervention.

2.1.3.4.1 Annually, the Air Force handles thousands of matters that could conceivably require
some form of litigation hold. Requiring the strict initiation of the processes described in this

                                                                                                   9
guidance in all circumstances would overly burden Air Force legal, records management,
information management, and information technology personnel, in addition to individuals, who
have to perform searches, preserve information, suspend information disposition practices, and
otherwise implement litigation holds. Furthermore, the facts and circumstances of each case do
not necessarily warrant implementing such a litigation hold. A cost/benefit analysis, based on
reasonableness, proportionality, common sense, and the discovery limitations in the FRCP may
counsel against implementing a formal litigation hold or suggest taking less burdensome
measures to preserve key evidence.

2.1.3.3.2 FRCP, Rule 1, provides that the Rules “should be construed and administered to
secure the just, speedy, and inexpensive determination of every action and proceeding.”
Consistent with this guidance, Managing Attorneys may exercise their professional judgment in
determining the nature and scope of the discovery/litigation hold process based on the limitations
contained in the FRCP and the facts and circumstances of each case.

2.1.3.3.3 Because the nature and scope of litigation holds are sometimes litigated, Managing
Attorneys should be prepared to articulate their thought process in making discovery/litigation
hold decisions.

2.1.4 Litigation Cases Where Discovery is Inapplicable or Not Allowed. In some forms of
litigation, formal discovery is either inapplicable or not allowed. For instance, in Administrative
Procedure Act cases, litigation usually proceeds on the administrative record alone.

2.1.4.1 In matters where discovery is either inapplicable or not allowed, there will normally not
be a need to initiate the discovery/litigation hold process.

2.1.4.2 Managing Attorneys should continue to monitor developments in these cases and
initiate the discovery/litigation hold process if the facts and circumstances warrant.

2.1.5 Early Involvement and Consultation. Managing Attorneys should ensure that they,
and/or assigned Department of Justice counsel, are prepared to discuss issues about the
disclosure or discovery of ESI, including locations to be searched, search terms, and the form of
production, with opposing counsel early in the case. See FRCP, Rule 26(f)(3)(C) (discussing
what parties must include in a discovery plan to the court.) See also FRCP, Rule 16(b)(2) and
Rule 26(f)(1) (discussing the timing of scheduling conferences and discovery plan due dates.)

2.1.5.1 If the opposition will agree on discovery issues in advance of initiating the
discovery/litigation hold process, the basis of the agreement may help limit the nature and scope
of implementation.

2.1.5.2 If the parties cannot agree on discovery issues in advance, the Managing Attorney may
need to consult with the assigned Department of Justice attorney about seeking a protective order
under FRCP, Rule 26(c).

2.2 Initiating the Discovery/Litigation Hold Process by Issuing a Search Request &
Litigation Hold Memo. The purpose of a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo is to

                                                                                                  10
formally notify those with possession, custody, or control of potentially relevant documents,
tangible things, and ESI of the requirement to search for, identify, and preserve it. The Memo
also demonstrates the Air Force acted reasonably and in good faith by implementing its
discovery/litigation hold process.

2.2.1 The Managing Attorney may initiate the discovery/litigation hold process by sending a
Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo to: (1) The Air Force Records Office (AFRO) for
further taskings to units and organizations through Records Professionals; (2) individuals
directly; or (3) both. It is within the Managing Attorney’s discretion as to how to implement the
discovery/litigation hold process.

2.2.2 Distribution through the AFRO. The Managing Attorney may initiate the
discovery/litigation hold process by drafting a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo and
sending it to SAF/CIO A6, Air Force Records Office (AFRO), usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.af-
records@mail.mil, for distribution to subordinate Records Professionals known or reasonably
suspected to have possession, custody, or control of information or material that is potentially
relevant to the matters in dispute. (Note: if the search itself is classified secret or above, send the
request to usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.saf-cio-a6-af-records-office@mail.smil.mil, and send a
courtesy e-mail to usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.af-records@mail.mil advising the AFRO to
check to SIPRnet e-mail.)

2.2.2.1   The Managing Attorney.

2.2.2.1.1 To promote consistency and process efficiency, Managing Attorneys should use the
format for the Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo for Distribution to Records Professionals
through the AFRO found in Figure 2.1.

2.2.2.1.2 Not every matter will require a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo to be
distributed through the AFRO. If the Managing Attorney already knows the specific individuals
or units who will have the information or material potentially relevant to the issues in
controversy, the Managing Attorney may distribute a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo
directly to those individuals or units. (See below.) If the Managing Attorney reasonably
believes that potentially relevant information may exist that is not in the possession, custody, or
control of specific individuals or units, the Managing Attorney should distribute a Search
Request & Litigation Hold Memo through the AFRO.

2.2.2.2 AFRO. The Air Force Records Office (AFRO) shall comply with the guidance in
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and other guidance provided by the Managing
Attorney that is necessary for the Air Force to comply with its discovery obligations.

2.2.2.2.1 The AFRO, in the exercise of its discretion or in consultation with the Managing
Attorney, may distribute the Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo to these and other units or
organizations whom it believes may have possession, custody, or control of potentially relevant
information or material.



                                                                                                    11
2.2.2.2.2 Because the Managing Attorney may be required to substantiate the Air Force search
efforts in court, including detailing all locations searched and the search terms used, the
Managing Attorney may ask the AFRO to provide, as necessary, the contact information of any
individuals, units, organizations, or designated action officers, who responded, whether
positively or negatively, to the Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo.

2.2.2.3 Records Professionals. Records Professionals shall comply with the guidance in
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and that provided by the Managing Attorney
necessary for the Air Force to comply with its discovery obligations. Complying with these
procedures, whether the search results are positive or negative, is important because:

2.2.2.3.1 It proves the communication of critical information and demonstrates implementation
of the Air Force discovery/litigation hold process.

2.2.2.3.2 It establishes the reasonableness of the Air Force search for potentially relevant
information and material.

2.2.2.3.3 It limits the future burden on Air Force personnel of being deposed or having to
reconstruct or re-conduct the search.

2.2.2.3.4 It allows the Managing Attorney to make initial representations to the Department of
Justice trial attorney, opposing counsel, and the court of the nature and extent of the information
at issue, including time and financial burdens associated with the discovery process.

2.2.3 Distribution to Individuals. The Managing Attorney may initiate the discovery/ litigation
hold process by drafting a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo and sending it directly to
individuals known, or suspected, to have possession, custody, or control of documents, tangible
things, or ESI that is potentially relevant to the matters in dispute.

2.2.3.1   The Managing Attorney.

2.2.3.1.1 To promote consistency and process efficiency, Managing Attorneys should use the
format for the Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo for Distribution Directly to Individuals
found in Figure 2.2.

2.2.3.1.2 Managing Attorneys will provide a courtesy copy (e-mail with attachment will
suffice) of any Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo sent directly to individuals to the
following offices:

2.2.3.1.2.1   The AFRO at usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.af-records@mail.mil.

2.2.3.1.2.2 The legal office servicing the intended distributees. Because of the non-routine
nature of the obligations imposed in the discovery/litigation hold process on non-record
professionals, Managing Attorneys are also strongly encouraged to make telephone contact with
individuals receiving a directly-distributed Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo and with
their servicing legal office.

                                                                                                 12
2.2.3.2 Individual Recipients. Individual recipients shall comply with the Action Officer
guidance in AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and other guidance provided by the
Managing Attorney that is necessary for the Air Force to comply with its discovery obligations.

2.2.3.2.1 Take all actions directed and provide all information requested to the Managing
Attorney, or as otherwise directed, by the suspense date.

2.2.3.2.2 Complete and return the Acknowledgment of Receipt of the Search Request &
Litigation Hold Memo to the Managing Attorney.

2.2.3.2.2.1 The Acknowledgment of Receipt, whether the subsequent search results are
positive or negative, is important because it proves the communication of critical information,
and creates a record showing the implementation of the Air Force discovery/litigation hold
process.

2.2.3.2.2.2 A sample of the Acknowledgment of Receipt is found on the last page of the
Litigation Search & Hold Request in Figure 2.2 (after the attorney signature block).

2.2.3.2.2.3 Signing the Acknowledgment of Receipt constitutes the recipient’s certification
that he/she has received, read, understands, and agrees to comply with all search and
preservation instructions and requirements.

2.2.3.2.3 Complete and return the Litigation Hold Worksheet (Attachment to Figure 2.2),
including the details of locations searched, search terms used, items located, and preservation
actions taken. Providing the requested information, whether the search results are positive or
negative, is important because:

2.2.3.2.3.1 It proves the communication of critical information, and creates a record showing
the further implementation of the Air Force discovery/litigation hold process.

2.2.3.2.3.2 It establishes the reasonableness of the Air Force search for potentially relevant
information and material.

2.2.3.2.3.3 It limits the future burden on Air Force personnel of being deposed or having to
reconstruct or re-conduct the search.

2.2.3.2.3.4 It allows the Managing Attorney to make initial representations to the Department
of Justice trial attorney, the opposition, and the court as to the nature and extent of the
information at issue, including time and financial burdens associated with the discovery process.

2.2.3.2.4 Follow the instructions in this guidance document, and any other methodologies
established by SAF/CIO A6 on how to search for, preserve, and collect potentially relevant
information and material.



                                                                                                  13
2.2.3.2.5 Search for, preserve, and collect potentially relevant information and material, either
directly or working with their Records Professionals and Network Operations Element personnel.

2.2.3.2.6 Suspend all document destruction/overwriting procedures for the information
identified until notified that the litigation hold has been lifted. Once notification is received,
resume normal lifecycle disposition.

2.2.4 General Guidance for Drafting and Issuing a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo.
Managing Attorneys must carefully consider the nature and scope of any Search Request &
Litigation Hold Memo.

2.2.4.1 Managing Attorneys should specifically tailor distribution of a Search Request &
Litigation Hold Memo to meet Air Force discovery obligations, but not impose undue or
unforeseen burdens on Air Force personnel. The distribution of the Memo will usually fall into
one of three categories:

2.2.4.1.1 Air Force-wide data calls/holds. An Air Force-wide data call/hold is intended to
reach as many Air Force personnel as possible. Use of this distribution in the
discovery/litigation hold process should be extremely rare.

2.2.4.1.1.1 Air Force-wide data calls/holds require hundreds of thousands of Air Force
personnel to conduct searches for information even though there may be no possibility the
individual, unit, or organization will have it.

2.2.4.1.1.2 Air Force-wide data calls/holds disrupt normal duty functions; divert time,
attention, and resources; and create confusion among those responsible for conducting and
tracking the search. All of this can negatively impact the mission.

2.2.4.1.1.3 Managing Attorneys must be prepared to question a request to initiate Air Force-
wide data calls/holds, and must first attempt to tailor the request to a limited, more reasonable
distribution.

2.2.4.1.1.4 An Air Force-wide data call conducted as part of the civil litigation discovery
process must first be approved by the Managing Attorney’s Division Chief.

2.2.4.1.2 Particular units or organizations known or suspected to have possession, custody, or
control of potentially relevant information.

2.2.4.1.2.1 A Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo should be sent to the AFRO for further
tasking to the Records Professionals of any unit or organization that was, or reasonably should
have been, involved in the anticipated litigation or issues in controversy.

2.2.4.1.2.2 Records Professionals or commander-appointed Action Officers will often respond
to a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo on behalf of an entire unit or organization. It is
important to find the actual person(s) in possession, custody, or control of the information and


                                                                                                     14
material identified during the search and to ensure those individuals are aware of the Air Force’s
preservation obligations.

2.2.4.1.3 Individuals known or suspected to have the possession, custody, or control of
potentially relevant information.

2.2.4.1.3.1 When Managing Attorneys are able to identify individuals responsible for the issues
that are the subject matter of the dispute, the Managing Attorney may send a Search Request &
Litigation Hold Memo directly to those individuals.

2.2.4.2 The Managing Attorney should draft the Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo to
include information on: details of the matter at issue, search instructions, search terms to be used,
preservation efforts, response requirements, legal authorities, suggested distribution, suspense
dates, and contact information.

2.2.4.3 The Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo should normally be in writing, signed by
the Managing Attorney and on agency letterhead. Because of the informality and potential
disregard of e-mails, avoid using text in e-mails to communicate the Search Request & Litigation
Hold Memo requirements. However, e-mail may be used to distribute a PDF or digitally-signed
Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo.

2.2.4.4 Although discovery search and preservation requirements are imposed on the Air Force
by operation of law, some recipients of a Search Requests & Litigation Hold Memo may view
the obligations as a “tasking” by an office or individual not within their chain of command. Due
to familiarity, recipients will often consult their servicing legal office for input or guidance. For
this reason, Managing Attorneys are strongly encouraged to speak with servicing legal offices
before distributing a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo and to provide them with courtesy
copies to facilitate understanding and compliance.

2.3 Ensuring Compliance with the Discovery/Litigation Hold Process. The obligation to
locate and preserve potentially relevant documents, tangible things, and ESI in a case, or
anticipated litigation, is an on-going duty, which must be continuously monitored.

2.3.1 Managing Attorneys should review interim and final reports from the AFRO to confirm
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) recipients have responded to
notifications. Managing Attorneys should also confirm individuals contacted directly by the
Managing Attorney have completed and returned a signed Acknowledgment of Receipt.

2.3.2 Managing Attorneys should periodically review the facts and circumstances of the case
and responses to the discovery/litigation hold process to determine if additional Search Requests
& Litigation Hold Memos should be issued to newly identified individuals, units, or
organizations who may have possession, custody, or control of potentially relevant information.

2.3.3 Similarly, the scope and reach of existing litigation holds may need to be expanded as
issues in the case are clarified, requests are made by adversaries, or courts issue rulings
expanding the issues in controversy or the scope of discovery. In such situations, the Managing

                                                                                                  15
Attorney may need to send out new Search Request & Litigation Hold Memos to ensure the
expanded scope and reach of discovery is reflected in further Air Force search, identification,
preservation, and collection efforts.

2.3.4 At case-appropriate intervals, but at least semi-annually, Managing Attorneys should
ensure that each individual, unit, or organizational recipient of a Search Request & Litigation
Hold Memo receives a written reminder of the recipient’s discovery obligations.

2.3.4.1 Records Professionals should receive their reminder through an AFRIMS addendum
notification to the original request. The addendum should reiterate the search and preservation
obligations, and direct Records Professionals to respond positively, if there is any new
information (with inputs about any new data), and negatively, if there is no new information.

2.3.4.2 Recipients of a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo distributed directly by the
Managing Attorney should be instructed to provide a written acknowledgment of their search
and preservation obligations, and asked to update their Litigation Hold Worksheets, as
appropriate. In most situations, an e-mail reminder and response will suffice.

2.3.4.3 Reports and communications showing these periodic reminders should be preserved
because adequate documentation is crucial in defending against any charge of spoliation.
Managing Attorneys are advised to track the issuance, acknowledgement, and periodic reminders
for Search Requests & Litigation Hold Memos they issue.

2.3.5 If the Managing Attorney discovers a deficiency in searching for or preserving potentially
relevant information, the Managing Attorney must immediately take steps to correct the process.
Also, report the loss or destruction of information to the Department of Justice attorney handling
the matter. He or she may need to inform the court and opposing counsel.


Chapter 3

SEARCHING FOR AND IDENTIFYING POTENTIALLY RELEVANT INFORMATION

3.1 Importance of following established search methodologies. To meet its discovery
obligations, the Air Force must be able to prove to opposing parties or the court that it conducted
a reasonable search to identify documents, tangible things, and ESI that are potentially relevant
to the issues in a case. This can be achieved by demonstrating Air Force personnel followed
established policies and procedures.

3.1.1 It is critical that Air Force personnel follow the search guidance in AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and other guidance provided by the Managing Attorney that is
necessary for the Air Force to comply with its discovery obligations.

3.1.2 To prove that the Air Force conducted a reasonable search that yielded no (or limited)
information, the Air Force must be able to state the name of the person(s) conducting the search,


                                                                                                  16
the date of the search, the locations searched, the search terms used (for ESI), a description of the
items located, the location where preserved, and the preservation actions taken.

3.1.3 While Air Force personnel are expected to exercise common sense and good judgment in
conducting discovery searches, they are not to attempt to engage in determinations of the “legal
relevance” of information, whether information would be non-discoverable as “privileged” or
“classified,” or to make any other determinations about the quality of information.

3.1.3.1 If there is any question whether information should be included in the parameters of the
search, or is responsive to the search, they should contact the Managing Attorney for guidance.

3.1.3.2 In general, it is best to err on the side of caution and include the information in the
search and search results. The Managing Attorney will be responsible for making all legal
determinations and to process, review, analyze, redact, and produce the information in the
discovery process.

3.2     Search Methodologies.

3.2.1     Documents and Tangible Things.

3.2.1.1     Nature of locations to be searched, include, but are not limited to:

3.2.1.1.1    Locations where searchers know potentially relevant information or material is kept.

3.2.1.1.2 Locations where, if the individual, unit, or organization had the potentially relevant
information or material, it should be kept.

3.2.1.2     Specific locations to be searched, include, but are not limited to:

3.2.1.2.1    SF-135 collections for records in local staging areas or at Federal Records Centers.

3.21.2.2 Hard copy files and physical storage locations in rolling files, filing cabinets, shelves,
desks and credenzas, cubical storage, etc.

3.2.1.2.3 Any other physical location where potentially relevant documents and tangible things
might be stored. Every conceivable location need not be searched, but the determination of
locations must be reasonable.

3.2.1.3 Types of documents that may contain potentially relevant information include, but are
not limited to, originals and hard copies of:

3.2.1.3.1 Routine office documents: correspondence, letters, memoranda, reports, notes, files,
folders, notebooks, calendars, diaries, daily logs or journals, etc.

3.2.1.3.2    Financial information: billing records, invoices, receipts, payments, vouchers, etc.


                                                                                                    17
3.2.1.3.3    Other documents of regularly conducted business activities: manifests, forms, tickets,
etc.

3.2.1.3.4 Distributed information: flyers, posters, mailings, cards, magazines, books,
publications, trade journals, etc.

3.2.1.3.5    Indexes or abstracts of information that have been prepared, etc.

3.2.1.3.6 Non-traditional/miscellaneous documents: maps, photographs, transcriptions, analog
audio and video tapes, computer print-outs, microfilm, microfiche, etc.

3.2.2     Electronically Stored Information (ESI).

3.2.2.1     Nature of locations to be searched, include, but are not limited to:

3.2.2.1.1    Locations where searchers know potentially relevant ESI exists.

3.2.2.1.2 Locations where, if the individual, unit, or organization had the potentially relevant
ESI, it should be kept.

3.2.2.1.3 When searching for ESI, technology can be used to increase the efficiency of the
search and the range of locations searched without unduly increasing the search burden.
Searchers should consider their technological capabilities when determining what constitutes a
reasonable search. (Note: Individuals charged with conducting a search should consult their
Records Custodian (RC), Base Records Manager (BRM), or Network Operations Element
(NOE) for advice and guidance on how to search for ESI.)

3.2.2.2     Specific locations to be searched, may include, but are not limited to:

3.2.2.2.1 Network servers, network shared drives, and Air Force-assigned personal drives on
the network.

3.2.2.2.2    Office servers and office shared drives.

3.2.2.2.3 CPU hard drives on Air Force desktops and laptops, in addition to portable hard
drives, flash drives, CDs and DVDs.

3.2.2.2.4 Personal computing devices, including home computers and PDAs if they were used
to conduct Air Force business. (Note: Air Force policies may prohibit or discourage the use of
home computers to conduct official business. Such policies, however, do not excuse the need to
search home computers that were used to conduct agency business related to the subject matter
of the discovery/litigation hold.)

3.2.2.2.5    Locations where user’s .pst (e-mail) files are found.

3.2.2.2.6    Databases (e.g., technical, scientific, financial, human resources, etc.)

                                                                                                   18
3.2.2.2.7   Blackberries, smart phones, other PDA devices, and answering machines.

3.2.2.2.8 Any other location where potentially relevant ESI might be stored. Every
conceivable location need not be searched, but the determination of locations must be
reasonable.

3.2.2.3 Types of ESI that may contain potentially relevant information include, but are not
limited to:

3.2.2.3.1 Information generated via office business suite applications: e-mail, word processing
documents, spreadsheets, presentation slides, etc.

3.2.2.3.2 Information generated via emerging forms of electronic communications: digital
voice mail, instant messaging, text messages, etc.

3.2.3   Human intelligence.

3.2.3.1 Searchers should not attempt to rely on technology alone to perform searches for
information. Often documents, tangible things, and ESI will be located in places other than
where normally expected. A good way to ascertain if other locations exist is to ask current or
former members of the unit if they are aware of the location of any potentially relevant
information.

3.2.3.2 Searchers should be sure to document all individuals contacted and any responses
received.


Chapter 4

PRESERVING POTENTIALLY RELEVANT INFORMATION

4.1 Importance of following established preservation methodologies. To meet its discovery
obligations, the Air Force must be able to prove to opposing parties or the court that it took
reasonable steps to preserve documents, tangible things, and ESI, including native file formats
and metadata, that are potentially relevant to the issues in a case. This can be achieved, and the
Air Force will be better able to authenticate its own evidence, by demonstrating Air Force
personnel followed established policies and procedures.

4.1.1 It is critical that Air Force personnel follow the preservation guidance in AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and other guidance provided by the Managing Attorney that is
necessary for the Air Force to comply with its discovery obligations.

4.1.2 There is no need to preserve duplicate copies of materials, so long as at least one
complete copy of every item is retained. However, there is a need to save a copy of all related
drafts or versions that contain differing content or metadata.

                                                                                                  19
4.1.3 If the potentially relevant information contains a work-in-progress, a copy of the work-in-
progress should be preserved. Air Force personnel may continue to work on the original item,
including editing and overwriting where such actions would be done in the ordinary course of
business. If the litigation hold is still in place when the item is completed, the final version
should also be preserved.

4.1.4 Units should not transfer potentially relevant information that is subject to a litigation
hold to any staging facility, including a Federal Records Center (FRC), the National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), or anywhere outside of the unit without first consulting
with the Managing Attorney and obtaining the written permission of the AFRO.

4.2 Miscellaneous Preservation Requirements. Air Force personnel responsible for
preserving information located as a result of a discovery search must also:

4.2.1 Notify their servicing Records Professional (or, if a Records Professional, the next
higher-level Records Professional) and the Managing Attorney as soon as possible if they are
deploying, subject to PCS or PCA orders, or otherwise leaving their position or the Air Force,
and provide contact information concerning their replacement.

4.3     Preservation Methodologies.

4.3.1    Documents and Tangible Things.

4.3.1.1 Air Force personnel should preserve documents and tangible things in accordance with
the guidance in AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records.

4.3.1.2 Keep documents and tangible things in a secure location with controlled/limited access
(e.g., locked filing cabinet or office, restricted location within local staging area, etc.) (See
Chapter5—Completing the AFRIMS Index and Litigation Hold Worksheet, for additional
information that must be captured on potentially responsive material.).

4.3.2    Electronically Stored Information (ESI).

4.3.2.1 Air Force personnel should preserve ESI in accordance with the guidance in AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records.

4.3.2.3 Preserve ESI in accordance with specific instructions provided and any other field
guidance developed specifically for ESI preservation. (Note: Individuals with questions about
preserving ESI located during a search should consult their RC, BRM, or Network Operations
Element.)

4.4 Disaster Recovery/Backup Tapes and Servers. Generally speaking, when a litigation
hold is issued, a party should suspend its normal document and ESI retention/destruction policies
to ensure the preservation of relevant information. However, because of the distinctive features
of computer systems, information is routinely altered and deleted due to ordinary use.

                                                                                                   20
4.4.1   FRCP, Rule 26(b)(2)(B) places specific limitations on the discovery of ESI.

4.4.1.1 In particular, “A party need not provide discovery of electronically stored information
from sources that the party identifies as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or
cost.”

4.4.1.2 If a party brings a motion to compel/motion for protective order, the party from whom
discovery is sought must show that the information is not reasonably accessible because of the
undue burden or cost.

4.4.1.3 Nevertheless, if the party seeking the discovery makes a showing of good cause, the
court may—after considering the limitations in Rule 26(b)(2)(C)—order that the discovery take
place.

4.4.2 Air Force personnel should search for, identify, and preserve ESI on readily accessible
electronic storage devices (e.g., networks and drives on which daily work and final products are
stored).

4.4.3 Air Force personnel should also search for, identify, and preserve ESI on near-line
storage devices (e.g., portable hard drives, CDs and DVDs that are routinely used) where there is
not an undue burden on the Air Force in terms of time and expense.

4.4.4 Air Force personnel will have great difficulty searching for, identifying, and preserving
ESI that is located on off-line, or “inaccessible,” storage media (e.g., disaster recovery/ backup
tapes and servers).

4.4.4.1 As a general rule, disaster recovery/backup tapes and servers will be deemed
inaccessible and not subject to the requirements of a litigation hold, provided:

4.4.4.1.1 They are typically maintained for the purpose of disaster recovery and not used for
active ESI storage and retrieval, and

4.4.4.1.2   They are not the sole source of likely discoverable ESI contained on them.

4.4.4.1.2.1 If likely discoverable ESI is available from other, reasonably accessible locations,
the ESI on the disaster recovery/backup tapes and servers need not be preserved.

4.4.4.1.2.2 If, however, discoverable ESI is only available on a disaster recovery/backup tape
or server, then the Air Force should intervene in the routine operation of the information system
to ensure that the ESI is preserved. For example, if Air Force personnel have deleted relevant e-
mails, even if in the ordinary course of business, the backup tapes/servers may be the only
location where the information is currently stored. In such instances, Air Force personnel must
immediately contact:



                                                                                                     21
4.4.4.1.2.2.1 Their BRM, RC, and Network Operations Element to assist in taking appropriate
preservation actions.

4.4.4.1.2.2.2 The Managing Attorney, who will attempt to resolve the issue with the assigned
Department of Justice attorney and opposing counsel as expeditiously as possible.

4.4.5 Absent exceptional circumstances, a court may not sanction a party for failing to provide
ESI lost as a result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system. (See
FRCP, Rule 37(e)). In order to demonstrate good faith, the Air Force must be prepared to
affirmatively intervene to preserve potentially relevant ESI on disaster recovery/backup tapes
and servers where the aforementioned “inaccessible” conditions are not met.


Chapter 5

COLLECTING POTENTIALLY RELEVANT INFORMATION

5.1 Importance of properly collecting potentially relevant information. Potentially
relevant documents, tangible things, and ESI will be preserved in place until collection is called
for by the Managing Attorney, who will then be responsible for performing or coordinating the
processing, review, analysis, and production of the information gathered. Depending on the
case, there could be a significant lag time between the time of preservation and the time of
collection. Standardizing the collection process serves many purposes for the Air Force. Air
Force personnel will follow the collection guidance in AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and other guidance provided by the Managing Attorney necessary for the Air Force to
comply with its discovery obligations.

5.1.1 As noted earlier, the Managing Attorney will need to authenticate the documents,
tangible things, and ESI throughout the discovery process and court proceedings. In order to
prove that an item is what it purports to be, the Air Force will have to establish the method by
which the information was collected and explain changes in characteristics and metadata.

5.1.2 Following the collection methodologies referenced, and other established collection
instructions, will help the Air Force show that it properly handled the material. This will assist
in later authentication of the information.

5.2     Collection Methodologies.

5.2.1    Managing Attorney.

5.2.1.1 Determines, either independently or in consultation with Department of Justice counsel,
when to collect documents, tangible things, and ESI that have been identified and preserved in
the discovery/litigation hold process.

5.2.1.2 Communicates collection requirements to the AFRO for distribution to Records
Professionals and/or to individuals who have reported positive findings.

                                                                                                   22
5.2.1.3 Directs the efforts of any additional legal staff or support assigned to assist in collection
efforts.

5.2.2    AFRO.

5.2.2.1 Directs Records Professionals on how to collect and provide potentially relevant
information.

5.2.2.3 Gathers information sent back and delivers to the Managing Attorney or to some other
repository.

5.2.3 Records Professionals and Individual Recipients of a Search Request & Litigation Hold
Memo.

5.2.3.1 Gather potentially relevant documents, tangible things, and ESI in accordance with
applicable collection guidance and delivers as directed.

5.2.3.2 BRMs must work with the Network Operations Element to gather potentially relevant
ESI located during network searches in accordance with applicable collection guidance and
instructions.

5.2.3.3 Individual recipients may consult with BRMs and the Network Operations Element to
gather potentially relevant ESI located during non-network searches in accordance with
applicable guidance and instructions.

5.3     Miscellaneous provisions.

5.3.1 In most cases, costs to comply with the discovery/litigation hold process will be the
responsibility of the information owner. Units or organizations that would suffer extreme
financial hardship to comply should immediately notify the Managing Attorney and at the same
time elevate the matter through the chain-of-command. Units or organizations claiming financial
hardship are not to assume that a financial burden will excuse the Air Force’s obligation to
comply with its discovery/litigation hold obligation.

5.3.2 Upon request, original documents provided in the discovery/litigation hold process will
be returned to the original owners. Copies of documents provided to the AFRO or Managing
Attorney will not be returned.

5.3.3 The Managing Attorney may be able to provide an external hard drive onto which the
BRM and Network Operations Element may copy and provide potentially relevant ESI. If not,
the responding unit will be responsible for providing its ESI on an external hard drive that will
be returned, or on CDs and DVDs, which will not be returned.

5.4.4 Information not returned to the sender will become part of the Managing Attorney’s
litigation case file and will be assigned the disposition codes for such case files.

                                                                                                    23
5.4.5 Potentially relevant material loaded into any electronic information management database
for purposes of litigation will be downloaded onto an external hard drive provided by the
Managing Attorney and removed from that database at the conclusion of the case. This
information will become part of the Managing Attorney’s litigation case file and will be assigned
the disposition codes for such case files.


Chapter 6

PROCESSING, REVIEWING, ANALYZING, AND PRODUCING
POTENTIALLY RELEVANT INFORMATION

6.1 Managing Attorney. Once the potentially relevant documents, tangible things, and ESI
are delivered to the Managing Attorney, the Managing Attorney is responsible for performing or
coordinating the processing, review, analysis, and production of the information to the
opposition or through the Department of Justice.

6.1.1 The Managing Attorney may seek assistance in performing these functions from such
sources as:

6.1.1.1 Other attorneys, paralegals, and litigation support staff within the Managing Attorney’s
own office;

6.1.1.2   In-house litigation support capabilities developed by AFLOA/JAC and AFLOA/JAQ;

6.1.1.3   Contracted litigation support; and/or

6.1.1.4 Coordinating Attorneys or other staffing provided by other legal offices at the request
of AFLOA/JAC or AFLOA/JAQ.

6.1.2 Managing Attorneys are responsible for reviewing all information to be produced in
discovery for exemptions and privileges, and for preparing a privilege log for any information to
which any exemption or privilege is asserted.

6.2 Air Force Personnel. All Air Force personnel, including Records Professionals, the
Network Operations Element, and individuals, will continue to assist the Managing Attorney, as
requested, in conducting supplemental searches, delivering additional information, completing
search declarations, and taking any other steps necessary to substantiate the search,
identification, preservation, indexing, storage, and collection of documents, tangible things, and
ESI during the discovery process and through the admission of evidence at trial or hearing.


Chapter 7

LIFTING THE LITIGATION HOLD

                                                                                                24
7.1 Importance of timely lifting the litigation hold. The Air Force has implemented
retention and destruction policies for its documents and ESI in accordance with the Federal
Records Act and the e-Government Act. Following these polices is essential to the normal
functioning of the Air Force and provides a standardized, predictable operating environment for
the creation, storage, and dispositioning of information. Implementing a litigation hold
necessarily disrupts that process and requires Records Professionals and others to take actions
that are contrary to ordinary business practices.

7.1.1 Typically, the legal requirement to preserve information will cease when a case settles,
when a final, non-appealable decision is reached in existing litigation, or when the Air Force no
longer reasonably anticipates litigation. (Note: some settlement terms may require information
to be preserved for a certain period of time or destroyed after a specific time interval.)

7.1.2 Within 15 business days of a determination there is no further legal requirement to
preserve the information, the Managing Attorney will inform the AFRO and all individuals,
units, and organizations previously issued Search Request & Litigation Hold Memos that the
litigation hold is lifted. Once lifted, resume normal document/information retention and
destruction policies unless the information is subject to retention under the Federal Records Act
or is otherwise subject to some other preservation obligation, such as a FOIA request or other
litigation hold.

7.1.3 Records Professionals and individuals who have received a Search Request and
Litigation Hold Memo should ensure that no other litigation hold applies to the information
before resuming normal dispositioning.

7.1.4 The scope and reach of the litigation hold may be limited as issues in the case are
narrowed or clarified, agreements are reached with adversaries, or courts make rulings that limit
the scope of discovery. If narrowing the scope and reach of the litigation hold impacts a
substantial set of documents or ESI, the Managing Attorney should consider lifting the litigation
hold on subsets of information, as appropriate.

7.1.5 To promote consistency and process efficiency, Managing Attorneys should use the
format for the Notice to Lift Litigation Hold found in Figure 7.1 attached hereto.

7.2 Upon notification that a Litigation Hold is lifted, the AFRO will notify all CRM/ARMs,
and BRMs that the potentially relevant documents, tangible things, and ESI shall default back to
their original disposition.

7.2.1 CRMs/ARMs, and BRMs will notify all subordinate Records Professionals that the
litigation hold has been lifted.

7.2.2 For information that constitutes a record, the applicable Records Custodian (RC) will
retrieve it from its storage location and return it to the active file plan, move it to the inactive
files, move it to staging, or destroy it in accordance with the records disposition schedule in
AFRIMS and the applicable unit file plan.

                                                                                                       25
7.2.3 For information that was not previously identified as a record, the RC will retrieve it from
its storage location and determine if it has any remaining value to the office of record. If not, it
shall be destroyed.




                                                                                                 26
Figure 2.1—Format for Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo for Distribution through
AFRO.

                                                                                [Date]

MEMORANDUM FOR SAF/CIO A6
               ATTN: AIR FORCE RECORDS OFFICE

FROM:           [Sending Litigation Office]
                [Street Address]
                [City/Base, State]

SUBJECT:        Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo for Documents and Information—
                Case Name, Docket No.

1. Detail. Please be advised that [provide summary of the matter, including issues that will
form the context for any document, tangible thing, or ESI search and preservation efforts, also
including pertinent date ranges.] The Air Force has a legal obligation to locate and preserve
documents, tangible things, and electronically stored information (ESI) related to this matter.
[Sending Litigation Office] requires your assistance in identifying individuals with possession,
custody, or control of potentially relevant information, and in searching for, identifying,
indexing, and preserving that information pending resolution of the lawsuit.

2. General Terms. The discovery/litigation hold obligations in this notice are governed by AFI
51-301, AFGM2013-51-03, and AFMAN 33-363. Please consult them. Materials covered by
this notice include, but are not limited to:

    a. Documents (hard copies of letters, reports, forms, messages, etc.);
    b. Electronic communications (e-mail, instant messages, text messages, etc.);
    c. Paper and electronic business documents (word processing documents, spreadsheets,
       personal and shared calendars, correspondence, etc.);
    d. Databases (technical, scientific, financial, human resource, etc.); computer hard drives,
    e. Images, drawings and photographic records (standard photographs, video, graphs, charts,
       maps, microfilm, microfiche, etc.);
    f. Sound recordings (analog tapes, voicemail messages, etc.);
    g. Websites, blogs, wikis, etc., with special attention to periodic updates; and
    h. Files, notes, journals, diaries, slide presentations, MS Outlook task lists.

The above list is not all-inclusive. Any other materials concerning the issues or search terms
referenced below must be retained. This notice’s search, preservation and index obligations
supersede all other document retention periods and destruction schedules and apply to every
document or record without limitation, whether paper or electronic, official or unofficial, record
or non-record, classified or unclassified, original or duplicate, draft or final, that may relate to the
issues referenced.



                                                                                                     27
3. Search Procedures. [Sending Litigation Office] requests that you instruct applicable Records
Professionals to conduct a search for all documents, tangible things, and ESI in Air Force
possession, custody, or control that may be relevant to this litigation. Records Professionals
should:

   a. Search for potentially relevant documents, including paper files at all levels, card catalogs
   and indexes, file plans, records staged at Federal Records Centers, SF 135 collections, and
   office and personal files in the workstation.

   b. Ensure Base Records Managers notify the Network Operations Element of its obligation
   to search for potentially relevant ESI on all network systems and report back those results.

   c. Ensure individuals in their office of record are notified of and meet their obligation to
   search for potentially relevant ESI on non-network (local) computer hard drives, Air Force-
   assigned personal drive space, databases, electronic filing systems, portable storage devices
   used by their respective office of record, on home computers used to conduct agency
   business, or other repositories of ESI that would not be captured by the network search
   conducted by the Network Operations Element.

4. Search Terms. Required search terms include: “[Attorneys to provide search terms; try to
limit to no more than 5, but will depend on the case. Also, make sure to communicate if terms
should be searched separately, or in a string so all are present.]” [Include date ranges.]

5. Preservation. All information identified as potentially relevant to the subject lawsuit must be
preserved.

   a. You must immediately suspend all destruction/overwrite procedures until further notice.

   b. Place documents and tangible things into clearly marked containers and keep in a secure
   location until further notice.

   c. Consult the Network Operations Element, who will help establish a secure location to
   place ESI, on how to preserve ESI in its native file format in a manner that minimizes
   changes to metadata. Use file structures to organize the ESI by name of search and sub-files
   to indicate the source of the information.

6. Response. Properly documenting the Air Force’s execution of its discovery/litigation hold
process is critical so that any challenge to the sufficiency of the search or search methods can be
defended in court. Records Professionals are required to do the following:

   a. Provide all requested information back to the AFRO through AFRIMS, or as otherwise
   directed. Providing responses constitutes a certification that Records Professionals have
   received, read, understood, and agree to comply with all search and preservation instructions.

   b. Use the AFRIMS index function to include an index of potentially relevant documents,
   tangible things, and ESI located and preserved as a result of the search.

                                                                                                 28
7. Authority. Title 28, United States Code, Appendix, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, §§
Rules 16, 26, and 34. 28 U.S.C. App., FRCP, Rules 16, 26, and 34; AFI 51-301, Chapter 10.

8. Distribution. The Managing Attorney believes potentially relevant information may be in the
possession, custody, or control of [insert name of MAJCOM/DRU/FOA, installation,
organization, or unit.] This does not limit you from further or additional distribution.

9. Suspenses. Request that:

   a. The AFRO send a search and hold request to applicable Records Professionals through
   AFRIMS within 5 business days of AFRO’s receipt of this memo.

   b. The Records Professionals conduct the required search and provide responses back to the
   AFRO through AFRIMS within 10 business days of their receipt.

   c. The AFRO provide a progress report to the undersigned 15 business days after the
   AFRIMS distribution.

       If you have any questions or require additional information, please contact the
undersigned at [telephone number] or [e-mail address].




                                              //SIGNED//
                                             [Signature block of Managing Attorney]
                                             [Title]

Cc:
[Servicing Legal Offices for Distributees]




                                                                                             29
          Figure 2.2—Format for Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo for Direct
          Distribution

                                                                                          [Date]

MEMORANDUM FOR: [INDIVIDUAL]

FROM:           [Sending Litigation Office]
                [Street Address]
                [City/Base, State]

SUBJECT:        Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo for Documents and Information—
                Case Name, Docket No.

1. Detail. Please be advised that [provide summary of the matter, including issues that will
form the context for any document, tangible thing, or ESI search and preservation efforts, also
including pertinent date ranges.] The Air Force has a legal obligation to locate and preserve
documents, tangible things, and electronically stored information (ESI) related to this matter.
You have been identified as an individual that may have possession, custody, or control of
potentially relevant information. Accordingly, you are required to take certain actions to search
for, identify, index, and preserve that information pending resolution of the lawsuit.

2. General Terms. The discovery/litigation hold obligations in this notice are governed by AFI
51-301, AFGM2013-51-03, and AFMAN 33-363. Please consult them. Materials covered by
this notice include, but are not limited to:

    a. Documents (hard copies of letters, reports, forms, messages, etc.);
    b. Electronic communications (e-mail, instant messages, text messages, etc.);
    c. Paper and electronic business documents (word processing documents, spreadsheets,
       personal and shared calendars, correspondence, etc.);
    d. Databases (technical, scientific, financial, human resource, etc.); omputer hard drives,
    e. Images, drawings and photographic records (standard photographs, video, graphs, charts,
       maps, microfilm, microfiche, etc.);
    f. Sound recordings (analog tapes, voicemail messages, etc.);
    g. Websites, blogs, wikis, etc., with special attention to periodic updates; and
    h. Files, notes, journals, diaries, slide presentations, MS Outlook task lists.

The above list is not all-inclusive. Any other materials concerning the issues or search terms
referenced below must be retained. This notice’s search, preservation and index obligations
supersede all other document retention periods and destruction schedules and apply to every
document or record without limitation, whether paper or electronic, official or unofficial, record
or non-record, classified or unclassified, original or duplicate, draft or final, that may relate to the
issues referenced.
3. Search Procedures. [Sending Litigation Office] requests that you conduct a search for all
documents, tangible things, and ESI in your possession, custody, or control that may be relevant
to this litigation. You should:

   a. Search for potentially responsive documents and tangible things, including office files,
   working files, and personal files that you have access to, and any material maintained by you
   outside of the workplace. Consult with your Records Custodian and Base Records Manager
   for assistance in conducting searches for documents and tangible things.

   b. Search for potentially relevant ESI on [network and] non-network (local) computer hard
   drives, Air Force-assigned personal drive space, databases, electronic filing systems, portable
   storage devices used by their respective office of record, on home computers used to conduct
   agency functions related to this matter, or other repositories of ESI. Consult with your
   Records Custodian, Base Records Manager, and Network Operations Element for assistance
   in conducting searches for ESI.

4. Search Terms. Required search terms include: “[Attorneys to provide search terms; try to
limit to no more than 5, but will depend on the case. Also, make sure to communicate if terms
should be searched separately, or in a string so all are present.]” [Also, include date range.]

5. Preservation. All information identified as potentially relevant to the subject lawsuit must be
preserved.

   a. You must immediately suspend all destruction/overwrite procedures until further notice.

   b. Place documents and tangible things into clearly marked containers and keep in a secure
   location until further notice. Consult with your Records Custodian and Base Records
   Manager for assistance in preserving documents and tangible things.

   c. Consult the Network Operations Element, who will help establish a secure location to
   place ESI, on how to preserve ESI in its native file format in a manner that minimizes
   changes to metadata. Use file structures to organize the ESI by name of search and sub-files
   to indicate the source of the information.

6. Response. Properly documenting the Air Force’s execution of its discovery/litigation hold
process is critical so that any challenge to the sufficiency of the search or search methods can be
defended in court. You are required to do the following:

   a. Certify that you have received, read, and agree to comply with these instructions by
   completing the Acknowledgment of Receipt on the last page of this memo, just before the
   Attachment. Immediately sign, date, scan, and return the Acknowledgment of Receipt to the
   Managing Attorney via e-mail.

   b. Complete the Attachment—Litigation Hold Worksheet by entering all corresponding
   information (i.e. locations searched, date of search, search terms used, type of information,


                                                                                                   31
   preservation actions, etc.) for information you locate. Electronically sign, date, and e-mail
   the Worksheet to the undersigned Managing Attorney within 10 business days.

7. Authority. Title 28, United States Code, Appendix, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, §§
Rules 16, 26, and 34. 28 U.S.C. App., FRCP, Rules 16, 26, and 34; AFI 51-301, Chapter 10.

8. Suspense. Immediately sign and return the Acknowledgment of Receipt. Also, conduct the
required search, and complete and return the Litigation Hold Worksheet within 10 business
days.

       If you have any questions or require additional information, please contact the
undersigned at [telephone number] or [e-mail address].




                                              //SIGNED//
                                             [Signature block of Managing Attorney]
                                             [Title]

Attachment:
Litigation Hold Worksheet

Cc:
Air Force Records Office via e-mail to: usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.af-records@mail.mil
[Servicing Legal Offices for Distributees]

                            ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT

I acknowledge that I have received and read the Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo dated
____________ in the matter of [case name], and I agree to take all reasonable steps necessary to
search for and preserve the information as instructed in the memo.


________________________________________                    __________________
Signature                                                   Date

________________________________________
Printed Name

________________________________________
Title




                                                                                                   32
                              Attachment to Figure 2.2—Litigation Hold Worksheet

    MEMORANDUM FOR: [Sending Litigation Office]

    FROM: [Individual]

    SUBJECT: Certified Litigation Hold Worksheet—Case Name

    1. I certify and declare I made a thorough and diligent search in accordance with the instructions
    contained in the Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo dated, [date].

    2. The below inventory is an accurate representation of all documents, tangible things, and ESI,
    found pursuant to the requirements of the above-referenced Search Request & Litigation Hold
    Memo.

 Date &       Methodology/        Complete Name of         Who Maintains       Size     Date of      Classific   Preservati
Location        Terms (i.e.      File/Folder/Doc/ESI         Possession,        (1’       Item         ation      on Steps
Searched         physical         located as result of      Custody, or       paper,   (e.g., date   (Unclass,     Taken
(e.g., file      process         search & type: (e.g.,         Control        2 MB     created or     Secret,
 cabinet,     and/or search     paper or Drive Name/      (w/ contact info)   email,   modified)      TS, RD/
C: drive)      terms used)        File Name/ Folder                          345 MB                    FRD)
                               Name/ Item Name.doc                             file)
                                    .pdf .xls .msg)
                                                Sample Entry for Paper Document
27 Dec 10     Search of        End of Year Report        Jane Doe           3” paper   10 Dec 10     Unclass     Placed in
Office        office paper     and Analysis              (123) 456-7891                                          folder
File          files                                      jane.doe@anywh                                          marked
Cabinet                                                  ere afb.af.mil                                          with case
                                                                                                                 name and
                                                                                                                 “LIT
                                                                                                                 HOLD”;
                                                                                                                 locked in
                                                                                                                 file
                                                                                                                 cabinet
                                                     Sample Entry for ESI
27 Dec 10     Windows          R:Office/Sampling/Air John Doe               4 MB       1 Jan 08      Unclass     Copied to
R: drive      Explorer—        / Laboratory Results of (234) 567-8910       file                                 case name
              search terms     Air Sampling at          john.doe@anyw                                            folder in
              “asbestos”       Anywhere AFB.doc         here afb.af.mil                                          John Doe
              “airborne”                                                                                         file;
                                                                                                                 access
                                                                                                                 restricted
                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                 custodian




    *Remove sample entries. Insert more rows, as needed. Use additional pages, if necessary.


                                                                                                                    33
3. The name and contact information of my Records Custodian is [name/contact information].
The name and contact information of my Network Operations Element POC and/or Network
Administrator is [name/contact information.]

4. My contact information is [phone], [DSN], or [email].



___________________                         _____________________________________
Date                                       [Signature Block/Duty Title]




                                                                                             34
         Figure 7.1—Format for a Notice to Lift Litigation Hold.

                                                                                        [Date]

MEMORANDUM FOR SAF/CIO A6
               ATTN: AFRO
                     [and All individuals, units, and organizations who have
                      received a Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo in the case]

FROM:          [Sending Litigation Office]
               [Street Address]
               [City/Base, State]

SUBJECT:       Notice to Lift Litigation Hold on Information Related to—
               Case Name, Docket No.

1. This notice shall confirm that the aforementioned case is closed because [insert reason for
closure, e.g., the case has settled; the court has rendered a final, non-appealable decision; or there
is no longer a reasonable anticipation of litigation.]

2. Accordingly, all documents, tangible things, and electronically stored information (ESI) that
had been searched for, indentified, preserved, and indexed pursuant to a previously-issued
Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo, dated [date,] is hereby released from the litigation
hold, and is now subject to normal retention and destruction policies, unless it is subject to
retention under the Federal Records Act, or is otherwise subject to some other preservation
obligation, such as a pending FOIA request or other litigation hold.

3. If you have any questions or require additional information, please contact the undersigned at
[telephone number] or [e-mail address].




                                                //SIGNED//
                                               [Signature block of Managing Attorney]
                                               [Title]
ACRONYMS

AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System.

ARM—Agency Records Manager.

AFRO—Air Force Records Office.

BRM—Base Records Manager.

CD—Compact Disk.

CRM—Command Records Manager

DRU—Direct Reporting Unit

DVD—Digital Versatile Disc

ESI—Electronically Stored Information

FARM—Functional Area Records Manager.

FOA—Field Operating Agency

FRC—Federal Records Centers

FRCP—Federal Rules of Civil Procedure

HAF—Headquarters Air Force

MAJCOM—Major Command

RC—Records Custodian

DEFINITIONS

Access—The availability of, or the permission to consult; records the ability or opportunity to
obtain security classified or administratively controlled information or records.

Agency Records Manager—Records Manager at FOAs and DRUs.

Air Force Records Office (AFRO)—Headed by the Air Force Records Officer, appointed by
the Air Force Chief Information Officer (CIO) to direct the Air Force Records Program and all
associated activities.




                                                                                                  36
Air Force personnel—Includes individuals, units, and organizations at all levels of the United
States Air Force (Air Force), including Active Duty personnel, civilian employees, Air National
Guard (ANG) members while in Federal service, and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
members in Title 10 status.

Classification—(1) The process of determining the sequence or order of documents. (2) The
process or result of identifying records containing national security information.

Command Records Manager—Records Manager at MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs and Unified or
Specified Commands for which the Air Force is the executive agent.

Compact Disk (CD)—A relatively small optical disk on which text, data, sounds, visual images,
and the like can be recorded digitally and then scanned, decoded, and transmitted by a laser beam
to a computer monitor, television set, or playback device.

Data—Symbols or representations of facts or ideas that can be communicated, interpreted, or
processed by manual or automated means. Often associated with electronic data or with statistics
or measurements.

Database—(1) A set of data, consisting of at least one data file, that is sufficient for a specific
purpose (Chapter XII of Title 36 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1234); (2) In electronic
recordkeeping, a set of data, consisting of at least one file or a group of integrated files, usually
stored in one location and made available to several users at the same time for various
applications (Federal Records Management Glossary: 1989).

Destruction—In records management, the major type of disposal action. Methods include
selling or salvaging the record medium and burning, pulping, shredding, macerating, or
discarding with other waste materials.

Discovery—The process by which one party in litigation obtains information and data from
others. Several formalized methods of conducting discovery are governed by the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure. They include: interrogatories, requests for production of documents, requests
for admissions, and depositions. Before formal discovery begins, parties have an obligation to
search for and preserve information that may be relevant to the issues in the case. Discovery is
not limited to only information that may be admissible in evidence, but extends to information
that is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.

Disposition—The third stage of the records life cycle. The actions taken regarding records no
longer needed for current Government business, including transfer to agency storage facilities or
Federal Records Center (FRC), transfer from one Federal agency to another, transfer of
permanent records to the National Archives, and disposal of temporary records. (Title 36, CFR,
Chapter XII, Part 1234.)

Document—(1) Recorded information regardless of physical form or characteristics. Often used
interchangeably with record. (2) An individual record or an item of non-record materials or of
personal papers.


                                                                                                  37
In the context of discovery in civil litigation, the term applies to writings, printed words,
drawings, graphs, charts, lithographs, photographs, images, sound recordings, maps or plans, and
any other form of printed material, stored in any medium from which information can be
obtained either directly, or if necessary, after translation by the responding party into a
reasonably usable form. See FRCP, Rule 34.

It is generally understood that the term also now includes electronically stored information, such
that a party need not differentiate between the two when making a discovery request. See FRCP,
Rule 34, Comment, 2006 Amendment, Subdivision (a).

Electronically Stored Information (ESI)—Includes any digital information, draft and final
records and non-record materials, stored in a medium from which it can be retrieved and used.
Common sources are E-mail, working papers, drafts, duplicates, copies and contract records.

In the context of discovery in civil litigation, the term is generally understood to encompass
emails, webpages, word processing files, digital spreadsheets and presentations, and databases
stored in the memory of computers, magnetic disks (such as computer hard drives and floppy
discs), optical disks (such as DVDs and CDs), and flash memory (such as “thumb” or “flash”
drives). It also encompasses information stored on servers, laptops, home computers, backup
tapes, and portable storage media such as blackberry devices, mobile phones, or “smart” phones.

Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (FRCP)—The formal rules that govern the conduct of the
parties in civil litigation.

Functional Area Records Manager (FARM)—The point of contact for a unit that monitors the
Records Management Program within his or her functional area.

Hard Copy—(1) Recorded information copied from a computer onto paper or some other
durable surface, such as microfilm, distinguished from a temporary image on a display screen
and from the electronic information on a magnetic tape or disk(ette) or in the computer’s main
memory. (2) Recorded information copied from microfilm onto paper and made readable without
a special device. (3) A paper record that may later be filmed or digitized.

Index—(1) A separate collection of cards, extra copies of documents, cross-reference sheets, or
other forms arranged differently from the related record series to make it easier to locate relevant
documents. (2) A manual or automated listing arranged differently from a related record series
or system to speed retrieval of relevant files.

Managing Attorney—The attorney assigned by the responsible Air Force legal office to handle
discovery matters on an active case, or matter that is anticipated to result in litigation. The term
also includes military and civilian paralegals, who may perform the duties and functions, if under
the supervision of the Managing Attorney.

Network Operations Element—The SAF/A6 designated functional area expert to conduct
searches of network information, create secured storage locations for ESI, and serve as technical
consultant for search and preservation efforts.

                                                                                                 38
Records Center—A facility for the low-cost storage and servicing of records pending their
disposal or transfer to the National Archives. Includes NARA-authorized agency records centers
and NARA-operated FRC.

Records Custodian (RC)—The individual responsible for physical custody, maintenance, and
disposition of records accumulated in an office of record.

Records Professionals—Individual whose area of expertise advances beyond introductory
records management. The term record professional encompasses Records Custodian (RC),
Functional Area Records Manager (FARM), Base Records Manager (BRM), Command Records
Manager (CRM), Agency Records Manager (ARM) and Air Force Records Officer (AFRO). A
Records Professional’s skills extend beyond familiarity to intermediate or advanced record
management.

Search Request & Litigation Hold Memo—A detailed statement of an individual’s, unit’s, or
organization’s responsibilities to search for, identify, preserve, index, and report information that
is potentially relevant to the facts and issues in a case or matter where there is a reasonable
anticipation of litigation. (See Figures 1 and 2, Sample Litigation Search & Hold Requests.)




                                                                                                  39
