                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                               HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                              WASHINGTON, DC




                                                                                       AFGM2014-90-01

                                                                                         9 January 2014
MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
              MAJCOMs/DRUs/ANG

FROM:            HQ USAF/A9
                 1570 Air Force Pentagon
                 Washington, DC 20330-1570

SUBJECT:         Air Force Guidance Memorandum on the Contract Studies Registry Program (CSRP)

Accessibility:   Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                 www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

Releasability:   There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

        By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. This
is an AF Guidance Memorandum immediately implementing the purpose and scope of the CSRP and
provides guidance for participation. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other AF
publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management.

         In advance of a pending new AFI, this Memorandum and attachment provide guidance and
direction that are effective immediately for CSRP procedures. This AFGM and attached Guidance apply
only to the CSRP portion of the pending AFI.

        This Memorandum and attached Guidance apply to all AF organizations, Air National Guard and
Air Force Reserve.

       Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum are maintained
IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

        This Memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this Memorandum,
or upon release of the pending AFI incorporating this guidance, whichever is earlier.

                                               JACQUELINE R. HENNINGSEN, PhD, SES, DAF
                                               Director, Studies & Analyses, Assessments and
                                                  Lessons Learned

   Attachment:
        CSRP guidance

                                                       1
                 Contract Studies Registry Program (CSRP) Guidance

CHAPTER 1 – PROGRAM OVERVIEW
1.1. Purpose
1.2. Objective
1.3. Study Definition
1.4. CSRP Registry
1.5. Oversight

CHAPTER 2 - ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
2.1. AF/A9
2.2. SAF/US(M)
2.3. SAF/AQ
2.4. SAF/FM
2.5. AF/A3/5
2.6. AF/A4/7
2.7. AF/A8
2.8. MAJCOMS, DRUs, HAF two-letter organizations
2.9. Unit FMs

CHAPTER 3 - CSRP IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
3.1. Overview
3.2. Study Justification
3.3. Due Diligence
3.4. Study Registration
3.4. Certification Authority Approval
3.5. Study Registration Verification
3.6. Study Completion


CHAPTER 4 - STUDIES GOVERNANCE BOARD (SGB)
4.1. Purpose
4.2. Study Proposal Review.

                                          2
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
Attachment 2—ELEMENT OF EXPENSE/INVESTMENT CODES (EEICs)
Attachment 3—STUDY REGISTRATION VERIFICATION DOCUMENT (Template)

                                            Chapter 1

                                   PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. Purpose. The Contract Studies Registry Program (CSRP) is designed to provide a
management oversight structure and a standardized process to identify, register, track and share
AF study efforts. All AF organizations are required to register contracted study efforts. This
requirement does not change the authority of individual organizations to nominate, approve and
fund studies, analyses, assessments and evaluations to meet their requirements.

1.2. Objective. The objective of the CSRP is to increase resource efficiencies by reducing
duplicative study efforts through increased visibility, transparency, and sharing of study results
and findings.

1.3. Study Definition. For the purposes of the CSRP, a study is defined as: “Any organized
analysis, assessment or evaluation in support of policy development, decision-making,
management or administration.”

   1.3.1. Examples. Examples of study areas and topics may include, but are not limited to:
   Force Structure Analyses; Operational Effectiveness Analyses; Federally Funded Research
   and Development Center (FFRDC) studies; Analyses of Alternatives (AoAs); Capabilities
   Based Assessments (CBAs); Business Case Analyses (BCAs); cost benefit or effectiveness
   analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems, policies, personnel management methods
   and programs; studies specifying the application of IT and other information resources to
   support mission and objectives; technology assessments and management and operations
   research studies in support of research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E)
   objectives; evaluation of foreign force and equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net
   assessments and geopolitical subjects; analyses of material, personnel, logistics and
   management systems; and environmental impact assessments/studies/statements.

   1.3.2. Designated Element of Expense/Investment Codes (EEICs). All contracted studies
   must be registered in the CSRP and are required to be coded using one of the following
   designated, Advisory and Assistance Services (A&AS) EEICs: 50610, 50611, 50620, 50621,
   50670, 50671, 50672, and 50673.

   1.3.3. Non-Study Efforts. In the event that one of the eight, designated EEICs above are
   used for a contracted effort that does not meet the study definition it must still be registered
   in the CSRP. However, the CSRP registry allows for the entry to be designated as a “non-
   study” effort. These cases may warrant a closer review by the study director and/or a
   discussion with the CSRP Support Team to ensure that the most appropriate EEIC is used.

                                                 3
   1.3.4. Organic Studies. Studies are considered “organic” if they are done with “in-house
   resources (military/civilian). Although CSRP registration of an organic study is not a
   requirement, registration of organic studies is welcome.

   1.3.5. Classified Study Material. Currently, the CSRP registry is only available on an
   unclassified website and cannot accommodate classified material. Normally, sufficient
   unclassified information is available on the proposed study to permit registration in the CSRP
   registry. However, the study director should contact the CSRP Support Team for guidance in
   the event that study registration cannot be accomplished due to security classification issues.

1.4. CSRP Registry. The CSRP provides a study registry database hosted by the Continuous
Process Improvement – Management Tool (CPI-MT) and is accessible online via a common
access card (CAC). The system provides all registered users with the capability to search the
registry database for information on proposed, on-going or completed studies.

1.5. Oversight. A General Officer (GO) / Senior Executive Service (SES)-level Studies
Governance Board (SGB) provides overall direction and policy guidance to the CSRP. The SGB
is chaired by the Director, Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned (AF/A9) and
SGB members include: AF/A3/5, AF/A4/7, AF/A8, SAF/US(M), SAF/AQ and SAF/FM.

                                           Chapter 2

                             ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. AF/A9. Chairs the SGB and schedules the meetings, sets the agenda, arranges presentations,
tracks action items and produces meeting minutes. The SGB chairperson invites other attendees
to SGB meetings as needed. AF/A9 is also responsible for:

   2.1.1. CSRP Support Team. Provides direct support to the SGB in preparation for all SGB
   meetings to include analysis of registry data, creation and presentation of briefings and
   coordination of guest attendees and presenters. Through the CSRP Support Team the AF/A9
   is also responsible for:

         2.1.1.1. Primary Point of Contact. The CSRP Support Team is the single point of
         contact for the CSRP and is the primary entry point for the AF community for CSRP
         issues or questions.

         2.1.1.2. CSRP Registry Maintenance. The CSRP Support Team is responsible for the
         CSRP registry and for the maintenance and resourcing required to ensure online access
         and the search capabilities necessary to enable study directors and sponsoring
         organizations to meet their CSRP requirements. CSRP Support Team provides
         customer assistance and ensures that training and instructional materials are current and
         available to all users.




                                                4
             2.1.1.2.1. CSRP Functional Area Website. The CSRP Support Team maintains a
             functional area website that contains links to the CSRP registry, specific registry
             functions and reference documents as well as the CSRP Handbook. The CSRP
             functional area website can be found at:

             https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/site/CSRP

                 2.1.1.2.1.1. On the CSRP website, users can access a “CSRP Handbook”
                 detailing the specific actions and timelines required in the CSRP registration
                 process and instructions on use of the registry database. The CSRP Handbook is
                 informational only and is not, by itself, directive.

                 2.1.1.2.1.2. A quick reference guide is also available on the CSRP website with
                 step-by-step instructions to guide the user through the self-registration and study
                 registration process. Additionally, each registry data field contains
                 supplementary information to assist the user in entering the required data.

         2.1.1.3. Study Data Review. The CSRP Support Team ensures study dispositions are
         accurate, up-to-date and available to all CSRP users. Studies are monitored to ensure
         that upon completion their results are properly entered into the CSRP registry and
         DTIC.

2.2. SAF/US(M). Is a principal member of the SGB; provides a linkage to the AF Advisory
Studies Efficiency initiative (Objective E.10 of the Reports Studies Boards and Commissions
(RSBC) efficiency initiative); participates in all SGB meetings; assists the SGB chairperson in
identifying and bringing topics of interest before the group for information or action as required.

2.3. SAF/AQ. Is a principal member of the SGB; participates in all SGB meetings; assists the
SGB chairperson in identifying and bringing topics of interest before the group for information
or action as required; provides guidance and expertise on financial database queries that are
necessary for monthly reporting on the actual A&AS study obligations compared with CSRP
registrations to monitor AF organizational-level participation in the CSRP program.

2.4. SAF/FM. Is a principal member of the SGB; participates in all SGB meetings; assists the
SGB chairperson in identifying and bringing topics of interest before the group for information
or action as required; provides guidance as necessary to unit FMs on the requirement to ensure
requesting organizations use correct EEICs and complete the Study Registration Verification
Document.

2.5. AF/A3/5. Is a principal member of the SGB; provides a linkage to the Air Force
Requirements Oversight Council (AFROC); participates in all SGB meetings; assists the SGB
chairperson in identifying and bringing topics of interest before the group for information or
action as required.




                                                 5
2.6. AF/A4/7. Is a principal member of the SGB; participates in all SGB meetings; assists the
SGB chairperson in identifying and bringing topics of interest before the group for information
or action as required.

2.7. AF/A8. Is a principal member of the SGB; provides a linkage to the programming and
planning process; participates in all SGB meetings and assists the SGB chairperson in identifying
and bringing topics of interest before the group for information or action as required.

2.8. MAJCOMs, DRUs and HAF Two-Letter organizations. To ensure compliance with this
CSRP guidance, each organization must implement process controls to ensure that all contracted
studies sponsored by their organization are identified and registered. Also responsible for:

   2.8.1. Certification Authority (CA). For the purpose of the CSRP, each MAJCOM vice
   commander, DRU commander and HAF-two letter is designated as their organizational
   “Certification Authority.” The CA for FOAs will be the CA of their parent organization.
   Each CA will ensure that internal procedures are established to:

           2.8.1.1. Review all study proposals for compliance with CSRP guidance to include
           completion of registration and due diligence requirements.

           2.8.1.2. Grant approval of a study effort. The designated CA is the only person
           authorized under the CSRP to approve contracted studies for their organization.

                  2.8.1.2.1. The name of the CA will be entered in the CSRP record for that
                  study, indicating their approval, prior to study initiation. As noted in
                  paragraph 2.8.2.3., the CA may authorize their CSRP POC to administratively
                  enter the CA approval into the CSRP registry once a decision has been
                  documented.

   2.8.2. CSRP POC. All MAJCOMs, DRUs and HAF two letter organizations will identify
   and assign a primary CSRP POC for CSRP administrative issues and activities on behalf of
   the organization. The CSRP POC is:

           2.8.2.1. Their organization’s primary entry point and point of contact for all CSRP
           issues.

           2.8.2.2. Responsible for the timely and accurate registration of studies for their
           organization. However, CSRP POCs can elect to register all study information for
           each study themselves or designate another individual directly associated with the
           specific study (e.g. study director) to accomplish the registration.

           2.8.2.3. Allowed to act on behalf of their organization’s CA to administratively enter
           the CA verification and acknowledge the approval of study registry data. Internal
           procedures should be developed between the CA and CSRP POC to communicate this
           approval and allow the CSRP entry to be updated in the registry.



                                                6
           2.8.2.4. Required to monitor their organization’s study entries to ensure compliance
           with CSRP requirements.

2.9. Unit FMs. Ensure that requesting organizations provide proper CSRP registration
paperwork (see Study Registration Verification paragraph 3.6.) and use one of the correct,
designated EEIC’s for funding A&AS contracted studies (see paragraph 1.3.2.). This
responsibility is in accordance with 30 April 2013 SAF/FMB Memorandum, “Contract Studies
Registry Program.”

   2.9.1. Second Line of Accounting. If a study task is funded through an existing contract that
   is appropriately using a different EEIC, then a second line of accounting must be opened
   using the appropriate designated, study EEIC for the study task.

                                           Chapter 3

                           CSRP IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS

3.1. Overview. Each MAJCOM, DRU and HAF two letter organization will establish, document
and implement CA-approved, internal processes suited to their mission in order to ensure
compliance with the CSRP guidance. These processes should facilitate the earliest possible
identification of study requirements, the establishment of study priorities and approval, and an
evaluation of funding sources/availability. The processes should include descriptions of how the
following CSRP requirements will be met for each study/effort:
    a. Study Justification
    b. Due Diligence
    c. Study Registration
    d. Certification Authority Approval
    e. Study Registration Verification
    f. Study Completion

3.2. Study Justification. The study director will identify the source of the study proposal or
directive. Some common sources directing studies, analyses, assessments or evaluations are
Congressional, DOD and AF policy documents. These sources may include, but are not limited
to: National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Defense Planning Guidance (DPG), Resource
Management Directives (RMDs), Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), AF Strategic Planning
Guidance (AF SPG).

3.3. Due Diligence. For the purposes of CSRP, “due diligence” is described as the action taken
prior to embarking upon a new study to ensure the study is not (in whole or part) duplicative of
existing (previously completed or ongoing) studies. In order to comply with due diligence
requirements, a thorough search for related study results/information must be performed by
searching available sources to include, but not limited to, DTIC, the CSRP registry and the
various FFRDC databases.

   3.3.1. Other Sites and Sources. Searching other appropriate databases is encouraged.
   Existing study efforts may help to limit the scope or completely eliminate the need for a

                                                7
   proposed study. Study directors should also establish contact with appropriate subject-matter-
   experts (SME) resident on the staffs at MAJCOM and HAF headquarters. The purpose is to
   gain current information and insights related to the specific study topic that the SME may
   have knowledge of on a real-time basis but which has not yet been formally documented.

3.4. Study Registration. Upon the identification of a study proposal or directive, the study
director or sponsoring organization’s CSRP POC should access the CSRP database and begin
initial study registration by entering information into as many of the registry fields as possible.
Over time, as additional information becomes available, more of the registry fields should be
entered.

3.5. Certification Authority Approval. After the required justification and due diligence has
been completed, the study director will obtain CA review and approval in accordance with their
organization’s CSRP process guidelines. The organization’s CSRP POC (only) will document
the CA approval for the study by entering the CA’s name in “Certifying Authority Name” field
in the CSRP entry. See paragraphs 2.8.1 and 2.8.2 for more information.

3.6. Study Registration Verification. SAF/FMB guidance (30 April 2013 SAF/FMB
Memorandum, ‘Contract Studies Registry Program’) requires that unit FM’s ensure a completed
Study Registration Verification document accompanies all requests for the funding of A&AS
contract studies. Therefore, study directors or CSRP POCs will generate this Study Registration
Verification document from each CSRP entry’s “main page”. The completion of all data fields
on the verification document is mandatory. The verification document is automatically populated
from the CSRP entry’s data fields. An example of the downloadable verification document is in
Attachment 3. The verification document can be downloaded or electronically transferred as
appropriate.

3.7. Study Completion. Upon study completion, the study director will complete the remaining
registry data fields and file study results with DTIC. Studies crossing multiple years do not
require subsequent/additional registration and CA approval. However, when registering the
study, an estimate of the per year study cost should be allocated across the active years of the
study. The entry should be updated with actual costs annually and/or at study completion.

   3.7.1. Per DoDD 3200.12 and DoDI 3200.14 completed study results will be stored in the
   Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) repository (http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/).

                                             Chapter 4

                          STUDIES GOVERNANCE BOARD (SGB)

4.1. Purpose. The SGB was chartered by the VCSAF to provide senior leader insight and
guidance to the CSRP. The SGB meets regularly to receive periodic updates on newly registered
study efforts and leverages the expertise of the individual SGB members and their exposure to a
variety of different functional communities to stay abreast of AF-wide study requirements and
activities. This information is used to advise and facilitate the efficient and targeted application
of study resources. Membership on the SGB is described in paragraph 1.5.


                                                  8
4.2. Study Proposal Review. The SGB may review contract study proposals they identify as
worthy of special attention. This review will be accomplished at a regularly scheduled meeting
or, if needed to facilitate a time sensitive study proposal, a special meeting at the discretion of
the SGB chairperson. The SGB review will take place after approval by the organization’s CA
and prior to contract award. The sponsoring organization is responsible for the actual
presentation and will coordinate with the SGB and the CSRP Support Team to schedule the SGB
review and determine the appropriate presentation method (e.g., VTC, in person, electronically).
The sponsoring organization is responsible for scheduling the SGB Review far enough in
advance to avoid any conflict with the estimated study start date.

   4.2.1. The SGB Review presentation will include sufficient detail to fully explain the study
   requirement/need, justification, and objectives. Additionally, the review will address the
   findings of the required due diligence search and, if appropriate, identify any resulting
   changes to the focus and/or scope of the proposed study effort.



                              JACQUELINE R. HENNINGSEN, PhD, SES
                              Director, Studies & Analyses, Assessments and
                              Lessons Learned

ATTACHMENT 1

          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical Information (STI) Program (STIP), 11 Feb 1998
DoDI 3200.14, Principles and Operational Parameters of the DoD Scientific and Technical
              Information Program, 13 May 1997(Administrative Reissuance Incorporating
              Through Change 3, June 28, 2001)
VCSAF Memorandum, Air Force Contract Studies Registry Program, 7 Jun 2012
SAF/FMB Memorandum, Contract Studies Registration Program, 30 Apr 2013

Prescribed Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change in Publication


Abbreviations and Acronyms

A&AS – Advisory and Assistance Services
AF – Air Force
AoA – Analyses of Alternatives
AFEEIC – Air Force Element of Expense/Investment Code – (also called EEIC)
BCA – Business Case Analysis

                                                 9
CA – Certification Authority
CBA – Capabilities Based Assessment
CPI-MT – Continuous Process Improvement-Management Tool
CSRP – Contract Studies Registry Program
DPG – Defense Planning Guidance
DMS – Direct Mission Support
DRU – Direct Reporting Unit
DTIC – Defense Technical Information Center
EEIC – Element of Expense/Investment Code
FFRDC – Federally Funded Research and Development Center
FOA – Field Operating Agency
FM – Financial Management
GO – General Officer
HAF – Headquarters Air Force
MAJCOM – Major Command
NDAA – National Defense Authorization Act
QDR – Quadrennial Defense Review
RMD – Resource Management Directive
SES – Senior Executive Service
SPG – Strategic Planning Guidance
PAF – Project Air Force
R&D – Research and Development
RDT&E – Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
SDT – Study Data Template
SGB – Studies Governance Board
VCSAF – Vice Chief of Staff Air Force


TERMS - Description of the significant terms used in the CSRP

Certification Authority (CA) - The designated position within an organization responsible for
reviewing and approving study proposals to ensure full compliance with CSRP requirements.
Current CSRP guidance identifies the MAJCOM Vice Commander, the DRU Commanders and
the HAF two-letters as the designated CA for their respective organizations to include reporting
Field Operating Agencies.

                                               10
Contract Studies Registry Program (CSRP) - Program that establishes a process to provide
AF senior-level management oversight and a process to provide visibility and control over Air
Force contracted study efforts.
Due Diligence – One of the requirements of the CSRP is a due diligence search for existing
information related to the proposed study. For the purposes of this instruction, due diligence is
intended to include a literature search of data repositories and inquiries with subject-matter-
experts (SMEs) as appropriate for information applicable to the proposed study and which could
potentially, in whole or in part, satisfy the proposed study objectives.
Element of Expense/Investment Code (EEIC) - A five-digit alphanumeric code consisting of
two parts: a three-digit account code followed by a two-digit subaccount code to provide a
further shred-out. The codes are designed for use in budget preparations and accounting systems
to identify the nature of services and items acquired for immediate consumption (expense) or
capitalization (investment). EEICs are used as part of the accounting classification in accounting
for commitment, obligation, disbursement, collection, and international balance of payment
transactions. EEICs identify the nature of services and items acquired for immediate
consumption or capitalization. (Also known as an Air Force Element of Expense/Investment
Code or AFEEIC)
Sponsoring Organization - For the purposes of this instruction, the references to the
“sponsoring organization” are intended to mean the organization conducting the study/effort and
more specifically, funding the effort.
Studies Governance Board (SGB) - AF senior leader (GO/SES level) group that provides
direction, oversight and policy guidance for the Contract Studies Registry Program. AF/A9 is the
designated chair of the SGB with permanent membership comprised of the A3/5, A4/7, A8, FM,
AQ and US(M).
Study Director - For the purposes of this instruction, the references to a “study director” are
intended to mean the individual at an organizational level directly responsible for providing
study direction, oversight and review. The study director should be the individual and the office
with the most detailed knowledge of the need, scope and execution details of the specific effort.

ATTACHMENT 2

           ELEMENT OF EXPENSE/INVESTMENT CODES INFORMATION


50610
A&AS – Studies, Analysis and Evaluation – FFRDC - Direct Funded
NOTE: This code will be used for A&AS reporting ONLY - No Exceptions.
A&AS – Studies, Analysis and Evaluation Services purchased through FFRDC sources which
include the RAND Project Air Force, Institute for Defense Analysis, Aerospace Corporation,
MITRE, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Software Engineering Institute and any other DoD FFRDCs.
This AFEEIC will be used solely for direct funded transactions. These services provide
organized analytic assessments/evaluations in support of policy development, decision-making,
management or administration. Includes studies in support of information technology and R&D
                                                11
activities. Also includes contractor support for models, methodologies, and related software
supporting studies, analyses or evaluations. Examples include, but are not limited to: cost benefit
or effectiveness analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems, policies, personnel
management methods and programs; studies specifying the application of information
technology and other information resources to support mission and objectives; technology
assessments and management and operations research studies in support of research,
development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) objectives; evaluation of foreign force and
equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net assessments and geopolitical subjects; analyses of
material, personnel logistics and management systems; and environmental impact statements.


50611
A&AS – IT Studies, Analysis and Evaluation – FFRDC - Reimbursable Funded
NOTE: This code will be used for A&AS reporting ONLY - No Exceptions.
A&AS – Studies, Analysis and Evaluation Services purchased through FFRDC sources which
include the RAND Project Air Force, Institute for Defense Analysis, Aerospace Corporation,
MITRE, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Software Engineering Institute and any other DoD FFRDCs.
This AFEEIC will be used solely for reimbursable funded transactions. These services provide
organized analytic assessments/evaluations in support of policy development, decision-making,
management or administration. Includes studies in support of information technology and R&D
activities. Also includes contractor support for models, methodologies, and related software
supporting studies, analyses or evaluations. Examples include, but are not limited to: cost benefit
or effectiveness analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems, policies, personnel
management methods and programs; studies specifying the application of information
technology and other information resources to support mission and objectives; technology
assessments and management and operations research studies in support of research,
development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) objectives; evaluation of foreign force and
equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net assessments and geopolitical subjects; analyses of
material, personnel logistics and management systems; and environmental impact statements.


50620
A&AS – IT Studies, Analysis and Evaluation – NON-FFRDC - Direct Funded
NOTE: This code will be used for A&AS reporting ONLY - No Exceptions.
A&AS – Studies, Analysis and Evaluation Services purchased through sources other than
FFRDC activities. This AFEEIC will be used solely for direct funded transactions. These
services provide organized analytic assessments/evaluations in support of policy development,
decision-making, management or administration. Includes studies in support of information
technology and R&D activities. Also includes contractor support for models, methodologies, and
related software supporting studies, analyses or evaluations. Examples include, but are not
limited to: cost benefit or effectiveness analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems,
policies, personnel management methods and programs; studies specifying the application of
information technology and other information resources to support mission and objectives;
technology assessments and management and operations research studies in support of research,

                                                12
development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) objectives; evaluation of foreign force and
equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net assessments and geopolitical subjects; analyses of
material, personnel logistics and management systems; and environmental impact statements


50621
A&AS – IT Studies, Analysis and Evaluation – NON-FFRDC - Reimbursable Funded
NOTE: This code will be used for A&AS reporting ONLY - No Exceptions.
AS – Studies, Analysis and Evaluation Services purchased through sources other than FFRDC
activities. This AFEEIC will be used solely for reimbursable funded transactions. These services
provide organized analytic assessments/evaluations in support of policy development, decision-
making, management or administration. Includes studies in support of information technology
and R&D activities. Also includes contractor support for models, methodologies, and related
software supporting studies, analyses or evaluations. Examples include, but are not limited to:
cost benefit or effectiveness analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems, policies,
personnel management methods and programs; studies specifying the application of information
technology and other information resources to support mission and objectives; technology
assessments and management and operations research studies in support of research,
development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) objectives; evaluation of foreign force and
equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net assessments and geopolitical subjects; analyses of
material, personnel logistics and management systems; and environmental impact statements.



50670
(RDT&E and Procurement-Direct Mission Support (DMS) Only)
NOTE: This code will used for A&AS reporting ONLY - No Exceptions.
A&AS - Studies, Analysis & Evaluation Services purchased through FFRDC sources which
include the RAND Project Air Force, Institute for Defense Analysis, Aerospace Corporation,
MITRE, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Software Engineering Institute and any other DoD FFRDCs.
This AFEEIC will be used solely for direct funded transactions. These services provide
organized analytic assessments/evaluations in support of policy development, decision-making,
management or administration. Includes studies in support of information technology and R&D
activities. Also includes contractor support for models, methodologies, and related software
supporting studies, analyses or evaluations. Examples include, but are not limited to: cost benefit
or effectiveness analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems, policies, personnel
management methods and programs, studies specifying the application of information
technology and other information resources to support mission and objectives, technology
assessments and management and operations research studies in support of research,
development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) objectives, evaluation of foreign force and
equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net assessments and geopolitical subjects, analyses of
material, personnel, logistics and management systems, and environmental impact statements.



                                                13
50671
(RDT&E and Procurement-Direct Mission Support (DMS) Only)
NOTE: This code will used for A&AS reporting ONLY - No Exceptions.
A&AS - IT Studies, Analysis & Evaluation - FFRDC - Reimbursable Funded - A&AS - Studies,
and Analysis & Evaluation Services purchased through FFRDC sources which include the
RAND Project Air Force, Institute for Defense Analysis, Aerospace Corporation, MITRE, MIT
Lincoln Laboratory, Software Engineering Institute and any other DoD FFRDCs. This AFEEIC
will be used solely for reimbursable funded transactions. These services provide organized
analytic assessments/evaluations in support of policy development, decision-making,
management or administration. Includes studies in support of information technology and R&D
activities. Also includes contractor support for models, methodologies, and related software
supporting studies, analyses or evaluations. Examples include, but are not limited to: cost benefit
or effectiveness analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems, policies, personnel
management methods and programs, studies specifying the application of information
technology and other information resources to support mission and objectives, technology
assessments and management and operations research studies in support of research,
development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) objectives, evaluation of foreign force and
equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net assessments and geopolitical subjects, analyses of
material, personnel, logistics and management systems, and environmental impact statements.



50672
(RDT&E and Procurement-Direct Mission Support (DMS) Only) A&AS - SAE - Non-
FFRDC - Direct funded
NOTE: This code will used for A&AS reporting ONLY - No Exceptions.
A&AS - Studies, Analysis & Evaluation - Services purchased through sources other than FFRDC
activities. This AFEEIC will be used solely for direct funded transactions. These services
provide organized analytic assessments/evaluations in support of policy development, decision-
making, management or administration. Includes studies in support of information technology
and R&D activities. Also includes contractor support for models, methodologies, and related
software supporting studies, analyses, or evaluations. Examples include, but are not limited to:
cost benefit or effectiveness analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems, policies,
personnel management methods and programs, studies specifying the application of information
technology and other information resources to support mission and objectives, technology
assessments and management and operations research studies in support of research,
development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) objectives, evaluation of foreign force and
equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net assessments and geopolitical subjects, analyses of
material, personnel, logistics and management systems, and environmental impact statements.


50673
(RDT&E and Procurement-Direct Mission Support (DMS) Only)


                                                14
NOTE: This code will used for A&AS reporting ONLY - No Exceptions.
A&AS - Studies, Analysis & Evaluation - Services purchased through sources other than FFRDC
activities. This AFEEIC will be used solely for reimbursable funded transactions. These services
provide organized analytic assessments/evaluations in support of policy development, decision-
making, management or administration. Includes studies in support of information technology
and R&D activities. Also includes contractor support for models, methodologies, and related
software supporting studies, analyses or evaluations. Examples include, but are not limited to:
cost benefit or effectiveness analyses of concepts, plans, tactics, forces, systems, policies,
personnel management methods and programs, studies specifying the application of information
technology and other information resources to support mission and objectives, technology
assessments and management and operations research studies in support of research,
development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E) objectives, evaluation of foreign force and
equipment capabilities, foreign threats, net assessments and geopolitical subjects, analyses of
material, personnel, logistics and management systems, and environmental impact statements.



ATTACHMENT 3


       STUDY REGISTRATION VERIFICATION
                - All the fields present on this document are mandatory and must be completed -




 Study Title:

 Study Team Lead Name:

 Certification Authority (CA) Name:

  Sponsoring Organization:


  EEIC:                                     CSRP Registration Number:


  Study Abstract:




                                                       15
