                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                       WASHINGTON, DC




                                                                            AFGM2014-33-02
                                                                             5 February 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR ALMAJCOM-FOA/CC
               DISTRIBUTION C

FROM: SAF/CIO A6
      1800 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington DC 20330-1800

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum 33-02 – Postal Organizational Structure

        By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Guidance Memorandum immediately
implements postal organization structure. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory.
There are no releasability restrictions on this memorandum. This memorandum does not apply
to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve units. To the extent its directions are inconsistent
with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails IAW AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management.

        MAJCOMs will seek both the affected COCOM(s) and SAF/CIO A6 approval before
closing an operating location whose primary postal mission is the oversight of mail
transportation. SAF/CIO A6 frequently assesses worldwide postal networks and must determine
how the loss of any hub, Aerial Mail Terminal (AMT), or Mail Control Activity (MCA) will
affect the DoD mail transportation network overall.

        MAJCOMs will structure their Postal organizations in accordance with Attachment; any
variations from this structure must be approved by SAF/CIO A6.

       Guidance is summarized in the attachment.

      This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.

                                             MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             Chief, Information Dominance and
                                             Chief Information Officer

Attachment:
Postal Organizational Structure
                                      ATTACHMENT 1
                                   Postal Structure Guidance


Figure 1. Air Postal Squadron (AIRPS) Structure




A2.1.1. MAJCOM Air Postal Squadrons (AIRPS). AIRPS are established overseas under A6
Command and Control primarily to operate and manage theater-wide mail transportation
functions. They manage these functions through AMTs and MCAs at mail receipt, consolidation
and transfer points as necessary to ensure continuous and cost effective movement of mail to
theater Air Force Post Offices (APO). Secondarily, AIRPS may operate APOs at geographically
separated or remote locations (not on an AF installation). There are special situations, by mutual
consent of the MAJCOM, Wing, and SAF/A6, that AIRPS may staff, operate, and manage APOs
on installations.

A2.1.1.2. AIRPS provides training, inspection, operational planning, policy oversight, and
liaison with the Military Postal Service Agency and other federal agencies for all Air Force
postal operations within a theater to meet DoD and USPS mandated inspections including
requirements in USPS Pub 38, DoD 4525.6-M and under USC Title 39.

A2.1.2. Postal Detachments. Postal Detachments are assigned to countries where an AIRPS has
assets and functional requirements. Those assets normally report to the Postal Detachment who
in-turn, report to the AIRPS. MAJCOMs may determine that a Postal Detachment is not required
and assets may report directly to the AIRPS.

2
A2.1.3. Aerial Mail Terminal (AMT). AMTs receive, sort, consolidate, and re-dispatch mail to
APOs via a global mail network coordinated through the USPS. Mail may be received from
commercial or military aircraft, surface container, truck, and/or APO.

A2.1.4. Mail Control Activity (MCA). MCAs oversee airport flight line and warehouse
operations on military and commercial airports. They construct country-specific flight schedules,
manifest mail, safeguard mail, report mail loading/handling irregularities, and provide liaison
with commercial airline or Air Mobility Command representatives to ensure continuous and cost
effective mail movement. MCAs are often the singular, most critical point in the network to
identify mail delays, improper handling, security, damage, or cost inefficiencies.

A2.1.5. Air Force Post Office (APO). APOs provide retail postal services nearly identical to that
of a Post Office in the Contiguous United States (CONUS):

A2.1.5.1. Postal Service Centers (PSC). Delivers personal mail to installation authorized
customers.

A2.1.5.2. Directory Section. Readdresses mail for patrons who have departed the installation and
redirects mail containing incorrect or incomplete addresses. Redirects mail that was received in
error (missent mail).

A2.1.5.3. Registry Section. Secures and processes registered mail that may contain high value
items and classified material (up to Secret).

A2.1.5.4. Finance Section. Accepts personal mail from authorized patrons, sells postage stamps,
and postal money orders.

A2.1.5.5. Official Mail Center. Receives incoming official mail and interoffice distribution.
Determines mailability of official matter, ensures compliance with the Private Express Statutes,
and applies official postage. Prepares outgoing mail for dispatch to USPS.

A2.1.5.6. Receipt and Dispatch (R&D) Section. Receives and accounts for incoming mail, scans
mail barcodes, uploads scanner data to USPS. Prepares outgoing mail for dispatch by ensuring
proper labeling, pouching, tagging, and routing is accomplished.

A2.1.6. Contingency/Mobility Operations. AIRPS provides support for contingency and mobility
operations. APO and AMT operations maintain C-Kits containing postal materials and supplies
to support postal operations downrange. The 6KDBX Unit Type Code (UTC) is used to provide
postal support to contingency operations. Typically, combatant commanders designate how
postal resources are postured within a contingency environment; if no specific designation is
provided, the model described in this paragraph will be used.




3
