                                  DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                              WASHINGTON, DC




OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
                                                                                     AFGM2014-33-05
                                                                                     17 September 2014

      MEMORANDUM FOR ALMAJCOM-FOA-DRU/CC
                     DISTRIBUTION C

      FROM:     SAF/CIO A6
                1800 Air Force Pentagon
                Washington DC 20330-1720

      SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum 33-05, Common Computing Environment

             By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Air Force Guidance Memorandum
      provides updated guidance on the mandatory use of the Air Force enterprise commoditized
      Information Technology (IT) infrastructure services. i Compliance with this memorandum is
      mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the
      information herein prevails, IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

              As part of our evolution to the Joint Information Environment (JIE) this memo directs the
      use of an Air Force Common Computing Environment (AF CCE) for all new and modernizing ii
      IT applications starting in FY15. iii It directs the use of an AF CCE services catalog and cost
      model as the basis for mission area business case analyses to determine roadmaps for existing IT
      application migrations to standardized enterprise infrastructure environments. The benefits will
      be (1) accelerated application releases for added mission capability, (2) enhanced cybersecurity
      of the enterprise information environment, and (3) lower total costs of ownership.

             The AF CCE is provisioned by the Program Element Office (PEO) Command, Control,
      Communications, Intelligence & Networks (C3I&N) Managed Services Office (MSO), using
      DISA’s Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) or other offerings, as well as approved commercial
      cloud services. The MSO will establish a set of baseline-driven platform and infrastructure
      services in both physical and virtual hosting environments, under the guidance and direction of
      the AF IT Governance Executive Board (ITGEB), by 30 Sep 14.

             Additionally, the MSO will publish an AF CCE service catalog and cost model by 30
      Nov 14 for use in planning for the development, test, and production infrastructure environments
      needed for enterprise level capabilities. As these capabilities come on line, mission area leads
      will work with acquiring program management offices (PMOs) to:

      1) Participate in an MSO-led User Engagement Integrated Process Team (IPT) to inform the
         service catalog, cost model and infrastructure service delivery processes.
2) Plan to utilize the AF CCE for new/modernizing enterprise IT applications, using the service
   catalog and cost model NLT 120 days from signature of this memo.

3) Document roadmaps and program plans for existing applications using the MSO service
   catalog and cost model to plan application migration to the CCE in established infrastructure
   environments NLT the end of FY18 (IAW DoD data center consolidation policy iv).
   Programs with existing applications that are unable to plan for the use of AF CCE services by
   the end of FY18 will work with SAF/CIO A6 mission area leads to present their business
   case justification to the AF IT Governance Executive Board (ITGEB).

4) Establish rationalization plans for existing applications that will be replaced over the course
   of the FYDP. These plans must ensure O&M and cybersecurity requirements are met, and
   sustainment funding is in place until application migration is completed.

        The Cyberspace Operations and Warfighter Integration Directorate (AF/A3C/A6C) will
lead Air Force application rationalization planning and AF CCE implementation planning for
each mission area, providing further detail to support the actions described above and mission
area roadmap development. Additionally, the Cyberspace Capabilities and Compliance
Directorate (SAF/A6X) will synchronize roadmaps into the IT/Cyberspace portfolio
management process for review by early FY16.

         Questions regarding this policy may be forwarded to the SAF/CIO A6SS Strategy and
Policy Division, usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.a3cs-a6cs-strategy-and-policy@mail.mil. This
memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this memorandum, or
upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication, whichever is
earlier.




                                                     MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                     Chief, Information Dominance and
                                                      Chief Information Officer

Attachment:
1. Notes
                                          Attachment 1
                                            NOTES



i
 Air Force enterprise commoditized IT infrastructure services include platform middleware
integrated with storage and computing services, specified in accordance with AFPD 33-4, IT
Governance, and the AF Consolidated Enterprise IT (CEIT) Infrastructure Baseline. CEIT-B
releases are developed and approved via formal configuration control board (CCB) processes,
with participation by senior level engineers across all AF mission areas. Program engineers
bring product configurations for approval via the Implementation Baseline CCB process, which
may in turn drive additional infrastructure services into the AF enterprise IT services catalog. A
key benefit of providing enterprise IT infrastructure services using an established baseline is a
standardized, scalable and accredited capability that eliminates the need for independent
infrastructure environments.
ii
  Any change or modification to an existing Information System (IS), program, and/or initiative
that results in improved capability or performance of the baseline activity. Improved capability
performance achieved as a by-product of the replacement of broken IT equipment to continue an
operation at current service levels is not categorized as Development/Modernization. (DoD
FMR, Vol 2B, Chapter 18 – July 2010). Specific examples of modernization may be addressed
on a case-by-case basis at the IT Governance Executive Group/Board levels.
iii
  The scope of this memo applies to all AF IT applications that will deploy to or currently
operate in a DISA core data center (Gov’t or commercial). Starting in FY15, all
new/modernizing AF IT enterprise applications that will ultimately deploy to enterprise level
data centers will plan to utilize the AF CCE services as described in this memo for all
development/test and production activities. Applications that will deploy to Installation
Processing Nodes (IPN) and Special Purpose Processing Nodes (SPPN) will also plan to utilize
the AF CCE services as described in this memo for development/test and production activities,
as those data centers come on line and provide the requisite AF CCE infrastructure services.
iv
 Memorandum DoD, 11 July 2013, subject: Department of Defense Joint Information
Environment: Continental United States Core Data Centers and Application and System
Migration.
