                                    DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                 WASHINGTON DC




OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                                                                                     AFGM2014-33-04
                                                                                    17 September 2014

      MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
                     MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

      FROM: SAF/CIO A6
            1800 Air Force Pentagon
            Washington DC 20330-1800

      SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum 33-04 – Cyberspace Operations Badge
      Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

            By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Guidance Memorandum immediately
      implements guidance for award and wear of the Air Force Cyberspace Operations Badge.
              As we continue to clarify Air Force Cyberspace mission roles and responsibilities, it is
      time to adjust our policy on wear of the Cyberspace Badge. With other operational specialty
      badges, wear of the badge is normally reserved for that operational Air Force Specialty Code
      (AFSC) -- e.g., pilot wings are awarded only to those who earned a pilot AFSC. In the
      cyberspace business, that would mean only AFSCs 17D, 17S and 1B4; however, it is clear that
      select individuals in other AFSCs perform operations-focused cyberspace duties.
              Beginning 1 November 2014, the Cyberspace Badge will be correctly identified as the
      Cyberspace Operations Badge in name, the actual badge will not change. Wear of the
      Cyberspace Operations Badge will be limited to personnel with core 17D, 17S and 1B4 Air
      Force Specialty Codes and non-17X/1B4 personnel who perform operations-focused jobs and
      are approved for the badge, in accordance with the attached criteria.
              Unless otherwise approved in accordance with Cyberspace Operations Badge Award
      Criteria attached, wear of the Cyberspace Badge for non-17X/-1B4 personnel will be phased
      out three years from the date this memo is signed.
             Questions regarding this policy can be forwarded to the SAF/CIO A6 Force Development
      Division, usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.a3cf-a6cf-workflow@mail.mil. This memorandum
      becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date signed, or upon publication of this
      guidance in an AF instruction, whichever is earlier.



                                                      MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                      Chief, Information Dominance and Chief
                                                       Information Officer
                           Cyberspace Operations Badge Award Criteria

Effective 1 November 2014, the criteria below will apply for award of the Cyberspace Operations Badge.
Individuals awarded the Cyberspace Badge in accordance with criteria in AFI 36-2903, Dress and
Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, prior to 1 November 2014 may continue to wear the
Cyberspace Badge for a period of three years from the date this memo is signed. At the end of three
years, individuals not approved for wear of the Cyberspace Operations Badge will cease wearing the
Cyberspace Badge.

Cyberspace Operations - Officers (17X)
Basic Badge: Awarded upon graduation from Undergraduate Cyberspace Training (UCT)
Senior Badge: After completion of Cyber 200 and 7 years of cyberspace operations duty
Master Badge: After completion of Cyber 300 and 15 years of cyberspace operations duty

Cyberspace Operations - Enlisted (1B4)
Basic Badge: Completion of 1B4X1 Initial Skills Training and award of the 1B431 skill level
Senior Badge: Upon award of 7-skill level
Master Badge: MSgt and above, 5 years as 1B4 from 7-skill level award

Chief Master Sergeants (applies to cross flow CMSgts only)
Basic Badge: Upon award of 1B4 Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) code
Senior Badge: After 12 months of award of 1B4 CEM code
Master Badge: After 5 years of award of 1B4 CEM code

Cyberspace Operations Badge award is based on operations-focused duties defined as “direct involvement
in development and/or employment of cyberspace systems and/or capabilities” verified by HQ AF/A6S.
Individuals apply for badge award in accordance with procedures outlined below.

Non-17X Officers
Basic Badge: Completion of Cyber 100, 1 year in cyberspace operations billet and SAF/A6 approval
Senior Badge: Completion of Cyber 200, 5 years in cyberspace operations billets and SAF/A6 approval
Master Badge: Completion of Cyber 300, 15 years in cyberspace operations billets and SAF/A6 approval

Non-1B4 Enlisted
Basic Badge: 1 year in cyberspace operations billet and SAF/A6 approval
Senior Badge: 7-skill level award, 5 years in cyberspace operations billets and SAF/A6 approval
Master Badge: 7-skill level award, 15 years in cyberspace operations billets and SAF/A6 approval

Application Process for non-17X officer and non-1BX enlisted serving in cyberspace operator positions
• Application occurs each time criterion is met; applies to award of Basic, Senior and Command Badges
• Individuals must submit an application itemizing operations-focused duties performed and a SURF
• Applications require wing commander/equivalent review and endorsement of owning MAJCOM/CV
• Submit applications via email: usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.a3cf-a6cf-workflow@mail.mil

General Officers
General officers not previously awarded the cyberspace operations badge may wear the basic badge after
serving 12 months in a cyberspace command or staff position approved by the SAF-CIO A6 and after
completing the Cyberspace Operations Executive Course. Continue to upgrade to the next higher badge
level (i.e., senior, master) while occupying a cyberspace position every 12 months.

As the Functional Authority, SAF-CIO A6 is authorized wear of the master cyberspace operations badge
upon assumption of the position. Additionally, the AFSPC/CC is authorized wear of the master
cyberspace operations badge upon taking command. Unless previously earned, incumbents are not
authorized to wear the cyberspace operations badge when no longer holding either of these positions.
