BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE                                           INSTRUCTION 90-203
COMMAND
                                                                          1 DECEMBER 2009
                                                 Incorporating Through Change 2, 30 JUNE 2011

                                                                             Special Management

                                                     H-1 HELICOPTER RISK MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFGSC/SEF                                                   Certified by: HQ AFGSC/SED
                                                                         (Lt Col Jason Z. Wollard)
                                                                                         Pages: 13


This interim change modifies Attachment 1, Risk Assessment Worksheet, adds objective human
factors assessment criteria, deletes sample weather criteria, and adjusts the mission approval
threshold criteria. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change replaces the term ―Operations Duty Officer‖ with ―Supervisor of Flying‖,
adds additional sample mitigation actions, and modifies Attachment 1, Risk Assessment
Worksheet. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. Introduction. Risk management is the process by which risks are assessed and mitigated in
order to produce the best risk-to-reward combination for a particular task or mission. Filling out
a form or worksheet is not the end of risk management; rather, true risk management is a
continuous, cyclic process that includes the drafting of instructions, technical orders, and aircrew
procedures, to selection of a particular aircrew to accomplish a mission, through mission
execution, and aircrew debrief. This instruction details a small portion of that process--the
employment of the UH-1N Risk Management Worksheet (referred to hereafter as ―Worksheet‖)
in AFGSC helicopter operations.
   1.1. Commanders are responsible for ensuring an effective risk management process is in
   place. To meet this responsibility, commanders must balance the cost of risks with the value-
   added and the desired outcome. The following three general rules should be applied:
       1.1.1. Never accept an unnecessary risk. The commander who has the authority to accept
       or reject a risk is responsible for protecting the unit from unnecessary risks. If the
 2                                                         AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009


        commander can eliminate or reduce a risk and still accomplish the mission consistent
        with the parameters governing the mission, it should be done.
        1.1.2. Make risk decisions at the appropriate level. Higher level risk missions will
        require a higher approval level. The goal is not to cancel all increased risk missions, but
        to highlight the hazards and ensure they are mitigated to the maximum extent possible.
        1.1.3. Ensure that the benefits of a prudent risk outweigh the possible cost of the risk.
        Commanders must understand the possible risk and have a clear picture of the benefits to
        be gained from taking the risk.
2. The AFGSC Helicopter Risk Management Model. There are many risk management
models available for personnel to use in making risk-management decisions, depending upon the
time they have available, the scope of the operation, and the nature of the risks involved.
     2.1. AFGSC UH-1N leadership and aircrew are encouraged to use a time-critical risk
     management model best known by its three-letter acronym ―ACT‖: Assess the risk, Consider
     the options, and Take the appropriate action, during completion of the Worksheet and during
     ongoing mission execution.
        2.1.1. Assess the Risk. Members identify any hazards and the potential impact those
        hazards may have on mission safety.
        2.1.2. Consider the Options. Using a cost-benefit analysis (the best risk level for the
        expected payoff), members consider ways to avoid, mitigate, or accept the risks identified
        in paragraph 2.1. Sample risk mitigation options are listed in Table 1.
        2.1.3. Take the appropriate action. Members implement the risk control option selected
        in paragraph 2.2. This step includes informing/updating leadership on risks and risk
        control decisions made by the crew.
     2.2. Assigning a number value is a method of quantifying an overall risk measurement. The
     objective of the Worksheet is not to produce a number with which to approach leadership;
     rather, the objective is to spur communication amongst the crew, between the crew and flight
     supervision, and to highlight possible areas of risk that were not otherwise considered. The
     key to risk management lays in identifying and communicating apparent risks, deciding how
     to control those risks, and taking appropriate action (accept the risk, mitigate and / or avoid
     unnecessary risk).
*Note: Flight engineers not acting as primary crewmembers are treated as scanners for purposes
of determining aircrew assessment factor.
     2.3. The risk number determined in the process outlined in Paragraph 3 is not intended to be
     used as a go/no-go value, nor is it intended as a substitute for sound judgment and decision-
     making. Furthermore, units should not use risk numbers to routinely limit training missions
     as this may lead to a lack of proficiency in certain environments and an overall reduction in
     unit capability.
3. Guidance for Completing the UH-1N Risk Management Worksheet
     3.1. Part 1—The Flight Authorizing Official (FAO) Section. The FAO completes this
     section of the Worksheet prior to signing the flight authorization.
AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                   3


     3.1.1. The FAO fills in the flight authorization number, the mission to be performed, and
     the aircrew names.
     3.1.2. Determine Flight Mission Risk Factor. Referring to the reverse side of the form,
     the FAO circles all applicable flight mission profiles that are to be performed on that
     mission. The highest-risk number is recorded on the front side of the form in the blank
     labeled ―Mission Factor‖.
     3.1.3. Determine Aircrew Assessment Factor. Referring to the reverse side of the form,
     for each crewmember, the FAO determines that crewmember’s ―aircrew factor‖. The
     factors are cumulative for each crewmember. The FAO records that number on the front
     side of the Worksheet in the blanks provided for ―aircrew factor‖. Units are authorized to
     develop spreadsheets that show crew experience numbers used to calculate the aircrew
     risk assessment factor.
     3.1.4. FAO Issues. The FAO, upon considering the unique factors surrounding the unit,
     the circumstances of the flight in question, or the aircrew member(s) themselves, may
     elect to add additional risk points as desired in order to capture elements of risk not
     otherwise addressed on the Worksheet. Sample FAO issues to consider are located at the
     bottom of the reverse side of the Worksheet. Record this value on the front side of the
     Worksheet in the blank provided for ―FAO Issues‖.
     3.1.5. FAO Initials. The FAO totals up all FAO factors determined during the previous
     steps, records that number in the blank provided, and initials in the appropriate blank.
  3.2. Part 2 – Crew Section. The Pilot in Command (PIC) is responsible for completing this
  section prior to takeoff. He/she shall ensure any risk value that falls in a gray-shaded block
  is mitigated in the ―Mitigation Actions‖ section on the front side of the Worksheet. Refer to
  Table for sample risk mitigation actions.
     3.2.1. Mission Planning. Circle the appropriate value using the grid provided. The
     criteria ―normal‖, ―compressed‖, ―scramble‖, ―no changes‖, ―minor changes‖, and ―major
     changes‖ are left deliberately vague so as to allow the crew to apply their relative
     judgment and experience to managing risk stemming from mission planning.
     3.2.2. Crew Proficiency and Experience. Crews are encouraged to utilize the following
     criteria in paragraphs 3.2.3.1 and 3.2.3.2. as a guide to evaluate the proficiency level and
     experience of the crew. The criteria are defined as follows:
         3.2.2.1. Crew Proficiency.
             3.2.2.1.1. Optimal.   Member has performed the task within the previous 14
             calendar days.
             3.2.2.1.2. Average. Member has performed the task between 15 and 45 days,
             inclusive.
             3.2.2.1.3. Low. Member last performed the task greater than 45 days ago, or is
             non-current.
         3.2.2.2. Crew Experience.
             3.2.2.2.1. Very. Member has been qualified/certified in the task for two years or
             more.
4                                                      AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009


           3.2.2.2.2. Experienced. Member has been qualified/certified in the task for more
           than six months but less than two years.
           3.2.2.2.3. Inexperienced. Member is unqualified in the task, is in training to
           achieve initial qualification / certification, or has been qualified/certified in the
           task for six months or less.
    3.2.3. Crew Duty Day. Circle the appropriate value using the grid provided. Enter at the
    appropriate row corresponding to your crew’s show time, and move right to your crew’s
    projected land time.
    3.2.4. Mission Duration / Complexity. Circle the appropriate value using the grid
    provided. The criteria ―short‖, ―normal‖, and ―long‖ are deliberately vague so as to
    allow the crew to define these criteria according to their own relative judgment and
    experience.
       3.2.4.1. Mission Complexity. The criteria ―simple‖, ―varied‖, and ―complex‖ are
       deliberately vague so as to allow the crew to apply their own judgment and
       experience to the situation. One suggested method may be to consider the number of
       tasks to be performed for that mission. For example: ―Simple‖: two or less distinct
       mission types performed during the same mission; ―varied‖: three to four distinct
       mission types performed during the same mission; ―complex‖: more than five or more
       distinct mission types performed during the same mission. Another method would
       be to consider the number of aircraft or aircrew members involved: two or more
       aircraft in a formation may merit a ―varied‖ designation, while more than 10
       crewmembers involved in the mission could result in a ―complex‖ assessment of
       Mission Complexity.
       3.2.4.2. M: Medication. Have I been taking any prescription or over-the-counter
       drugs, vitamins, or supplements that could affect my performance?
       3.2.4.3. S: Stress/distractions. Am I under a lot of pressure in my desk job? Am I
       worried about money, health, or family life?
       3.2.4.4. A: Alcohol. Have I consumed any alcohol within the preceding 12 hours or
       am I still suffering from any aftereffects?
       3.2.4.5. F: Fatigue. Am I tired? Not adequately rested?
       3.2.4.6. E: Eating. Am I adequately nourished, with a good, balanced diet?
    3.2.5. Human Factors. This section assesses crews for human risk factors using both
    objective and subjective criteria.
       3.2.5.1. Fatigue (Acute and Chronic) and Circadian Rhythm Factors. Each primary
       crewmember will assess him- / herself and write in the appropriate value in the
       column. If the sum total of any crewmember’s Fatigue/Circadian Rhythm score is a
       four or greater, the crew will consider, document, and secure FAO approval of a
       mitigation action(s) per Table 1. If the sum total of any crewmember’s Fatigue /
       Circadian Rhythm score is a seven or greater, OG/CC (or designated deputy)
       approval is required prior to launch.
AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 5


        3.2.5.2. Other non-fatigue / circadian rhythm factors. Each primary crewmember
        will assess his or her readiness to fly using the ―I’M SAFE‖ acronym. Consider
        human factors criteria as they are prior to flight.
            3.2.5.2.1. I: Illness. Do I have an illness or have any symptoms of an illness that
            could adversely affect my performance?
            3.2.5.2.2. M: Medication. Have I been taking any prescription or over-the-
            counter drugs, vitamins, or supplements that could affect my performance?
            3.2.5.2.3. S: Stress / distractions. Am I under a lot of pressure in my desk job?
            Am I worried about money, health, or family life?
            3.2.5.2.4. A: Alcohol. Have I consumed any alcohol within the preceding 12
            hours or am I still suffering from any aftereffects? Note: a ―yes‖ answer to either
            part of this question is a no-go item per AFI 11-202v3.
            3.2.5.2.5. F: Fatigue. Do I have any fatigue issues not previously addressed in
            the form?
            3.2.5.2.6. E: Eating. Am I adequately nourished, with a good, balanced diet?
     3.2.6. Terrain/Weather. Crews are encouraged to use the following criteria in paragraphs
     3.2.6.1 and 3.2.7.2. as a guide to evaluate the terrain and weather conditions that will
     affect the mission. The criteria are defined as follows:
        3.2.6.1. Terrain.
            3.2.6.1.1. Flat/rolling. The entire mission will be executed in non-mountainous
            terrain.
            3.2.6.1.2. Mixed. Less than half of the total mission time will be executed in
            mountainous terrain.
            3.2.6.1.3. Mountainous. Half or more of the total mission time will be executed in
            mountainous terrain. ―Mountainous terrain‖ is defined as terrain that meets the
            definition of ―mountainous terrain‖ as specified in AFI 11-2H-1N, Volume 3.
        3.2.6.2. Weather. The criteria ―good‖, ―fair‖, and ―marginal‖ are deliberately vague
        so as to allow the crew to apply their own judgment and experience to the situation.
        Crews should balance the weather conditions against their crew complement,
        currency, proficiency, mission type, and mission importance when making a good /
        fair / marginal weather determination.
     3.2.7. Bird Condition. Select ―low‖, ―moderate‖, or ―severe‖ as specified on the Bird
     Avoidance Model (BAM), the AHAS (Avian Hazard Advisory System), or local Bird
     Watch Condition. Use the worst case condition reported by any of these information
     sources.
     3.2.8. Density Altitude. Select ―<5000’‖, ―>5000’‖, or ―>10000’‖ for the worst case
     during the flight. Consider enroute density altitude as well as terminal area density
     altitude for this factor.
     3.2.9. Power Available at Start, Taxi, Take-off (STTO). Self-explanatory.
6                                                         AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009


       3.2.10. Power Available at Objective(s). Self-explanatory. Use the worst-case power at
       any objective planned for the mission.
       3.2.11. Heat Index or Ambient Temp. Self-explanatory. Use heat index calculated by
       base weather, if practically obtainable. If unknown, use ambient air temperature and
       relative humidity. See Attachment 2 for table.
       3.2.12. Wind Chill or Ambient Temp. Self-explanatory. Use wind chill calculated by
       base weather, if practically obtainable. If unknown, use ambient air temperature and
       estimated wind speed. See Attachment 3 for table.
       3.2.13. Brown-Out / White-Out. Circle this factor if brown-out and/or white-out
       conditions are possible during the mission.
       3.2.14. Turbulence. Self-explanatory.
       3.2.15. Objective familiarity. Circle the appropriate value using the grid provided. The
       criteria ―surveyed‖ and ―unsurveyed‖ refer to whether or not an approved AF Form 4303
       has been prepared for the site. The criteria ―familiar‖ and ―unfamiliar‖ refer to the crew’s
       familiarity with the site. Use the average familiarity for the entire crew.
       3.2.16. Moon Angle/EMI. This block applies to Night Vision Goggle (NVG) operations
       only. Circle the appropriate value using the grid provided.         Use the worst case
       conditions for the mission. For example, if the mission begins before moonrise, and ends
       with an 80% moon a few hours later, use the risk value for no moon illumination.
       3.2.17. ―Top 3‖ Risks for Mission. In this block, the crew considers and documents
       what they perceive to be the top three risks that may affect the mission. Crews shall
       mitigate or accept each identified risk. Note: this risk identification and mitigation shall
       be performed in addition to completing the Crew Mitigation Action block (paragraph
       3.2.18).
       3.2.18. Crew Assessment Factor. Write in the sum of the crew’s factors from Part 2.
       3.2.19. Total Risk Factor. Write in the sum of the FAO Factor and Crew Factor.
       3.2.20. PIC Signature. Self-explanatory.
       3.2.21. Additional Crew Factor. Aircraft commanders may add in any additional
       subjective factors they perceive impact the mission but are not accounted for elsewhere
       on the form. Point values assessed are at the aircraft commander’s discretion.
       3.2.22. Total Risk Factor. Write in the sum of the FAO Factor, Crew Factor, and
       Additional Crew Factor.
       3.2.23. PIC Signature. Self-explanatory.
    3.3. Part 3 – Supervisor of Flying (SOF) Section. Upon receipt of the Worksheet, the SOF
    will verify the Total Risk Factor, that all shaded areas have been mitigated (and the FAO has
    reviewed and approved the mitigation), and brief the FAO and / or unit DO or CC as per unit
    policy. The SOF shall examine the weather, mission changes, and other factors determined
    by the unit commander for each flight as a control measure for the FAO. The SOF shall
    initial the worksheet in the space provided.
AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                    7


Table 1. Sample Risk Mitigation Actions
Spread Out: Use more than one asset, add crewmembers to the mission
Alter the mission profile: limit and / or eliminate events to be performed on the mission
Transfer: change out crewmembers
Change LZs used or order of use (for fatigue, difficulty, hazards, weather, illumination, or power
management)
Change takeoff time (better weather, better illumination), land early, wait until sunrise
Take extra survival gear
Fly with a wingman / flight follow with a nearby aircraft
Accept the risk--is the risk versus gain worth it?
       3.3.1. For risk values less than 28, the SOF shall ensure that the Worksheet is annotated
       with the level of approval required and the time of approval.
       3.3.2. If the risk value is between 28 and 35, inclusive, the HS/DO or HS/CC must
       review and approve the mission and mitigation steps taken prior to takeoff.
       3.3.3. If the risk value is greater than 35, the OG/CC (or his / her designated
       representative) must review and approve the mission, the mission risks, and proposed
       mitigation steps prior to takeoff.
4. Enroute Supervision
   4.1. As part of their risk management process, commanders will ensure mechanisms are in
   place to receive enroute risk updates during mission execution.
   4.2. Aircraft commanders are specifically assigned the responsibility to continuously assess
   current risk levels, consider alternative courses of action, and implement mitigation
   measures.     In addition, aircraft commanders shall ensure HS supervision remains
   continuously informed of mission progress.
5. Risk Management Program Administration
   5.1. Conduct one-time training on the Helicopter Risk Management Worksheet for newly
   assigned aircrew personnel in conjunction with duty familiarization upgrade training. Units
   shall use higher headquarters provided courseware to conduct this training. This training is
   located on the 20 AF Helicopter Operations CoP, in the Training > Ground Training >
   Instructor folder.
   5.2. Units should use safety days, crew resource management training, commander’s calls,
   or similar unit functions to address risk management principles and their application to the
   mission.
   5.3. Helicopter RM Training for wing and operations group commanders:
       5.3.1. Helicopter squadron commanders shall provide unit specific risk management
       training to new wing and operations group commanders and their deputies (WG/CC, CV
       and OG/CC and CD, respectively) within 30 days of assumption of duty.
       5.3.2. As a minimum, this training will include a discussion of this instruction, a full
       review of the Worksheet, a discussion of the wings’ risk management and mission
8                                                          AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009


       approval process, and a discussion concerning the hazards associated with each mission
       the helicopter unit is qualified to perform.
       5.3.3. Maintain documentation of this training for the duration of that individual’s duty
       assignment (i.e. OG/CC documentation maintained until the next OG/CC change of
       command). The unit additional duty flight safety officer shall maintain record of this
       training in a continuity folder. A sample memorandum for record is provided as
       Attachment 4 to this instruction.
       5.3.4. Operations group and wing commanders and their deputies shall attend the UH-1N
       Commanders and Key Staff Course within three months of assuming command.
    5.4. Once per year, each helicopter unit assigned to AFGSC will conduct risk management
    worksheet refresher training to ensure crews are correctly using the risk management
    worksheet to generate discussion relative to the risks associated with a specific unit mission.
    Use the current risk assessment form to conduct this training. The unit flight safety officer or
    unit ORM advisor will maintain documentation that this training has been completed.
    5.5. Adopted: None.




                                              *GERALD L. HOUNCHELL, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director of Safety
AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009                       9


                                    Attachment 1

Figure A1.1. Risk Assessment Worksheet (Front)
 10                                                AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009


Figure A1.2. Risk Assessment Worksheet (Reverse)
AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009                   11


                                Attachment 2

Figure A2.1. Heat Index Chart
 12                                            AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009


                                Attachment 3

Figure A3.1. Wind Chill Chart
AFGSCI90-203 1 DECEMBER 2009                                   13


                                 Attachment 4

Figure A4.1. Sample Commander Training Memorandum for Record
