BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE                                         INSTRUCTION 36-211
COMMAND
                                                                                 9 APRIL 2013

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                     AFGSC SQUADRON COMMANDER,
                                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER AND CHIEF OF
                                                        SAFETY HIRING AND TENURE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFGSC/ A1KO                                              Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A1K
                                                                  (Lt Col Matthew M. Groleau)
                                                                                     Pages: 7




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-21, Utilization and
Classification of Air Force Military Personnel. This instruction establishes Air Force Global
Strike Command's hiring requirements for squadron commander billets and delineates tenure
policy for all squadron commanders. This instruction additionally sets forth requirements for
managing operations officer and Chief of Safety billets. This instruction does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command or Air National Guard units. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Contact supporting records managers as required. This instruction may be supplemented at any
level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination
prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; send AF Form 847s to the AFGSC Officer Assignments Branch (HQ
AFGSC/A1KO), 66 Kenney Avenue, Bldg 5576 Barksdale Air Force Base, Louisiana 71110.
Contact the AFGSC FOIA/Privacy Act Manager AFGSC/A6OK at Comm: 456-7165 for
guidance on all applicable Privacy Act warning statements and format.
 2                                                                AFGSCI36-211 9 APRIL 2013


1. Overview. The squadron commander, operations officer,and chief of safety hiring and tenure
process outlined in this instruction is designed to give numbered air forces (NAFs) and wing
commanders maximum hiring latitude for filling critical leadership positions. This instruction
applies to appointments to squadron command and to chief of safety billets. A “squadron” is
defined as a unit which exists within a wing and/or group structure for the purposes of this
instruction. It does not apply to detachments, flights or staffs [a non-flying group, squadron, or
flight that directly reports to a major command (MAJCOM) or a NAF; exception 608th Strategic
Operations Squadron,625th Strategic Operations Squadron (STOS) and the 620th Ground
Combat Training Squadron (GCTS)].
2. Application: All direction in this instruction applies to the hiring and tenure of:
     2.1. Flying Squadrons. This includes operational flying squadrons, flying training units,
     unmanned aerial system squadrons, flying test squadrons and squadrons with
     permanent or temporarily assigned combat-coded aircraft (not transient aircraft).
     2.2. Non-Flying Operations Squadrons. This includes squadrons such as, but not limited to
     operations support squadrons (OSS), STOS and missile squadrons (MS).
     2.3. Support/medical squadrons.
     2.4. Wing Chief of Safety (COS) S-prefix billets.
3. Squadron Commander Candidate Requirements.
     3.1. Candidates for command of a flying squadron must be on the current Combat Air Forces
     (CAF) rated squadron commander list or another MAJCOM flying squadron commander list.
     Candidates for command of a MS must be on the current Striker Eagle (SE) squadron
     commander list.
     3.2. Candidates for command of an OSS aligned under a bomb wing must be on the current
     CAF-rated squadron commander list or another MAJCOM flying squadron commander list.
     Candidates for command of an OSS aligned under a missile wing must be on the current SE
     squadron commander list. OSS commanders may also be selected from the commander’s list
     for Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 13M (airfield operations), 14N (intelligence), 15W
     (weather) and 17D (cyberspace operations).
     3.3. Candidates for ACS, ASOS and other non-flying operational squadron commands must
     be on the current CAF-rated or SE squadron commander list or another MAJCOM's flying
     squadron commander list. This requirement does not apply to staff squadrons.
     3.4. Support/medical officer command candidates must be on an Air Force Personnel Center
     (AFPC)-approved squadron commander candidate list.
     3.5. Flying squadron, OSS, STOS, aircraft maintenance squadron, nuclear munitions
     squadron, and MS commanders whose organizations have a nuclear mission require previous
     nuclear mission experience. Commanders of these squadrons must have at least 24
     cumulative months of experience performing nuclear mission duties in the squadron's
     respective functional area, or 12 consecutive months performing nuclear mission duties
     within the past 18 months. The 24 months nuclear experience must be accumulated within
     the past ten years prior to assuming command.
     3.6. In-garrison commanders are not required to be on any squadron commander list.
AFGSCI36-211 9 APRIL 2013                                                                      3


4. Squadron Commander Hiring Procedures. Wing commanders will initiate the hiring of
squadron commanders in most cases. HQ AFPC central selection boards, MAJCOM selection
boards and direct hires will be used to help commanders choose the best talent available. For
both internal wing hires and external hires, wing commanders will coordinate with their
NAF/CC. Additionally, see subparagraphs below for specific guidance. [Exceptions: LRO’s
will also be coordinated between Wings and AFGSC/A4R, Contracting Sq CC’s will be
coordinated between the Wings and AFGSC/A7K].
   4.1. Nominee Identification Information. Hiring requests should include the name and rank
   of the officer being hired, NAF coordination, the position number to which the officer will be
   assigned, the effective date of command, desired report not later than date (if required) and
   incumbent status.
   4.2. Operations. NAFs will forward operations squadron commander nominees’ information
   through HQ AFGSC/A1KO to AFGSC/CC for final review. Upon AFGSC/CC concurrence,
   AFGSC/A1KO will coordinate necessary assignment actions with HQ AFPC (with courtesy
   copy to the appropriate NAF).
   4.3. All Remaining. Submit hiring request lists to the applicable NAF/CC. NAF/CC will
   review list and submit to AFPC (with courtesy copy to HQ AFGSC/A1KO).
5. Mandatory Actions Prior to Assuming Command. Wing commanders (NAF/CC for direct
reporting squadrons) will ensure the following items are accomplished prior to change/effective
date of command:
   5.1. New squadron commanders will attend pre-command training prior to their change of
   command date. This requirement may be waived IAW procedures in paragraph 8.3, but the
   new commander must attend an approved MAJCOM Sq/CC course within 90 days of
   assuming command. The incoming Commander will coordinate with HQ AFGSC/A1KO to
   register for an approved AFGSC squadron commander’s course.
       5.1.1. Officers who have previously served as a squadron commander, or have
       completed a squadron commander’s course in another MAJCOM, are encouraged but not
       required to attend the training again; however, they must provide HQ AFGSC/A1KO
       with the date(s) of the previous command or course for accountability if electing not to
       attend.
       5.1.2. Personnel selected for command have first priority to attend the course. The
       following may attend on a space-available basis: In-garrison commanders; officers on a
       squadron commander list but not yet selected for command; detachment commanders;
       AFGSC guard or reserve commanders of total force integrated units; and other MAJCOM
       squadron commanders.
   5.2. Individuals should be scheduled for the Maintenance Course for Operational
   Commanders (MCOC) as soon as they are placed on the flying squadron commander
   candidate list. It is preferred for flying squadron commanders to complete a maintenance
   orientation before they take command; however, attendance is mandatory no later than 3
   months after taking command. Priority attendance should be given to commanders who will
   be responsible for aircraft maintenance in their flying squadron; scheduling point of contact
   is the Operations and Training Branch (HQ AFGSC/A3TO).
 4                                                             AFGSCI36-211 9 APRIL 2013


     5.3. New operations squadron commanders are required to be fully current and qualified
     (basic mission capable/combat mission ready as required) in their respective major
     weapon system within 6 months of assuming command/duties. Requirements also apply to
     In-garrison commanders. Waiver approval will be routed through HQ AFGSC/A1KO to
     AFGSC/A3.
     5.4. Any commander unable to meet BMC/CMR requirements prior to assuming command
     must have an approved waiver routed through HQ AFGSC/A1KO and HQ AFGSC/A3TO.
6. Squadron Commander Tenure Requirements. Time in Command (TIC) is not only
important for the professional development of the commander but also for stability of the
squadron. AFGSC expects squadron commanders to serve 24 months in command to maintain
continuity of command for the unit. Exception: Some Contracting Squadron Commanders are
critical acquisitions positions with a minimum TIC of 3 years per Title 10 United States Code,
Subtitle A, Part II, Chapter 87, Subchapter III, Section 1734, Career Development. The office of
primary responsibility for Contracting Squadron Commanders is the AFGSC Installations and
Mission Support Directorate (HQ AFGSC/A4/7).
7. Relief for Cause Requirements. The NAF/CC will immediately notify the AFGSC/CC or
AFGSC/CV when a squadron commander is relieved for cause and forward a signed
Memorandum of Circumstance within seven days that provides detailed information of the
situation leading to the removal action. The NAF/CC will CC theAFGSC Director of
Manpower, Personnel, and Services (HQ AFGSC/A1) who will assist in necessary replacement
actions
8. Waiver Provisions.
     8.1. Hiring. Waiver requests are required if an individual is not on a squadron commander’s
     list or does not have the applicable nuclear mission experience.
        8.1.1. It may be necessary to assign an officer not on a squadron commander’s list
        to a commander position in extremely rare cases. In those rare instances, the wing
        commander will forward a recommendation for command and a waiver request to the
        NAF/CC for endorsement. The recommendation must include justification as to why this
        would be in the best interest of AFGSC and the AF. The recommendation for command
        and waiver requests will be forwarded to HQ AFGSC/A1KO for staff coordination
        through the AFGSC two-letter functional to AFGSC/CV for approval.               HQ
        AFGSC/A1KO will then coordinate personnel actions with HQ AFPC.
        8.1.2. Wing commanders will staff a waiver request through the NAF/CC and HQ
        AFGSC/A1KO if a commander of a squadron with a nuclear mission does not have at
        least 24 cumulative months of experience performing nuclear mission duties in the
        squadron's respective functional area, or 12 consecutive months as an Operations Officer
        or Deputy Commander of a unit performing nuclear mission duties within the past 18
        months. HQ AFGSC/CV is the waiver authority. Individuals will not be appointed to
        command, to include participating in a change of command, until a waiver has been
        approved.
     8.2. Tenure. Waiver to tenure should be rare. NAF/CC is the approval authority for TIC
     waivers when a squadron commander has 18-23 months in command. AFGSC/CC is the
     approval authority in the case where a commander has less than 18 months in command.
AFGSCI36-211 9 APRIL 2013                                                                      5


   Wing commanders will route tenure waiver requests through the NAF to HQ AFGSC/A1KO
   for action at the appropriate level.
      8.2.1. Exception to the tenure policy: Commanders with an approved retirement date,
      separation date, or promoted to colonel do not require a TIC waiver. In addition,
      commanders do not require a TIC waiver if the unit is on order to inactivate.
      8.2.2. Wing commanders will submit justification through the NAF to HQ AFGSC/A1
      for approval for commanders extending beyond 25 months. Exception: Contracting
      Sq/CCs as stated in paragraph 6.
   8.3. Pre-Command Training Waivers. Waiver Requests are required if an individual is
   unable to attend mandatory pre-command training courses prior to assuming command.
      8.3.1. Wing commanders will staff a waiver request through the NAF/CC and HQ
      AFGSC/A1KO if an individual is unable to attend a MAJCOM Squadron Commander’s
      Course prior to taking command. HQ AFGSC/A1 is the waiver authority for waivers up
      to 30 days; AFGSC/CV is the waiver authority for waivers over 30 days and may
      delegate the authority to HQ AFGSC/A1 at his or her discretion. Individuals will not be
      appointed to command, to include participating in a change of command, until a waiver
      has been approved.
      8.3.2. Wing commanders will staff a waiver request through the NAF/CC and HQ
      AFGSC/A1KO and HQ AFGSC/SE if a commander of a squadron with a nuclear mission
      is unable to meet AFI 91-101_AFGSCSUP_1 requirements.
9. Operations Officer/Wing COS Management.
   9.1. Must be a qualified pilot, navigator or missileer and must be on a rated DO or SE list to
   be hired. An Operations Officer or COS whose organization has a nuclear mission must have
   at least 12 cumulative months of experience performing nuclear mission duties within the
   past ten years prior to assuming duties. Hiring procedures are the same as for squadron
   commanders as outlined in Paragraph 4.2. Waiver authority resides with the NAF/CV..
   9.2. Tenure is at least 12 months; NAF commanders exercise tenure waiver authority.




                                            ARCHIBALD E. BRUNS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Director, Manpower, Personnel & Services
 6                                                            AFGSCI36-211 9 APRIL 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel, 1 April 1998
10 USC § 1734, Career Development,3 January 2012
Prescribed Forms
This publication does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation of Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACS—Air Control Squadrons
AF—Air Force
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ASOS—Air Support Operations Squadrons
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COS—Chief of Safety
DT—Developmental Team
HQ AFGSC/CC—Air Force Global Strike Command Commander HQ
HQ AFGSC/CV—Air Force Global Strike Command Vice Commander HQ
HQ AFGSC/A1—AFGSC Director of Manpower, Personnel, and Services
HQ AFGSC/A1KO—AFGSC Officer Assignments Branch
HQ AFGSC/A3TO—AFGSC Operations and Training Branch
HQ AFGSC/A7C—AFGSC Installations and Mission Support Directorate
HQ AFGSC/SE—Air Force Global Strike Command Safety Director
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCOC—Maintenance Course for Operational Commanders
AFGSCI36-211 9 APRIL 2013                                                                      7


NAF—Numbered Air Force
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
SE—Striker Eagle
STOS—Strategic Operations Squadron
TIC—Time in command

Terms
Appointments of Squadron Command—when a senior commander selects and appoints an
officer to command a subordinate unit.
In—garrison Commander–filling in for a deployed commander.
Operational Squadron—a unit with a squadron commander C-prefix position, typically units
under the operations group (includes Strategic Operations Squadrons).
Squadron—a unit which exists within a wing and/or group structure (Exception; Strategic
Operations Squadrons).
Support Squadron—a unit with a non-rated squadron commander C-prefix position, typically
units under the mission support group, maintenance support group and the medical group.
Staff—as defined in the Rated Staff Allocation Plan, a non-flying group, squadron, or flight that
directly reports to a MAJCOM or a NAF (N/A Strategic Operations Squadrons).
