BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND                                  INSTRUCTION 10-281


                                                                 Effective 1 DECEMBER 2009
                                                          Certified Current 23 November 2011
                                                                                    Operations

                                                                 CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT

                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

 ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

 RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

 OPR: HQ AFGSC/A5PP                                             Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A5P
                                                                        (Col David W. Bliesner)
                                                                                      Pages: 9

 This instruction provides AFGSC guidance in implementing Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
 10-28, Air Force Concept Development. It establishes HQ AFGSC directorate and staff agency
 responsibilities in the preparation, coordination, and dissemination of concept documents. It
 applies only to Headquarters (HQ) AFGSC directorates and staff agencies. It does not apply to
 Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and personnel.
 Send comments and suggested improvements to this publication on AF Form 847,
 Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to HQ AFGSC/A5PP, 245 Davis
 Ave, Suite 241, Barksdale AFB LA 71110. Ensure that all records created as a result of
 processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
 (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
 Records      Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)      located    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
 af61a/afrims/afrims/. Information Collections: No information collections are created by this
 publication.


 1. AFGSC Concept Development Guidance:
 1.1. Definition. Concepts represent the AFGSC position as force provider on the
 planned/expected approach to deploy, employ, and redeploy for global strike operations. A
 concept guides operations planning, and how AFGSC organizes, trains, and equips to deliver
 ready forces with the capabilities desired by combatant commanders. They educate personnel on
 the conceptual framework for how individual actions link together to accomplish an operational
 task. They provide a clear picture of how AFGSC intends to operate in the future.
2                                                         AFGSCI 10-281 1 DECEMBER 2009



1.2. Concept Construct. How the Air Force operates today is captured in doctrine which drives
tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP). Concepts function to bridge the gap between how the
AF employs forces and systems today and how it envisions future operations. The concept life
cycle begins with a vision or idea of how to solve a military problem. The idea can take further
shape in the form of a white paper or journal article. It becomes a concept when the vision is
formalized to address the necessary elements of a concept. Concepts identify key technologies,
operational concepts, and organizational structures required to achieve future desired effects.
Concepts are validated through wargaming, exercises and experimentation, lessons learned, and
operational experience. Validated concepts are incorporated in changes to doctrine or in TTPs.
1.3. Development. AFGSC concept development is warranted by the need to describe how to
perform an operational task. This need may be driven by: a capability shortfall identified
through analysis, a lack of conceptual framework for an operational task where TTPs have not
been established, or to encapsulate operational experience applicable to maturing technologies
not captured in doctrine. AFGSC concepts may be used: to support capability-based planning; in
support of exercises, experiments, and wargames; as the basis for theater-specific campaign
plans and operations plans; to support the Air Force resource allocation process; or to inform and
educate a particular audience.
1.4. Approach. Begin with the purpose which is driving you to develop a new concept. With
that in view, state the military challenge, which is the problem to be solved by your concept. To
ensure an effects-based approach, identify the desired outcomes (effects) that characterize
success in meeting the challenge. The desired effects will guide the development of a course of
action. The sequenced actions section is your solution. It should explain how military functions
and capabilities will be applied in time and space and what actions and tasks will create the
desired effects to meet the challenge. In the course of formulating a solution, assumptions and
risks tend to emerge which may not have been apparent beforehand. Write them down as you
go. Now you can analyze your solution to derive the tasks and actions which must be performed
to create the desired effects. The ability to perform those actions and tasks are necessary
capabilities. Any remaining capabilities required to successfully execute the concept are
enabling capabilities. Finish up with the synopsis and summary sections.
1.5. Limitations:
1.5.1. General. AFGSC concepts are not plans, TTPs, or technical orders (TO) but are broader
in scope and may require more specific description in follow-on documents written by/for the
user. Operating procedures for existing capabilities as well as organizational changes,
implementation plans, and operating instructions are not considered concepts for the purposes of
this instruction. Due to their broad nature, AFGSC concepts generally should not exceed 15
pages in length, excluding annexes.
1.5.2. Acquisition. A concept is not intended to serve as a system requirements document, but
systems will ultimately be justified and evaluated on the basis of the desired effects they generate
and the capabilities they provide the warfighter. This instruction does not create a requirement
for weapon systems concepts to be developed. Preferably, materiel solutions are created to
satisfy capability shortfalls identified in higher-level operating or functional concepts, such as
Air Force CONOPS, which have been validated through wargaming and experimentation. The
concept for employing the capability may be sufficiently described in the existing operating or
AFGSCI 10-281 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                3



functional concept. Before undertaking concept development, offices of primary responsibility
(OPR) should verify the requirement for greater specificity that will not be captured in initial
capability documents (ICD), capability development documents, or capability production
documents.
2. AFGSC Concept Format. AFGSC concepts will be formatted in accordance with AFPD 10-
28 to standardize the implementation of the mandatory elements. Use the elements identified in
paragraph 5 of AFPD 10-28 in the order they appear. Make any added headings subordinate to
one of the mandatory elements. Include the additional considerations listed in this section in
enabling concepts when applicable. Describe the overall concept without excessive detail.
Detailed and lengthy information (such as functional support plans) may be included in annexes
as required. A sample format with additional guidance is provided at Attachment 2.
3. Responsibilities. HQ AFGSC/A5PP is the AFGSC point of contact for all concepts and
office of collateral responsibility (OCR) for AFGSC-developed concepts and is responsible for
policy, guidance, procedures, and oversight for concepts development within AFGSC. The
process for tasking, staffing, approval, and publishing concepts:
3.1. Tasking. Commander, AFGSC (AFGSC/CC) is the authority for AFGSC-developed
concepts. AFGSC/CC will originate or approve all requests for concept development. If an
AFGSC directorate identifies a requirement for concept development and AFGSC/CC approves,
the directorate will transmit a request for tasking to AFGSC/DS to include a recommended OPR.
The tasking will specify the type of concept (AFGSC, USAF, or Joint). The directorate with
functional responsibility will be the OPR for the concept. Tasking will flow from AFGSC/DS to
the designated OPR for concept development. HQ AFGSC/A5PP will be an OCR on all
concepts developed within AFGSC.
3.2. Staffing AFGSC-Developed Concepts. The action officer (AO) and OPR write and staff
the document in accordance with established staffing procedures described in the AFGSC AO
handbook. The AO may need coordination outside AFGSC, depending on the content and type
of document. Outside agencies could include major commands (MAJCOM), numbered air
forces (NAF), other services, wings, etc. Coordination requests should come from AFGSC/DS.
3.3. Approval. AFGSC/CC is the approval authority for AFGSC concepts and coordinates on
all concepts developed within AFGSC. After AFGSC/CC approval/coordination, concepts are
forwarded from AFGSC/DS or USAF/A2 as appropriate.
3.4. Classified concepts will be maintained on a Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
(SIPRNET) web site. Classification markings will match DoD 5200-1.R, Information Security
Program, AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, and AFGSC security
standards. Do not post documents or portions of documents classified above secret level,
containing proprietary information, or otherwise restricted from publication on SIPRNET. A2
concepts for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) may be posted on a Joint
Worldwide Intelligence Communications System (JWICS) web site if the classification exceeds
the secret level.
4                                                 AFGSCI 10-281 1 DECEMBER 2009


4. Forms Adopted/Prescribed:
4.1. Adopted: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                         JEFFRY F. SMITH, Brig Gen, USAF
                                         Director, Plans, Programs and Requirements (A5/8)
AFGSCI 10-281 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                         5


                                     Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development, 15 September 2003
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005 (Incorporating
Change 1, 19 August 2009)
DoD 5200-1.R, Information Security, January 1997

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AO—Action Officer
AFGSC/CC—Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command
CONOPS—Concepts of Operation
HQ—Headquarters
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
ICD—Initial Capability Document
IMT—Information Management Tool (formerly referred to as a "form")
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
JWICS— Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Forces
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
USAF—United States Air Force
6                                                      AFGSCI 10-281 1 DECEMBER 2009


                                        Attachment 2

                            AFGSC CONCEPT FORMAT GUIDANCE

A2.1. Sample Format for AFGSC Concept: To use this attachment as a template, copy the
title page and following paragraphs into a new document, renumber the paragraphs by removing
“A2.1.” from the beginning of each paragraph number, then replace the guidance with your
concept material.

AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND (AFGSC)


ENABLING CONCEPT FOR

[Concept Title Here]



DATE



Prepared by: <organization/office symbol> (Action Officer name)

Reviewed by: <organization/office symbol> (Division Chief name)

Submitted by: <organization/office symbol> (Director name)

Approved by AFGSC/CC (AFGSC/CC name)

Document date: (Use same date as in header)

Distribution:

No. of Pages:

Classification Authority:

Declass Instructions:




A2.1.1. Purpose. Include a purpose statement that lays out the intended uses of the concept. In
addition to the purpose statement, identify the category of the concept using the definitions in
AFPD 10-28. AFGSC concepts will usually be enabling concepts since they will normally not
AFGSCI 10-281 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                    7

encompass the full scope of military actions required to achieve joint force commander (JFC)
objectives. Identify any hierarchical relationship to existing USAF, AFGSC, or joint concepts.
A2.1.2. Time Horizon, Assumptions, and Risks. Specify the applicable time period, critical
assumptions that establish the limits of the concept, and applicable risks that influence further
concept development and execution. Reference AFPD 10-28.
A2.1.3. Description of the Military Challenge. A future concept must include a description of
the military challenge the concept is meant to solve. The problem to be solved should include
any possible ground threat and related physical security concerns. The problem statement may
also highlight a deficiency in a system, structure, architecture, etc., or the desired deployment/
employment definition of a new or revised system or organization.
A2.1.4. Synopsis. The synopsis is a high-level outline that briefly captures the essence of the
concept’s objective(s), desired effects, necessary capabilities (means), and sequenced actions
(ways). Reference AFPD 10-28.
A2.1.5. Desired Effects. Describe the desired operational effect of achieving military
objectives. Reference AFPD 10-28.
A2.1.6. Necessary Capabilities. Describe the means necessary to accomplish a task in order to
generate the desired effects while mitigating inherent risk. Capability statements should be
separately identified in a bulleted list or as headings to narrative explanations. Capability
statements will be concise and should describe the feature or characteristic of the system or
function required to achieve the desired effects. Example:

      Mobility
          o Extend range, payload, and flexibility of Global Strike assets
          o Ability to rapidly deploy expeditionary air and space forces from home station
      Neutralization
          o Neutralize Weapons of Mass Destruction
                   Neutralize ICBMs in flight
                   Neutralize cruise missiles in flight

NOTE: Where applicable, provide a physical description of the system, organization, and
function. Specific capabilities, characteristics, and performance factors should be discussed.


A2.1.7. Enabling Capabilities. Describe those capabilities not directly related to the desired
effects but essential for successful execution of the concept. Reference AFPD 10-28.
A2.1.8. Sequenced Actions. When the concept is scenario-based, describe the logical sequence
of actions needed to execute the concept. Describe how capabilities are best applied and
integrated to achieve the desired effects. Describe separate scenarios and employment tactics.
Depict situations (how, where, when) and environment in which the system or concept will be
employed. For each scenario, provide the major sequenced actions needed to successfully carry
out the operational employment concept from start to finish. As needed, include the following:
8                                                           AFGSCI 10-281 1 DECEMBER 2009


       Mission planning needs
       Intelligence and weather support
       Physical security requirements
       Mapping, charting, and geodesy needs
       Integration with existing, developing, or planned operational procedures
       Transportability or how it will be moved/deployed, to/from or within the theater
       Basing requirements: Continental United States basing/training; overseas, bare, satellite,
        dispersal base options; forward operating locations; etc.
       Logistics supportability requirements

NOTE: Some functional or enabling concepts may not be scenario based. In such cases, organize
the information along functional tasks or logical categories that best describe how to implement
the concept.


A2.1.8.1. Intelligence/National Agency/Space Support (as required):
A2.1.8.1.1. Intelligence. If known, describe intelligence programs, methods, systems, and
organizations that will support the operational mission outlined in the concept. This section
should include how data is available for mission planning and execution requirements for theater
support, command support, and service support. The intelligence data would be available
through core intelligence support, command reachback support, weapon system-specific support
(National/theater reachback) and in-garrison/deployed service reachback support.
A2.1.8.1.2. National Agency. Include how agencies such as Defense Intelligence Agency,
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, National Security Agency, Central Intelligence
Agency, or the State Department would interface to support your concept.
A2.1.8.1.3. Space. The concept should address specific space support that is NOT already
included in the other portions of the concept.
A2.1.8.2. Communications/Computer System Support (as required). Describe communications
and information support requirements. Identify scope of information transfer and type of
communications networking required. Identify expected interfaces with other communications
and information systems. Detailed information may be included in annexes as required.
A2.1.8.3. Integration and Interoperability (as required):
A2.1.8.3.1. Integration with Other Systems. Describe how the concept can complement or
interface with other systems or operations. Is its effect synergistic? Will it be a force multiplier?
A2.1.8.3.2. Interoperability. Describe requirements for joint service, cross servicing, support,
etc. Identify procedural and technical interface standards to be incorporated into the system or
operational design to ensure the required degree of interoperability between the system or
operation and Air Force, joint service, and coalition systems or operations.
A2.1.8.4. Force Protection/Security (as required):
AFGSCI 10-281 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                     9

A2.1.8.4.1. Anti-terrorism/Force Protection. List activities that prevent or mitigate successful
hostile actions against Air Force people and resources when they are not directly engaged with
the enemy.
A2.1.8.4.2. Operations Security. Define the concept's critical security elements and ways to
prevent inadvertent release of information.
A2.1.8.4.3. Physical. Define the traditional security requirements. Highlight items such as
special access programs, program security guides, contractor involvement, foreign national
involvement, etc. Physical security should include the system's proposed security priority (if
any) and justification. It should include physical security concerns throughout the system's life
cycle, to include owner/user and Security Forces responsibilities.
A2.1.8.5. Training (as required). Describe the training requirements to include frequency,
places, interface with other units and services, etc. Also include training scope, operator
training, and any future training enhancements.
A2.1.8.6. Logistics (as required). Describe the overall logistics supportability of the concept.
Identify any potential logistics limiting factors or shortfalls. Highlight any special logistics or
transportation requirements for implementing the operations scenarios listed in Section 3
(deployment, employment, and redeployment), including an overview of the maintenance
concept (if appropriate).
A2.1.8.7. Installations/Infrastructure (as required).       Describe the overall installation/
infrastructure supportability of the concept including any potential limiting factors or shortfalls.
Highlight any special Rapid Engineers Deployable Heavy Operations Repair Squadron,
Engineers; Explosive Ordnance Disposal; Crash/Fire/Rescue; Readiness; Services; or Civil
Engineer requirements for implementing the operations scenarios (deployment, employment, and
redeployment), including an overview of the base beddown and sustainment concept (if
appropriate). Identify manpower impact if available.
A2.1.9. Command Relationships/Architecture. If known, define the command relationships
(Combatant Command, Operational Control, etc.) and support required to employ the concept or
system in peacetime, crisis, and war. Describe the types of command and control information to
be exchanged. Describe how the system will integrate into the command and control structure
forecast to exist at the time the operation or system is fielded. Include organizational structure if
available. Detailed information may be included in annexes as required.
A2.1.10. Summary. Briefly summarize the concept.
