BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE                                          INSTRUCTION 21-152
COMMAND
                                                                                   30 JULY 2012

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                ENGINE TRENDING & DIANOSTIC (ET&D)
                                                                         PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFGSC/A4VA                                                 Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A4V
                                                                              (Mr. Steven Brunts)
                                                                                         Pages: 6




This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. It
prescribes policies and procedures for monitoring jet engine internal performance and
supplements AFGSC units responsibilities IAW TO 00-25-257, Engine Trending and Diagnostic
Users Manual. This program applies to all AFGSC units, and is applicable to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) Classic Associate units and AFRC unit equipped (UE) when gained by
AFGSC, and applicable Air National Guard (ANG) units. Program requirement is referenced in
AFI 21-132, Air Force Engine Trending And Diagnostic Program and AFI 21-104, Selective
management of selected gas turbine engines, and must be administered IAW TO 00-25-257.
Supplements to this instruction must be approved by HQ AFGSC/A4MX, then issued according
to AFI 33-360, The Air Force Publications and Forms Management. Specific procedures for
waiver requests and proposed changes to this instruction are provided in Section 2F. Reporting
here is exempt from licensing according to AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports
Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information
Collections, paragraph 2.11.10. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintain in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Send comments and suggested
 2                                                              AFGSCI21-152 30 JULY 2012


improvements to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
to AFGSC.A4MX.workflow@barksdale.af.mil.

OVERVIEW This is the initial publication of AFGSCI 21-152. This instruction establishes
policies and procedures to be followed by applicable AFGSC units.


1. Purpose.
     1.1. The Engine Trending & Diagnostic (ET&D) program is intended to further the safe
     operation, performance reliability, and lower maintenance operating costs of installed gas
     turbine engines. The program analyzes trends in all available engine parameters to detect the
     onset of engine internal failures and shifts in instrumentation calibration or accuracy. When
     properly administered, this is an effective management tool that allows maintenance
     personnel to take corrective actions before an engine failure or expensive secondary damage
     occurs.
2. AFGSC/A4V Responsibilities.
     2.1. AFGSC/A4VA is designated as the AFGSC office of primary responsibility (OPR) for
     this program. The OPR will:
        2.1.1. Participate in major ET&D conferences, meetings, and committees to identify and
        discuss relevant ET&D issues and policies.
        2.1.2. Identify specific requirements to assist the ET&D programs through all available
        technology channels and processes.
        2.1.3. Ensure units operating ET&D programs have sufficient manning positions and
        appoint qualified, experienced persons as ET&D Project Managers at each operating
        base. Identify this position with an SEI code of 604(B-2) or 612(B-52) on the UMD.
        2.1.4. Ensure owning units submit accurate and timely quality deficiency reports to the
        applicable engine program offices on all equipment requiring any maintenance activity
        due to an ET&D recommendation and on all ET&D component failures where no ET&D
        maintenance recommendation was made.
        2.1.5. Ensure that each unit provides timely and accurate metrics to the Central Engine
        Management System/Central Engine Trending and Diagnostic System (CEMS
        IV/CETADS) database.
        2.1.6. Ensure that all applicable programming documents (budget, facilities, manpower,
        maintenance, etc.) include the need for ET&D support.
        2.1.7. Coordinate all proposed changes to this publication with appropriate AFGSC staff.
        2.1.8. Coordinate between AFMC and the other MAJCOMs on matters concerning
        ET&D.
3. Operations Group Commander (OG/CC) Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Operations Group Commander will define aircrew responsibilities for the program
     and ensure compliance. (2 BW and 5 BW only).
AFGSCI21-152 30 JULY 2012                                                                       3


      3.1.1. Aircrew will correctly fill out In Flight Data Sheet 4(IFDS) AFGSC FORM 264
      per instructions on backside of IFDS sheet.
4. Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC) Responsibilities.
   4.1. The Maintenance Group Commander is responsible for managing the ET&D program,
   and will publish local Wing Instruction outlining administrative procedures to be used in
   conjunction with this AFGSCI.
   4.2. Appoint a Senior NCO Propulsion system supervisor as ET&D Project NCO. The
   specific duties of the Project NCO are at Section 7. Identify this position with an SEI code of
   604(B-2) or 612(B-52) on the UMD.
   4.3. Appoint a primary and alternate ET&D Monitor. The alternate position should be
   considered additional duty for appointed individual. The specific duties of the ET&D
   Monitor are at Section 8.
   4.4. Ensure the primary and alternate ET&D Monitor receive the ET&D on- the- job training
   within 6 months of assignment of duty.
   4.5. Ensure ET&D computers are not modified or used for non-ET&D applications without
   permission from HQ AFGSC/A4VA.
   4.6. Units are to follow the specific instructions for each engine type as detailed in the
   respective engine supplements of TO 00-25-257, the Engine Trending and Diagnostic Users
   Manual.
5. Aircraft Maintenance Squadron Commander (AMXS/CC) Responsibilities.
   5.1. Ensure a 7-level or 9-level (9-level preferred) propulsion system Point of Contact (POC)
   is designated for each Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU). The POC will assist the MXG
   Project NCO in resolving all "On-Wing" issues.
   5.2. Ensure discrepancies on "watch" or ET&D problem engines are corrected as soon as
   possible.
   5.3. Ensure that accurate, complete, and timely data is completed by aircrew operating
   aircraft with engines which do not have onboard diagnostic systems. The respective AMU
   Debriefing Section ensures In-flight Data (IFD) forms are completed for each flight and
   forwarded to the ET&D Monitor in a timely manner. (2BW and 5BW only).
6. Operations Group Point of Contact (OG POC) Responsibilities.
   6.1. Provide liaison with the ET&D Project NCO on the ET&D program.
   6.2. Determine appropriate actions to ensure that aircrews have an understanding of the
   ET&D program and benefits of an effective program.
   6.3. Advertise results of the ET&D program.
   6.4. Attend quarterly ET&D Project NCO review meeting.
   6.5. (2BW and 5BW only) . Ensure sufficient quantities of In-Flight Data (IFD) forms are
   readily available.
7. ET&D Project NCO Responsibilities.
 4                                                              AFGSCI21-152 30 JULY 2012


     7.1. Advise, manage, coordinate, and maintain the ET&D program for the Maintenance and
     Operations Group Commanders.
     7.2. Administer the ET&D program in accordance with this instruction and applicable
     technical orders.
     7.3. Establish a visible program through continual coordination between operations and
     maintenance, thus providing a close loop system for information and maintenance repair
     actions. (Applicable to engines not utilizing an onboard diagnostic system)
     7.4. Provide feedback from the ET&D program to aircrew and the operations staff.
     7.5. Act as the single POC in each wing for all recommended changes to this instruction.
     7.6. Conduct quarterly review of engine performance worksheets and computer data.
     7.7. As a minimum, the MXG ET&D Project NCO (Chairperson), ET&D Monitors, and
     AMU POCs will form a panel to review program status/results on a quarterly basis.
     7.8. Manage the ET&D workload, schedule, and ET&D data management and analysis to
     ensure continual evaluation and daily flow of ET&D data.
     7.9. Validate the ET&D Monitor’s recommendations for engine maintenance as a result of
     program trending or analysis.
     7.10. Submit program software improvement recommendations to HQ AFGSC/A4VA and
     coordinate with appropriate agencies to resolve problems with the ET&D program.
     7.11. If necessary, perform a Field Service Evaluation (FSE) to determine the effectiveness
     of a program and/or current software configuration. Obtain FSE requirement through HQ
     AFGSC/A4VA.
     7.12. Maintain a register of where the ET&D equipment is located.
     7.13. Submit narrative of actual events in which ET&D successfully or unsuccessfully
     prevented engine failure.
8. ET&D Program Monitor(s) Responsibilities.
     8.1. Must have a 2A671 AFSC or civilian equivalent. These individuals must be
     knowledgeable about engine operation, troubleshooting, and repair procedures. MXG/CC
     can appoint individuals who do not meet the AFSC requirement but possess the expertise and
     knowledge of the engine as ET&D Monitors.
     8.2. Locally obtain a suitable desktop PC for ET&D use. Initial provision of CEMS
     IV/CETADS software is from the CEMS IV/CETADS Project Manager at OC-ALC.
     8.3. Enter engine performance data in the ET&D computer no later than the end of the next
     flying day.
     8.4. An engine categorized as a "watch" engine will have the following entry made in AFTO
     FORM 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, identifying the "watch",
     and placed on a red dash. Each entry will begin: "Engine position/serial number ___ -___
     on ET&D watch status". Also, enter the reason for "watch" status in sufficient detail to
     explain the basis for this action. The AFTO FORM 781A entries will be amended after each
     review, and action taken noted in the "corrective action" block. If an engine is continued in
AFGSCI21-152 30 JULY 2012                                                                      5


  "watch" status, a new entry will be made and begin: "Engine position/serial number ___-___
  continued on watch status". Enter reason in sufficient detail to explain basis for this action.
  "watch" engine discrepancies will not be transferred to AFTO FORM 781K, Aerospace
  Vehicle Inspection, Engine Data, Calendar Item Inspection and Delayed Discrepancy
  Document.
     8.4.1. Ensure corrective actions on "watch" or ET&D problem engines are accomplished
     as soon as possible.
     8.4.2. Submit and monitor Deficiency Reports (DRs) on parts replaced to correct ET&D
     discrepancies. If a deficiency has been previously identified through a local unit DR
     system, and the respective Air Logistic Center (ALC) is addressing the issue, then no DR
     is required.
  8.5. When the engine trend plot indicates maintenance or engine removal is required,
  coordinate with the project NCO, Maintenance Operation Center (MOC), and Wing Plans &
  Scheduling to assure the appropriate work orders are provided and scheduled as soon as
  practical.
  8.6. Submit aircraft engine instrument maintenance and check requests through Wing Plans
  & Scheduling or Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS).
  8.7. Forward trend data to ALCs when requested.
  8.8. Issue an automated IMDS product against the probable engine or related system
  malfunction after notification by the ET&D Project NCO or ET&D Monitor.
  8.9. Schedule maintenance as soon as practical within mission requirements and consistent
  with the severity of the anticipated unserviceability; AMXS Production Superintendent, is to
  make this judgment.
  8.10. Monitor the return of IFD forms by aircrews to maintenance debriefings and ensure
  that all IFD forms are returned to the ET&D Monitor (2BW and 5BW only).




                                           CHRISTOPHER F. SKOMARS, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Deputy Director, Logistics, Installations and
                                           Mission Support
 6                                                           AFGSCI21-152 30 JULY 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
AFGSC 264, B-52 In-Flight Data Sheet (IFDS), 14 June 2012
AFGSC 267, Aircraft Instrument Checkout Data, 14 June 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
