BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE                                          INSTRUCTION 11-270
COMMAND
                                                                               21 MARCH 2014

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                 ELECTRONIC FLIGHT BAG OPERATIONS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3TV                                                Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3T
                                                                            (Col. Russell J. Hart)
                                                                                       Pages: 21




This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Aircrew Operations, by prescribing procedures for
Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) program implementation, execution, and sustainment. It provides
directive guidance and information on how the Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) program is to be
implemented, executed, and sustained across all AFGSC flying units. Information contained in
this instruction replaces the Electronic Flight Bag Initiative Concept of Employment, 18 October
2012, which is rescinded upon publication of this instruction. This instruction applies to all Air
Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) flying units, as well as Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) Total Force Integration (TFI) flying units that maintain
an association with active duty AFGSC flying units. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to to Headquarters Air Force Global Strike Command Standardization and
Evaluation (HQ AFGSC/A3TV) at 245 Davis Ave E, Ste 168, Barksdale AFB, LA 71110, DSN
781-3456 using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication IAW AFI 11-
215, Flight Manuals Program (FMP); route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW with AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Request for waivers to this
supplement for non-tiered compliance items must be submitted according to paragraph 1.3 This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The use of the name
 2                                                                                       AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.




Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                               3
      1.1.   Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    3
      1.2.   Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               3
      1.3.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................     5

Chapter 2—PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                            6
      2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    6
      2.2.   Funding. .................................................................................................................     6

Chapter 3—OPERATIONS AND EMPLOYMENT                                                                                                         8
      3.1.   Approved Devices. .................................................................................................            8
      3.2.   Operating Instructions. ...........................................................................................            8
      3.3.   Security Policy and Use. ........................................................................................             12
      3.4.   Limitations. ............................................................................................................     13
      3.5.   Training. .................................................................................................................   14
      3.6.   Flight Operations. ..................................................................................................         15
      3.7.   Abnormal and Emergency Procedures. ..................................................................                         15
      3.8.   Employment Instructions. ......................................................................................               16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             18
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                   3


                                          Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. Purpose. This instruction provides directive guidance on the HQ AFGSC Electronic Flight
Bag (EFB) program, to include its development, processes, operation, and employment. Failure
to follow EFB guidance contained in this instruction, the EFB User Agreement, and applicable
Air Force and DoD regulations may result in administrative or disciplinary action as determined
by the commander. On-going efforts may add additional capability such as GPS-integration with
display of own-ship position, near real-time in-flight weather updates, aircraft performance
calculations, and more, which are not addressed in this instruction. HQ AFGSC/A3TV will
provide guidance on these additional capabilities as they become available.
1.2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.2.1. AFGSC/A3: Will provide overall guidance for the operational aspects and
   requirements of the AFGSC EFB program.
       1.2.1.1. AFGSC/A3TV will serve as the overall program OPR and will designate a
       MAJCOM-level EFB Program Manager and alternate EFB Program Manager. The
       AFGSC EFB Program Manager will maintain overall responsibility for the AFGSC EFB
       program, including establishment of the EFB Baseline Configuration. AFGSC/A3TV
       maintains an AFGSC EFB SharePoint site, which serves as the focal point for the latest
       information, policy, and guidance affecting the AFGSC EFB Program. The site is located
       at https://afgsc-p.eis.af.mil/ES/cops/EFB/default.aspx.
   1.2.2. AFGSC/A5: Responsible for EFB program requirements and funding sustainment,
   including MAJCOM EFB applications, and serve as the primary MAJCOM liaison to MDS
   program offices (SPO). A5B is responsible for bomber and T-38A EFB requirements, and
   A5I is responsible for UH-1N EFB requirements. AFGSC/A5 will not purchase unit-specific
   applications. Such applications will be purchased at unit expense as specified in 2.2.2.4
   1.2.3. AFGSC/A6: Advise AFGSC/A3 on all communications and information technology
   aspects of the Electronic Flight Bag, including, but not limited to, policy, security,
   information assurance, and mobile device management. Furthermore, AFGSC/A6 will serve
   as the primary MAJCOM liaison to communications agencies outside of HQ AFGSC on EFB
   issues.
       1.2.3.1. AFGSC/A6 has no responsibilities for EFB programs outside of AFGSC.
   1.2.4. AFGSC/A7: Provide contracting support to the EFB program. If an EFB contracting
   requirement exceeds HQ-level contracting capability, AFGSC/A7 will task an appropriate
   base-level contracting squadron to pursue the required contracting actions.
   1.2.5. AFGSC/JA: Advise AFGSC/A3 on legal matters relevant to the EFB program, and
   serve as the MAJCOM liaison on EFB issues to legal agencies outside of HQ AFGSC.
   1.2.6. AFGSC/PA: Collaborate with AFGSC/A3 on any required or desired
   internal/external messaging related to the AFGSC EFB program, and assist AFGSC/A3 and
   subordinate agencies with media issues related to the EFB program.
4                                                          AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


    1.2.7. AFGSC/SE: Advise AFGSC/A3 on safety issues related to the EFB program, and
    serve as the MAJCOM liaison on EFB issues to safety agencies outside of HQ AFGSC.
    1.2.8. Numbered Air Forces (NAF): Ensure wing-level EFB requirements and concerns
    are identified and elevated to the appropriate AFGSC agency.
    1.2.9. Wing Commanders: Ensure wing-level advocacy and support for the EFB program
    as follows:
       1.2.9.1. Designate and provide, in writing, primary and alternate Wing EFB Program
       Managers to the AFGSC EFB Program Manager (AFGSC/A3TV).
       1.2.9.2. Ensure subordinate wing-level agencies and personnel support the EFB program
       as specified in this instruction.
       1.2.9.3. Account for EFB sustainment costs in annual wing budgetary processes. EFB-
       related sustainment costs include but are not limited to EFB-compatible flight gloves,
       procurement of AFGSC-approved mounting solutions (suction cup mounts, knee boards,
       etc), and commercial internet contracts required to support EFB connectivity
       requirements.
    1.2.10. Flying Squadron Commanders: Designate and provide, in writing, primary and
    alternate Squadron EFB Program Managers to the Wing EFB Program Manager and the
    AFGSC EFB Program Manager (AFGSC/A3TV).
    1.2.11. Communications Squadron Commanders: Provide communications, information
    assurance, and information technology support to wing-level EFB programs as follows:
       1.2.11.1. Ensure EFB hardware is entered in the AF Information Technology Asset
       Management (ITAM/AIM) module and is identified on the appropriate unit Equipment
       Control Officer’s (ECO) account IAW AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware
       Asset Management.
       1.2.11.2. Support procurement and maintenance of commercial internet access in
       coordination with 38CYRS and the Wing EFB program manager, IAW AFI 33-129, Web
       Management and Internet Use, Para 4.
       1.2.11.3. Coordinate wing-level policies and procedures, IAW applicable MAJCOM, Air
       Force, and DoD policy, to permit the introduction of EFB devices into Classified
       Processing Areas (CPA) identified as mission essential by the Wing EFB Program
       Manager.
    1.2.12. Wing EFB Program Managers. Maintain overall responsibility for the wing EFB
    program as follows:
       1.2.12.1. Identify, address, and elevate, as necessary, EFB requirements and concerns to
       wing leadership and the AFGSC EFB Program Manager.
       1.2.12.2. Serve as the wing EFB system administrator, ensuring devices are configured,
       issued, tracked, updated, and maintained as required by this instruction. May also serve
       as the wing EFB Mobile Device Management (MDM) administrator.
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                    5


       1.2.12.3. Coordinate with Technical Order Distribution Officers (TODO) to provide
       aircrews with current electronic flight publications and guidance on approved methods to
       keep all required publications up-to-date on the EFB in accordance with this instruction.
       1.2.12.4. Provide the AFGSC EFB Program Manager with feedback on operational
       assessments and development of EFB solutions. Units designated as lead for testing and
       evaluation will provide monthly project updates to include at a minimum, status, issues
       encountered and timeline updates, until testing and evaluation is complete.
   1.2.13. Operations Group Standardization and Evaluation (OGV): Enforce
   standardization and evaluation policy applicable to the EFB program, including currency of
   required flight publications. May also serve as the focal point for the wing EFB program, as
   determined by the wing commander.
1.3. Waivers. AFGSC/A3 is the waiver authority for the provisions of this instruction. Submit
waiver requests through the chain of command to HQ AFGSC/A3TV for processing,
coordination, and approval.
   1.3.1. Configuration Waivers. Configuration waivers, deviations, and change requests will
   be submitted to AFGSC/A3TV on AF Form 4169, Request For Waiver From Information
   Assurance Criteria, for coordination with the designated approval authority (DAA).
 6                                                              AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                                PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION

2.1. General.
     2.1.1. Implementation Plan. HQ AFGSC EFB program implementation employs an
     incremental, three phased process. Phase I, completed Q4 CY12, included the procurement
     and issue of EFB hardware to all AFGSC aircrew to use as an ePubs reader, including use
     during non-critical phases of flight. Phase II incorporated eFLIP and approval for use during
     critical phases of flight IAW Chapter 3. Phase III is a continuous phase of sustainment,
     improvement, and development to fully leverage the capabilities of the EFB platform such as
     GPS integration, in-flight weather updates, etc.
     2.1.2. Lead Units. Only AFGSC-designated lead units are authorized to evaluate EFB
     hardware and software solutions, program management procedures, create MDS-specific
     EFB tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP), and to identify and elevate MDS-specific
     EFB requirements. AFGSC/A3TV will authorize designated lead units to evaluate new
     devices, features, accessories, etc, as they are released by industry. Designated lead units are:
        2.1.2.1. B-2A/T-38A: 509 BW, Whiteman AFB, MO. The 509 BW is also the EFB Lead
        Wing for AFGSC.
        2.1.2.2. B-52H: 2 BW, Barksdale AFB, LA
        2.1.2.3. UH-1N: 40 HS, Malmstrom AFB, MT
2.2. Funding.
     2.2.1. MAJCOM Funding.
        2.2.1.1. Initial procurement of EFB hardware, including the device, charging cord,
        protective case, and compatible flight gloves.
        2.2.1.2. Hardware Refresh: HQ AFGSC/A3TV, in coordination with A5B and A5I, will
        budget for updated EFB hardware at intervals driven by device usable service-life and
        current EFB program requirements, IAW SAF/XC guidance.
        2.2.1.3. Phase II requirements: procurement and sustainment of licenses for EFB
        software to display FLIP, and Mobile Device Management.
        2.2.1.4. Phase III requirements: Phase III requirements identified by AFGSC/A3. MDS
        Program Element Managers will program sufficient funding on an annual basis to support
        Phase III requirements identified by AFGSC/A3.
     2.2.2. Unit Funding Requirements. Units will budget for and fund the following EFB-
     related requirements:
        2.2.2.1. Procurement of additional EFB devices (e.g., replacements for broken or missing
        devices), as required, and compatible flight gloves not covered by the initial AFGSC-
        funded equipment procurement.
        2.2.2.2. Procurement of authorized EFB mounting solutions, if desired. A list of
        approved mounting solutions will be located on the AFGSC EFB SharePoint site.
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                7


     2.2.2.3. Commercial internet access and sufficient quantities of wireless routers, as
     specified in 3.2.2.3, to support unit EFB requirements.
     2.2.2.4. Unit-specific EFB applications. Units may only purchase AFGSC EFB approved
     applications, as specified on the EFB Baseline Configuration, located on the AFGSC
     EFB SharePoint site. Units will submit a request to HQ AFGSC/A3TV for any
     applications not listed on the EFB Baseline Configuration. Upon approval, units will be
     authorized to procure and install the requested application(s) at unit expense.
     2.2.2.5. Temporary Duty (TDY) expenses related to initial/recurring Wing EFB Program
     Manager and/or Mobile Device Management training, and any other TDY required to
     properly execute the unit-level EFB program.
 8                                                          AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


                                           Chapter 3

                           OPERATIONS AND EMPLOYMENT

3.1. Approved Devices.
     3.1.1. AFGSC/A3TV will announce approved EFB devices via FCIF, announcements on the
     AFGSC EFB SharePoint, and the current Baseline Configuration document. The AFGSC
     EFB Program Manager will provide device implementation, funding processes, and
     associated timelines.
        3.1.1.1. Recommendations for new devices, features, accessories, etc., will be submitted
        to AFGSC/A3TV for review.
     3.1.2. All devices approved for use are deemed sufficiently secure to view/store/process
     information identified in this instruction and approved by the data owners.
     3.1.3. The Air Force Designated Approval Authority (DAA) and AFSPC/CC certified the
     EFB system via a Type Accreditation Approval to Operate (ATO). All EFBs and Exclusive
     Use Stand-Alone (EUSA) systems must be configured and secured IAW the ATO.
3.2. Operating Instructions.
     3.2.1. Authorized EFB Devices. Only government-issued EFB devices may be used to
     store DoD information and for flight operations IAW AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
     (COMPUSEC), and this instruction.
     3.2.2. Required Equipment:
        3.2.2.1. Exclusive Use Stand-Alone (EUSA) computer. Non-networked, government
        purchased.
        3.2.2.2. Approved external hard drive (HDD).
        3.2.2.3. Wireless router, configured IAW DoDI 8420.01, Commercial Wireless Local-
        Area Network (WLAN) Devices, Systems, and Technologies, and the DISA Wireless
        STIG, connected to an approved commercial internet service.
        3.2.2.4. Approved touch-screen compatible flight gloves are listed on the AFGSC EFB
        SharePoint site.
        3.2.2.5. Approved aircraft mounting hardware will be listed on the AFGSC EFB
        SharePoint site.
     3.2.3. Administrator Requirements.
        3.2.3.1. IAW DoD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement
        Program, and AFMAN 33-285, Information Assurance(IA) Workforce Improvement
        Program, any person performing administrative functions (maintenance, patching,
        upgrades and restoration functions) on the EUSAs must be, at a minimum, Information
        Assurance Trained (IAT) level 1 certified. Consult your local communications squadron
        for certification requirements.
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                9


        3.2.3.1.1. Administrators are required to install software/system patches and update
        antivirus definition files on the primary and alternate EUSA systems on a weekly
        basis.
        3.2.3.1.2. Administrators should contact the local communications squadron weekly
        to identify patches released and download locations.
        3.2.3.1.3. Antivirus updates can be downloaded either from the local
        communications squadron or from the following approved download locations:
        https://patches.csd.disa.mil; or https://33ios.lackland.af.mil/virus/sym_sigs.htm
     3.2.3.2. Mobile Device Management (MDM) administrators will accomplish sufficient
     training to accomplish required device management tasks. AFGSC/A3TV will provide
     detailed information on training required for MDM administrators prior to or upon MDM
     implementation. Should the MDM solution and EFB system connect directly to the
     AFNET/NIPR/GiG, the provisions of paragraph 3.2.3.1 apply.
     3.2.3.3. Wing EFB Program Managers, unit-level EFB program managers, EFB MDM
     administrators, and TODOs are responsible for all maintenance, upgrades, patching, and
     restoration functions on EFB devices. These are the only personnel authorized to have
     the administrative passcode for the EFB configuration profile or MDM administrator
     console, as applicable.
        3.2.3.3.1. Wing EFB Program Managers and EFB MDM administrators may update
        the EFB operating system and applications to the authorized versions on the AFGSC
        EFB Baseline Configuration, located on the AFGSC EFB SharePoint site.
        3.2.3.3.2. Wing EFB and unit-level EFB program managers will be adequately
        trained prior to performing program manager duties. Document training completion
        as determined by the Wing EFB Program Manager. Training will include the
        following items, as applicable: device configuration for initial issue and reissue;
        management of the configuration profile; passcode reset procedures; device inventory
        and tracking; EUSA system use and maintenance; device auditing; application
        installation, removal, and update procedures; and management of unit WiFi.
  3.2.4. Exclusive Use Stand Alone System Requirements.
     3.2.4.1. EUSA systems will be configured with an AF-approved Standard Desktop
     Configuration (SDC), and affixed with the ITAM/AIM module barcodes and SF 710,
     Unclassified (Label), stickers in accordance with AF policy. EUSA systems will be kept
     current on all applicable upgrades/patches manually via an AF approved external hard
     drive as updates and patches are available.
     3.2.4.2. EUSA systems are not authorized to connect to any wired or wireless network
     once initial configuration is completed.
     3.2.4.3. Only crewmembers with a need to know, as determined by the unit commander,
     will have an individual username and password established on the EUSA system. For
     purposes of this instruction, need to know is defined as an individual who has been
     issued, configures, or maintains an EFB or the EUSA system and the data stored on
     either. Alternatively, units may establish a unit/shared login on the EUSA system and
     ensure that only personnel with a need to know have access to the login credentials.
10                                                          AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


     3.2.4.4. IAW AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC), all passwords will
     follow standard Air Force password requirements.
     3.2.4.5. Once a crewmember leaves the squadron or no longer has a need-to-know, the
     crewmember’s username will be removed from the EUSA system within 48 hours. Each
     squadron will determine a formal method of tracking this information.
     3.2.4.6. If an account has become inactive for 90 days, the account will be
     administratively locked until the user returns.
     3.2.4.7. A local administrator identified by the OG/CC or SQ/CC is responsible for
     ensuring all patches and updates are applied to the EUSA weekly or as needed, subject to
     the provisions of 3.2.3.1 Additionally, when patches and upgrades are accomplished on
     the EUSA system, administrators will check for and remove duplicate usernames.
     3.2.4.8. The Client Support Administrator (CSA) or appropriately designated
     administrator will audit records every 30 days, at a minimum, and immediately report
     violations to the installation Information Assurance (IA) office.
         3.2.4.8.1. Audit records for the EUSA include, but are not limited to User ID,
         successful/unsuccessful logons, attempts to access security files, date/time/type of the
         event, success or failure of event, denial of access resulting from excessive number of
         logon attempts, blocking or blacklisting a user ID, terminal, or access port, and the
         reason for the action. Follow guidance of AFI 33-322, Records Management
         Program, for Audit records disposition.
  3.2.5. Currency of Publications.
     3.2.5.1. Each individual is responsible for ensuring all publications required for flight are
     current, accessible, and viewable on their issued device prior to flight. Only publications
     required for flight are required to be current. Outdated versions of publications required
     for flight will not be stored on the EFB for any reason. Official publications not required
     for flight are permitted on the EFB for reference purposes and are not required to be
     current
     3.2.5.2. Units will identify publication releases that are critical and ensure off-station
     crewmembers receive them via any means necessary, as soon as practical. Publication
     releases that are non-critical can wait until the crewmember returns to home station.
  3.2.6. Care and handling of the EFB devices.
     3.2.6.1. Each member issued an EFB device is responsible for its proper care and
     handling. Users will always maintain physical control over their issued EFB device.
     3.2.6.2. Users will not modify the EFB device from the MAJCOM-approved
     configuration.
     3.2.6.3. Report any loss, theft, loss of functionality, display readability, or battery
     problems to a unit-designated EFB Program Manager. Consult AFMAN 23-220, Reports
     of Survey for Air Force Property, for guidance on determining liability.
     3.2.6.4. Do not seek assistance with EFB maintenance issues from Communications
     Squadrons. Communications Squadron personnel are not funded, manned, or trained to
     handle EFB maintenance issues.
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                     11


     3.2.6.5. Wing EFB Program Managers may contact the manufacturer for EFB device
     warranty service. If the warranty period has lapsed, or if the devices require repair for
     reasons not covered by the warranty, the unit is responsible for funding a replacement
     device or repair at a manufacturer-authorized service provider.
  3.2.7. Mobile Device Management (MDM). Upon implementation of MDM and to reduce
  the workload associated with EFB program management, units will leverage MDM
  capabilities to the maximum extent possible. Units will ensure the EFB Program Manager
  and a designated alternate, at a minimum, are properly trained on EFB MDM requirements,
  and obtain appropriate training and administrator rights through HQ AFGSC/A3TV. Upon
  MDM implementation instructions and information will be published on the AFGSC EFB
  SharePoint site. MDM functions include, but are not limited to:
     3.2.7.1. Configuration Control.
     3.2.7.2. Operating System and Application Updates.
     3.2.7.3. Device Provisioning.
     3.2.7.4. Enforcement of Security Policy.
     3.2.7.5. Device Auditing.
     3.2.7.6. Content Management, including distribution and updating of electronic
     publications.
  3.2.8. EFB Device Auditing. AFMAN 33-282 requires units to conduct device audits on a
  reoccurring basis to ensure no unauthorized changes or misuse. A minimum of 10% of EFB
  devices will be randomly audited on an annual basis, and the results documented using the
  HQ AFGSC/A3TV-provided inspection log. Upon MDM implementation, most device
  auditing requirements can be accomplished remotely. Device audits will include, at a
  minimum, the following items:
     3.2.8.1. Approved configuration security/MDM profiles installed, as applicable
     (password, device lock, etc).
     3.2.8.2. Compliance with AFGSC EFB Baseline Configuration. Only approved
     applications and application versions installed.
     3.2.8.3. Storage of unauthorized data. (e.g., FOUO or classified data, unless specifically
     authorized; unauthorized content, etc.).
     3.2.8.4. No mailboxes configured.
     3.2.8.5. Device has not been “jail broken” or otherwise modified.
  3.2.9. Reduction of Paper. Following at least 6-months of Phase II evaluations, lead units
  will generate and submit to HQ AFGSC/A3TV for processing and coordination, a request to
  eliminate paper flight publications, subject to the restrictions in para 3.4.4 Upon concurrence,
  AFGSC/A3 will forward the request to HQ AFFSA for HAF/A3O approval. HQ
  AFGSC/A3TV will notify affected units via FCIF when approval to eliminate specified paper
  flight publications is obtained.
 12                                                          AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


       3.2.9.1. Units will establish new Initial Distribution (ID) requirements with their TODO
       for all applicable flight manuals in order to reduce the paper being printed and distributed
       to the unit.
3.3. Security Policy and Use.
   3.3.1. Classified Processing Areas (CPA). In order to meet mission requirements, EFBs
   must be permitted within certain CPAs. Examples include aircrew mission planning facilities
   and Weapons System Trainers. Unit EFB Program Managers are responsible for identifying
   CPAs where EFB use is required, and coordinating the local approvals and policies necessary
   to enable EFB operations in these environments.
       3.3.1.1. AFGSC policy on EFB use in CPAs does not apply to non-AFGSC owned
       facilities (e.g., Andersen AB).
       3.3.1.2. Do not attempt to introduce an EFB into a CPA until specific authorization for
       that CPA is published. Consult the responsible security manager if unsure whether this
       authorization has been obtained. If in doubt, do not bring the EFB into the CPA.
   3.3.2. Configuration. EFB devices will only be imaged with the approved HQ AFGSC
   standardized baseline configuration, available on the HQ AFGSC EFB SharePoint website.
   Units may not deviate without AFGSC/A3TV approval. All application requests along with
   operational justification will be submitted through stan/eval channels to HQ AFGSC/A3TV.
       3.3.2.1. Wing EFB Program Managers are responsible for ensuring devices are setup and
       configured as specified in this instruction, and will determine how to track them. All
       devices will be provisioned and configured prior to individual issue.
          3.3.2.1.1. Significant hardware, operating system, or software updates may exceed
          the capacity of a single Wing EFB Program Manager to handle without additional
          manpower. OG/CC’s will ensure the Wing EFB Program Manager has sufficient
          assistance when required.
       3.3.2.2. Passcodes. Per the iOS 7 STIG, passcodes must be six characters long.
       Passcodes containing a combination of upper and lower case letters, numbers, and special
       characters, are no longer required. Any six characters are acceptable. The STIG
       recommends changing the passcode every 180 days with a two-passcode history that
       prevents the user from reusing their previous two passcodes. However, this is not
       required.
   3.3.3. Device Issue and User Agreement Requirements. Wing EFB Program Managers
   may download the AFGSC EFB User Agreement and other documents applicable to EFB
   device issue from the AFGSC EFB SharePoint site.
       3.3.3.1. Each crewmember will sign the AFGSC EFB User Agreement after receiving
       required training, and before being issued an EFB device.
       3.3.3.2. AFGSC EFB User Agreements will be maintained on-file for two years
       following the date the user signed.
       3.3.3.3. An SF 710 is required on every EFB device.
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                     13


   3.3.4. Device Performance. During use, aircrew will verify the device is performing as
   expected and configured IAW the MAJCOM-approved baseline configuration. This includes,
   but is not limited to:
       3.3.4.1. Appropriate connectivity icons are displayed based on guidance in this
       instruction, and applicable to the environment where the devices are being operated (e.g.,
       Airplane icon when airplane mode is required, WiFi icon on when WiFi connectivity is
       authorized and required, Bluetooth icon not on unless specifically authorized).
       3.3.4.2. Verify that no device features are operating autonomously, such as the camera,
       or applications activating without user input.
       3.3.4.3. Note and report any unapproved or unexpected application icons appearing on
       the home screen.
   3.3.5. COMSEC Incidents. In the event of a COMSEC incident involving an EFB:
       3.3.5.1. Individuals will immediately contact their Security Manager and COMSEC
       office.
       3.3.5.2. The device in question will be placed in a secure container until the Security
       Manager and/or COMSEC Office can take possession of the device.
       3.3.5.3. Standard practices for identifying a COMSEC incident and investigation will be
       followed per local guidance.
   3.3.6. Physical and Environmental Considerations. The EFB system requires the same
   physical and environmental conditions as those provided to standard administrative
   desktop/laptop resources.
3.4. Limitations.
   3.4.1. Battery Limitations. Prior to flight, make every effort to fully charge the device.
   EFB device battery levels must be at least 10% for each hour of total flight time, but not less
   than 50%. For any single leg lasting longer than 8 hours, the battery must be charged to at
   least 80% for that leg of flight. Aircraft commanders and individual aircrew members are
   responsible for ensuring that battery charge is sufficient to meet mission requirements.
       3.4.1.1. Aircraft power may only be used to power/charge EFB devices if the power
       supply has been certified by the applicable MDS program office (SPO). AFGSC/A3TV
       will maintain a listing of any approved in-flight power supplies on the AFGSC EFB
       SharePoint site.
   3.4.2. Use of Wireless. EFBs will only be connected to secure wireless networks configured
   with WPA2 security. Connecting to unsecure “open” wireless networks, such as those found
   in retail establishments and airports, is specifically prohibited. Reference the WiFi Policy on
   the AFGSC EFB SharePoint site for more information.
       3.4.2.1. Government-owned wireless routers procured for EFB support will be
       configured IAW DoDI 8420.01 and the DISA Wireless STIG.
       3.4.2.2. When EFBs are authorized within designated CPAs, users will ensure all
       wireless features are disabled by placing the device in “Airplane Mode – On, Wireless –
 14                                                           AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


       Off” prior to entry into the CPA. Base-level Information Assurance Managers will
       identify any local policies applicable to EFB use in CPAs.
       3.4.2.3. Unless specifically authorized by AFGSC/A3, wireless connectivity services
       will be disabled by placing the device in “Airplane Mode – On, Wireless – Off” prior to
       takeoff and will remain disabled until after landing.
   3.4.3. EFB Back-Up Requirements. If operating without paper back-ups, the following
   restrictions apply:
       3.4.3.1. B-2A. Three EFBs: one per pilot and one spare EFB.
       3.4.3.2. B-52H. One EFB per primary occupied crew position.
       3.4.3.3. T-38A. One EFB if the entire flight is to be conducted in VMC. If any portion of
       the flight will be conducted in forecast or actual IMC, a spare EFB will also be carried.
       3.4.3.4. UH-1N. One EFB per occupied crew position. If any portion of the flight will be
       conducted in forecast or actual IMC with only two pilots, a spare EFB will also be
       carried.
   3.4.4. Checklists. Aircrews are authorized use of electronic checklists on the EFB.
   However, a minimum of one hard copy set of checklists will be carried in-flight regardless of
   authorization obtained to eliminate other paper products.
   3.4.5. Nuclear Alert and Operations. Aircrews conducting real-world nuclear alert duty or
   nuclear operations may use EFB, but will have all required TO, FLIP, and directives onboard
   the aircraft in paper format. This paragraph does not apply to nuclear training missions.
   3.4.6. Screen Autolock Requirements. EFB screen autolock will be set to 15 minutes.
   Upon entering the aircraft, the user may set the autolock feature to “Never” under device
   settings. Upon exiting the aircraft, the user will set autolock back to 15 minutes. Failing to do
   so will constitute an Information Assurance violation, a STIG violation, and may subject the
   user to adverse administrative action. Note: When Auto-Lock is set to “Never,” the device
   will remain “awake” with the screen ON until the user toggles the power button, which could
   result in excessive battery drain.
   3.4.7. Own-Ship Position. Aircrew will not use EFB display of own-ship position and
   moving map (if equipped) as a primary means of navigation. These tools, if available, will be
   used only as an aid to situational awareness.
   3.4.8. Weather Display. Aircrew will not use EFB display of weather data in-flight (if
   equipped) as a primary means of weather avoidance. Weather data obtained from off-board
   sources is often outdated due to delays caused by refresh rates and limitations inherent in the
   system transmitting the data. Experience has shown that weather depictions of this type can
   be up to 45 minutes old. Therefore, weather data that may be available on the EFB will be
   used only as an aid to situational awareness.
3.5. Training. Units will provide crewmember EFB training prior to initial in-flight use.
   3.5.1. Minimum requirements. Demonstration of ePubs access/update, navigation of
   device and each approved application, procedures in case of device/app failure, basic battery
   conservation techniques, and security practices to protect against sensitive data loss.
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                     15


   3.5.2. Currency. This training will be accomplished annually in conjunction with the
   required annual training and prior to signing a new User Agreement.
   3.5.3. Training Resources. AFGSC EFB User Training slides are available on the AFGSC
   EFB SharePoint site. Units may modify this training to suit local requirements and ensure
   compliance with 3.5.1 Additionally, examples of mobile device training provided by DISA
   are available on DISA’s website.
3.6. Flight Operations.
   3.6.1. Use In-Flight. Pilot EFBs will be securely mounted and viewable during takeoff,
   traffic pattern activity, approach, and landing, or positioned so as not to create a hazard
   during these phases of flight. Mounting locations, if applicable, will be selected so as not to
   impede flight controls in any way, and will not obstruct the pilots’ view in front of the
   aircraft. Other crew positions (Navigators, Electronic Warfare Officers, and Special Mission
   Operators) may also employ EFB mounts. A listing of approved mounting solutions will be
   maintained on the AFGSC EFB SharePoint site. During all phases of flight, aircrew will
   ensure EFB devices are mounted, positioned, or stowed so as not to impede any required
   flight-related equipment, or otherwise create a hazard.
   3.6.2. Currency of Content. Aircrew will ensure all required flight-related content,
   including Flight Manuals, Flight Information Publications (FLIP), and associated directives,
   are current prior to every flight. Due to the length of time required to download significant
   publications updates and FLIP databases, aircrew should accomplish this the day prior to the
   flight, and update as necessary prior to takeoff.
       3.6.2.1. If critical flight-related content is published while a crew is off-station, crews
       will obtain the current content via any means necessary. Non-critical information may be
       updated upon return to home-station.
       3.6.2.2. Applications will not be downloaded, installed, deleted, modified, or updated
       while off station, unless specifically approved by the unit EFB administrator.
   3.6.3. Night Operations. EFB device back lighting shall be set to have minimum impact on
   night vision during night operations.
       3.6.3.1. Night Vision Goggles (NVG) EFB screen filters will be evaluated by a
       designated AFGSC MDS EFB lead unit, and approved by AFGSC/A3 prior to use in
       flight. Units that require NVG screen filters should submit their request to the AFGSC
       EFB Program Manager (AFGSC/A3TV). AFGSC/A3TV will maintain information on
       approved NVG screen filters on the AFGSC EFB SharePoint site.
   3.6.4. EFB Audio. EFB devices capable of audio, if applicable, shall be set at a volume that
   will not interfere with aircraft communications or normal crew duties.
   3.6.5. Screen Protectors and Protective Cases. Screen protectors and protective cases are
   authorized, at unit expense, as long as they do not affect the functionality of the devices or
   preclude use of authorized aircraft mounting solutions.
3.7. Abnormal and Emergency Procedures.
 16                                                        AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


   3.7.1. Egress. EFB devices will be stowed prior to ejection or ground egress if time and
   conditions permit. Ejecting or ground egressing the aircraft with the EFB attached to the
   crewmember’s body increases the risk of injury.
   3.7.2. EFB Device Failure. In the event a crewmember’s EFB device fails in flight, the
   aircraft commander will manage other crewmembers’ EFB devices and/or spare EFB devices
   (as applicable) to minimize aircrew workload, maximize situational awareness and CRM,
   and maintain safety of flight.
   3.7.3. Disaster Recovery.
      3.7.3.1. In the event of a complete loss of information on the EFBs and EUSA system, a
      restore will be accomplished using the information located on the EFB SharePoint site.
      3.7.3.2. In the event of a complete loss of information on the EFBs, EUSA system, and
      SharePoint, a system restore will be accomplished in the following manner.
          3.7.3.2.1. EUSA administrators will restore the EUSA system utilizing the weekly
          backup as identified in paragraph 3.7.3.3
          3.7.3.2.2. EFBs and EUSA systems will be restored using information from another
          location.
      3.7.3.3. External HDD’s must contain a current copy (within 7 days) of all software,
      configurations, data, and profiles required to accomplish a complete restoration of both
      systems EFB and EUSA.
          3.7.3.3.1. Regardless of information change, a backup must be completed on a
          weekly basis at a minimum. Backups and the external HDD will be protected and
          stored to ensure data/backup integrity.
          3.7.3.3.2. Copy all information from any source regarding the EFB & EUSA
          software, configurations data, or profile to a designated folder on the external HDD.
          At a minimum this must include the master backup file, iTunes, iPhone Configuration
          Utility, Configuration Profile, and appropriate folder from Aircrew Pubs library.
          Ensure the folder is named with the most current date of the copied software (i.e.,
          Backup DD Mmm YY).
      3.7.3.4. Each site will maintain a Primary and Alternate EUSA system in the event of
      catastrophic system failure, and to ensure quick system recovery. Recommended
      alternate EUSA system is a laptop computer.
      3.7.3.5. In the event of catastrophic failure of the EFB, use the External HDD backup
      files and the EUSA to restore the device to its original configuration.
      3.7.3.6. In the event of primary system failure the alternate system will become the
      primary. To restore the failed EUSA, first reinstall the SDC image and all patches, then
      follow the instructions in the EFB Master Guide Windows V6, located on the AFGSC
      EFB SharePoint Site, to restore associated software from the backup located on the
      external HDD.
3.8. Employment Instructions.
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                17


  3.8.1. Publications Distribution. HQ AFGSC/A3TV maintains a process to verify all
  documents are approved for distribution on the EFB and are in accordance with AFI 61-204,
  Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information.
     3.8.1.1. OGVs will manage updated publications and provide information on how to
     access the publications.
         3.8.1.1.1. Until an approved wireless solution is available, EFB Program Managers
         will download EFB-required ePubs to an approved external HDD and manually
         transfer them to an Exclusive Use Stand Alone (EUSA) computer (non-networked,
         government purchased). These EUSA computers may be used to transfer the library
         to the EFB device for updating. IAW AFMAN 33-282, para 6.5.6, all users must
         scan approved removable media devices for viruses before and after use.
         3.8.1.1.2. According to TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, para 5.8.1. “TODOs
         and TODAs must document the checking of all downloaded, non-ETIMs eTO for
         currency every 7 calendar days, unless they are automatically notified of changes by
         the repository from which they were obtained.”
     3.8.1.2. Wing EFB Program Managers will ensure unit-assigned EFBs only contain
     authorized documents and information, and proper authorization has been obtained from
     the data owners. Authorized data permitted on the EFB is located on the AFGSC EFB
     SharePoint site.
     3.8.1.3. EFB documents will be organized on the device IAW the applicable MDS-
     specific file plan, available on the AFGSC EFB SharePoint site.
  3.8.2. EFB Device Update Procedures.
     3.8.2.1. Units will follow AFGSC/A3TV guidance and procedures located on the
     AFGSC EFB SharePoint site tailored specifically for each EFB device approved.
  3.8.3. EFB Type Accreditation. The EFB system has been certified and accredited by AF
  DAA (AFSPC/CV) on with a Type Accreditation Approval to Operate (ATO) and is
  approved for use by AFGSC/A3 and AFGSC/A6. It is mandatory that all EFBs and EUSA
  systems used by all AF organizations are configured and secured IAW the applicable ATO.




                                         MICHAEL E. FORTNEY, Brig Gen, USAF
                                         Director of Operations
 18                                                      AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 January 2011
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program,4 June 2012
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 August 2002
AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security (COMPUSEC), 27 March 2012
AFMAN 33-285, Information Assurance (IA) Workforce Improvement Program, 17 June 2011
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
DoDI 8420.01, Commercial Wireless Local-Area Network (WLAN) Devices, Systems, and
Technologies, 3 November 2009
DoD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program, 24 January 2012
TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, 15 January 2013
Prescribed Forms
No Forms are prescribed by this instruction
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF FORM 4169, Request For Waiver From Information Assurance Criteria
SF 710, Unclassified (Label)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AFSSI—Air Force System Security Instruction
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
ATO—Authorization to Operate
ARMS—Automated Records Management System
BECO—Base Equipment Custodian Officer
CBT—Computer Based Training
CCB—Configuration Control Board
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                   19


CMD—Commercial Mobile Devices
COMSEC—Communication Security
CONEMP—Concept of Employment
CPA—Classified Processing Area
COTS—Commercial Off-The-Shelf
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
ECO—Equipment Custodian Officer
EFB—Electronic Flight Bag
EFLIP—Electronic Flight Information Publications
EMSEC—Emission Security
EPUBS—Electronic Publications
EUSA—Exclusive Use Stand Alone
FCIF—Flight Crew Information File
FLIP—Flight Information Publications
FOC—Final Operational Capability
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HDD—Hard Disk Drive
ICU—iPhone Configuration Utility
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
IT—Information Technology
ITAM/AIM—Air Force Information Technology Asset Management
ITEC—Information Technology Equipment Custodian
MAM—Mobile Application Management
MCM—Mobile Content Management
MDM—Mobile Device Management
MFR—Memorandum For Record
NOTAM—Notice To Airmen
NVG—Night Vision Goggles
OPR—Office Of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PED—Portable Electronic Device
 20                                                             AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014


PMO—Project Management Office
PUB—Publication
SDC—Standard Desktop Configuration
SEB—Standard and Evaluation Board
SMP—System Management Plan
STAN/EVAL—Standard and Evaluation
STIG—Security Technical Information Guide
TFI—Total Force Integration
TO—Technical Order
TODA—Technical Order Distribution Account
TODO—Technical Order Distribution Officer
TOLD—Takeoff and Landing Data
UCNI—Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information
VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions
VPP—Volume Purchase Program

Terms
Class 1 EFB Hardware—Portable commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)-based computers,
considered to be portable electronic devices (PED) with no aircraft manufacturer and/or system
program office (SPO) design, production, or installation approval for the device and its internal
components. Class 1 EFBs are not mounted to the aircraft, connected to aircraft systems for data,
or connected to a dedicated aircraft power supply. Class 1 EFBs can be temporarily connected to
an existing aircraft power supply for battery recharging. Class 1 EFBs that have Type B
applications for aeronautical charts, approach charts, or an electronic checklist must be
appropriately secured and viewable during critical phases of flight and must not interfere with
flight control movement. (Portable Class 1 EFB components are not considered to be part of
aircraft type design; i.e., not in the aircraft type certificate (TC) or Supplemental Type Certificate
(STC).)
Class 2 EFB Hardware—Portable COTS-based computers, considered to be personal electronic
devices with no aircraft manufacturer and/or SPO design, production, or installation approval for
the device and its internal components. Class 2 EFBs are typically mounted. They must be
capable of being easily removed from or attached to their mounts by flight-crew personnel. Class
2 EFBs can be temporarily connected to an existing aircraft power supply for battery recharging.
They may connect to aircraft power, data ports (wired or wireless), or installed antennas,
provided those connections are installed in accordance with aircraft manufacturer or system
program office guidelines. (Portable Class 2 EFB components are not considered to be part of
aircraft design.)
Class 3 EFB Hardware—EFBs permanently installed in the aircraft in accordance with
applicable airworthiness regulations.
AFGSCI11-270 21 MARCH 2014                                                                       21


Electronic Flight Bag (EFB)—An electronic display system intended primarily for flight deck
use that includes the hardware and software necessary to support an intended function. EFB
devices can display a variety of aviation data or perform basic calculations (e.g., performance
data, fuel calculations, etc.). In the past, some of these functions were traditionally accomplished
using paper references, or were based on data provided to the flight-crew by a flight dispatch
function. The scope of the EFB functionality may include various other hosted databases and
applications. Physical EFB displays may use various technologies, formats, and forms of
communication. An EFB must be able to host Type A and/or Type B software applications.
Type A Software Applications—Type A applications are those paper replacement applications
primarily intended for use during flight planning, on the ground, or during noncritical phases of
flight.
Type B Software Applications—Type B applications are those paper replacement applications
that provide the aeronautical information required to be accessible for each flight at the pilot
station, and are primarily intended for use during flight planning and all phases of flight. Type B
applications include miscellaneous, non-required applications (e.g., aircraft cabin and exterior
surveillance video displays, maintenance applications).
Type C Software Applications—Software approved using RTCA/DO-178B compliance or
another acceptable means. These are non-EFB software applications found in avionics and
include intended functions for communications, navigation, and surveillance that require aircraft
manufacturer and/or SPO design, production, and installation approval. Type C applications are
for airborne functions with a failure condition classification considered to be a major hazard or
higher.
