BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND                                 INSTRUCTION 11-261


                                                                 Effective: 1 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                              Flying Operations

                                                  CROSS COUNTRY FLIGHT OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3BA                                               Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3B
                                                                         (Col Howard A. Shrum)
Supersedes: ACCI11-261, 22 February 1999                                              Pages: 3

This instruction sets forth the Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) procedures for
AFGSC aircraft conducting cross country/off station training sorties, aircraft delivery/pick-up,
Programmed Depot Maintenance delivery and pick-up sorties. It implements AFPD 11-2,
Aircraft Rules and Procedures, dated 14 January 2005. The command's purpose for cross
country sorties is to increase instrument and navigation flight proficiency through multiple
instrument approaches, enroute navigation legs, and strange field operations.
This publication does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units and members. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Authority:
1.1. Task cross-country/off station training sorties, aircraft delivery/pick-up, programmed depot
maintenance (PDM) delivery/pick-up sorties through the appropriate squadron commander.
Commanders will ensure the sortie is in the "direct interest of government business" and not
perceived or generated solely for the transportation of personnel. Forward requests to the
operations group commander (OG/CC) for final approval.
2. Procedures:
2.1. Units will determine the timeline and process for final OG/CC approval required for
2                                                        AFGSCI 11-261 1 FEBRUARY 2010

aircrews to accomplish cross-country/off station training sorties, aircraft delivery/pick-up, and
PDM delivery/pick-up sorties. Ensure aircrews include all waiver request messages in their
request to the OG/CC. Participation in static displays and flyovers will be at OASD/PA approved
locations only. Accomplish all flyovers IAW AFI 11-209_AFGSCSUP, Aerial Event Policy and
Procedure. HQ AFGSC/A3 approval is required.
2.2. Once OG/CC approves the request, the squadron commanders will ensure aircrews review
all aspects of weather, maintenance, crew rest, mission events, and airfield restrictions prior to
their departure on the cross country/off station training sortie, aircraft delivery/pick-up, PDM
delivery/ pick-up sortie. Aircrews will also review AFI 11-202V3_AFGSCSUP, General Flight
Rules; and AFI 11-209_AFGSCSUP, Aerial Event Policy and Procedures, as applicable prior to
departure.
2.3. Aircrews will ensure the destination airfield has adequate mission planning/briefing facilities
for planning and briefing the return sortie(s). Ensure aircrews carry a sufficient supply of mission
planning forms if the destination airfield lacks adequate mission planning facilities. Pre-take-off
weather briefings will be IAW AFI 11-202V3_AFGSCSUP.
2.4. Aircrews will ensure that all enroute and destination airfield capabilities are IAW AFI 11-
202V3_AFGSCSUP.
2.5. Aircrews will follow proper security procedures pertaining to the storage of classified
materials and park aircraft in controlled/restricted areas if classified equipment is on board the
aircraft.
2.6. Aircrews will ensure that the destination airfield runway, taxiways, and parking ramp are
sufficient for the planned aircraft gross weight. Aircrews will ensure that compatible servicing
equipment/ procedures are available at the destination airfield.
2.6.1. (Bomber) Ensure the destination airfield has a compatible published approach.
2.6.2. (Bomber) To the maximum extent possible, aircrews will fly Standard Instrument
Departures and plan sorties into USAF/ANG/AFRC or joint usage bases.
2.7. Aircrews will ensure all flight maneuvers are IAW applicable technical orders, AFI 11-
2MDS instructions, and governing AFIs as supplemented by AFGSC.
2.8. Aircrews should strive to accomplish AFI 11-2MDS, Volume 1, type training on all cross-
country/off station training sorties.
3. T-38 Aircraft:
3.1. Prohibited Maneuvers:
3.1.1. Tactical departures.
3.1.2. Maximum performance climbs unless previously approved by OG/CC.
3.1.3. Departure/Enroute/Arrival fly-bys unless approved IAW AFI 11-209.
4. Bombers:
4.1. Prohibited Maneuvers:
4.1.1. Practice Emergency War Order departures.
4.1.2. Departure/Enroute/Arrival fly-bys unless approved IAW AFI 11-209.
AFGSCI 11-261 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                              3


5. UH-1Ns:
5.1. Prohibited Maneuvers:
5.1.1. IAW T.O 1H-1(U) N-1 and AFI 11-2UH-1N, Volume 3.
5.1.2. Departure/Enroute/Arrival fly-bys unless approved AFGSC/A3.




                                                 TIMOTHY M. RAY
                                                 Brigadier General, USAF
                                                 Director of Operations
