BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND                                   INSTRUCTION 10-604


                                                                           1 DECEMBER 2009
                                                            Certified Current 23 November 2011
                                                                                    Requirements

                                                           GLOBAL STRIKE OPERATIONAL
                                                         WEAPON SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY : Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A5PP                                                Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A5P
                                                                         (Col David W. Bliesner)
                                                                                       Pages 27

This volume implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning
& Requirements Development, AFPD 63/20-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
Management, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements
Development, and AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation. This volume
references Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System,
and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5000.2, Operation of Defense Acquisition
System. This volume outlines Air Force Global Strike (AFGSC) weapon system management
processes of concept development, system development, acquisition, testing, and operations of
AFGSC weapon systems and equipment. It assigns the roles and responsibilities of the planners,
developers, operators, and maintainers, and describes the overall processes to conceive, develop,
acquire, train, test, and transition, operationally accept, sustain, deactivate, decommission, and
dispose of a program or system providing global strike capabilities.
This instruction applies to Headquarters, Air Force Global Strike Command (HQ AFGSC), 8th
Air Force (8 AF); 20th Air Force (20 AF) and their subordinate units. It also governs the
relationship of those organizations with any non-AFGSC acquisition activities. Non-AFGSC
organizations such as those within Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and the Air Force
Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) are encouraged to use this guidance. It
applies to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units testing, operating, or
supporting AFGSC programs or missions.
The reporting requirements in this publication are exempt from licensing in accordance with AFI
33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal,
Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
2                                                       AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.


1. Introduction. This instruction provides guidance to Air Force Global Strike Command
(AFGSC) organizations participating in any phase of a Global Strike weapon systems
management from need identification through final disposal. Integrated Life Cycle Management
(ILCM) is the Air Force process to develop, acquire, and sustain weapon systems. Forward
waivers and requests for clarification and guidance on this instruction through appropriate
channels to HQ AFGSC/A5PP. NOTE: For the purpose of this volume, global strike weapon
systems are defined as those weapon systems and weapon system’s support equipment under
AFGSC responsibility and acquired and sustained under the DoD 5000 series guidance.
1.1. Headquarters Air Force Global Strike Command. IAW AFPD 10-9, Lead Command
Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, as a Lead Major Command (MAJCOM),
HQ AFGSC performs organize, train, and equip functions. Additionally, HQ AFGSC provides
guidance, prioritization, and oversight to its Acquisition/Sustainment Organizations (A/SO),
other acquisition agencies, and the Science and Technology (S&T) communities to ensure future
needs are met.
1.2. Weapon System Management Process. To facilitate AFGSC/CC oversight of global strike
weapon systems, the Weapon System Team (WST) is responsible for tracking all AFGSC
projects/weapon systems. The WST solicits information for each system from the respective
Program Element Monitors (PEMs) and appropriate offices and compiles and records the
information.
1.2.1. Weapon System Team (WST). The WST provides the action officer level subject matter
expertise and is comprised of members of HQ AFGSC/A5 or HQ AFGSC/A4/7, depending upon
the weapon system’s maturity.
1.2.2. Program Element Monitors (PEM). The PEM is the action officer focal point for the
Program Element (PE). PEMs are responsible for proposing all future resource and budgetary
needs for their PEs. Additionally, a PEM serves as the PE spokesperson and primary PE
advocate during the Program Objective Memorandum (POM) process. PEMs perform their
responsibilities in direct support of and at the direction of the appropriate WST. Note:
Contractors cannot perform inherently governmental management functions. Therefore,
contractors will not be appointed as PEMs.
1.3. Capability Teams. Each Command Lead will establish a Capability Team (CT) to interface
with stakeholders throughout the global strike enterprise (e.g., SMC, U.S. Strategic Command
(USSTRATCOM), 8AF, 20AF, Air Staff, Joint Staff, other service components, and government
agencies to coordinate efforts to deliver ICBM capabilities and to facilitate decision making
processes). The stakeholders provide their specific expertise (manpower, intelligence,
operations, logistics, security, etc.) to the capability team.
AFGSCI10-604 1 December 2009                                                                   3

2. Weapon Systems Lifecycle. This chapter provides an overview of the AFGSC weapon
systems lifecycle phases from concept studies through deactivation/disposal. This volume
applies to the programs/systems using the DoD 5000 series (DoDD 5000.1, The Defense
Acquisition System and DoDI 5000.2, Operation of Defense Acquisition System) acquisition
model.
2.1. Acquisition Model. The majority of AFGSC weapon systems are developed, fielded, and
sustained using the DoD 5000 Series instructions. Figure 2.1, the Defense Acquisition
Management System, provides a graphic depiction of the model. The acquisitions model
complies with the Joint Capabilities Integrations and Development System (JCIDS) process.

Figure 2.1. The Defense Acquisition Management System




2.1.1. Defense Acquisition Management System. The Defense Acquisition System model has
five phases with three Milestone decision points (A, B, and C) a weapon system will follow
during its life cycle. The five phases are:
2.1.1.1. Material Solution Analysis Phase. The material solution phase is the beginning of the
requirement/acquisition process. Activities include identification of capabilities shortfalls/gaps
and the development of the initial concept(s) to meet identified shortfalls/gaps. The JCIDS
process will be used to develop the Initial Capabilities Document (ICD) and Analysis of
Alternatives (AoA).
2.1.1.2. Technology Development Phase. The purpose of this phase is to reduce technology risk,
determine and mature the appropriate set of technologies to be integrated into a full system, and
to demonstrate Critical Technology Elements (CTEs) on prototypes. Technology Development
is a continuous technology discovery and development process reflecting close collaboration
between the S&T community, the user, and the system developer. It is an iterative process
designed to assess the viability of technologies while simultaneously refining user requirements.
Entrance into this phase depends on the completion of the AoA, a proposed materiel solution,
and full funding for planned Technology Development Phase activity. At Milestone A, the
Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) shall review the proposed materiel solution and the draft
Technology Development Strategy (TDS). The Technology Development Phase begins when
the MDA has approved a materiel solution and the TDS, and has documented the decision in an
Acquisition Decision Memorandum (ADM).
2.1.1.3. Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD) Phase. The purpose of the EMD
Phase is to develop a system or an increment of capability; complete full system integration
4                                                      AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

(technology risk reduction occurs during Technology Development); develop an affordable and
executable manufacturing process; ensure operational supportability with particular attention to
minimizing the logistics footprint; implement human systems integration (HSI); ensure
affordability; protect critical program information (CPI) by implementing appropriate techniques
such as anti-tamper; and demonstrate system integration, interoperability, safety, and utility. The
Capability Development Document (CDD), Acquisition Strategy, System Engineering Plan
(SEP), and Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP) shall guide this effort. Entrance into this
phase depends on technology maturity (including software), approved requirements, and full
funding. Unless some other factor is overriding in its impact, the maturity of the technology
shall determine the path to be followed.
2.1.1.4. Production and Deployment Phase. The purpose of the Production and Deployment
Phase is to achieve an operational capability satisfying mission needs. Operational test and
evaluation shall determine the effectiveness and suitability of the system. The MDA shall make
the decision to commit the Department of Defense to production at Milestone C and shall
document the decision in an ADM. Milestone C authorizes entry into Low-Rate Initial
Production (LRIP) (for major systems), into production or procurement (for non-major systems
that do not require LRIP) or into limited deployment in support of operational testing software-
intensive systems with no production components. Entrance into this phase depends on the
following criteria: acceptable performance in developmental test and evaluation and operational
assessment; mature software capability; no significant manufacturing risks; manufacturing
processes under control (if Milestone C is full-rate production); an approved ICD (if Milestone C
is program initiation); an approved Capability Production Document (CPD); a refined integrated
architecture; acceptable interoperability; acceptable operational supportability; and
demonstration that the system is affordable throughout the life cycle, fully funded, and properly
phased for rapid acquisition. The CPD reflects the operational requirements, informed by EMD
results, and details the performance expected of the production system. If Milestone C approves
Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP), a subsequent review and decision shall authorize full-rate
production.
2.1.1.5. Operations and Support Phase. The purpose of the Operations and Support Phase is to
execute a support program meeting materiel readiness and operational support performance
requirements, and sustaining the system in the most cost-effective manner over its total life
cycle. Planning for this phase shall begin prior to program initiation and be documented in the
Life Cycle Support Plan (LCSP). Operations and Support has two major efforts: Life-Cycle
Sustainment and Disposal. Entrance into the Operations and Support Phase depends on
meetingthe following criteria: an approved CPD; an approved LCSP; and a successful Full-
RateProduction (FRP) decision.
2.1.1.6. For additional detail regarding the above described phases, reference DODI 5000.02,
Operation of the Defense Acquisition System.
2.2. Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS). The JCIDS process
supports the statutory requirements of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) to
validate and prioritize joint warfighting requirements. JCIDS is also a key supporting process for
DoD acquisition and Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) processes. The
primary objective of the JCIDS process is to ensure the joint warfighter receives the capabilities
required to successfully execute their assigned missions. For further information pertaining to
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                    5

the JCIDS process, refer to CJCSI/M 3170.01, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development
System.
2.3. Air Force Requirements for Operational Capabilities Council (AFROCC). The
AFROCC, an instrument of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) and Secretary of the Air
Force (SAF), reviews, validates, and recommends approval of all Air Force capabilities-based
requirements. The AFROCC ensures Air Force capabilities-based requirements documentation
is prepared in accordance with Air Force and Joint Staff guidance, complies with established
standards, and accurately articulates valid Air Force capabilities-based requirements. For further
information on the AFROCC, refer to AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements
Development.
2.4. Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC). The JROC, chaired by the Vice
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (VCJCS) is the principal forum where senior military
leaders (VCJCS and the service vice chiefs) address requirements from a joint perspective. The
JROC reviews programs designated as “JROC interest” and supports the acquisition review
process. For more information, refer to CJCSI 3180.01, Joint Requirements Oversight Council
(JROC) Programmatic Processes for Joint Experimentation and Joint Resource Change
Recommendations.
2.5. Defense Acquisition Board (DAB). The purpose of a DAB review is to give the
Component Acquisition Executive, Program Executive Office (PEO), Program Manager (PM),
and other senior officials’ management guidance and/or permission to proceed. For further
information pertaining to the function of the DAB, refer to DoDI 5000.2
2.6. Performance Based Logistics (PBL). Based on pre-determined performance/readiness
goals, PBL is DoD's preferred approach for implementing product support leading to higher
levels of weapon system readiness and the reduction of Total Ownership Cost (TOC). Develop
and implement PBL strategies in the early phases of design development to optimize total system
availability while minimizing cost and logistics footprint as defined in DoDD 5000.01. For
further information on performance based logistics requirements; refer to AFI 63-107, Integrated
Product Support Planning and Assessment.
2.7. Acquisition Category (ACAT) Levels. All systems/programs governed by the DoD 5000
Series are categorized into three levels based on their status within the process, dollar value, and
MDA special interest. The four ACAT Levels (ACAT I, IA, II, & III) are established to comply
with Congressional and DoD direction. For further information, refer to DoDI 5000.2,
Operation of the Defense Acquisition System.
2.8. Evolutionary Acquisition (EA). Evolutionary acquisition is the preferred DoD strategy for
rapid acquisition of mature technology for the user. An evolutionary approach delivers
capability in increments, recognizing, up front, the need for future capability improvements. The
objective is to balance needs and available capability with resources, and to put capability into
the hands of the user quickly. The success of the strategy depends on phased definitions of
capability needs and system requirements, and the maturation of technologies leading to
disciplined development and production of systems providing increased capability over time.
EA requires collaboration among the user, tester, and developer. In this process, an operational
capability is met over time by developing several increments, each dependent on available
mature technology. Technology development, prior to initiation of an increment, shall continue
6                                                       AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

until the required level of maturity is achieved, and prototypes of the system or key system
elements are produced. Successive Technology Development Phases may be necessary to
mature technology for multiple development increments. For greater detail on EA, reference
DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System.
2.9. Requirement and Acquisition Considerations. During the requirement refinement and
acquisition phases, AFGSC must consider the following:
2.9.1. Nuclear Certification. The purpose of the Air Force Nuclear Certification Program is to
ensure all procedures, software, personnel, equipment, facilities, and organizations are certified
before conducting operations with nuclear weapons or nuclear weapon systems. The
ICD/CDD/CPD of each weapon system with a nuclear capability or which serves as a critical
element of the Nuclear Compatibility Certification Statement must identify nuclear certification
as a threshold requirement.
2.9.2. Technology and Program Protection Planning (T/PPP). In an ongoing effort to implement
fully an Information Support Plan (ISP), critical technology information must be protected to
prevent loss, theft, or compromises. For more information, refer to AF Policy Directive 63-17,
Technology and Acquisition Systems Security Program Protection, and AF Pamphlet (AFPAM)
63-1701, Program Protection Planning.
2.9.3. Training. The training system is an integral part of each weapon system. As such, a
systematically developed curriculum including, but not necessarily limited to, courseware,
classroom aids, training simulators and devices, operational equipment, embedded training
capability, and personnel to operate, maintain, and/or employ a system are necessary. The
training system includes all the necessary elements of logistics support, but this support is not
necessarily identical to the operational system. For instance, actual weapon system spares may
not be required for proper training system function, but may be included in the training system's
curriculum for accuracy.
2.9.3.1. The training system is a significant cost driver and must not be an afterthought in the
acquisition and development of the mission system. The training system must receive the same
visibility, funding, and documentation priority as the operational weapon system it supports. In
addition, AFGSC shall fund training system modifications if the weapon system is modified or
updated, to ensure training systems remain current with systems in the field. Weapon systems
should not be modified if there is insufficient funding to modify both the operational system and
the training system.
2.9.4. Security Classification Guides (SCGs). An SCG is the written record of an original
classification decision and, IAW AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, and
appropriate declassification instructions should be issued as early as practical in the life cycle of
the classified system, plan, program or project. The Original Classification Authority (OCA) is
responsible for publishing SCGs to facilitate the proper and uniform derivative classification and
declassification of their information. For further information, refer to AFI 31-401.
2.9.5. Legal Review. AFGSC/JA will coordinate with HQ USAF International Law Division
(JAI) as required whenever HQ USAF/JAI reviews new or modified nuclear weapons or weapon
systems prior to acquisition IAW AFI 51-402, Weapons Review.
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                   7

2.9.6. Major Range and Test Facility Base. When Major Range and Test Facility Base
(MRTFB) assets are acquired and/or dispositioned this must be coordinated with the OSD IAW
DoDD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base, Summary of Capabilities.
2.10. Initial Operational Capability (IOC) and Full Operational Capability (FOC) Process
2.10.1. Purpose of Declaring IOC/FOC. The purpose of declaring IOC and FOC is to announce
an initial or full operational capability of a new or upgraded system to unified commanders,
higher headquarters, and AFGSC organizations, as applicable. For upgraded systems, IOC/FOC
would only be needed if the system provides a significant new capability.
2.10.2. IOC/FOC Declaration. AFGSC/CC is the sole authority for declaration of IOC or FOC
for an AFGSC system, but may delegate this authority to AFGSC/A3. IOC/FOC is declared
when an acquired system meets the IOC/FOC Evaluation Criteria as defined in the system’s
CDD. If a system does not have a CDD, the applicable system’s Initial Capability Team (ICT)
will develop and document appropriate IOC/FOC Evaluation Criteria.
2.11. IOC and FOC Terms.
2.11.1. IOC and FOC are terms applying to an operational system going through an acquisition
process. These terms do not apply to units or organizations. A new unit would be “activated,”
not declared IOC. However, a newly activated unit is often part of the IOC decision relating to
the system the unit operates. There is no specific Air Force guidance directly linking a specific
unit’s Status of Resources and Training Systems (SORTS) C-Rating with IOC or FOC.
However, IOC and FOC of an operational system indicate a certain capability or readiness and
SORTS should be a consideration for IOC declaration. Units or organizations should strive to
achieve a C-Rating of at least C-3 during IOC and a C-Rating of C-1 during FOC.
2.11.2. Multiple IOCs. AFGSC may declare multiple IOCs for systems or equipment supported
by multiple SORTS Designated Operational Capability (DOC) statements. Additionally,
multiple IOCs may be declared for incremental system deliveries.
2.11.3. FOC Declaration. FOC declaration applies only to those systems having an FOC
declaration as part of their acquisition and deployment strategy, as defined in the Operational
Requirements Document (ORD)/Capability Development Document (CDD). If a system does
not have an ORD/CDD, the applicable system’s ICT will develop and document appropriate
IOC/FOC Criteria. Nominally, FOC is not declared until the A/SO has delivered the full system,
as defined in the system’s ORD/CDD, and corrected all the system’s discrepancies.
2.11.4. FOC/IOC Simultaneous Occurrence. FOC may occur simultaneously with IOC,
especially with one-of-a-kind systems. But FOC typically occurs later, especially if it involves
bringing a certain number of like systems on line.
2.11.5. Mission Availability and Activation. Once the system can accomplish its mission as
defined in the CDD/ORD, generally after Operational Assessment (OA) and turnover, prior to
IOC, the applicable Component Commander will determine when the operational unit(s) will
begin using the system (mission activation). The Commander will then announce to the
applicable Unified Commander when the system is available to support operations along with
any limitations. When mission activation is declared prior to IOC, this period will be treated as a
Trial Period to exercise and refine operational procedures, training, documentation, logistics
functions, and all other processes required to support the mission. This period should also be
used to surface any problems or deficiencies so they may be resolved before IOC declaration.
8                                                       AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

2.11.6 IOC/FOC Criteria. IOC declaration is event-driven, not schedule-driven. The IOC/FOC
criteria in Table 2.1 define the event (operations, equipment, logistics, manpower, facilities, etc.)
criteria for declaring IOC/FOC. The ICT will tailor the criteria as appropriate for each system.
The following types of events/items should be included in the criteria:
Table 2.1. IOC/FOC Criteria
1.    Successfully meeting the Required Assets Available (RAA) requirements and date.

2.    Successfully completing an Operational Test and Evaluation IAW AFI 99-103
      Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, and resolution of discrepancies.

3.    Successfully completing a Trial Period that demonstrates the system and personnel can
      perform its assigned mission.

4.    Proper logistics elements to include operational support equipment, spares, verified
      technical manuals, training programs and training courses are in place.

5.    Adequate SORTS C-Rating to reflect the appropriate level of system performance,
      quantities received, operator and maintainer proficiency and an adequate support
      capability (this includes the operational structure, training, manpower and equipment
      needed to operate and maintain the system).

6.    Development of other miscellaneous documents during acquisition phases leading up to
      IOC/FOC. The following is a sample list of the types of documents required prior to
      Operational Test & Evaluation (OT&E). This list is not all-inclusive and should be
      tailored for each program.

7.    Approved Concept of Operations.

8.    Approved ORD/CDD or ICT-developed and documented IOC/FOC Criteria.

9.    Approved System Training Plan (STP).

10.   Approved logistics support plan, Maintenance Concept and the Integrated Manpower,
      Personnel, and Comprehensive Training and Safety (IMPACTS).

11.   Established Training and Evaluation Programs.

12.   Trained and Certified Operators.

13.   Approved Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP).

14.   Approved P-PLAN and Unit Type Code (UTC).

15.   Approved SORTS DOC Statement.

16.   Approved Manpower Estimate Report (MER).

17.   Approved Operational Protection Guides.
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                9


18.   Adequate physical security systems (PSS) (e.g., alarm systems, response forces, etc.) are
      in place.

19.   Required manpower.

20.   Approved physical security plan.

21.   Approved system security Designated Approval Authority (DAA) accreditation to
      operate the system.


2.11.7. IOC/FOC Declaration Process.
2.11.7.1. Events Leading Up To Declaration.
2.11.7.1.1. During the acquisition program, the RAA requirements and date are established along
with the IOC/FOC Evaluation Criteria.
2.11.7.1.2. After the system is delivered, operational units are activated (as required), and
appropriate levels of trained personnel are in place, an OT&E is conducted by an independent,
objective operational test agency.
2.11.7.1.3. Following completion of OT&E and resolution of discrepancies, a trial period is
entered. The trial period demonstrates to the operations commander that the unit/system can
perform its designed operational mission(s). The length of this trial period may vary
significantly and, in some cases may not exist at all (in cases where the trial period may have
occurred prior to or during the OT&E). Each system’s trial period length should be defined in
the system’s ORD/CDD or by its ICT. The trial period ends when HQ AFGSC declares OA or
declares IOC.
2.11.7.1.4. For systems with an FOC declaration, the full system is delivered and remaining
system deficiencies are corrected. Once complete, HQ AFGSC/CC declares FOC.
2.11.8. IOC/FOC Declaration Staffing. HQ AFGSC/A5/8 is responsible for staffing the
overall decision on whether or not to declare IOC or FOC. Within HQ AFGSC the system’s
WST, with support from the system’s ICT, ensures the IOC/FOC declaration is staffed for
approval. Two methods are available to staff the decision. The first is the IOC/FOC Readiness
Review Board and is normally used for ACAT I programs or programs where a formal board is
necessary. The second method is Staff Summary Sheet coordination. HQ AFGSC/A5/8 will
determine which method is appropriate for each program.
2.11.8.1. IOC/FOC Readiness Review Board. When HQ AFGSC/A5/8 determines an IOC/FOC
Readiness Review Board is needed, the HQ AFGSC/A3 will chair the board. Selected HQ
AFGSC Directorates (A1, A2, A4/7, A5/8, A6, A9, FM, JA, PA, IG, SG, and SE), the applicable
NAF, plus wing(s), group(s) and squadron(s) are represented. In addition, the appropriate
Unified Command, AFOTEC and ICT may be invited. The WST, with support from the
system’s ICT, develops a briefing addressing all areas from the system’s IOC/FOC Criteria. The
WST briefs this information to the AFGSC/A3, with HQ AFGSC Directorates providing
additional details/concerns as appropriate. The recommendation on whether or not to declare
IOC/FOC will be recommended by the HQ AFGSC/A3 after hearing all concerns and
10                                                      AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

recommendations from the members of the IOC/FOC Readiness Review Board. Members of the
IOC/FOC Readiness Review Board will not have veto authority.
2.11.8.2. Staff Summary Sheet Coordination. When HQ AFGSC/A5/8 determines an IOC/FOC
Readiness Review Board is not required, the WST, with support from the system’s ICT, will
develop a Staff Summary Sheet summarizing the particular system’s readiness based on the
IOC/FOC Evaluation Criteria.
3. Roles and Responsibilities. Specific roles and responsibilities unique to HQ AFGSC, A/SO,
NAF, AFGSC Wings, and the Operational Testing Organizations are defined below, specifying
the phases (in parenthesis) of their specific activities:
3.1. HQ AFGSC.
3.1.1. HQ AFGSC/A1, Directorate of Manpower, Personnel, and Services.
3.1.1.1. Provides manpower support and expertise as required.
3.1.1.2. Reviews manpower documents as required.
3.1.2.3. Develops the Manpower Estimate Report (MER) when tasked by HQ AF.
3.1.2. HQ AFGSC/A2, Directorate of Intelligence.
3.1.2.1 Executes both implementing and operating command Senior Intelligence (SIO)
responsibilities as outlined in AFI 14-111.”
3.1.2.2. Serves as an OCA.
3.1.2.3. Conducts Intelligence Infrastructure Analysis to document intelligence deficiencies,
proposed solutions, and assess the level of intelligence support required to achieve mission
success at IOC.
3.1.2.4. Provides intelligence operational expertise and guidance.
3.1.2.5. Tracks and reports status to HQ AFGSC/A5/8 and/or AFGSC/CC on intelligence issues
affecting successful system development and mission accomplishment.
3.1.2.6. Provides intelligence data on foreign forces/processes and DoD validated Multi-Service
Force Deployment scenarios for use in the IPP and command studies and analysis.
3.1.2.7. Performs Cross-Program Analysis of intelligence deficiencies within AFGSC purview
to consolidate similar requirements and facilitate development of multi-program solutions.
3.1.2.8. Oversees development and approves submission of AFGSC request for Intelligence
Certification, as required by CJCSI 3170.01 and CJCSI 3312.01.
3.1.2.9. Leads Intelligence Support Working Group to ensure all intelligence considerations and
requirements for the developing system or capability are addressed.
3.1.2.10. Coordinates with the national intelligence community to produce system-specific
System Threat Assessment Reports (STAR)/System/Capstone Threat Assessments as required.
3.1.2.11. Prepares intelligence-related text (threat and intelligence programmatics) for JCIDS
documents, Enabling Concept, Operating Concept, AoAs, Strategic Plans, and other acquisition-
associated documents, studies and analyses.
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 11

3.1.3. HQ AFGSC/A3, Directorate of Operations.
3.1.3.1. Serves as an OCA.
3.1.3.2. Acts as the focal point for ICBM Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) policy and
guidance and coordinates with Lead Command for bomber OT&T IAW AFI 99-103 Capabilities
Based Test and Evaluation.
3.1.3.3. Establishes standards, tasks, and formal training requirements for operations training
systems, and provides training expertise and guidance.
3.1.3.4. Acts as lead in developing, documenting, and issuing tactics for Command Lead
weapon systems.
3.1.3.5. Evaluates the STAR and other indicators of foreign threats to determine potential impact
on operational global strike forces.
3.1.3.6. Member of ILRP Steering Group.
3.1.3.7. Appoints a senior aircrew member to the Cockpit Working Group (CWG), IAW AFI
63-112, Cockpit Working Group.
3.1.3.8. Develops and maintains training and nuclear mission certification programs IAW
applicable Technical Order (TO) and AFI(s).
3.1.3.9. Plans, programs, and budgets for Operations and Maintenance (O&M) of products and
services to be turned over.
3.1.3.10. Ensures training system concepts and requirements are documented in requirements
publications, the STP and the Training Systems Requirements Analysis (TSRA), and other
contract documents and reviews.
3.1.3.11. Identifies operational needs and requirements for backup equipment (and/or operations
centers) during concept development.
3.1.3.12. Acts as the MAJCOM focal point for survivability issues IAW AFI 63-101,
Acquisition and Sustainment Lifecycle Management.
3.1.3.13. Provides Concept of Operations (CONOPS) to Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
(AFNWC) on developmental weapon systems that will have a nuclear capability or existing
nuclear-capable weapon systems.
3.1.3.14. Coordinates with HQ AFGSC Directorates to ensure the best planning for manpower
to operate the weapon system.
3.1.3.15. Assists the A/SO(s) in providing system configuration management.
3.1.3.16. Serves as the Modeling and Simulation (M&S) area MAJCOM lead for training and
Distributed Mission Operations requirements.
3.1.3.17. Prioritizes M&S needs for training, exercises/contingency operations, experiments, and
war games.
3.1.3.18. Appoints a Functional Area Manager to monitor the organizations and infrastructure
associated with the ICBM system IAW AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System.
3.1.3.19. Declares Operational Acceptance (OA).
12                                                      AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

3.1.3.20. Recommends IOC/FOC, if authority has been delegated by AFGSC/CC.
3.1.3.21. Provides operational support and expertise to the Single Manager (SM) for identifying
and conducting testing as required for modifications to current certified hardware/software items.
3.1.3.22. Facilitates TO verification and provides updates using the Air Force Technical Order
process.
3.1.3.23. Serves as the Lead for MAJCOM rated management.
3.1.3.24. Supports and acts as the focal point for ICBM test and evaluation policy and guidance
IAW AFI 99-103.
3.1.4. HQ AFGSC/A4/7, Directorate of Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support.
3.1.4.1. Serves as an OCA.
3.1.4.2. Provides acquisition, sustainment/logistics support expertise and technical guidance
during the acquisition process.
3.1.4.3. Serves as the command representative for lifecycle acquisition logistics and sustainment
issues.
3.1.4.4. Provides Civil Engineering/Environmental/Infrastructure/Security Forces/Contracting
operational support expertise and technical guidance.
3.1.4.5. Performs engineering and modification management, program execution, and day-to-
day operations and management of ICBM Real Property/Real Property Installed Equipment
(RP/RPIE) programs.
3.1.4.6. Acts as OPR for AFGSC nuclear support policy.
3.1.4.7. Serves as co-chair on the ICBM Corrosion Prevention Advisory Board (CPAB),
Helicopter CPAB, Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (C4) and Intelligence,
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) CPAB.
3.1.4.8. Serves as the focal point for maintenance for AFGSC weapon systems, to include
maintenance policy/organizational structure within the Wings, maintenance data collection
policy/requirements, and maintenance career field management.
3.1.4.9. Provides guidance for the design and execution of the Command’s Sustainment,
Restoration and Modernizations (SRM) Program.
3.1.4.10. Chairs Requirements Validation Board, to review requirements for proposed
modifications.
3.1.4.11. Acts as the focal point for the overall corrosion control and prevention program, IAW
AFI 21-105, Air and Space Equipment Structural Maintenance.
3.1.4.12. Represents AFGSC interests on the Secretary of the Air Force Nuclear Survivability
Steering Group (NSSG).
3.1.4.13. Chairs the AFGSC Survivability Steering Group.
3.1.4.14. Participates in ICT and Integrated Product Team (IPT) and manages Command
Weapon Systems Pollution Prevention Program.
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 13

3.1.4.15. Ensures all acquisition logistics/sustainment elements are considered and included as
appropriate in acquisition activities.
3.1.4.16. Reviews system documents for physical security implications.
3.1.4.17. Participates in security-related manpower validations.
3.1.4.18. Develops maintenance management guidance and procedures that allow global strike
weapon systems and developmental test units to achieve the highest levels of safety, surety,
security, readiness, and maintenance productivity, IAW AFI 21-202, Missile and Space Systems
Maintenance Management.
3.1.4.19. Participates in initial physical security standard determination as part of the Program
Protection Planning (PPP) process.
3.1.4.20. Participates in initial and critical sparing determinations.
3.1.4.21. Ensures all major construction support for weapons system acquisition is IAW AFI 32-
1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction (MILCON) Projects.
3.1.4.22. Develops Air Force component structure and supporting organize, train and equip
recommendations to USSTRATCOM and appropriate AFGSC offices for activation upon system
IOC.
3.1.4.23. Facilitates TO validation/verification and provides updates as required to the SM for
nuclear certified items and weapon systems.
3.1.4.24. Provides depot level lab repair on certain RPIE items: Minuteman Power Processor
and Minuteman Interior Intrusion Detection System.
3.1.5. HQ AFGSC/A5/8, Directorate of Plans, Programs and Requirements.
3.1.5.1. Serves as an OCA.
3.1.5.2. Serves as the AFGSC OPR for JCIDS and all acquisition processes.
3.1.5.3. Acts as the OPR and interface for A/SOs and the Wings.
3.1.5.4. Facilitates resolution of issues concerning the delivery of new capabilities among all
AFGSC and external organizations.
3.1.5.5. Develops and maintains an accurate Operational Plan Data Document for each nuclear-
capable/certified weapon system.
3.1.5.6. Manages requirements changes.
3.1.5.7. Ensures logistics support integration throughout the requirements process.
3.1.5.8. Identifies an OPR to establish and maintain a standardized process for authorizing the
release of new and modified nuclear certified items to the user.
3.1.5.9. Ensures POM inputs and AFGSC budget actions support all transition activities.
3.1.5.10. Advocates for the materiel program in the PPBE process.
3.1.5.11. Ensures funding requirements to obtain and maintain nuclear certifications are
included in weapon system PPBE submissions.
14                                                       AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

3.1.5.12. Member of the Technology for the Sustainment of Strategic Systems Office, Secretary
of Defense (OSD)-level IPT.
3.1.5.13. Appoints a senior aircrew member to the CWG.
3.1.5.14. Chairs the Corporate Board review of AFGSC requirements documents.
3.1.5.15. Ensures operations training, training systems and training funding requirements are
incorporated into planning for and acquisition of new systems or major modifications.
3.1.5.16. Appoints the WST (Requirements).
3.1.5.17. Incorporates all MAJCOM weapon system related capability requirements into specific
requirements documents (ICD/CDD/CPD or AF IMT 1067/Modification Proposal) as
appropriate.
3.1.5.18. Documents nuclear certification as a threshold requirement in the ICD/CDD/CPD for
any weapon system to be developed that will maintain a nuclear mission capability.
3.1.5.19. Defines, develops, and advocates operational requirements for ballistic missile systems
and global strike bomber systems.
3.1.5.20. Ensures procedures to maintain training system currency are included in the planning
process for new systems or major modifications.
3.1.5.21. Serves as the M&S area lead for capabilities documents and consolidates M&S needs
supporting the JCIDS process.
3.1.5.22. Identifies and prioritizes S&T efforts to ensure technology investments are aligned
with AFGSC capability priorities and will support near/far term system development.
3.1.5.23. Incorporates operations training requirements into requirements documents, Training
Planning Team (TPT) meetings, and other contract documents and reviews.
3.1.5.24. Appoints a PEM during concept development, technology development, and
acquisition.
3.1.5.25. Develops the System Transition Management Plan (STMP) in conjunction with the
A/SO(s).
3.1.5.26. Writes, validates, and staffs the IOC Plan at defined intervals to ensure desired
weapons capabilities will be delivered as defined in the CDD/CPD.
3.1.5.27. Supports turnover activities to COCOM at FOC.
3.1.5.28. Provides guidance regarding the releasability of information to outside agencies and
foreign nationals.
3.1.5.29. Oversees all treaty compliance and international affairs issues.
3.1.5.30. Leads PPBE process; provides interface between requirements process and the program
portion of the PPBE process.
3.1.5.31. Co-Chairs the AFGSC M&S Board with HQ AFGSC/A9; establishes command-wide
priorities.
3.1.5.32. Advocates for solutions to command-wide M&S needs in the AFGSC corporate
process.
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                15

3.1.5.33. Represents AFGSC M&S policies and strategies to external organizations to include;
HQ USAF/XIW, AF Studies and Analysis Agency, and the AF M&S General Officer Steering
Group.
3.1.5.34. Leads IPP; provides interface between requirements process and the IPP.
3.1.5.35. Develops and delivers strategic plans and roadmaps to guide AFGSC capability
development and ensure global strike acquisition priorities align with AFGSC Commander and
HHQ guidance.
3.1.5.36. Develops cost constrained Programming Force profiles and semi-constrained Planning
Force profiles that optimize Total Obligation Authority and build realistic strategic plans and
capability roadmaps.
3.1.5.37. Develops integrated plans to ensure high priority AFGSC capabilities will be sustained
beyond the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) and identifies new AFGSC capabilities.
3.1.5.38. Provides global strike related capabilities and operational risk analysis.
3.1.5.39. Chairs the Site Surveys and Beddown Teams; all actions for site surveys and beddown
will be IAW AFI 10-503, Base Unit Beddown Program.
3.1.5.40. Assists Functional Lead with development of the Programming Plan (PPlan), as
required. All PPlan actions will be IAW AFI 10-501, Program Action Directives (PAD) and
Programming Plans (PPlans).
3.1.5.41. Ensures AFGSC M&S applications are in accordance with AFI 16-1001, Verification,
Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A) Guidance.
3.1.6. HQ AFGSC/A6, Directorate of Communication and Information Technology.
3.1.6.1. Serves as an OCA.
3.1.6.2. Acts as the Designated Approval Authority (DAA) for systems. (Information Assurance)
3.1.6.3. Reviews technical data for accuracy and completeness. (Information Assurance)
3.1.6.4. Reviews computer resource and information technology documents as required.
3.1.6.5. Reviews system documentation for information security implications.
3.1.6.6. Reviews comprehensive DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
Process package and certifies recommendation for completeness and security certification and
accreditation process compliance.
3.1.6.7. Serves as Chief Information Officer (CIO) for AFGSC and certifies architecture
products IAW AFI 33-401, Implementing Air Force Architectures, as well as ensuring AFGSC
complies with DoD and Air Force guidance on the Department of Defense Architectural
Framework (DoDAF) and for developing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA).
3.1.6.8. Provides communications support expertise and technical guidance during the
acquisition process.
3.1.6.9. Acts as the liaison between AFGSC units, NAFs, Defense Threat Reduction Agency
(DTRA), Department of Energy (DOE), Nuclear Weapons Directorate, and the A/SO(s) on
issues dealing with technical data waivers, to include the Force Development Evaluation (FDE).
16                                                       AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

3.1.6.10. Issues an approval or interim approval to operate, connect, or test.
3.1.7. HQ AFGSC/A9, Directorate of Studies & Analysis, Assessments, and Lessons
Learned.
3.1.7.1. Tracks and facilitates lessons learned.
3.1.7.2. Conducts command-wide and functional assessments of current and future nuclear plans,
operations, logistics, and sustainment requirements.
3.1.7.3. Explores operations plans, resource decisions, and budget trade-offs by conducting
nuclear resource analysis by linking analytic assessment efforts with concept development,
planning, and sustainment of war-fighting resources. Provides analytic support to AFGSC’s
program within the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) process.
3.1.7.4. Coordinates resources and resolution for validated lessons by ensuring organizations
make inputs to the PPBE system and ensure closure of DOTMLPF processes.
3.1.7.5. Co-Chairs the AFGSC M&S Board with HQ AFGSC/A5/8; establishes command-wide
priorities.
3.1.8. HQ AFGSC/SE, Safety.
3.1.8.1. Reviews documents for safety issues as required.
3.1.8.2. Reviews and supports programs/systems during Test Readiness Reviews, Trial Period
Review Panels, and Ops Acceptance Boards for all safety related issues.
3.1.8.3. Incorporates all MAJCOM safety requirements into specific requirements documents
(ICD/CDD/CPD/DCA or AF IMT 1067) as appropriate.
3.1.8.4. Point of Contact (POC) for all AFGSC nuclear surety issues.
3.1.8.5. Voting member of the Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group (NWSSG).
3.1.8.6. POC for all NWSSG studies pertaining to AFGSC weapon systems.
3.1.8.7. Forwards all proposed modifications, procedural changes, tests, or other activities
involving nuclear weapon systems to HQ AFSC/SEW.
3.1.8.8. Oversees a Mishap Prevention Program, IAW AF 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap
Prevention Program.
3.1.9. HQ AFGSC/JA, Judge Advocate.
3.1.9.1. Reviews all charters requiring cross-command or multi-organization agreements as
requested.
3.1.9.2. Provides legal reviews regarding employment of systems’ capabilities.
3.1.9.3. Provides legal reviews of acquisition law, including fiscal and contracting issues.
3.1.9.4. Provides advice on environmental issues.
3.1.9.5. Coordinates with HQ USAF/JAI as required during its review of nuclear weapons for
legal compliance with domestic and international law, IAW AFI 51-402, Weapons Review.
3.1.9.6. Provides guidance and interpretation on legal issues as requested including but not
limited to acquisition, fiscal, environmental, and international law.
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 17

3.1.10. HQ AFGSC/PA, Public Affairs.
3.1.10.1. Acts as the focal point for the conduct of public affairs activities regarding specific
programs.
3.1.11. HQ AFGSC/SG, Surgeon General.
3.1.11.1. Provides review of potential human factors risk and the required Human System
Integration (HSI) plan.
3.1.11.2. Reviews/coordinates HSI plan.
3.1.11.3. Supports environmental surveys/studies/reviews as part of a new program/site or the
dismantling and disposal of a deactivated site.
3.1.12. HQ AFGSC/IG, Inspector General.
3.1.12.1. Develop and coordinate Source of Repair and Assignment Process/Strategic Source of
Repair/Depot Source of Repair with HQ AFGSC/A4/7.
3.1.12.2. Assesses compliance of Center A/SO and assigned geographically separated units
through Compliance Inspections.
3.1.12.3. Conducts the Initial Nuclear Surety Inspection to establish a unit’s Operational
Certification prior to employing a new or modified weapon system.
3.1.12.4. Assesses compliance and operational readiness and mission effectiveness of NAF and
Wings through Operational Readiness Inspections and Compliance Inspections.
3.1.13. HQ AFGSC/FM, Financial Management.
3.1.13.1. Provides appropriate MAJCOM cost estimating support, as required
3.1.13.2. Provides budget analysis and monitoring of funding throughout the life-cycle.
3.1.13.3. Leads cost analysis efforts for AoAs.
3.2. Acquisition/Sustainment Organization.
3.2.1. A/SO will coordinate with functional areas and the appropriate NAF to ensure all
processes are completed prior to system transition.
3.2.2. Acquisition specific responsibilities for global strike related weapon systems developing
agencies are documented in DoDI 5000.2.
3.2.3. Participates in JCIDS Analysis process to identify potential materiel solutions to satisfy
capability gaps.
3.2.4. Chairs the System Security Working Group (SSWG) IAW AFPAM 63-1701.
3.2.5. Prepares the T/PPP.
3.2.6. Develops and maintains the Integrated Master Plan and Schedule.
3.2.7. Provides current program performance and execution status to HQ AFGSC, when
requested.
3.2.8. Acts as the SM for all configuration control issues IAW AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems
Engineering.
18                                                       AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

3.2.9. Ensures all systems capable of nuclear weapon support meet safety standards as defined in
AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems.
3.2.10. Develops and coordinates the TEMP.
3.2.11. Supports the maintenance management program for all global strike weapon systems.
3.2.12. Prepares the TSRA.
3.2.13. Establishes and co-chairs the Integrated Test Team (ITT) along with testing agency.
3.2.14. Initiates the Integrated Logistics Support Plan (ILSP) or equivalent.
3.2.15. Develops the ISP.
3.2.16. Develops the Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP).
3.2.17. Develops/drafts the STMP in conjunction with HQ AFGSC/A5/8.
3.2.18. Generates the MER request and forwards it to HQ AF/A5/8.
3.2.19. Prepares and coordinates the Transition Support Plan (TSP).
3.2.20. Once established by the WST, forms the IATT in cooperation with the Wings.
3.2.21. Develops the Acquisition Strategy and the Acquisition Program Baseline (APB).
3.2.22. Develops and executes system survivability program in accordance with user
requirements and objectives.
3.2.23. Prepares and maintains Systems Engineering documentation, including Systems
Engineering Plans and Programmatic Environmental, Safety and Health Evaluation. Prepares and
submits for approval National Environmental Policy Act documents and a Hazardous Materials
Management Plan.
3.2.24. Develops, documents and validates logistics management information.
3.2.25. Establishes Deficiency Reporting procedures for Developmental Test and Evaluation
(DT&E) in compliance with TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and
Resolution.
3.2.26. Designs, develops, procures, integrates, and conducts acquisition developmental test and
logistically supports the development and sustainment project to meet the user’s operational
needs and AFGSC and Air Education and Training Command (AETC) training requirements.
3.2.27. Ensures all Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E) plans include a
corrosion control plan to include an implementation policy.
3.2.28. Participates in turnover activities and develops associated documents.
3.2.29. Prepares and submits Certificate of System Readiness to enter OT&E IAW AFMAN 63-
119, Certification of System Readiness for Dedicated Operational Test and Evaluation.
3.2.30. Prepares and submits, for approval, AF Form 1261/Communications and Information
Systems Acceptance Certificate, IAW AFI 33-104.
3.2.31. Prepares comprehensive DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
Process (DIACAP) Packages and works with the DAA Staff Organization to ensure process
compliance and that the system receives accreditation.
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 19

3.3. Numbered Air Force (NAF).
3.3.1. Establishes and verifies standards, tasks, and formal training requirements for operations
training, and provides training expertise and guidance IAW AFI 36-2203 and supplements.
3.3.2. Supports, develops and maintains training and nuclear mission certification programs IAW
applicable TO, AFGSCI, and AFI(s).
3.3.3. Member of the ILRP steering group.
3.3.4. Defines, develops, and advocates operational requirements for ballistic missile systems,
including the Minuteman III ICBM, launch control centers, operational support equipment,
associated    maintenance     support   equipment,     training   systems,     and     strategic
connectivity/communications systems.
3.3.5. Supports the maintenance management program for ICBM and bomb wings, IAW
AFI 21-202.
3.3.6. Conducts and participates in training conferences and TPTs, as required.
3.3.7. Facilitates TO verification and provides updates to the SM, as required.
3.3.8. Participates in initial and critical sparing determinations.
3.3.9. Conducts Combat Capability Evaluations.
3.3.10. Ensures receipt of sufficient training, IAW applicable NAF Supplements.
3.3.11. Supports testing activities as required.
3.3.12. Ensures all requirements for operational acceptance have been met and unit(s) is/are
ready to accept operation and maintenance responsibilities upon turnover.
3.4. AFGSC Wings.
3.4.1. Provide physical security.
3.4.2. Identify and document deficiencies (e.g., nuclear mission support equipment, procedures,
and policies, etc.) IAW reporting guidance and forwards issues with proposed solutions to the
appropriate AFGSC functional agencies.
3.4.3. Support maintenance management program for global strike weapon systems IAW AFI
21-202, Missile and Space Systems Maintenance Management and AFI 21-204, Nuclear
Weapons Maintenance Procedures.
3.4.4. Participate in training conferences and TPTs, as required.
3.4.5. Once established by WST, form the IATT in cooperation with the A/SO.
3.4.6. Ensure, in conjunction with the A/SO, all OSS&E plans include a corrosion control plan
and an implementation policy.
3.4.7. Review technical data for accuracy and completeness.
3.4.8. Participate in initial and critical sparing determinations.
3.4.9. Develop Implementation Plan(s) (IPlan).
3.4.10. Establish an Operational Wing Transition Team.
20                                                       AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

3.4.11. Prepare site security accreditation documentation.
3.4.12. Conduct Hazardous Material Management Program IAW AFI 32-7086, Hazardous
Materials Management, and executes weapon systems pollution prevention program.
3.4.13. Provide host-base support as requested and available.
3.4.14. Support testing activities as required.
3.4.15. Support the developing agency in the conduct of the appropriate installation readiness
reviews for each operational capability and ensures any “turnover deficiencies” are identified.
3.4.16. Ensure receipt of sufficient training and NAF Supplements.
3.4.17. Evaluate and certify crewmembers on new systems, IAW applicable NAF Supplements.
3.4.18. Establish and maintain operational certification sustainment training and personnel
certifications IAW applicable guidance.
3.4.19. Ensure all requirements for operational acceptance have been met and unit(s) is/are ready
to assure operation and maintenance responsibilities upon turnover.
3.4.20. Approve Operational and Maintenance Responsibility Transfer (OMRT).
3.4.21. Participate in the turnover activities.
3.4.22. Monitor Master Nuclear Certification List items as applicable to the unit's nuclear
mission and assigned weapon system(s).
3.4.23. Verify certification status and configuration of all hardware and software prior to use.
3.5. Operational Test Organizations.
3.5.1. AF OTA. As the Air Force Operational Test Organization, AFOTEC is the default
organization to conduct operational testing for ACAT I, IA, II, OSD OT&E Oversight, and may
support multi-Service acquisition programs. AFOTEC will also conduct Follow-on Operational
Test and Evaluation (FOT&E) for programs as described in AFI 99-103 Para 2.6.3. AFOTEC
involvement will end at the completion of FOT&E (or IOT&E or Qualification Operational Test
and Evaluation (QOT&E) if no FOT&E required) unless otherwise mutually agreed upon and
documented in the TEMP or other documentation.
3.5.1.1. Participates in the Air Force acquisition process without undue influence by
development agencies, development contractors, or users, IAW AFOTECI 99-101, Conduct of
Operational Test and Evaluation.
3.5.1.2. Co-Chairs ITT along with A/SO(s), as appropriate.
3.5.1.3. Participates in HPT(s), as required.
3.5.1.4. When directed, manages and/or participates in the planning, conduct, and reporting of
multi-service, multi-agency, DoD, and Air Force operational test activities.
3.5.2. AFGSC Operational Testers. AFGSC operational test organizations will conduct
required operational testing for ACAT III, non-ACAT programs, and any program deferred by
AFOTEC. Bomber test organizations are not moving to AFGSC and will remain within ACC.
AFGSC will also conduct operational testing for all routine post-Initial, post-Qualification, and
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                  21

post-Follow-on OT&E fielded system upgrades, deficiency corrections and sustainment
programs.
3.5.2.1. Co-chairs ITT along with A/SO(s), as appropriate.
3.6. Teams/Working Groups. During the requirement, acquisition and development phases, the
need to establish various teams to monitor and refine requirements is vital to the successful
deployment of new capabilities.
3.6.1. Air Force High Performance Team (HPT). An AF/A5RD facilitated HPT is used to
develop capabilities-based requirements documents (unless waived by AF/A5R at the
Requirements Strategy Review (RSR)). The HPT’s overarching objective is to capture,
articulate and document the operator’s requirements in minimum time, while achieving
stakeholder buy-in. The HPT accelerates the documentation process and increases the potential
for a quality document. HPT membership will be determined by AF/A5RP.
3.6.2. Integrated Concept Team (ICT). The ICT is normally an action officer-level working
group. The ICT is formed and chaired by the WST (or designee) who will ensure appropriate
AFGSC directorate participation. ICT membership includes, A/SO, NAF, Wings (to include
squadrons), IATT Transition Director, and other organizations as determined by the ICT Chair.
The ICT assists the WST in defining the requirements and coordinating the requirements
documents. The ICT ensures the concepts discussed during the requirements process are
incorporated throughout the acquisition process. The ICT will work with AFGSC/A5/8 to ensure
requirements for continuity of operations are considered. The ICT is responsible for writing the
STMP.
3.6.3. Site Survey/Beddown Team. The site survey/beddown team chair is HQ AFGSC/A5/8
with team membership composition from the A/SO, HQ AFGSC/A3, /A4/7, and /A9. The site
survey/beddown team will report all activities to the ICT. For further information, refer to AFI
10-503, Base Unit Beddown Program.
3.6.4. Integrated Product Team (IPT). The Program Manager will form, determine team
membership, and lead an IPT to support the development of strategies for acquisition of the new
product/service. IPTs may include participation from both government and industry, including
program contractors and sub-contractors, as provided for in the contract.
3.6.5. Training Planning Team (TPT). The TPT is formed by the WST (or designee) and co-
chaired with AETC. The WST also determines team membership. The TPT is the primary body
for identification of training requirements in the acquisition and management of training systems.
Membership changes as the program matures and the system are fielded; however, the TPT
conducts planning and management activities throughout the system life cycle. The TPT is
responsible for developing and maintaining the STP. When the system has been OA, the TPT
chair transfers to HQ AFGSC/A3.
3.6.6. Integrated Test Team (ITT). An ITT will be formed during the Concept Studies
Refinement phase to create and manage the Test and Evaluation (T&E) strategy for the life of
each program. The Program Manager and the Operational Test Organization (OTO) will co-chair
the ITT. Essentially, the ITT fosters a seamless verification process, minimizing transitions
between contractor, developmental, and operational testing. For further information, refer to AFI
99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation.
22                                                      AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

3.6.7. Intelligence Support Working Group (ISWG). The ISWG is formed and led by an HQ
AFGSC/A2 action officer. The ISWG brings functional representatives from the intelligence,
requirements, acquisition, and operations communities together to ensure all intelligence
considerations for the system are addressed. The goal of the ISWG is to derive and develop the
intelligence requirements and deficiencies, to research and develop potential solutions to the
deficiencies, to estimate intelligence costs for intelligence sensitive programs, to create action
plans to accomplish those solutions and document the results. For further information, refer to
AFI 14-111, Intelligence in Force Modernization.
3.6.8. Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group (NWSSG). The NWSSG is composed of
representatives from applicable Air Force Major Commands, Combatant Commands, Air Force
Security Forces Center, DOE, and DTRA and is chaired by an appointee from HQ
AFGSC/SEW. The HQ AFGSC/SE representative is a voting member when the group addresses
topics in their organization’s area of responsibility. The NWSSG conducts all nuclear weapon
system safety studies and operational safety reviews to evaluate Air Force nuclear weapon
systems and ensure the DoD Nuclear Weapon Safety Standards are met in weapon system design
and operations. For further information, refer to AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety
Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules.
3.6.9. Nuclear Survivability Steering Group (NSSG). The NSSG provides guidance to the Air
Force for nuclear survivability. Action officers meet semiannually to ensure systems having
survivability requirements against nuclear threats meet these requirements throughout their life
cycles according to Air Force policies. The HQ AFGSC/A4/7 representative is member of the
NSSG and chairs the AFGSC Survivability Steering Group. For further information, refer to
AFI 62-201.
3.6.10. Cockpit Working Group (CWG). The CWG integrates acquisition, test, and flight
standards personnel and operational aircrews in cockpit design and configuration at the earliest
stages of development and modification. The CWG ensures decisions affecting the cockpit or
remote operator station account for human factors and operational environment. For further
information, refer to AFI 63-112.
3.7. Developmental and Transition Teams. AFGSC may form teams (see 3.7.1, 3.7.2, and
3.7.3) with distinct functions to manage system activation and integration issues.
3.7.1. Activation/Transition Steering Group (ATSG). The purpose of an ATSG is to be an
“honest broker” for the system in transition and ensure the program is resourced, organized,
trained and equipped for successful transition from acquisition to operations. The appropriate
WST will be responsible for forming and chairing the ATSG. The group is intended to minimize
delays or disruption by providing resolution to transition activities caused by unknown or
unforeseen events.
3.7.1.1. Some high-interest or troubled developmental programs may require additional senior
leader guidance. When necessary the ATSG chairperson will recommend the AFGSC/A5/8
direct the responsible A/SO to provide a program status review to inform HQ AFGSC decision-
makers and receive their guidance. For serious or extended developmental issues, the ATSG
may request a General Officer Steering Group be convened to identify and oversee resolution.
3.7.1.2. Membership. The ATSG team members, typically at the O-6 level, are categorized as
charter members or stakeholders. Charters members are HQ AFGSC organizations with
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                 23

responsibilities for requirements, budgets, operations, schedules, program issues and
accreditation. Stakeholders are A/SO and Wings, along with other appropriate organizations that
influence the operational acceptance and declaration of IOC/FOC, as determined by the charter
members. The ATSG may invite new members as needed.
3.7.2. Integrated Activation/Transition Team (IATT). In general, the IATT supports the A/SO
and Wings in developing testing, training, and transitioning new systems to operations with
Installation/Base/Site specific tasks. More specifically, the IATT supports initial planning,
scheduling, development, installation, training and testing decisions for a new system/program or
a significant upgrade/modification to an existing program and provides a means of up channeling
concerns to the ATSG.
3.7.2.1. The IATT is led by a Transition Director, who is designated by the A/SO and Wings,
will be physically located at the facility where the new system or upgrade is taking place and
reports directly to the A/SO and Wings on an as needed basis. IATT membership includes
members who have expertise in the areas required for activating a new system or renovating an
existing one. As such, specific IATT composition will vary from team to team. However, each
team should have members from the appropriate Wings, squadron liaisons and/or cadre, the
developing agency, and testers. The Transition Director will participate in the ICT and provide
results/status from the IATT for the updating of the STP, STMP, and IOC plans.
3.7.2.2. The A/SO and Wings will determine if an IATT is required for a new or modified
program/system and the appropriate time to activate the IATT. The A/SO and wing will
request/recommend the establishment of the IATT to the appropriate WST, via a formal letter.
The WST will coordinate with HQ AFGSC/A1, HQ AFGSC/A5/8, and HQ AFGSC/A3, for the
assignment of additional personnel (outside the wing and A/SO) to the IATT as necessary. The
IATT is also the direct liaison to the ATSG and supports ATSG activity. The Transition
Director for a specific IATT will also serve as an advisory member to the ATSG.
3.7.2.3. Upon recommendation by the Transition Director regarding completion of IATT specific
tasks and mission, the A/SO and Wings will request deactivation of the IATT to the appropriate
WST, who will deactivate the IATT.
3.7.3. Operational Wing Transition Team. Wings may create internal teams utilizing their own
resources to start addressing transition, scheduling, fielding, training, manning and other
programmatic issues to facilitate efforts. These wing members may also serve as IATT
members. Internal wing transition teams will be deactivated as appropriate by wing leadership.
3.8. Project Task Force (PROTAF). The PROTAF is a specialized project management group
within HQ AFGSC convened by the WST to identify and coordinate actions required to
accomplish specific project objectives, which may or may not be related to standing up a new
capability or program. As such, a PROTAF differs greatly from the ICT, which is primarily
responsible for identifying requirements and developing requirement documentation. PROTAFs
should expedite but do not replace the normal staff process. PROTAF membership will be
determined by the WST along with the A/SO, to ensure the appropriate agencies/organizations
are represented.

                                            JEFFRY F. SMITH, Brig Gen, USAF
                                            Director, Plans, Programs, and Requirements (A5/8)
24                                                   AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009


                               GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS

ACAT—Acquisition Category
ADM—Acquisition Decision Memorandum
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFGSC —Air Force Global Strike Command
AFGSCI— Air Force Global Strike Command Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFROCC—Air Force Requirements for Operational Capabilities Council
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
APB—Acquisition Program Baseline
A/SO—Acquisition/Sustainment Organizations
ATSG—Activation/Transition Steering Group
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computers
CDD—Capability Development Document
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CPAB—Corrosion Prevention Advisory Board
CPD—Capabilities Production Document
CPI—Critical Program Information
CTE—Critical Technology Elements
CWG—Cockpit Working Group
DAA—Designated Approval Authority
DAB—Defense Acquisition Board
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                                25

DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOE—Department of Energy
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency
FDE—Force Development Evaluation
FOC—Full Operational Capability
FOT&E—Follow-on Operational Test and Evaluation
FRP—Full-Rate Production
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HSI—Human Systems Integration
HPT—High Performance Team
HQ—Headquarters
IATT—Integrated Activation/Transition Team
IAW—In Accordance With
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
ICT—Integrated Concept Team
ILRP—ICBM Long-Range Requirements Planning
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
IPlan—Implementation Plan
IPP—Integrated Planning Process
IPT—Integrated Product Team
ISP—Information Support Plan
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
ISWG—Intelligence Support Working Group
ITT—Integrated Test Team
JCIDS—Joint Capability Integration and Development System
JROC—Joint Requirements Oversight Council
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
LRIP—Low Rate Initial Production
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MER—Manpower Estimate Report
26                                                  AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009

MILCON—Military Construction
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NSSG—Nuclear Survivability Steering Group
NWSSG—Nuclear Weapon System Safety Group
OA—Operational Acceptance
OCA—Original Classification Authority
OMRT—Operational and Maintenance Responsibility Transfer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORD—Operational Requirements Document
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
OT&E—Operational Testing and Evaluation
OTO—Operational Test Organization
PAD—Program Action Directive
PBL—Performance Based Logistics
PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PEO—Program Executive Office/Officer
PM—Program Manager
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
PPlan—Programming Plan
PROTAF—Project Task Force
QOT&E—Qualification Operational Test and Evaluation
RAA—Required Assets Available
RP/RPIE—Real Property/Real Property Installed Equipment
RSR—Requirements Strategy Review
S&T—Science and Technology
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SCG—Security Classification Guide
SEP—System Engineering Plan
SM—Single Manager
SSWG—System Security Working Group
STAR—System Threat Assessment Report
AFGSCI10-604 1 DECEMBER 2009                       27

STMP—System Transition Management Plan
STP—System Training Plan
SRM—Sustainment, Restoration and Modernizations
T/PPP—Technology/Program Protection Plan
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TDS—Technology Development Strategy
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TOC—Total Ownership Cost
TSRA—Training System Requirements Analysis
TPT—Training Planning Team
TSP—Transition Support Plan
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
VCJCS—Vice Chairman Joint Chief of Staff
VV&A—Verification, Validation, and Accreditation
WST—Weapon System Team
