                                  DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                       HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND




                                                                                AFGSCGM33-03

                                                                                  26 August 2013


MEMORANDUM FOR ALL AFGSC COMMANDERS AND DIRECTORS

FROM: AFGSC/A6
      66 Kenney Avenue
      Barksdale AFB, LA 71110

SUBJECT: AFGSC Guidance Memorandum for Video Teleconferencing Operations

Releasability: There are no releasability limitations on this memorandum

1. By Order of the Commander, Air Force Global Stike Command, this is an AFGSC guidance
memorandum (GM) immediately implementing policy to efficiently employ usage of formal
video teleconferencing (VTC) suites, up to the SECRET level of classification. Compliance with
this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its direction is inconsistent with other Air Force
publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management.

2. Personal, desktop VTC devices are not considered formal VTC suites and not subject to this
GM. In order to appropriately use and allocate AFGSC resources, and to manage the increasing
demand for their use, organizations should focus on scheduling efficiency. Defense Connect
Online (DCO) conducted from the user’s desktop is the command’s preferred method for
combined video-voice communication.

3. The VTC suite owning organization is responsible for appointing at least two VTC facilitators
(primary and alternate) from within its unit and ensuring that each completes facilitator
certification training as detailed in Attachment 1. Local communications squadrons are no
longer base-wide owners of VTC suites; maintenance and sustainment of VTC suites are the
responsibility of the unit that houses the equipment.

4. The installation’s Protocol Office should be contacted if there are any questions, concerns, or
requirements involving Flag-level and DV participation.

5. This publication requires the collection or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
6. Direct all questions regarding this GM to AFGSC/A6XP at DSN 781-3568.

7. This memorandum become void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon release of an AF or AFGSC publication incorporating the guidance,
whichever is earlier.




                                             ARTHUR G. HATCHER JR., SES, DAF
                                             Director of Communications


cc:
Wing CCs
AFGSC/DS/A6
20th AF/DS/A6
8th AF/DS/A6
                                          Attachment 1

                               Standard use of VTCs in AFGSC

1. This attachment specifically addresses provisions; available VTC resources; preferred
practices, procedures, and management of systems; and required training for VTC facilitators.
Additionally, it ensures AFGSC installations have the necessary provisions and properly certified
personnel to perform the role of VTC facilitators. It establishes standardized rules of
engagement (ROE) for each facility and standardizes VTC facility set up and configuration
utilizing pre-existing equipment.

2. Before scheduling resources necessary to conduct a VTC, users should first consider whether
DCO will meet their objectives for voice-video remote, virtual meeting space. DCO is
incorporated into the AF Standard Desktop Configuration, allows multiple users to join, uses a
windows-based web camera and microphone/headset, and only requires informal familiarization
training to use. This is a cost effective and efficient alternative to a traditional VTC. DCO
information and account registration are located at the DCO website at https://www.dco.dod.mil.

3. Formal VTC facilities are centrally scheduled. They are maintained and facilitated by the
facility’s owning organization. Standard VTC facilitator training requirements and facilitation
procedures ensure only trained and certified personnel facilitate VTCs. These command-
common business practices minimize VTC related technical issues, scheduling, and connectivity
challenges across AFGSC.

4. Facilitator certification requirements are outlined in the Defense Information System Network
(DISN) Video Services (DVS) Training Policy. Training is accessed via the DISN website
(http://dvstraining.prosoft.tv/). Training certificates will be maintained until the facilitator is
reassigned. Resident phase training, Level 2, may be accomplished after non-resident phase
training, Level 1, is complete. DISN full certification needs to be accomplished during CY13 as
stated in the DVS Mandatory Training Statement; which refers to the Training Policy Document
dated 11 July 11.

5. Each VTC facility will maintain a continuity book containing (at a minimum) the following
documents:
    a. Appointment letter
    b. DISN training certificate for each facilitator
      **NOTE** In residence training needs to be completed during CY13
    c. VTC equipment listing
    d. Inspection requirements and results
    e. Preventative maintenance requirements (maintain records for 12 months)
    f. Checklist to setting up, scheduling, and facilitating a VTC with specific instruction for
        VTCs attended by a General Officer, GO equivalent, or distinguished civilian (to include
        local protocol contact information)
    g. Current VTC Facilitator policy letter
    h. Sample AFGSC VTC Request Form
    i. VTC Request Forms (maintained for 12 months)
    j. Applicable Information Assurance documentation (Authority to Operate, Certification
                                                          and Accredidation, EMSEC approval,
etc.)
6. The AFGSC VTC Request Form is used by all individuals requesting a VTC be scheduled by
and/or the use of a AFGSC/DSV owned VTC facility. VTC Request Forms and all necessary
VTC documentation are located on the AFGSC VTC SharePoint site at: https://afgsc-
p.eis.af.mil/internal/cs/DSV/default.aspx. All AFGSC VTC owning organizations are
encouraged to use the AFGSC VTC Request form and tailor it to meet their needs.

8. Individuals from organizations without VTC facilities will request the use of a VTC suite
directly from a facilitator of a VTC suite owning organization. Organizations who do not own a
VTC facility, but routinely utilize the facilities of others, should consider designating and
certifying a facilitator as detailed above.

9. Scheduling priority and procedures for a VTC is maintained by the unit owning the VTC
suite.

10. VTC program management, to include requirements, engineering and inspection, at AFGSC
bases, is controlled by the installation's communications squadron. The program manager will
develop and implement a local inspection process to ensure formal VTC facilities are compliant
with paragraph 5.
