BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND                                   INSTRUCTION 10-139


                                                                           1 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                                     Operations

                                                    HELICOPTER OPERATIONAL MISSION
                                                                    REQUIREMENTS


                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

 ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

 RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

 OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3IH                                               Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3I
                                                                     (Col Michael F. Nahorniak)
 Supersedes: AFSPCI10-139, 15 Feb 2009                                                Pages: 8

 This instruction implements AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives. It applies to and contains policy
 for AFGSC helicopter squadrons within the command. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve
 Command (AFRC) nor Air National Guard (ANG) units. This instruction identifies and
 describes missions that AFGSC helicopter units are approved to support, the unit capabilities
 required to effectively and efficiently support these missions, and the priority for each of the
 helicopter support missions. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
 to HQ AFGSC/A3IH using the AF F o r m 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
 route AF Form s 847 from the field through 20 AF/A3H to HQ AFGSC/A3IH. Subordinate
 units are authorized to supplement this instruction. Coordinate supplements with HQ
 AFGSC/A3IH, and HQ AFGSC/A3TO, 841 Fairchild Ave, Suite 223, Barksdale AFB, LA
 71110.
 Ensure that all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
 maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
 and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
 (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
 af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
 product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 See Attachment 1 for glossary of references and supporting information.
 1. General. AFGSC uses helicopters to support Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM)
 operations at F.E. Warren AFB, Wyoming; Malmstrom AFB, Montana; and Minot AFB, North
 Dakota. Representative missions include security operations, emergency war order support,
2                                                         AFGSCI 10-139 1 DECEMBER 2009

nuclear weapon movement support, and operations and maintenance support. In addition,
AFGSC uses helicopters to train aircrews in advanced ICBM security tactics and support
security forces training at Camp Guernsey, Wyoming.
2. Mission. The mission of AFGSC helicopter squadrons is to provide helicopter support of
nuclear security to each parent Missile Wing (MW).
2.1. Helicopters provide a flexible, rapid response platform to support MW efforts to generate
and/or launch sorties, to ensure the physical security of ICBM weapon system components
and to support operations and maintenance in sustaining the ICBM alert rate.
2.1.1. The type of support provided is dependent on the specific circumstances, and may include
but is not limited to such missions as security force response, nuclear weapon movement
operations, delivery of essential maintenance parts or equipment, and personnel transport.
When mission taskings exceed available resources, Helicopter Squadron (HS) commanders will
posture their resources to provide support to the maximum extent possible.
2.1.2. Wartime helicopter support priorities are fluid and may vary significantly based on the
circumstances. Increased force protection conditions may also change commanders’ priorities.
Under normal conditions, the HS/CC will use the mission priorities (Table 1) to resource
employment when multiple requirements exceed the ability of the HS to provide
simultaneous mission support. Supported MW commanders may deviate from the mission
priority matrices in order to accomplish the MW’s primary missions.
2.2. The following paragraphs outline specific missions flown by AFGSC HSs. This list is not
all-inclusive. Contingency and/or special missions can be flown on a case by case basis.
2.2.1. ICBM Nuclear Weapon Movement. Helicopters support the MW’s nuclear security
mission due to potential vulnerability involved in off-base nuclear weapon movements.
Helicopters will provide airborne surveillance for any off-base weapon movement and be
prepared to respond with appropriate security forces if the situation warrants an armed
response. The specific requirements are contained in DoD S-5210.41-M and AFMAN 31-108,
Nuclear Weapons Security Manual.
2.2.2. Security Force (SF) Response. This mission includes the capability to provide SF
response with flexible air capability in support of the tactical insertion of personnel for security
situations where hostile or unauthorized personnel are in unauthorized locations, or attacking
nuclear weapons movements enroute. Aircraft must be capable of being airborne within 10
minutes of notification. The response time to the situation is contained in DoD S-
5210.41-M/AFMAN 31-108, Nuclear Weapons Security Manual.
2.2.3. Missile Field Forward Presence Security Operations. Helicopters provide increased
security and situational awareness in remote areas and across widespread areas of operation.
Random forward operations make use of the inherent flexibility of the helicopter and serve to
complicate a potential adversary’s planning process and potentially reduce response times to
situations. Forward presence operations should be based on threat conditions with the level of
support and procedures varying with the threat.
2.2.3.1. Security sweeps may be used to identify any potentially hostile/suspicious persons or
activities in the area and notify security forces so they can take appropriate action. Helicopters
may be used to accomplish security sweeps around penetrated sites, open launchers or
other areas of interest. Security sweeps should be accomplished both visually and using
AFGSCI 10-139 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                   3

Forward Looking Infrared (FLIR) systems. Vary security sweep procedures based on crew
complement, cultural environment, current threat, workload and available equipment.
2.2.3.2. Helicopters may also be used to transport security forces responding to a security
situation or alarm. This support can be provided when a missile complex is in response
condition two (weather or road conditions have affected response to all or part of the Launch
Facilities (LFs) and the site(s) is/are not accessible), or when other factors preclude the timely
response of security forces.
2.2.3.3. Other presence operations are encouraged and should be coordinated with the security,
maintenance and operations communities. Incorporate standard security operations into other
routine operations a n d t r a i n i n g to the greatest extent possible. For example, overflight
of penetrated sites may be accomplished during the course of training flights.
2.2.4. Direct Mission Support. Helicopters may be used to transport military, government,
contractor, and civilian personnel and/or equipment items for the purpose of conducting duties
in direct support of the MW’s operational missions. The operations group commander is the
approval authority for these missions. This category includes (but is not limited to) missile
crew transport, maintenance or logistics support, emergency positive control document change
support, and emergency flood or fire surveillance of critical facilities.
2.2.4.1. Cable Route Surveys. Helicopters may be used to inspect and ensure the integrity of
buried hardened intersite cables that connect each Missile Alert Facility (MAF), LF and the
support base. An observer carried on board the helicopter performs the visual inspection.
2.2.4.2. Security Forces and Helicopter Tactics Training. AFGSC requires helicopter support to
train aircrews in advanced ICBM Tactics and augment security forces training at Camp
Guernsey, Wyoming. 20 AF/A3H will identify courses that require priority 4 level of support.
2.2.5. MEDEVAC/SAR. AFGSC helicopters can be used for medical evacuation (MEDEVAC)
and search and rescue (SAR) missions provided they do not interfere with the primary military
mission. Use of helicopters for MEDEVAC/SAR missions is at the discretion of the supported
wing commander.
2.2.5.1. MEDEVAC. Helicopters can be used for the emergency transport of both military and
civilian personnel when essential to the preservation of a life or limb of a patient.
2.2.5.2. SAR. Under the auspices of Joint Publication 3-50, Personnel Recovery, AFGSC
helicopters can be used in the SAR role for both military and civilian situations IAW the
National SAR Plan. Air Force missions are coordinated and requested by the Air Force Rescue
Coordination Center (AFRCC). These missions may be elevated to other government
organizations, but still facilitated and approved by US NORTHCOM.
2.2.6. Training/Functional Check Flights. Integral to the accomplishment of any of the above
mentioned missions is a strong aircrew training currency and proficiency program. Training
flights will be flown IAW AFI 11-2UH-1N, Volume 1, UH-1N Helicopter Aircrew Training,
and according to the priorities specified in Table 1, Mission Priorities. If aircrew currency
potentially inhibits the HS’s ability to execute higher priority mission, the HS/CC may raise the
priority of aircrew training to insure mission capability. Additionally, maintaining mission -
capable helicopters is crucial to the ability to support all missions. H S / C C ’ s will work
with maintenance to support functional check flights as needed.
4                                                         AFGSCI 10-139 1 DECEMBER 2009

2.2.7. Other Support. Helicopters may be used to support a variety of activities including
exercises, support to military and civilian distinguished visitors, orientation, familiarization and
incentive flights and support to law enforcement agencies. Comply with DoD policy on
the use of government aircraft and air travel, and DoD Directive 4500.43, Operational Support
Airlift, DoD Directive 4515.13-R, Air Transport Eligibility, DoD Directive 4500.56, Enclosure
2, Policy Guidance on the Use of Military Aircraft, AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, and AFI
24-101, Passenger Movement.
2.2.7.1. Exercise Support. AFGSC helicopter units are frequently tasked to support AFGSC,
other command, and wing exercises. 20 AF/A3H is responsible for validating requests for
non-wing exercise helicopter support. If the request is valid and can be supported within the
command’s flying hour program, 20 AF/A3H will task the appropriate unit to provide
the support.
2.2.7.2. Military Support to Civil Authorities. Request for helicopter support by civil authorities
will be handled IAW AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities. See AFI 11-2UH-1N
Vol. 3, UH-1N Helicopter Operations Procedures, for additional information.
2.2.7.2.1. Fire Suppression. Helicopters may be used to transport fire fighters, perform
survey/mapping flights and perform resupply missions. Helicopter support to wildland fires is
specified in mutual support agreements with national, state, and local agencies in coordination
with MW fire departments.
2.2.7.2.2. Assistance to Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies (LEA). Assist LEAs to the
maximum extent practical IAW AFI 11-2UH-1N Vol 3, provided it does not interfere with the
primary military mission.
2.2.7.2.2.1. All requests for assistance from civilian law enforcement agencies (LEAs) will be
processed IAW AFI 10-801, Assistance to Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies.
 2.2.7.3. Joint Task Force-North (JTF-N). Requests for counterdrug support will be directed to
Operation Alliance at Biggs AAF, Fort Bliss, Texas. Operation Alliance serves as the single
point of contact for all law enforcement agencies (federal, state, local) requesting DoD
counterdrug support. Operation Alliance will review, prioritize, and coordinate counterdrug
support requests and forward them to Joint Task Force-North (JTF-N) at Biggs AAF. Once
JTF-N reviews the LEA request and determines that it meets all necessary legal and
operational parameters, requests will then be routed to the wings, with information copies to
HQ AFGSC/A3IH and 20 AF/A3H. Approval of counterdrug mission support will be at the
discretion of the wing commander.
AFGSCI 10-139 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                                  5




Table 1. Mission Priorities, ICBM Helicopter Support.

                                   Mission                                          Priority
                     ICBM Nuclear Weapons Movement                                     1
                           Security Force Response                                     2
             Missile Field Forward Presence Security Operations                        3
                            Direct Mission Support                                     4
                              MEDEVAC/SAR                                              5
                     Training / Functional Check Flight*                               6
                                Other Support                                          7
* The priority for Aircrew Training and Maintenance Functional Check Flights (FCF) are based
on the full availability of required aircrew and aircraft to support the MW mission. If aircrews
require training and/or aircraft are needed to support priority 1-3 missions, the HS/CC may
determine a higher priority to accomplish Training and FCFs.



3. Responsibilities:
3.1. Supported Unit Responsibilities. Each unit that anticipates using helicopter resources is
responsible for establishing the specific requirements needed for mission support. Plans for
each specific mission type will be formulated and published in a base/mission support plan,
mutual aid support agreement, operations directive, memorandum of understanding, or similar
document.
3.1.1. Information required for each mission type will include, but is not limited to, the
following: number of aircraft required, anticipated mission profile, aircraft configuration/load
requirements, hours of operation, and time into action criteria.
3.1.2. Helicopter support plans will include normal day-to-day “peacetime” requirements as
well as requirements based on an increased Force Protection Condition or Defense Condition
(DEFCON) level.
3.1.3. No scheduled mission, other than a priority 1-6 (Table 1), will be undertaken by an
AFGSC helicopter unit until all tasking and/or supporting documentation is generated and
approved by the missile wing commander. Copies of all documents involving tasking of
helicopter resources will be forwarded to HQ AFGSC/A3IH for review.
3.2. Helicopter Unit Responsibilities. Each helicopter unit will ensure that each mission they
are tasked to support is clearly defined in a tasking document (see paragraph 3.1.) The
helicopter unit will closely interface with the supported unit in helping to define both unit
capabilities and limiting factors.
3.2.1. 37 HS, 40 HS, and 54 HS are tasked, at a minimum, to perform the missions delineated
in Table 1.
3.2.2. In order to perform the missions assigned in Table 1, each HS will maintain mission
capabilities IAW Table 2. to safely and effectively carry out assigned missions. No support
6                                                              AFGSCI 10-139 1 DECEMBER 2009

mission will be undertaken that the helicopter unit is not capable of safely executing.

Table 2. Unit Capability/Mission Matrix.

         Required         Remote/   Formation    Tactical    NVG        Aerial   FLIR   Hoist/   AIE/
     Capability           NVG                               Tactical   Gunnery          NVG      NVG
    Mission               Remote                                                        Hoist    AIE

    Security Force          X          X           X          X         X
    Response
    ICBM Convoy             X          X           X          X         X        X
    Operations
    Missile Field           X          X           X          X         X
    Forward Presence
    Security Operations
    Direct Mission          X                      X
    Support
    MEDEVAC/SAR             X                                                            X        X



3.2.3. When a helicopter support requirement is identified that exceeds the unit’s current
capability to perform, the specific deficiency will be clearly identified. The deficiency will be
documented, a recommended solution will be identified, and the package will be forwarded
through 20/AF to HQ AFGSC/A3IH for further action.




                                                TIMOTHY M. RAY,
                                                Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Director of Operations
AFGSCI 10-139 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                       7




                          Attachment 1
   GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
DoD S-5210.41M/AFMAN 31-108, Nuclear Weapons Security Manual, (Classified), 1 Feb
2007
DoD Directive 4500.43, Operational Support Airlift, 28 Oct 1996
Joint Publication 3-50, Personnel Recovery, 5 Jan 2007
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, 21 June 2002
AFI 10-801, Assistance to Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies, 15 April 1994
AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities, 19 April 2002
AFI 11-2UH-1N, Volume 1, UH-1N Helicopter Aircrew Training, 19 Sep 2007
AFI 11-2UH-1N Volume 3, UH-1N Helicopter Operations Procedures, 27 Dec 2006


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC – Air Force Reserve Command
AFRCC – Air Force Rescue Coordination Center
AFT – Airborne Fire Team
ANG– Air National Guard
DEFCON – Defense Condition
DoD – Department of Defense
FCF – Functional Check Flight
FLIR – Forward Looking Infrared
HS – Helicopter Squadron
ICBM – Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
JTF – Joint Task Force
LEA – Law Enforcement Agency
LF – Launch Facility
MAF – Missile Alert Facility
MEDEVAC – Medical Evacuation
SAR – Search and Rescue
