BY ORDER OF THE                                                        AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                     1 MAY 1998

                                                                                              Maintenance

                                                            TECHNICAL ANALYSIS TO DETERMINE
                                                             CRITERION FOR 2 VS 3 LEVEL REPAIR



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/ILMM (Lt Col Joseph K.                   Certified by: HQ USAF/ILM (Brig General Michael
     Seawell)                                                                               E. Zettler)
                                                                                            Pages: 23
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This handbook implements a standard methodology for evaluating potential 2-level repair candidate (or
the return of assets to 3-level repair) since the inception of the Air Force’s Two Level Maintenance (2LM)
program. This handbook methodology is not intended to be the final word on the evaluation of 2-level
repair candidates. The methodology described is intended to identify strong 2LM candidates. System
Program Directors (SPDs) and Major Command (MAJCOM) functional experts are encouraged to do
additional analysis prior to making a definitive decision to induct an asset into 2-level repair. The process
for evaluating 2-level repair candidates can be enhanced or refined as logistics experts learn more about
the desired characteristics of 2LM assets.
2                                                                    1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

Chapter 1—OVERVIEW OF THE PROCESS                                                                                                         3
       1.1.   General Overview ......................................................................................................     3
       1.2.   Overview of Evaluation Process for Avionics/Communication-Electronics (C-E) ...                                            3

Chapter 2—EVALUATION PROCESS FOR AVIONICS/C-E ASSETS                                                                                      5
       2.1.   Step 1: Sorting by Manpower and/or High Acquisition Costs. .................................                                5
       2.2.   Step 2: Analysis by Test Station. ...............................................................................           6
       2.3.   Step 3: Analysis of Cost-to-transition, Impact to Mobility Footprint, and Impact to
              Operational Capability .................................................................................................    7
Table 2.1.    Impact Assessment for Step 3. ...................................................................................           9
       2.4.   Step 4: Subjective Issues. ...........................................................................................     10

Chapter 3—OVERVIEW OF THE PROCESS: ENGINES                                                                                               12
       3.1.   Step 1: Selecting an Engine(s) for Analysis. .............................................................                 12
       3.2.   Step 2: Analysis by JEIM. .........................................................................................        12
       3.3.   Step 3: Analysis of Cost-to-transition, Impact to Mobility Footprint, and Impact to
              Operational Capability .................................................................................................   12
       3.4.   Step 4: Subjective Issues. ...........................................................................................     13

Chapter 4—ENGINES                                                                                                                        14
       4.1.   Step 1: Selecting an Engine(s) for Analysis. .............................................................                 14
       4.2.   Step 2: Analysis by JEIM. .........................................................................................        14
       4.3.   Step 3: Analysis of Cost-to-transition, Impact to Mobility Footprint, and Impact to
              Operational Capability .................................................................................................   16
Table 4.1.    Sample Cost Analysis for Test Stations. ....................................................................               18
       4.4.   Step 4: Subjective Issues. ...........................................................................................     19
       4.5.   Subjective issues for consideration. ...........................................................................           19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           21
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                        3

                                                Chapter 1
                                   OVERVIEW OF THE PROCESS

1.1. General Overview . Based on the scope of the study and the aforementioned assumptions, this is a
step-by-step overview of the recommended process for evaluating items for 2-level repair. The process
can also be used to evaluate a 2LM item for possible return to 3-level repair. However, to avoid confusion
in describing the process, the descriptions here focus on evaluating assets for 2-level repair to optimize
lean logistics opportunities. The descriptions and instructions for this 2-level repair evaluation process
follow the overviews and are in two parts: the first describes how to evaluate avionics and C-E assets, and
the second describes how to evaluate engines.

1.2. Overview of Evaluation Process for Avionics/Communication-Electronics (C-E).
   1.2.1. Step 1: Sorting by Manpower and/or High Acquisition Costs.
       1.2.1.1. This step provides two sorting techniques to begin the overall analysis of assets for possi-
       ble transition to 2-level repair. The sorting techniques focus on potential savings associated with
       eliminating manpower tied to intermediate level repair and avoiding the cost of buying high acqui-
       sition cost items. Either sorting technique may be used individually or both may be used simulta-
       neously.
       1.2.1.2. Sorting by manpower costs requires lead MAJCOM and SPD functional managers to pri-
       oritize intermediate level (I-level) shops by highest to lowest labor cost. Functional managers will
       also identify the test stations within each of the I-level shops, the estimated manpower assigned to
       those test stations, and list the national stock numbers (NSNs) which are repaired on those test sta-
       tions.
       1.2.1.3. When sorting assets by high acquisition cost, functional managers will first select a cost
       range on which to focus and then select specific assets from this range to evaluate in steps 2
       through 4 of this process. Then, functional managers will identify the I-level shops that repair
       those assets and the associated test stations involved in those repairs. At this point, it will be nec-
       essary to compute manpower costs, as described above.
   1.2.2. Step 2: Analysis by Test Station.
       1.2.2.1. After selecting the specific shop(s) and/or high acquisition cost items for evaluation,
       functional managers will input logistics data for a small number of indicators into a matrix for
       those NSNs supported in the selected shops. The recommended logistics indicators for avionics/
       C-E assets are:
           1.2.2.1.1. Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF)
           1.2.2.1.2. Cannot Duplicate Rate (CND)
           1.2.2.1.3. Percent Base Repair (PBR)
           1.2.2.1.4. Daily Demand Rate (DDR)
           1.2.2.1.5. Pipeline time
           1.2.2.1.6. Asset position
           1.2.2.1.7. Weight and Cube
4                                                      1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

       1.2.2.2. This matrix will allow for further analysis of these NSNs by comparing them against
       these first tier logistics indicators. The result is a list of 2LM candidates prioritized by their rela-
       tive scoring against these indicators. This list is used as a tool for further analysis or as a means for
       eliminating some candidates from consideration. The functional manager can evaluate NSNs in
       the matrix as a group of assets supported by the same test station(s).
    1.2.3. Step 3: Analysis of Cost-to-transition, Impact to Mobility Footprint, and Impact to Opera-
    tional Capability.
       1.2.3.1. Those NSNs from step 2, which functional experts decide to pursue as potential 2LM
       items, will now be evaluated in terms of cost to transition to a different repair level, impact to
       mobility footprint, and impact to operational capability. Cost to transition is computed through a
       methodology developed to capture approximately 80% of the known costs associated with transi-
       tioning to a different repair level. These costs are:
           1.2.3.1.1. Manpower savings at the base level.
           1.2.3.1.2. Potential increased manpower costs at the depot level
           1.2.3.1.3. Potential increased transportation costs for 2-level repair
           1.2.3.1.4. Potential changes in inventory requirements
           1.2.3.1.5. Re-computation of the readiness spares package (RSP) for 2LM support
       1.2.3.2. To estimate the reduction in mobility footprint, total the number of 463L pallet positions
       which can be made available by eliminating a test station(s), if a component (s) is moved into
       2LM. It is also necessary to estimate the number of mobility personnel who are no longer needed
       to deploy to do I-level repairs on those test stations. To date, we have not identified a simple
       methodology for capturing the impact of a repair level decision on the in-commission rate for an
       equipment item or aircraft availability rate for the weapon system. However, the MAJCOM
       Dyna-METRIC Microcomputer Analysis System (MAJCOM DMAS) can provide an assessment
       of the impact on aircraft availability based on the estimated 2LM pipeline time and worldwide
       asset position. MAJCOM DMAS is an automated analysis tool which is used for a number of the-
       ater, MAJCOM, or unit-level applications.
    1.2.4. Step 4: Subjective Issues.
       1.2.4.1. This step requires the functional managers to run a checklist of repair environment fac-
       tors against those NSNs which they are still considering for 2LM. After reviewing these checklist
       items for each NSN or group of NSNs, if supported by a common test station, logistics experts can
       now make a decision concerning whether or not to induct an item into 2LM, to do additional anal-
       ysis, or to look at other repair alternatives, such as regional repair or privatization.
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                      5

                                               Chapter 2
                    EVALUATION PROCESS FOR AVIONICS/C-E ASSETS

2.1. Step 1: Sorting by Manpower and/or High Acquisition Costs.
   2.1.1. Sorting by manpower costs. Sorting by manpower costs requires functional managers at the
   lead MAJCOM to prioritize I-level repair shops by manpower cost. By focusing on the manpower
   reductions resulting from the elimination of base repair workload, this prioritization targets one of the
   largest areas for potential savings associated with the transition to 2LM. The following is a recom-
   mended approach to prioritizing I-level repair shops, identifying shop test stations and associated
   NSNs supported by those test stations for step 1:
      2.1.1.1. Lead command functional managers compile a list of the intermediate level shops within
      their commands. This list should focus on those shops whose workload is primarily in-shop and
      not directly tied to flightline sortie generation.
      2.1.1.2. Manpower costs should then be computed for those I-level shops by base. Calculate
      manpower costs as follows:
          2.1.1.2.1. Use the Unit Manning Document (UMD) to identify the manpower authorizations
          by grade for each I-level shop. Identify by base if several bases have the same I-level shop.
          2.1.1.2.2. To calculate manpower costs of each I-level shop by base, use the composite rate
          w/out permanent change of station (PCS) (fully burdened rate) in AFI 65-503, US Air Force
          Cost and Planning Factors.
          2.1.1.2.3. Then, add total manpower costs for each grade to determine the total I-level shop
          manpower cost.
      2.1.1.3. Manpower cost for a single grade level = (manpower authorizations by grade) x (fully
      burdened cost as listed in AFI 65-503, Tables A19-1 and 26-1).
      2.1.1.4. Develop a consolidated list of shops and their manpower costs, and a composite list of
      test stations/equipment and associated assets repaired in those shops. Test stations can be identi-
      fied in the weapon system allowance standard. Assets repaired on those test stations can be identi-
      fied through a coordinated effort of the SPDs, MAJCOM functional managers and base level shop
      chiefs.
      2.1.1.5. Managers should consolidate these lists and total the manpower costs for shops that have
      the same type of test stations and support the same assets. This will provide a total estimate within
      the MAJCOM of potential manpower savings, if a particular I-level repair were eliminated.
      2.1.1.6. The lead command functional managers can now prioritize the I-level shops by man-
      power cost.
   2.1.2. Sorting by high acquisition cost.
      2.1.2.1. When sorting by high acquisition costs, functional managers should identify a range of
      costs that they want to target first. The Recoverable Consumption Item Requirements System
      (D041) can be used in the selection of NSNs by cost. A program can be developed to pull all
      expendability, recoverability, retainability code (EERC) XD assets with a weapon system applica-
      tion code within a selected range of forecast acquisition costs (FAC). For example, managers may
6                                                     1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

       choose to initially focus on assets with a FAC of $1M or greater. After selecting the high acquisi-
       tion cost items they want to focus on first, managers should then identify the shops in which these
       assets are repaired. At this point, managers should also complete the steps outlined above for esti-
       mating shop manpower costs and listing associated test stations and NSNs. This will help deter-
       mine total potential savings if an asset(s) were transitioned to 2-level repair.
       2.1.2.2. At the end of step 1, managers should select high cost shops, high acquisition cost assets
       or a combination of both for further analysis in steps 2 through 4. Assets will be grouped and tied
       to their appropriate test stations and analyzed as a group of assets. It should be understood that the
       process described here in step 1 is a generic, macro approach to target potential savings, and pro-
       vides only a starting point for analyzing 2LM candidates. Functional managers can use other tech-
       niques for sorting (see “Conclusions and Recommendations”).

2.2. Step 2: Analysis by Test Station.
    2.2.1. After selecting the assets to be evaluated (step 1), managers will input a small number of logis-
    tics indicators/data for the NSNs into a matrix. Assets are grouped by test station(s) and are evaluated
    against first tier logistics indicators and the desired characteristics of a 2LM asset.
    2.2.2. The result is a list of 2LM candidates ranked by their relative scoring against these indicators.
    Managers can use this list as a tool for further analysis or as a means of eliminating some candidates
    from consideration.
    2.2.3. The indicators recommended in this study are first tier, easily accessible logistics indicators.
    They provide a quick overview of the status of each NSN in relation to reliability and maintainability,
    supply, and transportation indicators, as well as to the desired characteristics of a 2LM candidate. By
    reviewing the logistics indicators for each NSN and comparing them with the desired characteristics
    of a 2LM asset, the functional managers will have a broad understanding of how a specific NSN or
    group of NSNs may perform in a 2-level repair environment. Grouping assets by test station will pro-
    vide insight into whether an entire test station can be eliminated in order to achieve the potential man-
    power savings. Functional managers will have to study the scores and rankings for each NSN and how
    they compare to the other NSNs supported by the same test station to help determine whether an
    asset(s) will perform well in a 2-level repair environment. It is important to note that as experience is
    gained using this process and more is learned about the performance of 2LM NSNs, these first tier
    indicators and the desired characteristics of a 2LM asset can be easily changed in the matrix. Recom-
    mended indicators and a description of the desired 2LM characteristics or those indicators follow.
    2.2.4. Logistics Indicators for Avionics/ C-E.
       2.2.4.1. MTBF: An indicator of the time between actual failures of a given asset. A high MTBF
       would be the desired 2LM characteristic because it indicates a highly reliable asset which would
       not significantly increase transportation costs or depot workload.
       2.2.4.2. CND: An indicator of the frequency at which an asset appears to have failed on a weapon
       system or equipment end item, when that failure cannot be duplicated in the repair shop. Thus, the
       asset is returned to the supply system. A high CND rate would mean additional transportation
       costs and increased demand on the supply and repair systems in a pure 2-level repair environment
       where all base level repair capability has been eliminated. Thus, a low CND rate is preferred in a
       2LM environment.
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                         7

       2.2.4.3. PBR: An indicator of the amount of repair activity at base level for the given asset. A
       low PBR would typically be a desired characteristic for a 2LM candidate since most of the repair
       activity is already at the depot (contractor). Thus, there is the opportunity to consolidate workload
       and optimize the depot repair capability. However, assets with a high PBR should be reviewed to
       determine if there is a high manpower cost associated with that high base repair level. If so, man-
       agers may elect to consider these candidates in the evaluation.
       2.2.4.4. DDR: An indicator of the volume of these assets ordered on a daily basis. A low DDR
       would be most desirable in a 2LM environment because it indicates less demands on the supply
       and repair systems, and would minimize transportation requirements and costs. While a low DDR
       is a recommended starting point for this analysis, it is recognized that the repair cycle is complex
       and dynamic, and that other analyses might offer additional trade-offs. For example, a high
       demand rate might reflect a low reliability asset that requires more base repair activity, thus driv-
       ing a large manpower requirement. Hence, analysts might want to study the potential for reducing
       the manpower requirement by moving the asset(s) into 2LM.
       2.2.4.5. Pipeline Time: An indicator of the current pipeline, including transportation time to and
       from the primary source of repair, handling time, and the base and depot repair times. An asset
       with a short pipeline would be the most desirable for inducting into a 2LM environment because a
       short pipeline should theoretically minimize the necessity of buying new assets to sustain the pipe-
       line. Again, this is a recommended starting point for this analysis. Therefore, items with a long
       pipeline should not be overlooked. It is possible that by transitioning to 2LM that long base repair
       cycle time could be eliminated thus avoiding or reducing the need for costly additional assets.
       When inputting pipeline time into the spreadsheet, actual pipeline times should be used. Pipeline
       standards or goals should only be used when actual pipeline times are unavailable.
       2.2.4.6. Asset Position: An indicator of the current D041 requirement and number of carcasses
       available to meet that requirement. If an asset is already carcass short worldwide, then it might not
       be a good 2LM candidate because it could require buying additional inventory unless the pipeline
       is reduced. The worldwide asset position should be studied carefully. It is possible that inducting
       a component(s) into 2LM could make available assets that are awaiting repairs in the field and,
       thus, resolve the carcass short situation.
       2.2.4.7. Weight and Cube: Current commercial small package express carriers will handle items
       – assets and their shipping package – weighing up to 150 lbs with maximum dimensions of 119”
       in length and 165” in length and girth combined. For larger items, evaluate the cost and availabil-
       ity of AMC and other commercial contract carriers to meet 2LM requirements.

2.3. Step 3: Analysis of Cost-to-transition, Impact to Mobility Footprint, and Impact to Opera-
tional Capability. In this step, the impact of the decision to transition from a 3-level to 2-level repair pro-
cess is analyzed in a macro sense to determine the estimated cost to transition, the estimated impact on
mobility footprint, and the impact on operational capability. The following describes the assessment
managers will complete on those NSNs which they decide to evaluate for 2-level repair after step 2.
   2.3.1. Cost to transition. Those components which logistics experts choose to continue evaluating
   will remain grouped based on their associated common support equipment. Cost savings can be esti-
   mated by evaluating the following:
       2.3.1.1. Manpower savings at the base level
8                                                     1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

       2.3.1.2. Potential increased manpower costs at the depot level
       2.3.1.3. Potential increased transportation costs for 2-level repair
       2.3.1.4. Potential changes in inventory requirement
       2.3.1.5. Re-computation of the readiness spares package (RSP) for 2LM support
    2.3.2. Base manpower computation.
       2.3.2.1. Logistics experts will estimate the number of personnel that can be reduced by eliminat-
       ing a specified test station(s), if their associated NSNs are inducted into 2LM. In order to compile
       a total estimated manpower reduction, this estimate must consider the number of shops that are
       affected AF-wide, if the specified test station(s) is eliminated at multiple bases. The potential sav-
       ings from reduced manpower will be computed by the same methodology as current manpower
       costs were determined in step 1:
           2.3.2.1.1. Manpower savings by grade = (estimated manpower reductions by grade) x (annual
           cost per grade as outlined in AFI 65-503)
       2.3.2.2. Then, these manpower savings must be totaled by grade in order to compute manpower
       savings by test station (compute for all bases affected to project a MAJCOM or AF-wide savings).
    2.3.3. Depot manpower computation.
       2.3.3.1. Logistics experts will estimate the additions required at the depot for any anticipated
       increases in workload associated with transitioning from 3-level repair to 2-level repair. Then,
       they will compute the increased manpower costs as follows:
           2.3.3.1.1. Estimated increased depot costs = (estimated increase in manpower authorizations
           by grade) x (annual cost per grade as outlined in AFI 65-503).
    2.3.4. Transportation cost computation.
       2.3.4.1. In order to calculate the estimated increased transportation costs for 2-level repair, the
       round trip cost of shipping an line replaceable unit (LRU) to its primary source of repair will be
       multiplied by the estimated number of additional shipments. It is assumed that the estimated addi-
       tional shipments for 2LM are the number of LRUs that were either determined to be CND, or
       fixed at the I-level shop during a single year.
           2.3.4.1.1. Total increase in transportation costs = [(total # of assets CND in I-level shop) +
           (total # of assets repaired in I-level shop)] x round-trip shipping costs to the primary source of
           repair .
    2.3.5. Methodology to capture impact on Inventory.
       2.3.5.1. This methodology provides a cost impact to inventory requirement based on the changes
       in the total requirement from the current repair pipeline to a 2-level repair. The methodology is
       similar to the D041 requirements computation. The cost impact is a one-time cost or savings nec-
       essary to size the new pipeline properly. The cost impact is reflected as a range which includes the
       minimum estimated impact and the maximum estimated impact to cost based on the total 2-level
       requirement. One time savings could accrue if planned repairs or purchases are no longer required
       to sustain the pipeline. Conversely, one time costs could be incurred if more repairs or purchases
       are required to properly size the new 2-level pipeline. In general, minimal savings or costs are
       generated through repair actions while greater savings or costs are generated by asset acquisitions.
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                      9

       2.3.5.2. The primary factors used in this methodology are depot demand rate (DDR1), not repara-
       ble this station (NRTS), base repair time (BRT), order and ship time (O&ST), depot repair time
       (DRT) and a bench check serviceable (BCS) rate. The variables for O&ST, BRT and DRT would
       be the programmed times used in D041.
   2.3.6. RSP Recomputation.
       2.3.6.1. A re-computation of the weapon system RSP may be required as part of the cost analysis,
       if the current RSP is a remove, repair, and replace kit (RRR). RSP costs may change due to the
       reduction or elimination of shop replaceable units (SRUs) from the RSP that are typically used in
       a 3-level repair environment and a possible increase in LRUs for a 2-level repair environment.
   2.3.7. Total estimated cost savings.
       2.3.7.1. Based on the previous computations just described, the following equation is used to
       compute the total estimated savings for transitioning from 3-level repair to 2-level repair.
           2.3.7.1.1. Total estimated savings = (base manpower savings) - (increased depot manpower
           costs) - (increased transportation costs) + or - change in inventory requirement + or - change in
           RSP cost.
       2.3.7.2. To evaluate these costs more easily, cost information can be displayed in a table such as
       the example, Impact Assessment for Step 3, Table 2.1.

Table 2.1. Impact Assessment for Step 3.
                                Sample Cost Analysis
   (Displays cost savings associated with the elimination of a single test station)
                                             3LM             2LM             Other
Base level manpower savings
Depot manpower increased costs
Increased transportation costs
Inventory cost changes (+ or -)
RSP changes (+ or -)
Total cost change (+ or -)
Estimated reduction in 463L pallet posi-
tions
Estimated reduction in mobility posi-
tions
Can aircraft availability goal be met
with current worldwide assets? Yes/No
NOTE: If logistics experts decide to leave a CND capability or any repair capability at the base level, as
has been done in recent 2LM situations, then costs and manpower impacts should be adjusted accord-
ingly.
   2.3.8. Impact to mobility footprint.
10                                                     1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

        2.3.8.1. In order to determine the impact on the mobility footprint, it is necessary to estimate the
        number of reduced 463L pallet positions for support equipment and the reduced number of mobil-
        ity personnel associated with the test station(s) under review. Again, if test stations and affected
        personnel are at multiple bases/locations, it may be necessary to compute a command or AF total.
        Also, the impact on the mobility footprint should include any changes (+ or -) to 463L pallet posi-
        tions as determined by the RSP re-computation.
     2.3.9. Impact to operational capability.
        2.3.9.1. It is difficult to define an asset’s impact on operational capability as it transitions from a
        3-level repair process to a 2-level repair process. The difficulty lies in tying a repair level decision
        and a single reparable to the overall operational impact, as measured by in-commission rate or air-
        craft availability. However, because this relationship has a direct impact on the planned mission,
        it should be a part of the overall assessment. To date, we have not identified a simple methodol-
        ogy for capturing either the impact of a repair level decision on the in-commission rate for an
        equipment item, or aircraft availability rate for the weapon system. However, the MAJCOM
        DMAS model can provide an assessment of the impact on aircraft availability, based on the esti-
        mated 2-level repair pipeline for the asset under review and the worldwide asset position. An
        assessment would only be required if there is a shortage of assets worldwide. In a shortage situa-
        tion, an assessment could quantify the impact to aircraft availability. However, if there are suffi-
        cient assets on-hand, or resources available to buy the needed assets to support the 2LM
        requirement, then a DMAS assessment would only serve to tell us what we already knew: no
        impact to operational capability.
        2.3.9.2. MAJCOM DMAS is an automated analysis tool which is used for a number of theater,
        MAJCOM, or unit-level applications. If the NSNs being evaluated are not already loaded in
        weapon system management information system sustainability assessment model (WSMIS
        SAM), some manual inputs will be required to use MAJCOM DMAS for the operational capabil-
        ity assessment WSMIS SAM is the basic database for MAJCOM DMAS RSP assessments. The
        current MAJCOM DMAS files are squadron specific; however, data and parameters can be
        changed to mimic a MAJCOM or AF-wide assessment. An experienced analyst should perform
        the assessment within the MAJCOM DMAS model. Note that MAJCOM DMAS can evaluate
        only one mission, design, and series system (MDS) at a time. Thus, if the asset under evaluation
        is used on several MDSs, the analyst will run the model for each MDS and make some interpreta-
        tions and projections about what the impact will be based on transitioning the asset to 2-level
        repair.
        2.3.9.3. The following table shows how the impacts to cost, mobility footprint and operational
        capability can be displayed for analysis, including a column(s) for analyzing other repair options
        that functional managers might choose to pursue, such as contract repair or regional repair:

2.4. Step 4: Subjective Issues.
     2.4.1. The front end of this process is primarily qualitative in order to quickly screen candidates and
     allow logistics experts to focus on strong candidates and savings. However, there are other factors
     besides qualitative data that will impact the final decision to move an asset into a new repair environ-
     ment. Thus, it is recommended that the following list of repair environment issues be reviewed prior
     to making a final repair level decision. These focus on depot concerns, mobility issues, and software
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                   11

  uploading requirements for avionics. This checklist should also assist logistics experts in developing
  a transition plan for those assets selected for 2LM. Subjective issues for consideration:
     2.4.1.1. Is this asset (s) pending replacement, upgrade, or modification? If yes, consider the
     implications of transitioning to 2-level repair at this time.
     2.4.1.2. When will additional depot manpower, if required, be in place? When will depot techni-
     cians be trained to do the repairs and inspections once accomplished at base level?
     2.4.1.3. When will depot technicians have access to the I-level repair technical data?
     2.4.1.4. When will additional test stations for depot, if required, be in place?
     2.4.1.5. When will bit and piece support be adjusted to meet the new repair level requirement?
     2.4.1.6. When will additional inventory, if required, be available to support the 2-level pipeline
     requirement?
     2.4.1.7. Are current depot facilities adequate for absorbing the 2-level repair workload or would
     military construction funds be required to provide appropriate facilities?
     2.4.1.8. How will the decision to transition between a 3-level and a 2-level repair process affect
     test aircraft and special missions?
     2.4.1.9. Are there any depot, Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC), or outsourcing/privatiza-
     tion issues that would affect the transition of this item?
     2.4.1.10. Are there any force structure changes which would impact the repair level decision on
     this asset?
     2.4.1.11. How will you accomplish Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs) and inspections
     that were previously done through the I-level repair activity?
     2.4.1.12. Will a change in the repair level of this asset still meet the unique mobility requirements
     of different MAJCOMs? (this review is necessary for assets that are used by multiple MAJ-
     COMs).
     2.4.1.13. Can software uploading requirements on this item(s) be accomplished in a
     2-level repair process? (Consider manpower, response time, and cost)
     2.4.1.14. Are there field level calibrations or alignments required on this asset? If yes, then how
     will those calibrations and alignments be handled?
     2.4.1.15. Are there any special transportation or handling requirements for this asset(s) such as
     hazardous, classified, outsized, etc? If yes, how will the special requirements be met?
     2.4.1.16. Are there any wing retained tasks and support required for contingency taskings?
  2.4.2. Managers should now list their recommended 2LM candidates and determine if additional
  analysis is required prior to making a decision to induct into 2LM. Also, at this point, other repair
  alternatives could be considered such as regionalization or outsourcing/privatization.
12                                                      1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

                                                 Chapter 3
                             OVERVIEW OF THE PROCESS: ENGINES

3.1. Step 1: Selecting an Engine(s) for Analysis.
     3.1.1. This step provides a sorting technique to identify an engine(s) for analysis and possible transi-
     tion to 2-level repair. This sorting technique focuses on potential savings associated with manpower
     and tied to intermediate level repair of engines in the Jet Engine Intermediate Maintenance (JEIM)
     shops. Sorting by manpower costs requires lead MAJCOM and SPD functional managers to prioritize
     JEIMs by labor cost from highest to lowest. After reviewing manpower costs, an engine (s) should be
     selected for analysis. Similar to the sorting technique used for avionics/C-E assets, NSNs repaired in
     the JEIM should be identified.

3.2. Step 2: Analysis by JEIM.
     3.2.1. After selecting a specific engine(s) for analysis, managers will input logistics data for a small
     number of engine indicators into a matrix for those NSNs repaired in the JEIM. This matrix will allow
     for further analysis of these NSNs by comparing them against several first tier logistics indicators.
     The recommended logistics indicators for engines are:
        3.2.1.1. Combined Maintenance Removal Rate (CMRI)
        3.2.1.2. MTBF
        3.2.1.3. PBR
        3.2.1.4. Ratio of spares to installed engines
        3.2.1.5. DDR (for modules and reparables)
        3.2.1.6. Pipeline Time
        3.2.1.7. Asset position
     3.2.2. The result is a prioritized list of NSNs that can be used as a tool for further analysis or as a
     means of eliminating an engine(s) from consideration.

3.3. Step 3: Analysis of Cost-to-transition, Impact to Mobility Footprint, and Impact to Opera-
tional Capability.
     3.3.1. Logistics experts can now evaluate the engine(s) that they decide to pursue as potential 2LM
     candidates in terms of cost to transition to a different repair level, impact to mobility footprint, and
     impact to operational capability. The methodology to evaluate these areas is similar to step 3 for avi-
     onics/C-E assets. These costs are:
        3.3.1.1. Manpower savings at the base level
        3.3.1.2. Potential increased manpower costs at the depot level
        3.3.1.3. Potential increased transportation costs for 2-level repair
        3.3.1.4. Potential changes in inventory requirements
        3.3.1.5. Re-computation of the war readiness material (WRM) requirements for 2LM support
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                  13

   3.3.2. The impact to mobility footprint is estimated by totaling the number of 463L pallet positions
   that can be made available by eliminating JEIM support equipment, if an engine is moved into a
   2-level repair environment. Next, the number of mobility personnel that are no longer needed to do
   I-level repair on those engines should be estimated.
   3.3.3. Also, like avionics assets, MAJCOM DMAS can provide an assessment of the impact on air-
   craft availability, based on the estimated 2LM pipeline time and worldwide asset position. Engines are
   treated as line replaceable units (LRUs) in the MAJCOM DMAS model.

3.4. Step 4: Subjective Issues.
   3.4.1. This step requires functional managers to run a checklist of repair environment factors against
   the engine(s) still under consideration for 2LM. After reviewing these checklist items for each
   engine(s), logistics experts can now determine whether the engine(s) is a strong 2LM candidate and
   can perform more detailed analysis prior to making the final determination to induct into 2-level
   repair.
14                                                     1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

                                                 Chapter 4
                                                 ENGINES

4.1. Step 1: Selecting an Engine(s) for Analysis.
     4.1.1. Step 1 assists logistics experts in selecting an engine(s) to analyze for possible transition to
     2LM. This sorting technique focuses on potential savings associated with manpower and tied to inter-
     mediate level repair of engines in the JEIM shops. Sorting by manpower costs requires lead MAJ-
     COM functional managers to prioritize JEIM shops by manpower cost. This prioritization targets
     potential savings and focuses on the manpower reductions associated with eliminating the JEIM
     workload. The following is a recommended approach to prioritizing JEIM shops and identifying the
     NSNs supported in those shops:
        4.1.1.1. Lead command functional managers compile a list of the JEIM shops within their com-
        mands. The functional managers should then compute the manpower costs associated with those
        shops as follows:
            4.1.1.1.1. Use the unit manning document (UMD) to identify the manpower authorizations by
            grade for each JEIM shop.
            4.1.1.1.2. Calculate manpower costs for each JEIM. Use the fully burdened cost rate in AFI
            65-503.
            4.1.1.1.3. Then, add total manpower costs for each grade to determine the total JEIM man-
            power cost.
        4.1.1.2. Manpower cost for a single grade level = (manpower authorizations by grade) x (fully
        burdened cost as listed as listed in AFI 65-503, Tables A19-1 and 26-1).
        4.1.1.3. Develop a consolidated list of manpower costs by JEIM and a list of the NSNs repaired in
        the JEIM.
     4.1.2. At the end of this step, it is recommended that functional managers focus on an engine(s) that
     has a high manpower cost tied to the JEIM workload for further analysis in steps 2 through 4. It should
     be understood that the process described here in step 1 is a generic, macro approach to target potential
     savings. Other methods of sorting can be implemented as more is learned about the performance of
     engines in 2-level repair.

4.2. Step 2: Analysis by JEIM.
     4.2.1. After selecting a specific engine(s) for analysis, managers will input a small number of logis-
     tics indicators/data into a matrix for those NSNs repaired in the JEIM. The engine reparables are eval-
     uated against first tier logistics indicators and the desired characteristics of a 2LM asset. Reviewing
     the first tier logistics data for each NSN will provide some insight into how the asset will perform in a
     2LM environment. Managers can use this list as a tool for further analysis (steps 3 through 4) or as a
     means of eliminating an engine(s) from consideration.
     4.2.2. These recommended engine performance indicators are first tier, easily accessible logistics
     indicators. They give a quick overview of the status of each NSN in relation to reliability and main-
     tainability, supply indicators, and the desired characteristics of a 2LM candidate. Unlike avionics and
     C-E assets, transportation indicators are not considered because most engine assets are too large to
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                        15

  meet the current requirements of express transportation cost rates. By reviewing the logistics indica-
  tors for each NSN and comparing them with the desired characteristics of a 2LM asset, the functional
  managers will have a broad understanding of how a specific NSN or group of NSNs may perform in a
  2-level repair environment. Functional managers will have to study the scores and rankings for each
  NSN and how they compare to the other NSNs supported in the same JEIM to help determine whether
  an asset (s) will perform well in a 2-level repair environment. It is important to note that these first tier
  indicators and the desired characteristics of a 2LM asset can be easily changed in the matrix as expe-
  rience is gained in using this process and more is learned about the performance of engines in a 2-level
  environment. The indicators and characteristics currently loaded in the matrix are the recommended
  starting points from this study. The following are the recommended indicators and a description of
  the desired 2LM characteristics for those indicators.
  4.2.3. Logistics indicators for Engines.
      4.2.3.1. CMRI: An indicator of how often an engine must be removed from the aircraft. A low
      removal rate would be preferred for 2LM because a high removal would reflect a significant
      demand on supply and repair activities, and increased transportation costs to return the engine to
      depot level repair. CMRI would be used as an indicator of the number of complete engine remov-
      als for that engine.
      4.2.3.2. MTBF: This metric would be input for engine reparables including engine modules. It is
      an indicator of the time between actual failures of a given module. A high MTBF would be the
      desired 2LM characteristic because it indicates a highly reliable asset which would not signifi-
      cantly increase transportation costs or depot workload.
      4.2.3.3. PBR: Indicates the amount of repair being accomplished at base level. A low percent
      base repair indicates that most of the workload is accomplished at depot (or contractor) level.
      Thus, there is the opportunity to consolidate the workload and optimize the depot repair capabil-
      ity. However, assets with a high PBR should be reviewed to determine if there is a high manpower
      cost associated with that high base repair level. If so, managers may elect to target consider these
      candidates in the evaluation also.
      4.2.3.4. Ratio of spares to installed engines: this ratio is an indicator of the current support posture
      for engines. A high ratio is preferred. A high ratio reflects a larger number of spares available pro-
      portional to the number of installed engines. This assists in limiting the possibility of holes in the
      aircraft. Depending on the bases/locations affected, this ratio should be computed command wide
      or AF-wide as appropriate depending on the bases/locations affected.
      4.2.3.5. DDR: An indicator of the volume of these assets ordered on a daily basis. This indicator
      is suggested for analysis of engine modules or those NSNs repaired in a JEIM. A low DDR would
      be most desirable in a 2LM environment because it indicates less demands on the supply and
      repair systems and would minimize transportation requirements and costs. While a low DDR is a
      recommended starting point for this analysis, it is recognized that the repair cycle is complex and
      dynamic and other analysis might offer additional trade-offs. For example, a high demand rate
      might reflect a low reliability asset that requires more base repair activity, thus driving a large
      manpower requirement. Hence, analysts might want to study the potential for reducing the man-
      power requirement by moving the asset(s) into 2LM.
      4.2.3.6. Pipeline Time: An indicator of the current pipeline to include transportation time to and
      from the primary source of repair, handling time, and the base and depot repair times. An asset
16                                                     1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

        with a short pipeline would be the most desirable for inducting into a 2LM environment because a
        short pipeline should theoretically minimize the buy of new assets to sustain the pipeline. Again,
        this is a recommended starting point for this analysis. Items with a long pipeline should not be
        overlooked. It is possible that by transitioning to 2LM that long base repair cycle time could be
        eliminated thus avoiding or reducing the need for costly additional assets. When inputting pipe-
        line time into the spreadsheet, actual pipeline times should be used. Pipeline standards or goals
        should only be used when actual pipeline times are unavailable.
        4.2.3.7. Asset Position: An indicator of the current D042, Comprehensive Engine Management
        System (CEMS), requirement and number of carcasses available to meet that requirement. If an
        asset is already carcass short worldwide, then it might not be a good 2LM candidate because,
        unless the pipeline is reduced, it could require buying additional inventory. The worldwide asset
        position should be studied carefully via CEMS asset reports. It is possible that inducting an
        asset(s) into 2LM could make available assets that are awaiting repairs in the field and, thus,
        resolve the carcass short situation.

4.3. Step 3: Analysis of Cost-to-transition, Impact to Mobility Footprint, and Impact to Opera-
tional Capability. In this step, the impact of the decision to transition an engine from a 3-level to 2-level
repair process is analyzed to determine the estimated cost to transition, the estimated impact to mobility
footprint, and the impact on operational capability. The following describes the assessment functional
managers will complete on those engines which they decide to evaluate for 2-level repair after step 2.
     4.3.1. Cost to transition.
        4.3.1.1. The cost to transition is estimated by evaluating the following:
            4.3.1.1.1. Manpower savings at the base level
            4.3.1.1.2. Potential increased manpower costs at the depot level
            4.3.1.1.3. Potential increased transportation costs for 2- level repair
            4.3.1.1.4. Potential changes in inventory requirements
            4.3.1.1.5. Re-computation of the WRM requirement
     4.3.2. Base manpower computation.
        4.3.2.1. Logistics experts will make an estimate of the number of personnel that can be reduced
        by eliminating a specified JEIM, if an engine is inducted into 2LM. If the specified JEIM is elim-
        inated at multiple bases, this estimate must consider the number of JEIM’s affected AF-wide to
        compile a total estimated manpower reduction. The potential savings from reduced manpower
        will also be computed by the same methodology as current manpower costs were determined in
        step 1:
        4.3.2.2. Manpower savings by grade = (estimated manpower reductions by grade) x (annual cost
        per grade as outlined in AFI 65-503)
     4.3.3. Depot manpower computation.
        4.3.3.1. Logistics experts will estimate the additions required, if any, at the depot for anticipated
        workload increases associated with transitioning from 3-level repair to 2-level repair. This man-
        power cost increase will be computed as follows:
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                   17

     4.3.3.2. Estimated increased depot costs = (estimated increase in manpower authorizations by
     grade) x (annual cost per grade as outlined in AFI 65-503).
  4.3.4. Transportation cost computation.
     4.3.4.1. In calculating the estimated increased transportation costs for 2- level repair, the round
     trip cost of shipping an engine and its base level reparables to its primary source of repair is mul-
     tiplied by the estimated number of additional shipments. The estimated additional shipments for
     2LM are assumed to be the number of engines removed and the number of reparables (modules)
     that were either determined to be CND or repaired in the JEIM shop during a single year.
     4.3.4.2. Total increase in transportation costs = [(total # of assets CND in JEIM) + (total # of
     assets repaired in JEIM)] x round-trip shipping costs to the primary source of repair.
  4.3.5. Methodology to capture impact on Inventory.
     4.3.5.1. The Propulsion Requirements System (PRS), a model available to the SPD, can be used
     to make projections about inventory requirements if an engine(s) is moved to 2LM. If the inven-
     tory projection indicates additional engines would be needed to support a 2-level repair pipeline,
     then include the cost of return to service from storage and/or cost to reopen an engine repair line/
     facility in the cost-to-transition. Also, the same methodology that was recommended to determine
     potential changes to the inventory levels for avionics/C-E assets can be used and is described
     below.
     4.3.5.2. This methodology provides a cost impact to inventory requirement based on the changes
     in the total requirement from the current repair pipeline to a 2-level repair. The methodology is
     similar to the D041 requirements computation. The cost impact is a one-time cost or savings nec-
     essary to size the new pipeline properly. The cost impact is reflected as a range which includes the
     minimum estimated impact and the maximum estimated impact to cost based on the total 2-level
     requirement. One time savings could accrue if planned repairs or purchases are no longer required
     to sustain the pipeline. Conversely, one time costs could be incurred if more repairs or purchases
     are required to properly size the new 2-level pipeline. In general, minimal savings or costs are
     generated through repair actions while greater savings or costs generated by asset acquisitions.
     4.3.5.3. The primary factors used in this methodology are DDR1, NRTS, BRT, O&ST, DRT and
     a BCS rate. The variables for O&ST, BRT and DRT would be the programmed times used in
     D041.
  4.3.6. WRM Re-computation.
     4.3.6.1. A re-computation of the WRM requirements will also be done as part of the cost analysis
     and considered in the total cost to transition.
  4.3.7. Total estimated cost savings.
     4.3.7.1. Based on the previous computations just described, the total estimated savings for transi-
     tioning from 3-level repair to 2-level repair is computed as follows:
         4.3.7.1.1. Total estimated savings = (base manpower savings) - (increased depot manpower
         costs) - (increased transportation costs) + or - change in inventory requirement + or - change in
         WRM cost.
18                                                      1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

        4.3.7.2. To more easily evaluate these costs, cost information can be displayed in a table such as
        the example, “Sample Cost Analysis for Test Stations,” Table 4.1.
     4.3.8. Impact to mobility footprint.
        4.3.8.1. To determine the impact to mobility footprint, estimate the number of reduced 463L pal-
        let positions for support equipment and mobility personnel associated with the JEIM shops evalu-
        ated in this process. Again, a command total must be computed if more than one JEIM location
        will be affected. Also the impact on the mobility footprint should include any changes (+ or -) to
        436L pallet positions as determined by the WRM re-computation. Finally, based on engine failure
        rates, consider the impact to the transportation for replacement engines based on war plan require-
        ments.
     4.3.9. Impact to operational capability:
        4.3.9.1. It is difficult to define an asset’s impact on operational capability as it transitions from a
        3-level repair process to a 2-level repair process. The difficulty lies in tying a repair level decision
        and a single reparable to the overall operational impact, as measured by in-commission rate or air-
        craft availability. However, because this relationship has a direct impact on the planned mission,
        it should be a part of the overall assessment.

Table 4.1. Sample Cost Analysis for Test Stations.
      (Displays cost savings associated with the elimination of a single test station)
                                                3LM             2LM              Other
Base level manpower savings
Depot manpower increased costs
Increased transportation costs
Inventory cost changes (+ or -)
WRM changes (+ or -)
Total cost change (+ or -)
Estimated reduction in 463L pallet posi-
tions
Estimated reduction in mobility posi-
tions
Can aircraft availability goal be met
with current worldwide assets? Yes/No
NOTE: If logistics experts decide to leave any repair capability at the base level, as has been done in
recent 2LM situations, then costs and manpower impacts should be adjusted accordingly.
        4.3.9.2. To date, we have not identified a simple methodology for capturing either the impact of a
        repair level decision on the in-commission rate for an equipment item, or aircraft availability rate
        for the weapon system. However, the MAJCOM DMAS model can provide an assessment of the
        impact on aircraft availability, based on the estimated 2-level repair pipeline for the asset under
        review and the worldwide asset position. An assessment would only be required if there is a short-
        age of assets worldwide as determined by using the PRS. In a shortage situation, an assessment
        could quantify the impact to aircraft availability. If there are sufficient assets on-hand, or resources
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                                      19

       available to buy the needed assets to support the 2LM requirement, then a DMAS assessment
       would only serve to tell us what we already knew: no impact to operational capability.
       4.3.9.3. MAJCOM DMAS is an automated analysis tool which is used for a number of theater,
       MAJCOM, or unit-level applications. If the NSNs being evaluated are not already loaded in
       WSMIS SAM, some manual inputs may be required to use MAJCOM DMAS for the operational
       capability assessment. WSMIS SAM is the basic database for MAJCOM DMAS RSP assess-
       ments. The current MAJCOM DMAS files are squadron specific; however, data and parameters
       can be changed to mimic a MAJCOM or AF-wide assessment. An experienced analyst should
       perform the assessment within the MAJCOM DMAS model. Note that MAJCOM DMAS can
       evaluate only one MDS at a time. Thus, if the asset under evaluation is used on several MDSs, the
       analyst will run the model for each MDS and make some interpretations and projections about
       what the impact will be based on transitioning the asset to 2-level repair.

4.4. Step 4: Subjective Issues.
   4.4.1. The front end of this process is primarily qualitative in order to quickly screen candidates and
   allow logistics experts to focus on strong candidates and savings. However, there are other factors
   besides qualitative data that will strongly impact the final decision to move an asset into a new repair
   environment. Thus, it is recommended that the following list of repair environment issues be reviewed
   prior to making a final repair level decision. These focus on depot concerns, mobility issues, and soft-
   ware uploading requirements for avionics. This checklist should also assist logistics experts in devel-
   oping a transition plan for those assets selected for 2LM.

4.5. Subjective issues for consideration.
   4.5.1. When will additional depot manpower, if required, be in place? When will depot technicians be
   trained to do the repairs and inspections once accomplished at base level?
   4.5.2. When will the depot technicians have access to the I-level repair technical data?
   4.5.3. When will additional test stations for depot, if required, be in place?
   4.5.4. When will bit and piece support be adjusted to meet the new repair level
   requirement?
   4.5.5. When will SRUs required for 2-level repair be redistributed to the appropriate repair centers?
   4.5.6. When will additional inventory, if required, be available to support the 2-level pipeline require-
   ment?
   4.5.7. Are current depot facilities adequate for absorbing the 2-level repair workload or would mili-
   tary construction funds be required to provide appropriate facilities?
   4.5.8. How will the decision to transition between a 3-level and a 2-level repair process affect test air-
   craft and special operations missions?
   4.5.9. Are there any depot, BRAC or outsourcing/ privatization issues that would affect the transition
   of this item?
   4.5.10. Are there any force structure changes which would impact the repair level decision on this
   asset?
20                                                    1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

     4.5.11. How will TCTOs and inspections that were previously done through the I-level repair activity
     be accomplished?
     4.5.12. Will a change in the repair level of this asset still meet the unique mobility requirements of
     different MAJCOMs? (this review is necessary for assets that are used by multiple MAJCOMs)
     4.5.13. Are there field level calibrations or alignments required on this asset? If yes, then how will
     those calibrations and alignments be handled?
     4.5.14. Are there any wing retained tasks and support required for contingency taskings?
     4.5.15. Will the depot have the required test cell capacity to handle this additional workload?
     4.5.16. At this point, managers should list their recommended 2LM candidates and determine if addi-
     tional analysis is required prior to making a decision to induct the candidates into 2LM. Also, at this
     point, other repair alternatives could be considered such as regionalization or outsourcing/privatiza-
     tion.



                                           WILLIAM P. HALLIN, Lt General, USAF
                                           DCS/Installations & Logistics
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                       21

                                         Attachment 1
            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
2LM—Two Level Maintenance
3LM—Three-Level Maintenance
A/C—Aircraft
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFLMA—Air Force Logistics Management Agency
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
API—Aircraft Parts Indenture
BCS—Bench-Checked-Serviceable
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure
BRT—Base Repair Time
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
CANN—Cannibalization rate
CEMS—Comprehensive Engine Management System
C-E—Communications- Electronics
CMRI—Combined Maintenance Removal Interval
CND—Cannot Duplicate
DDR—Daily Demand Rate
DDR1—Depot Demand Rate
D041—Recoverable Consumption Item Requirements System
ERRC XD—Expendability, Recoverability, Retainability Code. ERRC XD means the recoverable asset
can only be identified for condemnation by the depot repair activity
FAC—Forecasted Acquisition Cost
HQ USAF/ILMM—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Logistics Maintenance Management
Division
I-Shop (I-level)—Intermediate Level Repair Shop
JEIM—Jet Engine Intermediate Maintenance
22                                             1 MAY 1998 AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130

LCOM—Logistics Composite Model
LRU—Line Replacement Unit
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAJCOM DMAS—Major Command Dyna-METRIC Microcomputer Analysis System
MDS—Mission, Design, and Series
MICAP—Mission Capable Part Missing From Aircraft
MTBF—Mean Time Between Failure
MTBMA—Mean Time Between Maintenance Actions
MTBR—Mean Time Between Removal
MTTR—Mean Time To Repair
NMCM—Not Mission Capable Maintenance
NMCS—Not Mission Capable Supply
NRTS—Not Reparable This Station
NSN—National Stock Number
O&ST—Order and Ship Time
PBR—Percent Base Repair
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PRS—Propulsion Requirements System
QPA—Quantity Per Aircraft
R&M—Reliability & Maintainability
REALM—Requirements Execution Availability Logistics Module
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
RIPDAT—Repairable/Serviceable Item Pipeline Data Analyst Tool
RRR—Remove, Repair, Replace
RSP—Readiness Spares Package
RTOK—Retest Okay
SPD—System Program Director
SPM—System Program Manager
SRU—Shop Replacement Unit
TAV—Total Asset Visibility
T-CAP—Two-level Maintenance Coordination and Activation Process
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 21-130 1 MAY 1998                                                  23

TICARRS—Tactical Interim CAMS and REMIS Reporting System
TNMCM—Total Not Mission Capable Maintenance
TNMCS—Total Not Mission Capable Supply
UMD—Unit Manning Document
USAF—United States Air Force
WRE—War Readiness Engine
WRM—War Reserve Materiel
WSMIS SAM—Weapon System Management Information System / Sustainability Assessment Model
