BY ORDER OF THE                                                                    AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 36-2235
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                         VOLUME 2

                                                                                                       2 SEPTEMBER 2002

                                                                                                                        Personnel

                    INFORMATION FOR DESIGNERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL SYSTEMS
                                            ISD AUTOMATED TOOLS/WHAT WORKS
______________________________________________________________________________
RECORDS DISPOSITION: Ensure that all records created by this handbook are maintained
and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule”

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO www site at:
http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.


OPR: HQ AETC/DOZ (Frank W. Schufletowski, Ph.D.)                                            Certified by: HQ USAF/DPDT
Supersedes: AFH 36-2235, Volume 2, 1 November 1995                                                (Col Patricia L. C. Priest)
Pages: 117/Distribution: F


This volume provides information and guidance for applying current instructional technology and
the Instructional System Development (ISD) process described in AFMAN 36-2234. This
volume may be useful to all Air Force personnel who plan, develop, approve, administer, or
manage Air Force instructional programs. The use of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

Chapter 1 GENERAL INFORMATION...................................................................................... 3
Chapter 2 EDUCATION and TRAINING TECHNIQUES.......................................................... 5
   Section A Techniques for Instructional Managers ................................................................... 6
Figure 1 Rate of Skill Loss ........................................................................................................ 16
Figure 2 Effectiveness of Interactive Courseware ...................................................................... 26
   Section B Techniques for Instructors .................................................................................... 36
Figure 3 Effectiveness of Training Students to Learn from Text................................................. 42
Figure 4 Effectiveness of Peer Teaching .................................................................................... 49
   Section C Techniques for Instructional Specialists................................................................. 60
Figure 5 Contrasted Illustrations................................................................................................ 73
Figure 6 Effectiveness of Cuing ................................................................................................. 83
   Section D Physical Classroom Environment .......................................................................... 86
Figure 7 Effects of Noise on Student Error................................................................................ 87
Chapter 3 AUTOMATED TOOLS............................................................................................ 90
  Section A Designer’s Edge Pro (Allen Communications) ...................................................... 91
  Section B Designer’s Edge Enterprise (Allen Communications) ............................................ 94
  Section C Instructional Systems Development Automation (ISDA)....................................... 96
2                                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002

Attachment 1 – Air Force ISD Documents ................................................................................ 99
Attachment 2 – Category Bibliography.................................................................................... 100
Attachment 3 – Abbreviations ................................................................................................. 117
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        3


                                 Chapter 1
                           GENERAL INFORMATION
                                      Overview

Introduction     For many years, the military services have developed and applied
                 instructional technology. In this evolutionary process, we need to
                 continually learn better ways of instruction.


Mission          One objective of the Air Force is training personnel to meet mission
objective        requirements. Therefore, to help fulfill that objective, we must:

                 -   Apply the best methods in all phases of education and training.
                 -   Continuously evaluate those methods to ensure quality is totally
                     integrated.

                 Education and training efficiency and effectiveness result when quality is
                 integrated.


Source           In 1988, the Department of the Navy, in an attempt to improve their
                 Education and Background Training Program, ventured out to see what
                 educational techniques and automated tools were being used in the
                 civilian classroom.

                 The result of their effort was the publishing of "What Works - A
                 Summary of Research Findings with Implications for Navy Instruction
                 and Learning" (Montague, 1988). The Navy allowed us to borrow their
                 publication findings in order for us to create our own volume.


Purpose          Many of you will find what is suggested in this volume to be common
                 sense. However, common sense is not necessarily common practice. The
                 information contained in this volume has four purposes:

                 -   It serves as a reminder and guide to implement improvements within
                     the constraints of current education and training situations.
                 -   It provides information to assist with the long-term planning for
                     education and training improvement.

                                                                    Continued on next page
4                                     AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Purpose       -   It provides the Education and Training Manager, Instructor and
(Continued)       Specialist with a myriad of techniques proven effective to improve the
                  quality of instructional programs.
              -   It provides several automated tools currently in the Air Force
                  Inventory that could enhance the classroom learning experience.


Limitations   We know these techniques and automated tools are not inclusive. You
              may not be able to apply some of these techniques and tools in all of the
              Air Force Education and Training centers of learning.


Goal          Our goal is to provide a forum to exchange classroom-proven practices,
              which will increase knowledge and skill retention, yielding greater job
              proficiency as well as mission readiness.


Revisions     Please send us your proven techniques and tools so we may incorporate
              them in future revisions.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                     5


                              Chapter 2
                 EDUCATION and TRAINING TECHNIQUES
                                      Overview

Introduction    Education and Training involves a diversity of personnel working in
                various capacities, as the previous matrix points out. This section will look
                at the instructional techniques that relate to all education and training
                personnel; however, for ease in reference, three major categories are used:
                instructional managers, instructors, and specialists.


Where to read   This chapter contains three sections.
about it
                   Section              Title                                       Page
                      A          Techniques for Instructional Managers               6
                      B          Techniques for Instructors                          36
                      C          Techniques for Instructional Specialists            60
6                                        AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                 Section A
                   Techniques for Instructional Managers


Where to read   The following topical index is provided as a quick reference to this
about it        section.

                       Topic                                                    Page
                Effective Schools                                                 7
                Managing Instructors                                              8
                Evaluating and Supervising Instructors                            9
                Managing Students                                                 10
                Monitoring and Tailoring                                          11
                Evaluation and Revision                                           13
                Imitating the Job Environment                                     14
                Maintaining Skills and Knowledge                                  16
                Student and Instructor Ratios                                     18
                Managing Informal Learning                                        19
                Planning for Change                                               20
                Cost Effectiveness                                                22
                Structuring and Sequencing Instruction                            24
                Self Paced Instruction                                            25
                Interactive Courseware                                            26
                Video Technologies                                                28
                Simulators                                                        29
                Development and Use of Simulators                                 30
                Distributed Learning and Tele-training                            31
                Adopting Change                                                   33
                Managing Change                                                   34
                Conclusion                                                        35
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                              7


                                        Effective Schools

Important finding       Effective schools focus sharply on students and learning.


Effective instruction   Instructional managers and instructors can increase instructional quality
                        by implementing policies that encourage effective instruction as:

                        -   They emphasize frequent testing, testing of job-like performance,
                            critical job skills, and safety practices.
                        -   They encourage effective time management to reduce or eliminate
                            time spent on activities irrelevant to training objectives.
                        -   They maximize interaction between students and instructors, learning
                            materials and learning tasks.


Students                Students must be psychologically and physically comfortable. Long
                        lectures requiring prolonged periods of sitting without opportunities for
                        practice inhibit effective learning.


Managers                Managers must work with instructors, students, and the operational
                        community to develop and establish a positive learning environment that
                        will become a lasting part of the school’s tradition.


Instructors             Instructors must collaborate in developing goals, sharing advice about
                        teaching, and emphasizing student achievement, instruction as well as
                        students’ performance improves.
8                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                  Managing Instructors

Important finding    Effective instructional management policies improve instructors’ training,
                     student performance, and time management.


Effective managers   With instructional improvement as a constant theme, effective managers
                     should:

                     -   Scrutinize existing practices to ensure instructor training contributes
                         to the quality of instructional programs.
                     -   Provide instructors with the opportunity to improve their
                         instructional and classroom management techniques.
                     -   Develop policies to support instructor requirements by encouraging
                         new ideas.
                     -   Ensure the availability of instructional materials and assistance
                         instructors need.
                     -   Work to raise instructor morale and create a climate of achievement.
                     -   Allow instructors to participate in policy formation processes.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         9


                      Evaluating and Supervising Instructors

Managers          Managers enhance instructors’ teaching skills by:

                  -   Making frequent and systematic classroom observations.
                  -   Providing relevant, timely feedback that includes suggestions for
                      correcting weaknesses and praise strengths.
                  -   Ensuring instructors know the subject matter and can teach it well.
                  -   Providing new instructors opportunities to practice under supervised
                      conditions.


Supervision       Supervision that strengthens instruction has the following elements:

                  -   The supervisor and instructor agree with specific skills and practices
                      that characterize effective teaching.
                  -   The supervisor observes the instructor frequently to verify use of
                      these skills and practices.
                  -   The supervisor and instructor discuss supervisory observations.
                  -   The supervisor and instructor agree on areas for improvement.
                  -   The supervisor and instructor jointly develop specific improvement
                      plans.


Student ratings   Managers can use student ratings of instructors to improve the overall
                  instructional processes as:

                  -   Ratings may provide useful, constructive feedback.
                  -   Ratings during a course, rather than only at the end, provide the
                      opportunity to modify teaching with the same groups of students.
                  -   Fellow instructors or education/training specialists can help individual
                      instructors plan how to improve their teaching based on student
                      feedback.
10                                         AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                  Managing Students

Important finding   Performance-oriented leadership improves formal (intentional) and
                    informal (incidental) learning.


Manage learning     To manage learning effectively both inside and outside of the classroom,
                    managers should:

                    -   Ensure that formal learning is developed with systematic procedures.
                    -   Stress the importance of each student’s learning.
                    -   Specify the roles of all personnel in managing learning.
                    -   Personally evaluate the learning environment i.e., who is doing what,
                        when, where, why, and how? How does the physical learning
                        environment affect learning? What is happening in the school that
                        should not be happening?


Outside learning    Students learn a lot outside of formal education and training. For
                    example, some students adopt behaviors from instructors during
                    instruction; others acquire skills from peers.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                      11


                               Monitoring and Tailoring

Important finding   Instruction improves when managers monitor achievement indicators,
                    detect when the value of any indicator moves into an unacceptable range,
                    and then take focused, corrective action (tailoring).


Controlling         Monitoring and tailoring instructional systems are similar to controlling
instruction         physical systems such as heating or cooling systems. However,
                    education and training system indicators are not as apparent as physical
                    system indicators.


System indicators   Education and training system indicators are determined by:

                    -   Examining the goals and management practices of the school.
                    -   Obtaining objective information about students and instructors.


Monitoring          Monitoring focuses on improvement in instructional quality. Training
                    managers can monitor direct and indirect student performances to
                    establish priorities for improving the system:

                    -   Monitoring requires access to effective record keeping and
                        considerable information processing.
                    -   Monitoring with a computer-based information system, managers can
                        identify student indicators with values that are in an unacceptable
                        range.
                    -   Monitoring will reveal whether the quality of instruction is being
                        improved.


Monitoring          Training managers can monitor direct and indirect student performances
indicators          to establish priorities for improving the system. The following indicators
                    are helpful in the monitoring process:

                    -   Direct indicators include student attrition, and comprehensive and
                        performance test scores.
                    -   Indirect indicators include student-instructor ratios and background
                        variables.

                                                                      Continued on next page
12                                  AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Tailoring    Focused corrective action or tailoring requires a deployable resource to
             respond to the indicators. For example, an instructional supervisor or
             curriculum standards office representative might visit a classroom or
             school to confirm (or refute) that a problem exists, diagnose the
             situation, and propose corrective action.


Conclusion   The monitoring and tailoring approach assumes that fine tuning the
             instructional system can improve the system significantly. The system
             may require fundamental changes due to changes in technology,
             resources, or society.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                      13


                               Evaluation and Revision

Important finding   Tryouts during instructional development help identify and correct
                    inadequacies.


Student tryouts     Evaluating and revising instruction are important processes. The
                    developer accomplishes this by taking segments of material to a sample
                    of students for tryout. This developer goes through the material with
                    each student. During tryouts, students might be asked about:

                    -   The quantity and quality of examples in the instruction.
                    -   The adequacy of practice opportunities.
                    -   The suitability of media selected for a given education and training
                        domain.
                    -   The compatibility of the reading grade level of the materials and the
                        student audience.
                    -   The time required for the student to complete the instruction
                        compared to the allotted training time.


Revision            The developer then revises the materials to address problems uncovered
                    in tryout and conducts another tryout with different students.


Summary             Instructional development rarely includes this evaluation-revision cycle.
                    Tryout of the materials in nearly final form is more common. At this late
                    stage, it is difficult to diagnose instructional problems unless a gross
                    failure makes them apparent.


Conclusion          The lack of evaluation during development makes revision of instruction
                    a major undertaking. Looking at the ISD process as continuous
                    evaluation will help resolve this dilemma.


Lesson learned      The lesson learned is that managers who plan and allocate adequate
                    resources for early evaluation make the revision process and instruction
                    more effective.
14                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                               Imitating the Job Environment

Important finding      Students learn and retain knowledge and skills best when the learning
                       environment incorporates the critical, functional features of the working
                       environment.


Job transfer           For maximum transfer from the education and training environment to a
                       work environment:

                       -   The learning environment should include the context, tasks,
                           procedures, and materials of the job.
                       -   Education and training should relate to the specific job environment,
                           as well as the knowledge the student already has.
                       -   Training should involve the same operations, tools, and machines (or
                           their functional equivalents) as the actual job.


New built on old       New knowledge is built on the foundation of old knowledge. Facilitating
                       learning requires that the training relates to the students’ existing
                       knowledge. Students can use existing knowledge to facilitate learning
                       and correct any misunderstandings of how and why things work the way
                       they do. This will help bridge the gap on what new knowledge needs to
                       be taught.


Job performance        Another important aspect of imitating the job environment is training
                       students to the level of the job performance requirements. If the job
                       requires much supervision, then students should not be trained to a high
                       level--one that does not require supervision. Effective education and
                       training managers should solicit graduate feedback to detect
                       inconsistencies between training levels and job performance
                       requirements.


Tailor to assignment   Minimal on-the-job supervision requires higher levels of training. If
                       training and working environments differ in their skill expectations and
                       closeness of supervision, instruction should be tailored for the expected
                       assignment.

                                                                         Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                   15



Solicit feedback   Effective education and training managers should solicit feedback about
                   graduates to detect problems in mismatches between levels of training
                   and expectancies.
16                                                 AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                              Maintaining Skills and Knowledge

Important finding       Maintaining critical skills requires planned and monitored on-the-job
                        training and testing.


Skill loss              Points about skill loss:

                        -   Performance of some procedural skills declines rapidly without
                            systematic refresher training.
                        -   The rate of skill loss differs for different tasks. The decline suggests
                            the need for systematic practice to maintain skills.


Example of skill loss   Figure 1, taken from Hagman and Rose (1983), shows the decline in the
                        number of soldiers able to perform basic soldiering tasks after training.
                        Rate of skill loss differs for different tasks. The decline suggests the
                        need for systematic practice to maintain skills.

                        Figure 1. Rate of Skill Loss.




                                                                             Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                              17



Preventing skill loss   Normally, schools provide sufficient training for initial job competency.
                        Proficiency is normally developed on-the-job. The following applies to
                        maintaining proficiency:

                        -   On-the-job practice of rarely used skills is often lacking.
                        -   Long lapses in training promote losses not improvement of skills and
                            knowledge.
                        -   Initial training must include the maximum amount of practice
                            possible.
                        -   Retraining must be provided at intervals.


Estimating skill loss   There is no way to make accurate, quantitative predictions about the rate
                        of skill loss, how fast relearning occurs, or how often retraining should
                        occur.


Refresher training      The bottom line is that planning and scheduling refresher training is
                        essential.

                        -   Base the spacing of refresher practice sessions for novices on how
                            often trainees perform the skill or task.
                        -   More than minimal learning should be provided during the original
                            course when refresher training is difficult or too costly to arrange.
18                                          AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                             Student and Instructor Ratios

Important finding   Enlarging class size in most large basic courses has little effect on student
                    learning. It frees instructors for lab training, tutoring, or counseling.


Class size          Class size has the following relationships to learning:

                    -   Small student-instructor ratios tend to promote frequent interactions
                        between students, instructors, and materials.
                    -   Students in small classes achieve more; they also have more interest
                        in learning.
                    -   When class size exceeds 12 students, fewer opportunities for class
                        participation exist.
                    -   In lecture presentations, class size does not make any difference
                        because interactions are minimal, even in the informal lecture arena.
                    -   Class size in basic courses, unless it’s below 10 students, does not
                        affect student learning. If the class gets so large the student can
                        neither see nor hear the instruction, this will become detrimental to
                        learning.


Ratio management    Managers should occasionally change instructor and student ratios to
                    maximize instructors and improve student learning. Merging classes to
                    relieve some instructors can provide additional time for them to perform
                    other instructional functions.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                     19


                             Managing Informal Learning

Important finding   Aggressive management of learning can improve the incidence and
                    quality of informal learning.


Informal learning   Students obtain much of their knowledge and skills outside of formal
                    training:

                    -   Managers can positively influence informal learning by placing
                        instructional information in areas where students frequent
                        (dormitories, cafeterias, etc.).
                    -   Instructional information should be designed not only to foster
                        learning, but also to create awareness and motivation.
                    -   Instructional requirements can be promoted by placing instructional
                        materials at job sites, requiring reading of job, and education and
                        training materials during slack time.
                    -   Students should be encouraged to set aside "read and think" time
                        during duty hours. This will help them to think about what they do,
                        and how to do it better.
20                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                   Planning for Change

Important finding     Exploiting communications and computer technologies can serve policy
                      goals and meet education and training needs within resource constraints.


Capturing             Many recent advances in communications and computer technologies can
technology            be used for instructional purposes. New technology may enable the
                      delivery of conventional forms of instruction in new ways.


Effective use of      Various technologies can be used to develop and deliver instruction that
technology            can be as effective, or more effective than current methods. To capture
                      technological benefits, you must:

                      -   Conduct good planning and analysis.
                      -   Compare cost effectiveness benefits with needs and the current costs
                          of training.
                      -   Identify funding for evaluation of new systems designed to make
                          instruction more effective.


Cost versus impact    The rapid development of new technologies points to the inevitability of
                      significant changes in the way education and training is developed and
                      delivered.

                      -   Potential costs of these changes require caution and a practical
                          outlook.
                      -   Claims of large benefits in effectiveness must be substantiated by
                          concrete, conclusive empirical evidence.
                      -   Decades of research reveal that improvements in instructional
                          achievement are usually not due to the communications and
                          computer technology but to redesign of the content.
                      -   Permitting each student to learn at his/her own pace, with or without
                          technology, is an important source of the gain.


Planning for change   Planners should research the suitability of Commercial-Off-The-Shelf
                      (COTS) products for courseware development and computer-based
                      delivery of instruction. Determine whether software and systems have
                      already been developed, by industry or internally, that can meet your
                      training needs.

                                                                       Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                       21



Caution on big     Large-scale implementation of education and training technologies that
applications       substantially change the organization and presentation of instruction
                   should be undertaken only after formal study of its cost effectiveness.


Other references   The following paragraphs will present some of the technologies the
                   training manager can use to select appropriate media, and to develop
                   courseware. Chapter 3 will review some of the latest tools, such as
                   Designer’s Edge.
22                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                      Cost Effectiveness

Important finding      Consistent and credible evaluations of cost-effectiveness must justify any
                       plans to substitute alternative education and training programs for those
                       now in use.


Low cost               Declining costs of computer-based and communications technologies
                       makes their use in the delivery of instruction a smart move.


Must make a            Introducing new technology must make a difference and not add to
difference             increases in the already high cost of education and training.


Must show benefits     To offset or justify the cost of technology, these benefits should be
                       demonstrable:

                       -   Instructor productivity or the number of students graduated in a time
                           period should increase.
                       -   Student performance should improve substantially.
                       -   Administrative burdens over the life of the system should be reduced.


Good planning          Changes require good management planning as well as changes in the
                       instructional program.


Cost of alternatives   The decision to implement a particular instructional program, course or
                       device, or to change to an existing one, rests upon identifying the costs
                       of all the alternatives, such as:

                       -   The cost of research and development.
                       -   All personnel costs in development.
                       -   Development and delivery costs of all versions of equipment.
                       -   The cost of running the implementation for the life of the system
                           including operation and maintenance.


                                                                          Continued on next page

Summary                When the conventional instructional system and a technology-enhanced
                       system demonstrate the same effectiveness, the one that costs the less
                       might be preferred.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                 23



Conclusion       Substantial demonstrated differences in instructional effectiveness must
                 be considered before applying alternative programs, courses, or devices.
24                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                           Structuring and Sequencing Instruction

Important finding      Students learn as well from structured materials and self-study as from
                       conventional classroom procedures. It works as well as conventional
                       methods for teaching knowledge.


How to structure       Structuring materials require you to do as follows:

                       -   Divide instructional materials into learnable segments.
                       -   Determine their presentation order.
                       -   Require students to pass tests to demonstrate comprehension before
                           allowing them to progress to new instruction.


Structuring            Structured instructional materials provide:
advantages
                       -   Students an opportunity for self-paced study.
                       -   Considerable saving of training time.
                       -   Distribution to remote locations as alternatives to lectures.


Sequencing             Instructional sequencing is designed to require an active response from
                       students before new information is presented.


Sequencing             Some of the advantages of sequencing to consider:
advantages
                       -   Students get immediate feedback.
                       -   Students may omit material they already know.
                       -   Students may identify segments where errors require further study.
                       -   Students may receive instruction on various media such as
                           computers, workbooks, or lectures.


Structuring examples   Many Computer-Aided Instruction (CAI) programs are examples of
                       structuring instruction; others use simulation or gaming techniques.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         25


                                 Self Paced Instruction

Important finding   Students who progress through the materials at their own rate complete
                    the materials in about one-third less time than do students who attend
                    conventional courses.


Student attitudes   Student preferences and attitudes in comparing self-paced with
                    conventional instruction:

                    -   Students prefer having an instructor present the instruction.
                    -   Students prefer sitting in a classroom with a human being who can
                        listen and respond rather than sitting in a media carrel.
                    -   Students have similar attitudes toward the content in group or self-
                        paced.
26                                                     AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                       Interactive Courseware

Important finding       Students learn the same content as well or better from Interactive
                        Courseware (ICW) as in the regular classroom.


ICW advantages          Advantages of computer-based instruction are:

                        -      Students complete lessons faster.
                        -      Course materials can be widely distributed and given at any time.


Research on ICW         Figure 2, taken from Orlansky and String (1979), provides a graphic
effectiveness           summary of a review of 40 research studies comparing the effectiveness
                        of interactive courseware and standard training in the Air Force, Army,
                        and Navy.

                        Figure 2. Effectiveness of Interactive Courseware.


                 25                                          $


                 20

                                                             
                 15



                 10
                                                             $

                 5



                 0                                           
                      3RRUHU       6DPH       %HWWHU                                     
                                $FKLHYHPHQW                                  QrprÃvrÃhrq
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                               27




ICW research           The summarized results are as follows:
summary
                       -   Fifteen studies reported higher achievement for ICW students.
                       -   Twenty-four studies reported no difference between student
                           achievement in either form of instruction.
                       -   One study reported lower achievement for ICW students.
                       -   These studies indicate that students complete their lessons in 30
                           percent less time with ICW.


Verified suitability   These findings are important where students are paid and training time
                       needs to be as brief as possible. The evidence from the 40 research
                       studies verifies the suitability of interactive courseware in the military.


ICW compared           A review of nearly 200 studies comparing ICW with conventional
                       elementary, secondary, and college instruction found:

                       -   ICW raised student achievement significantly.
                       -   ICW students gained a better appreciation of technology.
                       -   ICW led to improvement in student attitudes toward schools and
                           teaching.
                       -   ICW helped teachers manage instructional time.


Reasons for ICW        Effectiveness and efficiency gains do not result simply from using
effectiveness          interactive courseware in the instruction. They result from applying a
                       systems approach to the course design and allowing students to progress
                       at their own learning rates. Military courses normally require
                       instructional systems development for all courses and so the gains from
                       ICW would be primarily from timesavings and not improved student
                       performance.


Careful planning       Careful planning is necessary before deciding to use ICW. In each
required               situation, cost-effectiveness is a critical issue. True ICW is an excellent
                       method of instruction but in some cases time and resources are not
                       available to develop a course using these media.
28                                          AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                   Video Technologies

Important finding    Video technologies can simulate world events, equipment, or tasks and
                     deliver interactive instruction in formal schools and remote worksites,
                     referred to as Interactive Video Disk Instruction (IVD).


Telecommunications   Telecommunications technologies have the potential for delivering
advantages           instruction to learners at formal schools and remote sites. Advantages
                     are:

                     -   Blends of technologies can provide learning experiences, which
                         emphasize interaction and individualized learning.
                     -   Linked video and computer technologies can provide interactive
                         training incorporating such important variables as immediate
                         feedback, individualized pacing, and almost unlimited combinations
                         of text, audio, graphics, and full- motion video.
                     -   Multiple branching, immediate feedback, and individualized
                         interaction are other inherent features.


IVD advantages       IVD can enhance the effectiveness of computer-based instruction. IVD
                     advantages are:

                     -   Full motion video better supports learning objectives requiring
                         observation of people or machines in motion.
                     -   Students completing IVD score considerably higher than students in
                         traditional courses.
                     -   Students in self-paced IVD learn the same or more in less time than
                         in lecture-based presentations.


Needs assessment     IVD requires needs assessment and cost-effectiveness analyses be
                     performed before implementation.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         29


                                          Simulators

Important finding      Simulators enable learners to acquire the knowledge they need to operate
                       and repair devices. Learners can practice at speeds not constrained by
                       real time at a fraction of training cost over using actual equipment.
                       Simulators also decrease the risk of personal harm or damage to actual
                       equipment.


Simulator definition   Simulators may be devices that physically resemble actual equipment (a
                       mock-up or part-task trainer) or a type of computer-based training
                       (CBT) in which computer images or video are used to represent the
                       equipment.


Simulator              Simulators offer many training advantages:
advantages
                       -   They are cheaper to practice on than actual equipment.
                       -   They are often easier to understand than the actual equipment
                           because they can depict normally invisible functions and events such
                           as electron flows.
                       -   They can determine how much practice the student needs and can
                           isolate and repeat the difficult segments of a task.
                       -   They can present events at speeds that are much faster than real time.
                       -   They present the effect of manipulations so they can be seen quickly.
                       -   They provide the opportunity to accomplish additional practice
                           quickly.
                       -   They can incorporate important training variables such as detailed
                           performance evaluation and feedback.
30                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                           Development and Use of Simulators

Important finding    Design, development, and use of simulators require careful planning and
                     special skills.


Design development   The following factors are important to the design and development of
factors              simulation devices:

                     -   Design decisions must be related to the cognitive processes required
                         to learn the task rather than focusing on particular hardware or the
                         medium.
                     -   An effective simulator should isolate relevant cues while students
                         learn to ignore irrelevant information.
                     -   A simulator’s effectiveness is more a function of the instructional
                         methods used to support learning.
                     -   A simulator’s physical similarity to the device it represents does not
                         determine its effectiveness.
                     -   Tryouts with typical students are important to validate the design.


Analysis required    Remember that needs assessment and cost-effectiveness analyses must be
                     accomplished before acquiring this medium!
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         31


                         Distributed Learning and Tele-training

Important finding    Students away from formal schools can interact with instructors through
                     modern communications technology such as networked computers with
                     or without television.


Electronic network   Through instructional electronics networks, students alone or in small
advantages           groups, can learn skills and knowledge where they will use them:

                     -   Telephone computer networks control audio or electronic exchanges
                         between students and instructors. Satellite links, cable television, or
                         cassettes deliver video if needed.
                     -   Participants work on problems particular to their own situation when
                         their work schedule allows.
                     -   Variations are possible. Participants can delay the interactions by
                         saving questions, answers and comments until time is available to
                         address them.


Tele-Training        Teletraining involving one-way video with two-way audio links is
advantages           perhaps the best compromise between cost and information quality. The
                     advantages are:

                     -   This provides full presentation of visual information and allows
                         students to ask questions or make comments at any time.
                     -   Compressed two-way video is also becoming more economically
                         feasible.
                     -   The advent of large-scale digital networks and satellite links has made
                         video teleconferencing more commonplace.


Tele-Training        Deterrents to the use of teletraining are the significant preparation time,
deterrents           equipment costs, and relatively complex logistics required.


                                                                         Continued on next page
32                                       AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Benefits of      The following are benefits of teletraining:
teletraining
                 -   Enables new students to observe experienced specialists.
                 -   Reaches learners where and when the training is needed.
                 -   Shifts more responsibility for acquiring the skill from the trainer to
                     the student.
                 -   Saves travel cost by not requiring time away from job.


Micro-Computer   Microcomputers can also serve as terminals to remote data banks and
advantage        network members. Through telephone connections and a centralized
                 message workspace, learners can ask questions or propose solutions to
                 other members sharing the network. This provides an inexpensive source
                 for high quality ICW lessons, desktop simulators or simulations.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        33


                                     Adopting Change

Important finding     Education and training managers and developers can affect the rate at
                      which the schools and instructors adopt newly developed instructional
                      materials and programs.


Adopting strategies   Points on adopting strategies:

                      -   Training commands and schools should consider the strategies used
                          to encourage the potential users to adopt the new materials.
                      -   One way of overcoming the "not invented here" attitude is to involve
                          all potential users in the analysis and design phases of innovative
                          courses.
34                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                      Managing Change

Important finding      Using an effective person as an agent to manage change is a critical
                       factor in its spread.


Role of change agent   The agent studies the potential adopting organization and systematically
                       shows that the innovation:

                       -   Has obvious advantages over the existing process, materials, or
                           equipment.
                       -   Is compatible with the existing system.
                       -   Is supported by significant research and/or evaluations.
                       -   Is a rational sequence for its adoption and application.
                       -   Addresses an identified need of the potential user.
                       -   Will be used for a long time.
                       -   Can be adopted by the staff with minimum training.


Managing change        To properly manage change, the manager must concentrate on the
                       following related to:

                       -   The potential users and their needs rather than the material or the
                           innovation.
                       -   The situation as well as the potential user.
                       -   The need to tailor the innovation to the user’s needs.
                       -   The need to explain the innovation to the potential users.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         35


                  Conclusion to Techniques for Instructional Managers

Manager should       After reviewing this Section, regarding important techniques for the
accomplish           instructional manager, you should now be able to accomplish the
                     following:

                     -   Become an assertive instructional leader by putting instructional
                         excellence first.
                     -   Focus programs on instructional goals and protect them from
                         irrelevant demands.
                     -   Demand high quality training from staff, instructors, and students.
                     -   Develop and monitor in-service staff training.
                     -   Encourage consensus on values and goals.
                     -   Establish a system for evaluation and monitor it systematically.
                     -   Bring instructional technology and good practices to bear on
                         instruction.
                     -   Promote a positive climate and overall atmosphere.
                     -   Plan and coordinate long-range changes in education/training to
                         increase effectiveness and efficiency.
                     -   Analyze and plan for use of technology to increase productivity.
                     -   Consult with education and training specialists about respective
                         policy and practices.


Instructor role      In the next section we will turn our attention to the most influential
                     person in the eyes of the student, the instructor.
36                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                        Section B
                                 Techniques for Instructors


Where to read about   The following topical index is provided as a quick reference to this
it                    section.

                             Topic                                                     Page
                      Student Feedback                                                   37
                      Student Activities                                                 38
                      Classroom Leadership                                               39
                      Learning Strategies                                                40
                      Testing Student Progress                                           43
                      Providing Students Feedback                                        45
                      Managing Active Learning Time                                      46
                      Cooperative Learning                                               47
                      Peer Teaching                                                      48
                      Effective Instructor Presentations                                 50
                      Practicing Applications                                            52
                      Mental Models                                                      53
                      Motivating Students                                                54
                      Student Controlled Learning                                        56
                      Out-of-Class Assignments                                           57
                      Conclusion to Techniques for Instructors                           58
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        37


                                     Student Feedback

Important finding     Instructors can improve their performance through careful analysis of
                      student feedback.


Benefits of student   When schools require students to rate instructors, they expect instructors
ratings               to use the ratings for improving instructional techniques. Evaluation
                      studies show that feedback from student ratings improves instructor
                      performance:

                      -   Research on college teaching revealed that instructors who received
                          feedback from mid-semester ratings received substantially higher end-
                          of-course ratings than instructors who were rated at the end of the
                          semester did.
                      -   Ratings improve more when instructors discuss the mid- semester
                          with consultants or received help in reacting to them.
                      -   Instructors and managers can use ratings during a course to modify
                          and improve teaching with the same groups.


Feedback timing       As with all feedback, it is timing and content which influence its
                      effectiveness. Other instructors or education and training specialists can
                      help individual instructors improve their teaching through student
                      feedback.
38                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                       Student Activities

Important finding      Student activities during learning are more important in determining what
                       is learned than the instructor’s presentation.


Planning active        Instructors aid student achievement by getting students to engage in
learning               activities that are likely to result in learning:

                       -   Effective instructors not only present facts, ideas, or information but
                           also get students actively involved in appropriate learning activities to
                           attain desired outcomes.
                       -   Learning is an active process, and instructors should develop as many
                           learning strategies as possible to help students achieve the objectives.


Prior knowledge        During the learning processes, instructors should consider students’ prior
                       knowledge. Students’ understanding of new information depends on how
                       well they relate it to their prior knowledge:

                       -   Students often begin learning with substantial misconceptions about
                           the material they are studying and its intended use.
                       -   Even students who get high grades have these misconceptions.
                       -   Students make systematic errors based on misconceptions and
                           erroneous procedures from prior knowledge.


Instructional intent   Students should never begin instruction without understanding its intent:

                       -   Instructors need to fully explain the instructional intent (course
                           objectives) and its relationship to the knowledge, skills, and attitudes
                           the students already possess.
                       -   Instructor must understand how current and prior knowledge
                           determines what the students will learn from new material that
                           conflicts with their existing beliefs.
                       -   Students should be asked to reveal their misconceptions so that the
                           instructor can address them.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         39


                                     Classroom Leadership

Important finding       Effective instructor classroom leadership promotes effective student
                        learning.


Instructor leadership   Instructors lead students to learn by focusing on the following:

                        -   Presenting well-conceived learning objectives.
                        -   Conducting regular and comprehensive evaluations of student
                            learning.
                        -   Having high expectations of all students.
                        -   Providing a purposeful learning environment.
                        -   Concerning themselves with student performance.


Diversity of opinion    Instructors should encourage diversity of opinion by:

                        -   Pointing out relationships between various opinions and ideas.
                        -   Stressing the variety of potential solutions to a problem.
                        -   Protecting minority opinions.
                        -   Keeping disagreement under control.


Peer feedback           Peer-feedback improves instructional effectiveness. Instructors can
                        observe each others’ classroom procedures and provide constructive
                        feedback.


Objective grades        Students' grades should be based on objective attainment. Grades should
                        not be used to correct disciplinary problems. Disciplinary problems are
                        reduced when students actively participate in learning.


Instructor's role       Instructors must accomplish the following:

                        -   Help students perceive education and training as relevant and
                            interesting.
                        -   Use techniques to reinforce good behavior.
                        -   Seek friendly relationships.
                        -   Encourage students to cooperate with other students and staff.
40                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                    Learning Strategies

Important finding     Study skills and strategies can influence what and how students learn.
                      Students can learn effective study strategies.


Learning strategies   Study or learning strategies may affect learner motivation or the way they
                      select, acquire, organize, or integrate new knowledge. An example of
                      these strategies would be:

                      -   Learners may coach themselves to reduce anxiety.
                      -   Learners may use imaging to relate vocabulary words and meanings.
                      -   Learners may summarize and take notes to memorize written
                          material.


Better students use   Above average students use learning strategies to acquire, organize, or
learning strategies   integrate new knowledge. Students may use imaging to relate
                      vocabulary words and meanings, or summarize and take notes to
                      memorize written material.


Average students      Average and below average students use effective study strategies
infrequently use      infrequently. They need to be taught how to use these strategies. Once
                      they have learned the strategies, all students can study and learn more
                      efficiently. They must be encouraged to do so.


Factors in student    Students can monitor and adjust the way they study based on:
study
                      -   Whether they understand difficult material.
                      -   How much time they have for studying.
                      -   How much they know about the material.
                      -   The standards they must meet.

                                                                        Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                              41



Instructor role for    Instructors’ can help improve study skills by:
improving study
skills                 -   Adjusting students’ study methods according to content difficulty,
                           time allowed for studying, familiarity with content, and standards
                           required.
                       -   Spreading study sessions on a topic over available time so students
                           do not work continuously on a single topic.
                       -   Using study strategies appropriate for learning a task.
                       -   Use rehearsal and self-testing to memorize ordered lists, take notes
                           that paraphrase a lecture, organize information in text by identifying
                           main ideas and relating to current knowledge.
                       -   Allowing students to assess their progress and modify the strategies
                           as needed.


Effect of training     Training of techniques for learning from text materials has a substantial
                       effect on test performance covering the content studied.


An example of          In the following example, students were taught:
training students to
learn text             -   How to make a network map of the information in a text.
                       -   How to make a spatial representation of the information.
                       -   How to paraphrase.
                       -   How to draw pictorial representations of ideas and concepts.

                       Four different measures were used to examine the effect of the training.
                       Figure 3, taken from Montague and Knirk, shows that trained students
                       substantially outperformed untrained ones on essay and short-answer
                       tests. The histogram bars show how much the scores of the trained
                       students exceeded those of untrained students.

                       On a “cloze” test every nth word in the material is deleted, and the
                       student tries to fill in the correct word from memory. Trained students
                       also showed superior performance on that type of test. On a multiple-
                       choice test trained students’ superiority was slight. This type of test is
                       not as useful a test for examining student learning and understanding.
42                                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


Figure 3. Effectiveness of Training Students to Learn from Text.

                                   
                                                  Short
                                   
         exceeded untrained one
                                                 answer
           Percent of total that

                                        Essay
                                   
            trained students


                                   
                                   
                                                                       Cloze
                                   
                                   
                                                           Multiple
                                                            choice
                                   




An example of
training students to
learn text
(Continued)




Conclusion to                            Students given training in how to study text material outperform students
Figure 3                                 not given training.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        43


                                Testing Student Progress

Important            Frequent, systematic testing and assessing of student progress informs
finding              students about their learning. Instructors and managers learn about
                     strengths and weaknesses in student learning and the instruction.


Types of tests       Students are tested to determine what they know and what they need to
                     learn. Various types of tests can be used including observing laboratory
                     exercise performance, giving oral quizzes and test, assigning homework,
                     asking questions in the classroom, and giving comprehensive
                     performance tests.


Advantages of        The following are advantages of student assessment:
student assessment
                     -   Student errors on tests and in class alert instructors to learning
                         problems that need to be corrected.
                     -   Student motivation and achievement improve when instructors
                         provide prompt feedback on their performance and assignments.
                     -   Frequently tested students outperform less tested ones in the
                         classroom.


Knowledge tests      Students generally take either knowledge or performance tests.
                     Knowledge tests help instructors find out if the students have learned
                     information important for safety and knowledge important for
                     performance.


Performance tests    Performance tests enable instructors to determine student competence
                     and identify student and instructor problems. The instructors’ biggest
                     concern with testing is to identify what the students do not know.


                                                                        Continued on next page
44                                       AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Job-like tests   In technical training, assessment should be as job-like as possible. The
                 following should be applied:

                 -   Emphasizing hands on performance tests.
                 -   Limiting pencil and paper tests to safety and knowledge, critical for
                     job performance.
                 -   Testing with open-book where students use manuals and other
                     references normally available on the job.


Performance      Performance difficulties often indicate gaps in student knowledge.
difficulties     Student explanations of their actions or answers to questions can help
                 instructors identify knowledge gaps.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         45


                               Providing Students Feedback

Important finding     Students who receive constructive feedback about the accuracy and
                      adequacy of their performance become more interested in the class and
                      learn more.


Immediate feedback    Giving immediate, constructive student feedback is an effective way for
                      instructors to aid student learning.


Student feedback      No one method is best for providing student feedback. Feedback should
characteristics       have the following characteristics:

                      -   The feedback should be prompt and provide useful information.
                      -   Feedback emphasizing the method used to get the correct answer
                          reinforces the solution.


Features of           Instructor feedback should have the following features:
instructor feedback
                      -   Instructors should give nonspecific praise and criticism infrequently.
                          It should be based on the quality of student performance.
                      -   Instructors should explain correct or incorrect performance. This is
                          better than to give only the correct answer or to judge the student
                          performance.
                      -   Instructors’ feedback should routinely tell students when they are
                          incorrect. They should focus on the content and explain how to
                          reach the correct answer.
                      -   Instructors’ critical feedback, written or spoken, should be given in
                          private and not in front of the class.


Benefits of timely    Constructive, timely feedback, helps students develop self-esteem as well
feedback              as improve performance:

                      -   Students who believe they can succeed are usually more successful
                          than those who are less sure of their ability.
                      -   Students who believe they can succeed are more active learners,
                          work independently, cooperate with other students, and achieve
                          more.
46                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                               Managing Active Learning Time

Important finding       Students who are actively engaged in learning learn more than those
                        passively involved.


Active involvement      The time allocated for learning differs from the time students are
                        “actually engaged” in learning. This difference becomes important in
                        hands-on training, whereby the lack of available equipment sometimes
                        causes students to spend time observing others.


Passive exposure        Passive exposure to laboratory does not mean students are actively
                        engaged in learning. Instructors should use techniques to engage all
                        students in learning.


Effective instructors   Effective instructors determine learning time accurately and use
                        techniques that increase the time students spend on learning activities.
                        The following techniques are helpful:

                        -   Instructors minimize time for breaks and interruption of individual
                            students. Students can help instructors analyze their classroom by
                            identifying distracting events and procedures that could be changed.
                        -   Instructors can increase students' attention to learning and increase
                            learning time and achievement. Questions can focus on material or
                            problems in texts or manuals.
                        -   Instructors who summarize important information prepare students
                            for studying.
                        -   Students who are easily distracted may profit from out-of-class
                            assignments that focus on overcoming the distractions and processing
                            relevant content.
                        -   Students who receive explicit feedback about their performance learn
                            what is required of them and how to correct their actions.


Conclusion              Instructors who supplement a well-planned training program with these
                        learning activities can achieve three major goals:

                        -   They can capture the students' attention.
                        -   They can make the best use of available learning time.
                        -   They can encourage academic achievement.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                            47


                                    Cooperative Learning

Important finding      Cooperating with other students during learning often improves learning.


Cooperative learning   Some advantages of cooperative learning are:
advantages
                       -   Organizing students into small study groups improves performance
                           on achievement tests.
                       -   Arranging students into small groups promotes positive attitudes
                           toward each other and learning.
                       -   Organizing students into groups of two or three assist "team" activity
                           and crew training for the Air Force.


Single student         It is important that one student does not limit opportunities for learning
domination             by dominating others. This can be achieved by testing them separately or
eliminated             by instituting other procedures that ensure that each student spends an
                       appropriate amount of time actively learning.


Cooperation versus     Students tend to avoid activities that they believe will result in failure. A
competition            competitive situation arouses the need to either achieve success or avoid
                       failure. Encouraging cooperation, rather than competition, among
                       students promotes effective achievement and productivity.


Identifying poor       Instructors should demonstrate a cooperative spirit by not singling out
performance            poor performers. Self-esteem and ego are "on the line" when students
                       are asked to perform in front of classmates. Bad experiences in
                       traditional education, feelings about authority, and the preoccupation
                       with events outside the classroom all affect experiences in class. Singling
                       out poor performers leads to negative attitudes toward the instructor and
                       the students.


Conclusion             Instructors can increase student learning by promoting cooperation rather
                       than competition among the students. Students competing for grades or
                       other extrinsic goals focus on beating other students rather than on
                       understanding the course material and learning how to work as a team
                       member.
48                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                         Peer Teaching

Important finding       Students who receive instruction from peer teachers receive higher
                        grades and develop positive attitudes toward training.


Advantages of peer      Peer instruction provides the following advantages:
instruction
                        -   Peer interaction improves students’ academic performances and
                            attitudes.
                        -   Instructors can supplement regular classroom teaching with peer
                            teaching.
                        -   Peer instruction helps slower students succeed.
                        -   Peer teachers benefit from preparing and giving lessons they prepare
                            and present.


Peer teaching           Peer teaching can take a variety of forms as:

                        -   Instructor assistants leading discussion groups, seminars, or tutorial
                            groups.
                        -   Senior students assisting new students (see the proctor model at
                            Figure 4).
                        -   Student-led learning groups which have no instructors.


Raises test scores      Student coaching usually raises test scores (see Figure 4). The effects
                        are greatest in long, cognitive and extensive drill-and-practice courses.
                        Short test-taking oriented courses show the least improvement as a result
                        of coaching methods.


Effectiveness of peer   The graph at Figure 4, taken from Montague and Knirk (1993), is based
instruction             on actual student performance. It demonstrates the relationship between
                        peer teaching (student coaching) and reduction in student attrition.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                            49



Effectiveness of peer   Figure 3. Effectiveness of Peer Teaching.
instruction
(Continued)




Conclusion              Students bring a lot of invaluable life experiences into the classroom,
                        which should be acknowledged and used. Students can learn much
                        through interacting with respected peers.
50                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                               Effective Instructor Presentations

Important finding       Students learn best when their instructors inspire them to take an active
                        role in their learning.


Good instructors        Good instructors are not only subject matter experts in what they teach
                        but know how to teach. They are prepared to answer student questions
                        and stimulate student interaction.


Factors for effective   For effective presentations, instructors should keep the following
presentations           concepts in mind:

                        -   Present the material in a logical structure which can help students
                            learn and remember. Students can remember only a small amount of
                            material presented orally or visually.
                        -   Present no more than two or three main ideas in a 15-minute
                            segment.
                        -   Use techniques to stimulate students to assume an active role in
                            understanding what is taught.
                        -   Present summaries to reemphasize main ideas, illustrations, tables,
                            and charts.
                        -   Use lesson enhancements that foster retention. Students are likely to
                            remember the illustration used to teach a concept or practice.


Questioning             Instructors who maintain a questioning atmosphere force students to
atmosphere              think and solve problems.


Ways to stimulate       Instructors can use the following techniques to stimulate learning:
learning
                        -   Ask students to summarize lessons.
                        -   Challenge students by providing incorrect information to determine if
                            they can provide the correct information.
                        -   Divide students into small groups for discussions.
                        -   Ask questions randomly during lectures.
                        -   Relate directly to relevant "war stories" or anecdotes and explain
                            their relevance clearly.

                                                                          Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                    51



Demonstrate task   Students learn best when instructors demonstrate steps to accomplish a
steps              task. Instructors should systematically demonstrate tasks, explaining the
                   purpose and result of each activity. This is particularly effective in
                   teaching basic skills, and in helping experienced students master complex
                   materials.
52                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                 Practicing Applications

Important finding    Practice promotes learning of new skills.


Lack of practice     Most education and training programs involve too much in the way of
                     talking, presenting, and demonstrating on the part of the instructor.


Procedural tasks     With procedural tasks, listening and watching are not good enough if you
                     have the option of doing. Remember that doing requires some initial
                     level of learning.


Key points           The following key points contribute to successful practice:

                     -   Students learn best by doing and should have opportunities to
                         practice.
                     -   Students should practice a variety of tasks representative of the job.
                     -   Instructors should emphasize key points to increase retention.
                     -   Explicit feedback helps students identify and correct performance
                         difficulties.


Amount of practice   The amount of practice required to correctly perform a task usually
                     increases with task complexity. In very complex tasks, small segments of
                     a task should be practiced before the entire task. Removing a jet engine
                     is a complex task, which might require practice on individual engine
                     components (task activities) before the engine is actually removed.


Appropriate          Using the wrong learning strategy inhibits learning during practice.
techniques           Instructors should always use practice techniques appropriate for each
                     task. In seemingly simple tasks such as memorizing strings of digits,
                     students can practice for hours without improving their performance
                     unless a proper learning strategy is used. Grouping or coding schemes
                     may be the best way to learn strings of digits.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        53


                                     Mental Models

Important finding   Mental models promote understanding of concepts.


Mental model        Learning involves the development of qualitative conceptual structures
definition          that are called "mental models.” A person uses mental models to
                    understand, explain, and predict things about the world. Mental models
                    allow people to describe a system's structure, explain its present state,
                    and make predictions about future states.


Mental models       Mental models evolve naturally through the interaction of the learner and
evolve              particular environments. Methods can be devised to promote their
                    development as follows:

                    -   One way is representing the functionality of the work environment
                        and the devices and equipment in it. Providing external guidance or
                        directions allows the buildup of experience. This coupled with
                        cognitive information will guide performance.
                    -   An accurate mental model develops from the way events flow on-the-
                        job, and how devices function and can malfunction. This serves as
                        the scheme to guide personal action when new problems are
                        encountered.
                    -   Students should describe in detail the steps they are using in
                        performing a task. This will help identify errors. Student competence
                        develops faster and transfers readily to the work environment with
                        this procedure.


Example             As an example, take the task of training the students to solve problems in
                    electric circuits, thermodynamics, or mechanics. By guiding students
                    through the steps, explaining why they are taken, and then having
                    students describe the factors and their interactions as they solve
                    subsequent problems, they learn rapidly and accurately. Instructors can
                    check the accuracy of a student's initial representation of all facets of the
                    problem and provide basic correct solutions.


Conclusion          By concentrating on accurate initial description of the problem, students
                    learn to internalize the procedures as part of their mental model, which
                    they use habitually in approaching problems later on.
54                                          AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                   Motivating Students

Important finding    Learning improves when students set their own goals and determine how
                     to achieve them.


Student controlled   Students who believe they control their own learning experience, believe
learning             they can handle most training challenges. However, not all students can
                     take charge of their own learning without encouragement and help.


Student set goals    Students can learn to set daily goals, monitor progress toward these
                     goals, and chart progress to provide reinforcement. Instructors should
                     always check students’ progress and provide positive verbal
                     encouragement and reinforcement.


Focus on             Extrinsic rewards (grades, etc.) may not motivate students as much as
competence           goals and rewards based on direct involvement with the ongoing
                     education and training. Instructors should focus attention on the long
                     term competence rather than extrinsic rewards. The following
                     techniques are useful in promoting this focus:

                     -   Provide feedback that informs.
                     -   Encourage persistence in learning.
                     -   Point out instructional relevance.


Rewarding learning   Instructors frequently reward learner effort so that the learners may
effort               concentrate on working hard and fast rather than on the quality of their
                     work.




                                                                       Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                          55



Instructors should   Instructors should examine their reward system and place more emphasis
emphasize            on the following to encourage effort and performance:

                     -   Instructors should explain, when effort is rewarded, the extent to
                         which the reward is for their effort, so that students do not confuse
                         an effort award for quality performance.
                     -   Students generally consider the quality of their work more when
                         performance is emphasized.
                     -   Instructors should never tell students who are failing that the failure
                         is only because of lack of ability. Students who feel they do not have
                         the ability to learn may develop a pattern of hopelessness and stop
                         trying.
                     -   Instructors should help students overcome training obstacles and
                         devote effort to learning if there is any chance the individuals can
                         succeed.


Conclusion           Instructors should focus on motivating their students, and on relevant
                     learning tasks. Less capable students should be rewarded for progress;
                     high achievers should always be challenged according to their abilities.
56                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                               Student Controlled Learning

Important finding     Students’ perceptions of who controls key events in learning significantly
                      affects their academic achievement.


Student perceptions   Students generally attribute learning success to a combination of ability,
                      effort, and luck. Students believe if they significantly control learning,
                      they can also organize their environment for maximum success; that is
                      they can "make their own luck."


Student perceptions   The following points represent student perceptions about success and
of success            failure:

                      -   Civilian schools have repeatedly demonstrated that in teaching slower
                          students, the students think that other individuals cause their
                          successes and failures.
                      -   Successful students are more likely to recognize their responsibility
                          for achievement.
                      -   Students’ perceptions about who caused their successes and failures
                          depend on situational factors. Certainly instructors can change these
                          perceptions.
                      -   Feedback on performance quality and how to improve it can teach
                          slower students to recognize that they are responsible for their
                          learning and performance.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         57


                                 Out-of-Class Assignments

Important finding     Students’ performances improve significantly when instructors regularly
                      give out-of-class assignments, ensure they are completed, and provide
                      explicit feedback.


Students learn more   Students in courses requiring out-of-class assignments learn more than
                      students in courses without such assignments.


Relevant out-of-class The time students spend on relevant out-of-class assignments benefits
assignments           them as much as in-class learning time. Instructors should always grade
                      assignments to inform students of their performance.


Benefits from out-of- The following are benefits from out-of-class assignments:
class assignments
                      - Instructors can use out-of-class assignments to increase practice, a
                         technique especially helpful for low achievers.
                      - Low achievers doing out-of-class assignments often obtain grades as
                         high as students do with greater ability that do not do extra
                         assignments.
                      - Out-of-class assignments boost student achievement through
                         increasing total study time.
                      - Out-of-class assignments can be helpful for all students, but
                         especially for slower students.


Summary                Students are more willing to do assignments they consider useful.
                       Instructors should give the same care in preparing out-of-class
                       assignments as classroom instruction.


Conclusion             Out-of-class assignments must be an integral part of instruction.
                       Evaluate them, and count them as part of the course requirements.
58                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                         Conclusion to Techniques for Instructors

Excellent techniques   After looking at what civilian and military research found in the role of
are ageless            the instructor, one can see that some excellent techniques are ageless.
                       We have to remind ourselves that what worked in the past can still work
                       today.


What motivated         We learned in this section that a motivated instructor would help the
instructors do         student in the following ways:

                       Theoretical
                       - Bring good practices to bear on education and training.
                       - Focus classroom activities on learning.
                       - Emphasize student learning and achievement.
                       - Provide well-structured presentations and classroom activities.
                       - Arrange many and varied learning activities.
                       - Test and question students to evaluate their learning progress and
                          maintain motivation to learn.

                       Hands On
                       - Monitor students studying and adjust their activities to maximize
                          their effort and progress.
                       - Give corrective feedback regularly.
                       - Promote effective use of instructional time. Learn and use teaching
                          techniques that enhance student learning.
                       - Create a job-like instructional situation.
                       - Emphasize hands-on, job-like performance tests.
                       - Provide students with opportunities for individualized work.
                       - Design out-of-class assignments to increase student achievement.


Caring about           Most of all, right up front, you must care about your students and let
students               them know you are excited about teaching them. If the students aren’t
                       convinced you care, all areas of discussion so far will not matter!


Manager, instructor,   The manager and instructor are clearly important elements to ensure the
specialist are         student learns what is important, and the student feels good about what
required               is learned. The specialist is the third element needed for the successful
                       delivery of education and training.

                                                                         Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                  59



Specialist role   Specialists provide advice and assistance to managers and instructors.
                  They assist with evaluation, course materials design and development.
                  The instructor and specialist may be the same person. Economic realities
                  make this an increasing probability. The next section will focus on what
                  research contributes to the performance of the specialist.
60                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                        Section C
                          Techniques for Instructional Specialists


Where to read about   The following topical index is provided as a quick reference to this
it                    section.

                             Topic                                                     Page
                      Systematic Instructional Design                                    61
                      Instructional Objectives                                           63
                      Text Enhancement                                                   64
                      Reading Grade Levels                                               66
                      Building on Existing Knowledge                                     67
                      Using Examples                                                     68
                      Motivating Students                                                70
                      Designing Effective Illustrations                                  72
                      Formative and Summative Evaluation                                 74
                      Effective Simulation                                               75
                      Effective Testing                                                  76
                      Instructional Objectives and Tests                                 78
                      Instructional Time Distribution                                    79
                      Promoting Student Cooperation                                      80
                      Memory Aids                                                        82
                      Conclusion                                                         85
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        61


                              Systematic Instructional Design

Important finding     Systematic training design models provide methodologies for planning,
                      analyzing, designing, developing, implementing, and managing
                      instruction and are important for limiting content to what is clearly
                      needed.


System approach       System approaches to instructional design all require the same general
similarities          steps or phases necessary to produce instruction to support the intended
                      learning by students.


Positive              System approaches share these positive characteristics:
characteristics of
system approaches     -   These system models (refer to AFMAN 36-2234) make sure that
                          every piece of instruction has recognizable elements and is tied to an
                          analysis of needs and tasks to be learned.
                      -   They assist the management of training development by: making
                          education and training congruent with job-tasks without irrelevant
                          content, evaluating effectiveness and revising inadequate materials,
                          making media development more efficient, promoting efficient use of
                          time, and allowing for structured resource management and planning.


Limited training in   Quality of training programs applying systems approach models usually
systems approach      depends on the knowledge and skills of the personnel using the
                      procedures. Most Air Force instructors receive only brief training in the
                      use of these procedures.


Insufficient          Insufficient understanding of how learning occurs prevents the
understanding         development of simple, yet general and useful, theories of how to make it
                      occur. Until this process is better understood, clear and simple
                      prescriptions for devising instruction will not be available for them to
                      follow.

                                                                        Continued on next page

Air Force solution    The Air Force is currently attempting to fix this problem of insufficient
                      understanding of how learning occurs by creating “How To” volumes on
                      applying Instructional Systems Development (ISD) to Acquisition,
                      Aircrew Training, Technical Training, Education, and Application to
                      Unit Training (AFH 36-2235, Vols. 3, and 8 through 11).
62                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Instructional        Because of the different levels of expertise involved in developing
materials must be    instruction, empirical tryouts of the instructional materials and system
tested               with students is very important.


Findings in this     Many of the research findings in this volume provide useful information
Volume Are Tested    for designing instruction. Developers need to become aware of these
                     tried-out results and learn how to incorporate them into the instruction
                     they design and develop.


Navy Instructional   The Navy, as the Air Force, has developed a tool for reviewing
Quality Inventory    objectives and checking their congruency with associated training and
                     test items called the Instructional Quality Inventory (IQI). When applied
                     to existing programs, or during the development of new courses, this IQI
                     tool focuses instructional developers on the objectives and course
                     requirements during the development of instructional materials and test
                     items.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                            63


                                    Instructional Objectives

Important finding       Objectives that directly reflect education/training requirements are easiest
                        to test. Measurable, observable education/training objectives ensure
                        consistency among job tasks, course content, and test items. When
                        education/training include objectives, student confidence improves and
                        anxiety decreases.


Objectives useful for   Objectives may be easier to write for concrete procedures rather than for
all content             more academic content areas such as history. There is no evidence to
                        suggest that objectives are more useful for one content area than another.


Objectives have         Expanding the task statements into objectives requires the following:
three elements
                        -   Clarifying the behaviors.
                        -   Identifying the relevant conditions under which the behaviors are to
                            be displayed.
                        -   Specifying standards used to determine adequate performance.

                        Test development is facilitated when objectives contain the above three
                        elements.
64                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                     Text Enhancement

Important finding     Text enhancement through effective introduction, summaries, examples,
                      and diagrams aids student comprehension.


Importance of text    Much education and training is accomplished through written
                      descriptions. Texts are prepared to serve as a basis for student learning
                      by providing facts, examples, and explanations.


Student               To learn, students must understand the materials and how they can apply
understanding         the information.


Reasons for lack of   Descriptions, instructions, and explanations are often difficult to
understanding         understand because of terminology, inadequate connections to student
                      knowledge, or a “topic-orientation” that tells all about a subject, but not
                      “what a person does” or “how to do it.”


Performance           Writing should be performance oriented rather than topic oriented.
oriented writing      Topic oriented writing looks like reference material aimed at a general,
                      unspecified audience, telling all about a subject and not how to apply the
                      information.


Benefits of           Performance oriented writing focuses on specific users; describes their
performance           roles, tasks, and responsibilities; and gives them the information they
oriented writing      need about how to perform. The advantage of performance oriented text
                      is that readers do not have to infer and conceptualize what to do; it is
                      stated explicitly.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         65



Writing techniques   Techniques for improving text comprehension include:
to improve student
comprehension        -   Providing pre-presentation summaries outlining learning
                         requirements.
                     -   Inserting pictures showing spatial relationships, object form, or
                         internal structures.
                     -   Using concrete examples clarifying abstract ideas or depicting how
                         principles work.
                     -   Using methods that put demands on the student in reading and
                         “processing” the text.
                     -   Asking questions inserted before or after text segments to identify
                         important information, or make desired inferences.
                     -   Asking students to construct a diagram or “map” depicting the
                         relationship of ideas in text to aid comprehension and remembering
                         the information.
66                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                    Reading Grade Levels

Important finding      Reading grade level scores help in determining how well students
                       understand instructional materials.


Readability predicts   Readability formulas predict how well personnel of varying reading
recall                 ability can recall text they have read or heard.


Limitations of         Readability is of limited usefulness for predicting comprehension of
readability            instruction. It is limited because it does not:

                       -   Provide precise estimates of difficulty.
                       -   Estimate the difficulty of non-text materials such as tables and figures
                           that make up much of the instruction in technical training courses.
                       -   Take into account how the materials will be used-- whether they are
                           studied and learned or read while performing.
                       -   Take into account students’ background knowledge in the area and
                           related areas. Students with a lot of background knowledge can
                           attain high comprehension while having reading ability several grade
                           levels lower.


Issues other than      Issues other than readability should be considered in developing
readability            instruction. Performance oriented text is recommended in manuals over
                       topic orientation. Topic oriented text tells the reader everything one
                       wants to know about the topic, but it does not tell what actions are to be
                       performed. A reader must infer what to do. Surprisingly, technical
                       manuals and texts are often topic oriented. Performance-oriented text
                       explicitly tells the reader what actions are expected.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                               67


                               Building On Existing Knowledge

Important finding       Students learn best when instruction is adapted to existing knowledge,
                        skills, and background.


Instruction should      Students can learn much from the invaluable life experiences they bring
reflect student         into the classroom. Education and training materials should consider
experience              students’ existing knowledge and experiences.


Not critical to cover   It is not critical for educators and students to cover all topics and
everything equally      subjects equally well. Human energy and time are finite. Trying to
                        master a little of everything may sacrifice efforts to focus on crucial
                        information and issues.


Design instruction      As instruction is being developed, education and training specialists
on entry behaviors      should reference target population data to determine students’ entry
                        knowledge, skills, attitudes, and proficiencies so that instruction can be
                        designed based on entry behaviors.
68                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                        Using Examples

Important finding      Providing students with good representative examples and contrasting
                       them with bad ones are effective instructional strategies.


Collect a variety of   It is necessary to collect a variety of examples that are not ambiguous or
examples               confusing.


Illustrate the task    Illustrate the task so that the student will understand the problem being
                       studied and not acquire misconceptions.


Elements of a good     Each example must be complete and self-contained. Each example
example                should contain the necessary critical features or attributes so that the
                       student can observe their presence or absence. The student should be
                       able to construct adequate generalizations or representations of the tasks
                       from a good example.


Good example           Good examples must possess the following characteristics:
characteristics
                       -   The form and fidelity of each example must adequately represent the
                           critical features of the task.
                       -   Examples should be as divergent as possible while belonging to the
                           task being taught. This will prevent the formation of misconceptions.
                       -   Examples using extreme variations are avoided. They make examples
                           difficult to understand or demand skills the students may not have.
                       -   Easier examples should be provided early in the lesson with a gradual
                           increase in difficulty.


Attention focusing     Use attention-focusing devices to direct student attention to critical
                       features, to confusing features, and to the absence of critical features.
                       Students tend to respond to similar sets of stimuli in similar ways even
                       when the response may be incorrect in one situation.

                                                                          Continued on next page

Focus on critical      Exposing students to good examples paired with appropriate bad
differences            examples facilitates student discrimination. Focusing on the critical
                       differences between good and bad examples, so they may be easily
                       identified, will assist the student in better discrimination.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                 69



Conclusion       Just as students learn from their mistakes, they learn from good examples
                 and bad examples.
70                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                     Motivating Students

Important finding      When instruction gets the students’ attention, students work hard,
                       achieve more, and enjoy learning.


Four classes of        Four classes of factors influence student motivation to learn and
factors influencing    determine their achievement. Including these factors in the design and
motivation             development of instruction can have beneficial effects on student
                       achievement.


Class 1: Exciting      -   Instruction that is attractive and exciting is especially useful to gain
instruction                students’ attention or interest. Instruction should include material
                           that stimulates their curiosity and makes them eager to learn the
                           material.


Class 2: Relevant      -   Students understand the relevance of instruction when objectives are
instruction                explained to them and new learning is related to their past experience
                           and knowledge.
                       -   Presentations need to explain the goals of the instruction, how the
                           knowledge is to be used, and the role students will play in the work
                           assignment when training is finished.


Class 3: Progressive   -   Providing instruction that allows students to proceed through a
sequencing                 sequence of graded steps maximizes the likelihood of learning and
                           develops confidence in their ability to succeed.
                       -   Assisting students to solve learning problems early, students tend to
                           reduce effort expended in learning when failure is repeatedly
                           experienced.
                       -   Presenting simpler materials and problems first, arranging objectives
                           in a progressive and logical sequence, and applying other techniques
                           that facilitate making correct actions or explain adequate behavior--
                           these all motivate behavior.

                                                                            Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                     71



Class 4: Adequate   -   Praise for accurate performance and informative feedback work
feedback                better than threats or negative comments.
                    -   Feedback given soon after performance should emphasize what are
                        the acceptable aspects of performance.
                    -   Information correcting errors or guiding performance may be most
                        useful given just before another opportunity to perform.
72                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                Designing Effective Illustrations

Important finding       Diagrams, graphs, photographs, and illustrations improve student
                        learning.


Benefits of utilizing   The following benefits from utilizing illustrations are:
illustrations
                        -   Illustrations enhance instructional text and help students remember
                            content.
                        -   Color illustrations encourage students to closely examine materials;
                            color should be used especially to cue what is being learned.


Good illustrations      Good illustrations should have the following characteristics:

                        -   Illustrations should be as simple as possible to reduce confusion.
                        -   Illustrations should be directly related to the lessons. Those which
                            are not are often more distracting than helpful.
                        -   Illustrations with highlighted or labeled information aids learning by
                            making critical items more apparent.
                        -   Illustrations to show various switches on a complex system are a way
                            of avoiding clutter.


Animation               Animation, which is the use of several visuals in rapid succession to
                        simulate motion, may increase student attention. This technique is useful
                        when the content is not appealing.

                                                                            Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                      73



Example of       Two illustrations, taken from Montague and Knirk, are contrasted in
contrasted       Figure 5. The valve on the left is cluttered and confusing; it should be
illustrations    simpler and show only those parts necessary for instruction. Irrelevant
                 labeling was removed from the valve on the right to show the most
                 important parts.

                 Figure 4. Contrasted Illustrations.
74                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                            Formative and Summative Evaluation

Important finding      Trying out instruction determines its overall effectiveness and efficiency.


Formative evaluation Formative evaluation is performed while an instructional program is
defined              being developed. It identifies and removes the most obvious errors in the
                     instruction, obtains initial reactions to the content from the students, and
                     prevents compounding errors. The evidence collected is used to “form”
                     the instructional program.


Questions answered     Questions that should be asked during this type of evaluation should
in formative           identify the students’ perceptions of strengths and weaknesses of the
evaluation             instructional materials:

                       -   Is the instruction interesting?
                       -   Do the students understand what they are supposed to learn?
                       -   Are the materials directly related to the stated objectives?
                       -   How long do the students take to complete the material provided?
                           Does this confirm planning?

                       This type of student feedback can be extremely useful for the developer.


Summative              Summative evaluation, on the other hand, is usually undertaken when
evaluation defined     instructional development is complete using a larger sample of students.
                       Its purpose is to provide “summed” evidence about how well an
                       instructional program works.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                             75


                                     Effective Simulation

Important finding      Effective simulation provides systematic practice and feedback about
                       errors, depicts how a device or system works but may violate physical
                       and temporal fidelity.


Expensive simulators Expensive simulators, which are physically faithful to actual equipment,
not always best      may not provide as effective training as simple, part-task trainers that
                     simulate only a few features.


Complex simulators     Complex simulators may inhibit new students from keeping track of
not for new students   tasks, causing them not to see the results of their interactions with the
                       system.


Simulators for new     Simulators intended to train new students may need to be designed
students               differently from those intended to train advanced students. New students
                       need extensive, simplified guidance and precise corrective feedback while
                       advanced students may only need to broaden their knowledge and skills.


Simulator              Simulators offer many advantages in training:
advantages
                       -   They are often cheaper than actual equipment.
                       -   Dangerous critical tasks are best practiced using simulators.
                       -   The effectiveness of a simulation results from the instructional
                           methods incorporated into the device that support student learning
                           rather than from the simple physical or functional similarity to an
                           actual device.


Design decisions       The design decisions are based on ways to isolate, or discriminate cues,
                       and ways to provide time compressed practice for skill development
                       rather than on particular hardware or media.


Analysis required      Needs and cost-effectiveness analyses must be performed before
                       incorporating simulators into instructional programs.
76                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                     Effective Testing

Important finding    Testing needs to be geared closely to the goals of an education and
                     training program.


Purpose of testing   Testing during and after instruction is used to indicate student progress,
                     determine what students find difficult, and tailor individual assignments
                     to overcome the difficulties.


Testing focused on   The testing should be focused on performance requirements which are
performance          derived from analysis of the work trained individuals are expected to do.


Means of testing     Various means of testing are used, including laboratory exercise
                     performance, oral and written quizzes and tests, out of class assignments,
                     classroom questions, and comprehensive performance tests.


Job related          Assessment needs to be as job-like as possible. Performance tests should
assessment           be hands-on. Pencil and paper tests of knowledge should be restricted to
                     safety and knowledge critical for job performance. If workers use
                     manuals and books to find the information needed to carry out a task on-
                     the-job, open-book testing should be used.


Frequently tested    Well-designed, performance oriented tests inform students about job
students             requirements and guide their learning. Frequently tested students
                     outperform less frequently tested ones.


Knowledge and        Students generally take two kinds of tests, knowledge and performance
performance tests    tests.

                     -   Knowledge tests help instructors find out if the students have learned
                         information important for safety and knowledge important for
                         performance.
                     -   Performance tests indicate student competence and provide
                         information about both student and instruction inadequacies.

                                                                        Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                       77



Prompt testing and   Errors that students make on tests and in class identify learning problems
feedback             that need to be corrected. Instructors need this information to provide
                     prompt feedback to students on their performance and assignments and
                     to help correct any difficulties they may have.
78                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                             Instructional Objectives and Tests

Important finding      Objectives and tests must correlate with each other.


Derivation of          Objectives are derived from the job performance and instructional
objectives             requirements.


Composition of tests   Tests should be composed of the behaviors, conditions, and standards
                       referenced in the objectives.


Performance and        Performance objectives and tests emphasize hands-on requirements while
knowledge              knowledge objectives and tests focus on information critical to job
                       performance.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                          79


                                Instructional Time Distribution

Important finding       Spacing training over several sessions separated by other activities makes
                        training more effective than masses of concentrated practice.


Students absorb         Students can absorb only a limited amount of information at one time.


Designing shorter       Training can be made more effective by designing shorter, distributed
distributive segments   lesson segments with periods of varied interspersed activities. Drill for
                        certain skill enhancements can be made effective by using short sessions
                        of one particular drill separated by other drill activities.


Distributive better     Two distributed sessions are twice as effective as two successive
than successive         sessions. Students’ achievements following mass practices are not as
                        high as achievements in shorter, distributed sessions.
80                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                              Promoting Student Cooperation

Important finding     Promoting cooperation among students in training facilitates academic
                      achievement.


Advantages of         Some advantages of promoting student cooperation are:
promoting student
cooperation           -   It is more effective than promoting interpersonal competition and
                          individual effort to outshine others in class.
                      -   It may also assist subsequent team activities as students learn to work
                          together.
                      -   It promotes positive feelings of personal worth and positive attitudes
                          toward the course content.


Peer instruction      Arranging peer interaction in small groups to supplement regular
                      classroom and laboratory teaching helps slower and underachieving
                      students to learn and succeed in school.


Forms of peer         Peer cooperation can take a variety of forms:
cooperation
                      -   Discussion groups, seminars, or tutorial groups led by teaching
                          assistants.
                      -   The proctor model, where senior students may assist individual
                          students.
                      -   Student learning groups that do not have an instructor or are self-
                          directed, or senior students teaching entering students.


Benefits of student   Student coaching is useful in raising achievement in the following ways:
coaching
                      -   The coaches benefit because they learn more about the material by
                          preparing and giving lessons to others.
                      -   The effort of coaching usually raises achievement test scores.
                      -   The effects are greatest in long cognitive courses and extensive drill-
                          in-practice courses.
                      -   Short courses that stress test-taking show the least improvement
                          from coaching methods.
                      -   Classes that use tests at the start of the course report stronger
                          coaching effects than classes giving tests only at the end.

                                                                         Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                 81



Utilizing life   Students bring many life experiences into the classroom, which should be
experiences      acknowledged, tapped and used. They can learn well and much through
                 cooperative study with respected peers.
82                                         AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                     Memory Aids

Important finding   Mnemonic devices or coding systems help students recall important
                    information.


Minimize memory     The most important point to remember in memory learning, especially in
requirements        the military, is that we need to minimize requirements to memorize. We
                    need to do more to help students test application of knowledge early on.


Rote memory         When faced with memory activities, learning by rote seems an inefficient
inefficient         way of remembering.


Mnemonic devices    When students are faced with a task requiring memory, they often try to
help                devise a scheme to learn the task easier. Teaching students mnemonic
                    procedures aids learning.


Recall can be       Individuals can recall short-term a string of seven unrelated items like
improved            digits or letters presented to them one at a time. Recall performance can
                    be improved to many times beyond this seventh level by using a learning
                    strategy like coding items into more meaningful chunks, and by
                    practicing a lot.

                    The Figure 6 shows data obtained from two persons who learned a way
                    to increase memory-span to exceptional performance levels (Ericsson &
                    Chase, 1982). The lighter line represents a person who was read strings
                    of digits and was asked to recall them. He was a runner. Some digit
                    groups reminded him of running times. He coded 3- and 4-digit groups
                    as running times (e.g., 3492 was coded as 3 minutes 49.2 seconds). He
                    constructed other mnemonic associations such as ages and dates. The
                    darker line represents a person who was taught the memorization
                    scheme. He was also a runner.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         83



Recall can be          Figure 5. Effectiveness of Cuing.
improved
(Continued)




Conclusion to figure   Both runners in figure 6 performed exceptionally. The important point is
6                      that coding schemes based on a person’s existing knowledge can serve as
                       learning strategies. Good ones can be useful to all learners.


Self-generated         Self-generated schemes are powerful tools in learning.
schemes


Extensive practice     Extensive practice is necessary to develop skill.


Many memory aids       There are many kinds of memory aids. Some formal devices composed
                       of visual images or rhymes provide students mental cuing structures.
                       Students learn the cuing structures first and associate each item of new
                       information with one or more of the memorized cuing structures.

                                                                           Continued on next page


Cuing structure        Usually, the cuing structure is not conceptually related to the information
                       it cues. Consider the rhyming peg-word mnemonic system, “One is a
                       bun, two is a shoe, three is a tree, etc.” Students first memorize the
                       ordered rhymes. Then, when they must learn an arbitrary set of items in
                       order, they relate the first with “bun”, the second with “shoe,” and so on.
                       Instructions often suggest using visualization to help relate the items.
84                                  AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Conclusion   Mnemonic devices are effective in helping students recall unorganized
             names and procedural data.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                            85


               Conclusion to Techniques for Education/Training Specialists

Similarities between   After looking at the instructional specialist we can see that some areas
instructor and         seem the same as the instructor’s concerns which proves that in some
specialist             environments the instructor is also the specialist.

                       We should look at the specialist both as a separate and interrelated
                       instructional function depending on the environment.


Expectations for       By looking at the section as a separate function the instructional
specialists            specialist now can:

                       Theoretical
                       - Become assertive instructional leaders by emphasizing factors that
                          bring about excellence.
                       - Learn and understand scientific bases from education and training
                          excellence.
                       - Expect high quality and productivity from staff, instructors, and
                          students.
                       - Promote interaction among instructors.
                       - Protect instruction from irrelevant demands.
                       - Adjust training to goals and to students through detailed evaluation
                          of performance.
                       - Monitor development and empirical evaluation of training
                          technologies.

                       Hands On
                       - Implement and monitor in-service staff training.
                       - Monitor and evaluate instructors and instruction.
                       - Develop well-structured, work-like education and training
                          environment to support student learning.
                       - Assist instructors in providing feedback to students.
                       - Analyze and propose improvements in education and training
                          effectiveness and efficiency.
                       - Provide input to higher management regarding education and training
                          policy.
86                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                          Section D
                              Physical Classroom Environment


Important finding      Classroom lighting, color, temperature, humidity, and noise levels affect
                       student perception, attention, and achievement.


Properly designed      A greater level of learning occurs in a well-designed learning
                       environment than in a poorly designed one.


Winter room climate    A temperature range of 68-74 degrees F at 30 inches from the floor in
                       the winter is healthful and comfortable. The humidity should be kept
                       between 30-60%.


Sedentary and active   The maximum temperature for adult learners for sedentary tasks is 85
tasks                  degrees F and 65 degrees F for active tasks.


Noise                  Background noise apparently interferes with learning or concentration in
                       some learners more than others.


Highest acceptable     The highest level of background noise in a learning environment should
noise level            not exceed 45 dB.


Optimum noise level    Optimum noise level is 30 dB for a learning environment.


Noise limits           Noise levels above 96db seriously impact student error rates. Noise
                       effects of continuous and intermittent pure tone, and noise at fairly low
                       levels of 70dbA, results in a significant decrease of learner performance
                       where high cognitive loading tasks are required.

                                                                         Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                         87



Graphic example of    Many experiments were conducted studying the effects of noise on
noise effects         sustained attention. The Figure 7 below illustrates the effects of noise on
                      the incidence or errors over time in a serial reaction task lasting 40 min.
                      Precautions to eliminate the effects of acoustic cues were taken, which
                      included the use of a silent keyboard and ear defender headphones. In
                      both loud (90dbC and soft 60dbC) conditions the noise is switched off at
                      the end of the third quarter.

                      Figure 6. Effects of Noise on Student Error.




Lighting Importance   Light levels should be directly related to the viewing difficulty of the
                      learning tasks. Insufficient illumination, glare, reflectance, shadows, low
                      brightness contrast, and flickering affect human performance. Good
                      lighting and color decisions increase human performance.

                                                                         Continued on next page
88                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Lighting levels        Lighting for reading tasks should be at the lighting level of 540-755 lux.
                       Lighting for bench work should be at the lighting level of 540-1000 lux.
                       Lighting for learning rooms should be at the lighting level of 500-750
                       lux.


Avoid lighting         Extreme light level contrast must be avoided. Constant adaptation of
extremes               moving from a brightly lit to a darker area can cause eyestrain and
                       headaches.


Biological effect of   Lighting has a profound biological effect on humans. The quantity and
lighting               quality of light are important. Natural, full spectrum tubes (as opposed
                       to traditional fluorescent tubes), reduces individual stress and aggression,
                       and yet is more intellectually stimulating.


Student preferences    While light level preferences differ among individuals, bright lighting
for lighting           increases achievement for most students. Students preferring low
                       lighting did better under lower light conditions. A learning environment
                       should not be uniformly bright and students should be allowed to sit
                       where their light preferences direct them.


Windows?               Data neither consistently support claims that windowless classrooms will
                       allow increased concentration and higher achievement, nor the fear that
                       the absence of windows will have harmful psychological or physical
                       effects.


Color importance       Color influences student learning, attitudes, and behavior. The impact of
                       color on an individual changes with age and with cultural background.
                       Color directly influences physiology as measured by blood pressure,
                       respiratory rate and reaction time.


Color and time         Color has a direct relationship on an individual’s sense of time. Red
                       causes more people to overestimate time, while greens and blues in the
                       environment cause an underestimation of time.


Bright colors          Bright colors (such as red) tend to increase an individuals activity level.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                      89



Choosing colors   Types of objectives to be taught in an area should be considered in
                  choosing classroom or study area colors. Some general guidelines for
                  choosing colors:

                  -   Classrooms or laboratories: greens, blue-greens, gray, beige.
                  -   Gyms: neutral tones or cool colors.
                  -   Auditoriums: green, aqua, peach.
                  -   Entry areas: pink (also useful in prison holding tanks to quiet
                      prisoners), or neutral tones.


Changing colors   Changes in classroom colors can affect learners. Painting the classroom
                  a light neutral color and using floodlights to change the setting can affect
                  individual attitudes and change the focus area.
90                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                       Chapter 3
                                   AUTOMATED TOOLS
                                           Overview

Introduction        One of the most frequent suggestions for improving instructional systems is
                    automation. Management information systems that track courseware
                    development have become necessary. This is especially true for producing
                    training for large weapon systems.


Decision support    Decision support tools that assist with such tasks as designing instruction,
tools               selecting instructional strategies and media, are vital to expeditious
                    development of training.


Automated tools     This section identifies selected automated tools that facilitate Air Force
for instructional   instructional planning, design, development and delivery. A complete list of
development         tools to assist you in developing a training program can be found in a
                    “Survey of Training Development Software Tools” developed by the
                    Computer-Aided Acquisition and Logistic Support (CALS) Human System
                    Components Committee.


Where to read       This chapter contains two sections.
about it
                      Section             Title                                          Page
                         A        Designer’s Edge Pro (Allen Communications)              91
                         B        Designer’s Edge Enterprise (Allen                       94
                                  Communications)
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                      91


                                       Section A
                      Designer’s Edge Pro (Allen Communications)


Date of software      April 1997


System requirements   The minimum system requirements are:

                      -   IBM-compatible PC
                      -   486 SX processor
                      -   8MB of RAM
                      -   5MB extra disk space (after installation)
                      -   VGA-compatible graphics card
                      -   CD-ROM drive
                      -   Windows-compatible mouse
                      -   Microsoft Windows 95

                      The recommended system requirements are:

                      -   IBM-compatible PC
                      -   486 DX2 processor
                      -   16 MB of RAM
                      -   5 MB extra disk space (after installation)
                      -   SVGA-compatible graphics card
                      -   CD-ROM drive
                      -   Windows-compatible mouse
                      -   Microsoft Windows 95.


Other required        Other required software includes:
software
                      -   Word-processing package (i.e. Microsoft Word, WordPerfect,
                          WordPro)
                      -   Authoring software (i.e. Quest, Authorware Pro, IconAuthor, CBT
                          Express, Toolbook II, Visual Basic).


Purpose               Designer’s Edge helps the training manager, training designer/developer,
                      ICW designer/developer, instructor, and subject matter expert use the
                      ISD process to design/develop a course from analysis through
                      evaluation.

                                                                       Continued on next page
92                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Purpose (Continued)   This system is made up of 12 phases (major ISD divisions) each having
                      numerous tasks (ISD processes). Each phases is explained below:

                      Analyze Needs: Provides processes to assess how things are and how
                      things should be as well as measuring the differences. This step includes
                      tools to gather the necessary data, write and prioritize goals, and write a
                      needs analysis report. This step allows the user to plan for altering the
                      situation through training to eliminate the need.

                      Draft Mission Statement: Provides tools to describe, in general terms,
                      what the training course should accomplish. This helps the user define
                      the project size and scope.

                      Create Audience Profile: Gives the user the ability to understand the
                      audience the course will be targeted towards. Background, age,
                      interests, and the participants’ reasons for taking the training are all-
                      important elements to consider when developing a course.

                      Write Objectives: This Phase provides a wizard and tools to write
                      objectives.

                      Analyze & Outline Content: Provides a road map for the course. This
                      phase gives the user tools to gather and analyze content and build a
                      course outline.

                      Layout Course Map: This phase helps the user determine how the course
                      will be structured, what will be taught, lesson length, student evaluation
                      methods, and overall layout of the course.

                      Define Treatment: This phase allows the user to focus on the audience
                      setting the theme, tone, pacing of the course.

                      Select Learner Activities: Helps the user determine the best strategies for
                      the audience, apply activities to course sections, sequence activities to
                      enhance the learning process, and develop an authoring prototype.

                      Create Detailed Plan: Gives the user the ability to create a storyboard
                      (blueprint for the course).

                                                                          Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        93



Purpose (Continued)   Produce Media: Helps the user organize all the media elements required
                      for a course. Various reports can be made and organized for production
                      recommendations, graphics created, locate existing video, create a media
                      log, and produce manuals/documents.

                      Author Course: This phase enhances the development efforts before the
                      authoring phase. It can be used with many of the authoring systems of
                      today (Quest, Toolbook, IconAuthor, etc…). This phase also takes the
                      storyboard into an authoring system.

                      Evaluate Course: Gives the user tools to do both the alpha and beta tests
                      before course implementation.


Other features        Designer’s Edge comes with a customizer and wizard editor. Using the
                      customizer, the designer can lay out or restructure the phases and tasks
                      to meet their organization’s work methods by adding/removing phases
                      and tasks. The wizard editor gives the user the capability to create their
                      own wizards or modify the wizards that come with the software.


Point of contact      HQ AETC/XPRI, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4321, DSN 487-8035 or
                      Commercial 210-652-8035.
94                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                          Section B
                      Designer’s Edge Enterprise (Allen Communications)


Date of software        November 1999


System requirements     Minimum system requirements are:

                        -   IBM-compatible PC
                        -   486 SX processor
                        -   8MB of RAM
                        -   5MB extra disk space (after installation)
                        -   VGA-compatible graphics card
                        -   CD-ROM drive
                        -   Windows-compatible mouse
                        -   Microsoft Windows 95

                        Recommended system requirements are:

                        -   IBM-compatible PC
                        -   486 DX2 processor
                        -   16 MB of RAM
                        -   5 MB extra disk space (after installation)
                        -   SVGA-compatible graphics card
                        -   CD-ROM drive
                        -   Windows-compatible mouse
                        -   Microsoft Windows 95


Other required          Other required software includes:
software
                        -   A word-processing package (i.e. Microsoft Word, WordPerfect,
                            WordPro)
                        -   Authoring software (i.e. Quest, Authorware Pro, IconAuthor, CBT
                            Express, Toolbook II, Visual Basic)
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                 95



Purpose            Like Designer’s Edge Pro, Designer’s Edge Enterprise helps the training
                   manager, training designer/developer, ICW designer / developer,
                   instructor, and subject matter expert use the ISD process to design and
                   develop a course from analysis through evaluation. The enterprise
                   version can be used on a single workstation (similar to Designer’s Edge
                   Pro) and can also be used over a Local Area Network (LAN) system. In
                   the LAN configuration, database connectivity is provided via Open
                   Database Connectivity (ODBC) between the Designer’s Edge
                   application running on the client’s personal computer and the database
                   running on the server. Designer’s Edge Enterprise can use the following
                   database programs: Access 97, Oracle 7 or 8, Microsoft SQL Server 6.5
                   or 7, Sybase II, and Sybase SQL Anywhere 6.0. Other added features of
                   Designer’s Edge Enterprise are an authoring synergy with Microsoft
                   PowerPoint and the ability to take the course storyboard and convert it
                   into an HTML format.


Point of contact   HQ AETC/XPRI, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4321, DSN 487-8035 or
                   Commercial 210-652-8035.
96                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                          Section C
                   Instructional Systems Development Automation (ISDA)


Date of software      April 1992.


System requirements   80286 CPU, 512 Kb RAM, MS DOS, 2.0 or higher, hard disk (required
                      disk space depends on the size of the data files).


Purpose               ISDA assists in the instructional design and development processes.


Description           ISDA addresses the problem of labor intensiveness by eliminating
                      repetitive data input, filtering out non-training requirements early in the
                      analysis process, and automating report generation.


Input data            The analyst input data from any source, i.e., Logistic Support Analyses
                      (LSA), technical manuals, etc. This information is broken down into
                      sequential activities and analyzed. The software uses embedded decision
                      logic to pull forward only those activities that require further analysis.


System generated      The system generates a variety of reports, from task and duty lists to
reports               hardware and Computer Based Training (CBT) fidelity analysis
                      documentation.

                      These reports consume a considerable amount of consolidation effort
                      under the paper analysis methodology.


Embedded decision     ISDA addresses the problem of a lack of standardized analysis parameter
logic                 application by using embedded decision logic to assist the analyst in
                      making training decisions.


System prompts        The system prompts the analyst with questions at the task activity,
questions             knowledge and skilled behavior, media, hardware, and CBT fidelity
                      analysis levels. The analyst’s answers to these questions provide the
                      relevant information that the system uses to baseline decisions.

                                                                          Continued on next page
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                       97



602nd TSS           ISDA software is designed to automate the 602nd TSS ISD process
Automated ISD       through Step 9, “Select Instructional Features.” ISDA generated reports
Process             are included in the training equipment functional specifications. The
                    ISDA reports form the basis for course control documents.


Decision logic      The decision logic used in ISDA was also incorporated into the Joint
                    Service ISD Logistics Support Analysis Record Decision Support
                    System (JSISD/LSAR DSS) referenced earlier in this section. This is a
                    project sponsored by the Armstrong Laboratory aimed at automating the
                    LSA data flow into the ISD process.


Detachment 1,       A significant part of the Det 1, AETC SAS’s mission is to determine
AETC Studies and    maintenance training requirements for new/highly modified weapon
Analysis Squadron   systems. The detachment’s ISD model based on an updated Air Force
(SAS)               ISD model outlined in AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System
                    Development, aligned it with the Analyze and Design phases, and further
                    organized it into a six phase, 15 step process.

                       Phase          Step               Description
                    Phase I –           1        Identify system requirements.
                    Gather data
                                        2        Identify desired training outcomes.
                                        3        Identify target population characteristics.
                                        4        Identify training inadequacies.
                                        5        Assess technology.
                    Phase II –          6        Identify tasks and subtasks for training.
                    Analyze
                    tasks
                                        7        Identify behaviors, prerequisites, and
                                                 environmental objects.
                                        8        Identify media.
                    Phase III –         9        Assess existing training
                    Assess
                    training

                                                                      Continued on next page
98                                          AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Detachment 1,           Phase         Step               Description
AETC Studies and
                    Phase IV –         10        Identify fidelity levels.
Analysis Squadron
                    Identify
(SAS) (Continued)
                    trainers
                                       11        Identify training devices and learning
                                                 systems.
                                       12        Prepare functional specifications.
                    Phase V –          13        Prepare objectives.
                    Reconcile
                    shortfalls
                                       14        Identify specific media and methodology.
                    Phase VI –         15        Assemble information for final report.
                    Prepare
                    reports


Successful          Previous releases of the detachment ISD tool were used for maintenance
applications        training development/assessment on the Defense Satellite
                    Communication System, Third Generation (DSCS III) and B-2
                    programs.


Point of contact    TSgt Karla E. Wiersma, Detachment 1, AETC SAS/TDSS,
                    118 South Wolfe Ave., Edwards AFB California, 93524-6545,
                    DSN: 527-8812, Commercial: 805-277-8812.




                                             RICHARD E. BROWN III, Lt. General, USAF
                                             DCS/Personnel
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                   99


                                     Attachment 1
                               Air Force ISD Documents


AFPD 36-22             Military Training
AFI 36-2201            Developing, Managing and Conducting Military Training
AFI 36-2301            Professional Military Education
AFMAN 36-2234          Instructional System Development
AFMAN 36-2236          Handbook for Air Force Instructors
AFH 36-2235            Information for Designers of Instructional Systems (12 Volumes)
               Vol 1   ISD Executive Summary for Commanders and Managers
               Vol 2   ISD Automated Tools/What Works
               Vol 3   Application to Acquisition
               Vol 4   Manager’s Guide to New Education and Training Technologies
               Vol 5   Advanced Distributed Learning: Instructional Technology and
                       Distance Learning
               Vol 6   Guide to Needs Assessment
               Vol 7   Design Guide for Device-based Aircrew Training
               Vol 8   Application to Aircrew Training
               Vol 9   Application to Technical Training
              Vol 10   Application to Education
              Vol 11   Application to Unit Training
              Vol 12   Test and Measurement Handbook
100                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                         Attachment 2
                                     Category Bibliography

Simulation-Based Training

Simulation based training takes two forms: the high-end, real-world simulators like flight
simulators that are very expensive to design and build and the desk-top part task simulation that
can supplement other forms of training. The following source is concerned with desk-top
simulation rather than full scale simulators.

To learn to design simulation-based training consider the following

   Douglas M. Towne (1995). Learning and Instruction in Simulation Environments.
   Educational Technology. 351 pages. ISBN 0877782784.


Consult the following material for additional references.

Montague, W.E., (1988). What Works: Summary of Research Findings with Implications for
      Navy Instruction and Learning, NAVEDTRA 115-1. Navy Personnel Research and
      Development Center (NPRDC), San Diego CA.


Managing the Education/Training Environment

Corcoran, T. (1985). Effective secondary schools. In R. Kyle (Ed.), Reaching for excellence:
         An effective schools sourcebook (pp. 71-97). Washington DC: U.S. Government Printing
         Office.
Doyle, W. (1985). Effective secondary school practices. In R. Kyle (Ed.), Reaching for
         excellence: An effective schools sourcebook (pp. 55-70). Washington DC: U.S.
         Government Printing Office.
Edmonds, R. (1982). Programs of school improvement. Educational Leadership, 40 (3), 4-11.
Glidewell, J., Tucker, S., Todt, M., & Cox, S. (1983). Professional support systems: The
         teaching profession. In A Nadler, J. Fisher and B. DePaula (Eds.), New directions in
         helping (pp.189-210). New York: Academic Press.
Little, J.W. (1982) Norms of collegiality and experimentation. American Educational Research
         Journal, 19 (3), 325-340.
Walberg, H.J., & Anderson, G.J. (1968). Classroom climate and individual learning. Journal of
         Educational Psychology, 59 (6), 414-419.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        101


Managing Instructors

Bird, T., & Little, J.W. (1985). Instructional leadership in eight secondary schools (Final Report
       to the U.S. Department of Education, National Institute of Education). Boulder CO:
       Center for Action. (ERIC Document N. ED 263 694)
Carmine, D.R., Gersten, R., & Green, S. (1982, December). The Principal as an instructional
       leader: A second look. Educational Leadership, 40 (3), 47-50.
Corcoran, T. (1985, May). Effective secondary schools. In R. Kyle (Ed.), Reaching for
       excellence: An effective schools sourcebook (pp. 82-85). Washington DC: U.S.
       Government Printing Office.
Morris, V.C., Crowson, R., Hurwitz, E., & Porter-Gehrie, C. (1986). Principals in action: The
       reality of managing schools. Columbus, OH: Charles E. Merrill Publishing Co. Cited in
       What Works: Research about Teaching and Learning, (2nd., p. 64). Washington, DC:
       U.S. Department of Education.
Skinner, B. F. (1984). The shame of American education. American Psychologist, 39 (9), 947-
       954.


Evaluating and Supervising Instructors

Cohen, P.A. (1981). Effectiveness of student-rating feedback for improving college instruction:
        A meta-analysis of findings. Research in Higher Education, 13, 321-341.
Fielding, G.D., & Schalock, H.D. (1985). Promoting the professional development of teachers
        and administrators. Eugene OR: ERIC Clearinghouse on Educational Management.
Natriello, G. (1984). Teacher’s perceptions of the frequency of evaluation and assessments of their
        effort and effectiveness. American Educational Research Journal, 21 (3), 579-595.
Natriello, G.,, & Dornbusch, S.M. (1981). Pitfalls in the evaluation of teachers by principals.
        Administrator’s notebook, 29 (6), 1-4.
Skinner, B.G. (1984). The shame of American education. American Psychologist, 39 (9), 947-
        954.
Wise, A.E. (1984). Teacher evaluation: A study of effective practices. Santa Monica CA: Rand
        Corporation.


Managing Student Learning

Hill, H. & Sticht, T. (1980, September). Perspectives on battalion training management. (Final
        Report for USAREUR Field Unit). Alexandria VA: Human Research Organization.
Kern, R. (1986). Modeling information processing in the context of job training and work
        performance. In T. Sticht, F. Chang, & S. Wood (Eds.), Cognitive science and human
        resources management (Advances in reading/language research, vol. 4). Greenwich CT:
        JAI Pres.
Morgan, M., Hall, D.T., & Martier, A. (1979). Career development strategies in industry: Where
        are we and where should we be? Personnel, 56 (2), 13-31.
102                                             AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


Monitoring and Tailoring

Cooley, W.W. (1983, June/July). Improving the performance of an educational system.
       Educational Researcher, 12 (6), 4-12.
Cooley, W.W., & Lohnes, P.R. (1976). Evaluation research in education: Theory, principles, and
       practice. New York: John Wiley & Sons.
Walberg, H.J. (1984, May). Improving the productivity of America’s schools. Educational
       Leadership, 41 (8), 19-36.


Evaluation and Revision

Cronbach, L.J. (1963). Course improvement through evaluation. Teacher College Record, 64,
         672-683.
Ellis, J.A., Knirk, F.G., Taylor, B.E., & McDonald, B.A. (1987). The Course Evaluation System.
         (NPRDC TR 87-19), San Diego CA: Navy Personnel Research and Development Center.
Markle, S.M. (1967) Empirical testing of programs. In P.C. Lange (Ed.), Programmed
         Instruction: The sixty-sixth yearbook of the national study of education, Part II. Chicago:
         University of Chicago Press.
Merrill, M.D., Reigeluth, C.M., & Faust, G.W. (1979). The instructional quality profile: A
         curriculum evaluation and design tool. In H.F. O’Neil Jr. (Ed), Procedures for
         instructional systems development (pp. 165-202). New York: NY, Academic Press.
Montague, W.E., Ellis, J.A., & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1983). Instructional quality inventory: A
         formative evaluation tool for instructional development. Performance and Instruction
         Journal, 22 (5), 11-14.


Imitating the Job Environment

Prosser, C.A., & Quigley, T.H. (1949). Vocational education in a democracy. Chicago IL:
        American Technical Society.
Sticht, T.G., (1987). Functional context education workshop resource notebook. San Diego CA:
        Applied Behavior and Cognitive Sciences, Inc.
Sticht, T.G., Armstrong, W.B., Hickey, D.T., & Caylor, J.S. (1987). Cast off youth: Policy and
        training methods from the military experience. New York: Praeger.
Walberg, H.J. (1984,May). Improving the productivity of America’s schools. Educational
        Leadership, 41 (8), 19-36.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                     103


Maintaining Skills and Knowledge

Bahrick, H.P. (1979). Maintenance of knowledge: Questions about memory we forgot to ask.
       Journal of Experimental Psychology, 108 (3), 296-308.
Farr, M.J. (1986). The long-term retention of knowledge and skills: A cognitive and
       instructional perspective (IDA Memorandum Report MR-205). Alexandria VA: Institute
       for Defense Analysis.
Hagman, J.D., & Rose, A.M. (1983). Retention of military skills: A review. Human Factors, 25
       (2), 199-213.
Welzel, S.K., & Montague, W.E. (1983, March). Conditions influencing skill deterioration: A
       survey of three Navy sonar communities (NPRDC SR 83-18). San Diego CA: Navy
       Personnel Research and Development Center.


Student-Instructor Ratio

Bozzomo, Lawrence L. (1978). Does Class Size Matter? National Elementary Principal, 57 (2),
       78-81.
Glass, G.V., Cahen, L.S., Smith, M.L., & Filby, N.N. (1982). School class size: Research and
       policy. Beverly Hills CA: Sage.
Williams, D.D., Cook, P.F., Quinn, B., & Jensen, R.P. (1985). University class size: Is smaller
       better? Research in Higher Education, 23 (3), 307-18.


Managing Informal Learning

Hall, D.T., & Fukami, C.V. (1979). Organization design and adult learning. Research in
        Organizational Behavior, 2, 125-167.
Hill, H., & Sticht, T. (1980). Perspectives on battalion training management (Final report,
        USAREUR Field Unit). Alexandria VA: Human Resources Research Organization.
Kern, R. (1986). Modeling information processing in the context of job training and work
        performance. In T. Sticht, F. Chang, & S. Wood (Eds.), Cognitive science and human
        resources management (advances in reading/language research, Vol 4). Greenwich CT:
        JAI Press.
Morgan, M., Hall, D.T., & Martier. A. (1979). Career development strategies in industry: Where
        are we and where should we be? Personnel, 56 (2), 13-31.
Rogoff, B., & Lave, J. (1984). Everyday cognition: Its development in social context.
        Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.


Cost Effectiveness

Bergman, R.E. (1981). Technology and training: The shape of tomorrows seminar. Performance
       and Instruction, 20 (9), 4-12.
Kearsley, G. (1984). Training and Technology: A handbook for HRD professionals. Reading
       MA: Addison-Wesley Publishing Co.
104                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002

Knapp, M.I., & Orlansky, J. (1983, November). A cost element structure for defense training
       (IDA Paper P-1709). Alexandria VA: Institute for Defense Analysis.
Orlansky, J., & String, J. (1981, Second Quarter). Computer-based instruction for military
       training. Defense Management Journal, 46-54.
Walberg, H.J.(1987, April). Curricular efficiency can be attained. National Association of
       Secondary School Principals Bulletin, 71 (498), 15-21.


Planning for Change

Knapp, M.LI, & Orlansky, J. (1983, November). A cost element structure for defense training
       (IDA Paper P-1709). Alexandria VA: Institute for Defense Analysis.
Orlansky, J., & String, J. (1981, Second Quarter). Computer-based instruction in military
       training. Defense Management Journal, 18, 46-54.
Niemiec, R.P., & Walberg, H.J. (1987). Comparative effect of computer-assisted instruction: A
       synthesis of reviews. Journal of Educational Computing Research, 3, 19-37.


Structuring Instruction

Fishburne, R.P., & Mims, D.M. (1975, March). Formative evaluation of an experimental BE/E
       program (Research Branch Report 9-75). Naval Air Station Memphis Millington, TN:
       Chief of Naval Technical Training.
Kulik, C.C., Schalb, B.J., & Kulik, J.A. (1982). Programmed instruction in secondary education:
       A meta-analysis of evaluation findings. Journal of Educational Research, 75 (3), 133-138.
Orlansky, J. & String, J. (1981, Second Quarter). Computer-based instruction for military
       training. Defense Management Journal, 46-54.
Walberg, H.J. (1984, May). Improving the productivity of America’s schools. Educational
       Leadership, 41 (8), 19-36.


Computer-based Instruction/Training (CBI/CBT)

Hassellbring, T. (1986). Research on the effectiveness of CBI: A review. International Review
       of Education, 32, 313-324.
Kulik, W.E., & Kulik, C.C. (1987). Review of recent research literature on computer-based
       instruction. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 12 (5), 220-230.
Montague, W.E., & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1984). Computer-based instruction: Will it improve
       instructional quality? Training Technology Journal, 1 (2), 4-19. Also, NPRDC TR 84-54,
       San Diego, CA: Navy Personnel Research and Development Center. (AD-A146269).
Niemiec, R.P., & Walberg, H.J. (1987). Comparative effects of computer-assisted instruction: A
       synthesis of reviews. Journal of Educational Computing Research, 3 10-37.
Orlansky, J. (1983). Effectiveness of CAI: A different finding. Electronic Learning, 3 (1), 58-
       60.
Orlansky, J., & String, J. (1981, Second Quarter). Computer-based instruction for military
       training. Defense Management Journal, 46-54.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        105

Orlansky, J, & String, J. (1979, April). Cost-effectiveness of computer-based instruction in
       military training (IDA Paper P-1375). Alexandria, VA: Institute for Defense Analyses.


Video Technologies

Bergman, R.E. (1981, November). Technology and training: The shape of tomorrow’s seminar.
       Performance and Instruction, 20 (9), 17-20.
DeBloois, M. and others, (1984). Effectiveness of interactive videodisc training: A
       comprehensive review. The Monitor Report Series, 1-80. (ERIC Document No. ED
       278370).
Fleming, M.L. (1987). Displays and communication. In R.M. Gagne (Ed.), Instructional
       Technology: Foundations (233-260). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum Associates.
Hassett, J., & Dukes, S. (1986, September). The new employee trainer: A floppy disk.
       Psychology Today, 30-36.
Nugent, G.C. (1987). Innovations in telecommunications. In R. M. Gagne (Ed.), Instructional
       technology: Foundations (261-282). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum Associates.
Smith, E.E. (1987). Interactive video: An examination of use and effectiveness. Journal of
       Instructional Development, 10 (2), 2-10.


Training Devices for Task Simulation & Practice

Blaiwes, A.S., & Regan, J.J. (1986). Training devices: Concepts and progress, In J.A. Ellis
        (Ed.), Military contributions to instructional technology (pp. 83-170). New York:
        Praeger Publishers.
Caro, P.W., Shelnutt, J.B., & Spears, W.D. (1981). Aircrew Training Devices Utilization
        (AFHRL-TR-80-35). Wright Patterson Air Force Base OH: Logistics and Technical
        Training Division.
Halff, H.M., Hollan, J.D., & Hutchins, E.L. (1986). Cognitive science and military training.
        American Psychologist, 41 (10), 1131-1139.
Orlansky, J. & String, J. (1981). Cost effectiveness of maintenance simulators for military
        training (IDA Paper P-1568). Alexandria VA: Institute for Defense Analysis. (ERIC
        Document No. ED 212 254)
Prophet, W.W., Shelnutt, J.B., & Spears, W.D. (1981). Simulator training requirements and
        effectiveness study (STRES). Wright Patterson Air Force Base OH: Logistics and
        Technical Training Division.
Schneider, W., Vidulich, M., & Yeh, Y. (1982). Training spatial skills for air-traffic control.
        Proceedings of the Human Factors Society, (10-14).
106                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


Distributed Learning (i.e. Teleconferencing)

Bergman, R.E. (1981), Technology and training: The shape of tomorrow’s seminar. Performance
        and Instruction, 20 (9), 17-20.
Levin, J.A., Riel, M., & Miyake, N., & Cohen, M. (1987). Education on the electronic frontier:
        Teleapprentices in globally distributed educational contexts. Contemporary Educational
        Psychology, 12 (3), 254-260.
Newman, D. (1987). Local and long distance computer networking for science classrooms.
        Educational Technology, 27 (6), 20-23.


Adopting Training Innovations

Margulies, N., et.al. (1973). Organizational Change: Techniques and Applications. Glenview IL:
       Scott, Foresman.
Nelson, M., & Sieber, S.D. (1976). Innovations in urban secondary schools, School Review, 84
       (2), 213-31.
Rogers, E. (1983). Diffusion of innovations (2nd ed.). New York: Free Press.


TECHNIQUES FOR INSTRUCTORS

Ratings

Cohen, P.A. (1981). Effectiveness of student-rating feedback for improving college instruction:
       A meta-analysis of findings. Research in High Education, 13, 321-341.
Cohen, P.A. (1981). Student ratings of instruction and student achievement: A meta-analysis of
       multisection validity studies. Review of Educational Research, 51, 281-309.
McKeachie, W. (1978). Teaching tips: A guidebook for the beginning college teacher (7th ed.).
       New York: Heath.

Classroom Role

Brophy, J.E. (1981). Teacher praise: A functional analysis. Review of Educational Research,
        51, 5-32.
Good, T.L., & Brophy, J.E. (1984). Looking in classrooms. New York: Harper and Row.
Shuell, T.J. (1980). Learning theory, instructional theory, and adaptation. In R.E. Snow, P-A.
        Federico, and W. E. Montague (Eds.), Aptitude, learning and instruction: Vol. 2,
        Cognitive process analyses of learning and problem solving (pp. 277-302). Hillsdale NJ:
        Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Shuell, T.J. (1986). Cognitive conceptions of learning. Review of Educational Research, 56 (4),
        411-436.
Snow, R.E. and Lowman, D.F. (1984). Toward a theory of cognitive aptitude for learning from
        instruction. Journal of Educational Psychology, 76, 347-376.
Classroom Leadership
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                           107

Brophy, J.E. (1985). Classroom management as instruction: Socializing self-guidance in
       students. Theory Into Practice, 24 (4), 233-240.
Cohen, M. (1982). Effective schools: Accumulating research findings. American Education, 18
       (1), 13-16.
Gold, M. & Mann, D. (1984). Expelled to a friendlier place: A study of effective alternative
       schools. Ann Arbor MI: The University of Michigan Pres.
Zemke, R. & S. (1981, June). 30 things we know for sure about adult learning. Training/HRD,
       18 (6), 45-52.

Teaching Students How To Learn

Dansereau, D.F., Brooks, L.W., Holley, C.D., & Collins, K.W. (1983). Learning strategies
       training: Effects of sequencing. Journal of Experimental Education, 51(3), 102-108.
Dansereau, D.F. (1985). Learning strategy research. In J. Segal, S. Chipman, & R. Glaser
       (Eds.), Thinking and learning skills; Vol. 1: Relating instruction to research (pp. 209-
       240). Hillsdale NJ: Erlbaum Associates.
Dobrovolny, J.L., McCombs, B.L., & Judd, W.A. (1980, March). Study skills package:
       Development and evaluation (AFHRL-TR-79-43). Brooks AFB TX: Air Force Human
       Resources Laboratory.
Montague, W.E. & Knirk, F.G. (1993). What works in adult instruction: The management,
       design and delivery of instruction. International Journal of Educational Research. Vol 19,
       pp. 327-443, 1993.
Weinstein, C.E., & Mayer, R.E. (1986). The teaching of learning strategies. In M.C. Wittrock
       (Ed.), Handbook of research on teaching (3rd Edition). New York: Macmillan Publishing
       Company.
Weinstein, C.E., Zimmermann, S.A., & Palmer, D.R. (1988). Assessing learning strategies: The
       design and development of LASSI. In C. E. Weinstein, E.T. Goetz, and P.A. Alexander
       (Eds.), Learning and study strategies: Issues in assessment, instruction, and evaluation.
       25-40 San Diego CA Academic Press.

Testing

Bangert-Drownes, R.L. et.al. (1986, April). Effects of frequent classroom testing. Paper
         presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association, San
         Francisco CA. (ERIC Document No. ED 274.
Ellis, J.A. & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1982). Handbook for testing in Navy schools (NPRDC SR 83-2).
         San Diego CA: Navy Personnel Research and Development Center. (AD-A122479).
Ellis, J.A. & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1986). Criterion-referenced measurement in military technical
         graining. In J.A. Ellis (Ed.), Military contributions to instructional technology (pp.60-82).
         New York: Praeger Publishers.
Roid, G. & Haladyna, T. (1982). A technology for test item writing. New York: Academic
         Press.
Samson, G.E., Graue, M.E., Weinsrein, T. & Walberg, H. J. (1984). Academic and occupational
         performance: A quantitative synthesis. American Educational Research Journal, 21 (2),
         311-321. (ERIC Document No. EJ 303651).
108                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


Providing Feedback

Brophy, J. (1981). Teacher praise: A functional analysis. Review of Educational Research, 51
        (1), 5-32.
Brophy, J., & Good, T.L. (1986). Teacher behavior and student achievement. In M.C. Wittrock
        (Ed.), Handbook of research on teaching (3rd ed., pp. 328-375). New York: Macmillan
        Publishing Company.
Lysakowski, R.S., & Walberg, H.J. (1981). Classroom reinforcement and learning: A
        quantitative synthesis. Journal of Educational Research, 75 (2), 69-77.
Orlich, D. (1985). Teaching strategies, A guide to better instruction. Lexington MA: Heath and
        Company.
Schimmel, B.J. (1983, April). A meta-analysis of feedback to learners in computerized and
        programmed instruction. Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the American
        Educational Research Association, Montreal, Canada. (ERIC Document No. ED
        233708).

Managing Class Time

Karweit, N. Time on task reconsidered: Synthesis of research on time and learning. Educational
        Leadership, 41 (8), 32-35.
Stallings, J. (1980). Allocated academic learning time revisited: Beyond time on task.
        Educational Researcher, 9 (11), 11-16.
Walberg, H.J. (1984). What makes schooling effective? A synthesis and critique of three national
        studies. Contemporary Education Review, 1 (1), 22-34.
Wittrock, M.C. (1986). Students’ thought processes. In M.C. Wittrock (Ed.), Handbook of
        research on teaching (3rd ed.), New York: MacMillan Publishing Company.

Cooperation in Learning

Johnson, D. W., Johnson, R.T., Maruyama, G. (1983). Interdependence and interpersonal
        attraction among heterogeneous and homogeneous individuals: A theoretical formulation
        and a meta-analysis of the research. Review of Educational Research, 53, 5-54.
Johnson, D.W., Maruyama, G., Johnson, R., & Nelson, D. (1981). Effects of cooperative,
        competitive, and individualistic goal structures on achievement: A meta-analysis.
        Psychological Bulletin 89 (1), 47-62.
Slavin, R.E. (1983). Cooperative learning. New York: Longman, Inc.
Smith, K.A., Johnson, D. W., & Johnson, R.T. (1981). The use of cooperative learning groups in
        engineering education. In L.P. Grayson & J.M. Biedenbach (Eds.), Proceedings: Tenth
        Annual Frontiers in Education Conference (pp. 29-32), Washington D.C: American
        Society for Engineering Education.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                      109


Peer Teaching

Bangert-Drowns, R.L., Kulik, J.A., & Kulik, C.C. (1983, Winter). Effects of coaching programs
        on achievement test performance, Review of Educational Research, 53, (4), 571-585.
Cohen, P.A., Kulik, J.A., & Kulik, C.C. (1982, Summer). Education outcomes of tutoring: A
        meta-analysis of findings. American Educational Research Journal, 19 (2), 237-248.
Goldschmid, B. & Goldschmid, M.L. (1976). Peer teaching in higher education: A review.
        Higher Education, 5(1), 9-33.
Montague, W. E. & Knirk, F. G. (1993) What works in adult instruction: The management,
        design and delivery of instruction. International Journal Educational Research. Vol 19,
        327-443. Printed in Great Britain.
Slavin, R.E. (1983). Cooperative learning. New York: Longman, Inc.

Instructor Presentations

Rosebshine, B. & Stevens, R. (1986). Teaching functions. In M.C. Wittrock (Ed.), Handbook of
        research on teaching (3rd ed.). New York: MacMillan Publishing Company.
Rothkopf, E.Z. (1981). A macroscopic model of instruction and purposeful learning.
        Instructional Science, 10 (2), 105-122, (ERIC Document No. EJ 250116).
Sullivan, H. & Higgins, N. (1983). Teaching for Competence. New York: Teachers College,
        Columbia University.
Thiagarjan, S. (1985). 25 ways to improve any lecture. Performance & Instruction Journal, 24
        (10), 22-24.
Walberg, H.J. (1984,May). Improving the productivity of America’s schools. Educational
        Leadership, 41(8), 19-36.

Practice

Druckman, D. & Bjork, A. (1991). In The Mind’s Eye: Enhancing Human Performance.
        Committee on Techniques for the Enhancement of Human Performance; Commission on
        Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education; National Research Council; Washington
        DC: Academy Press.
Gettinger, M. (1984). Individual differences in time needed for learning: A review of the
        literature. Educational Psychologist, 19 (1), 15-29.
Robinson, E. R.N., & Knirk, F.G. (1984). Interfacing learning strategies and instructional
        strategies in computer training programs. In F. A. Muckler (Ed.), The Human Factors
        annual review (vol. 1, pp. 209-238). Santa Monica CA: Human Factors Society.
Rothkopf, E.Z., & Coke, E.U. (1963). Repetition interval and rehearsal method in learning
        equivalencies from written sentences. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 2,
        406-416.
Schneider, W. (1985). Training high-performance skills: Fallacies and guidelines. Human
        Factors, 27 (3), 285-300.
Sullivan, H., & Higgins, N. (1983). Teaching for Competence. New York: Teachers College,
        Columbia University.

Promoting Mental Models
110                                            AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Anderson, R.C. (1977). The notion of schemata and the educational enterprise: General
        discussion of the conference. In R.C. Anderson, R.J. Anderson, R.J. Spiro & W.E.
        Montague (Eds.), Schooling and the acquisition of knowledge (415-431). Hillsdale NJ:
        Erlbaum Associates 415-431.
Gentner, D., & Stevens, A.L. (1983). Mental Models. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum Associates.
Heller, J.I., & Reif, F. (1984). Prescribing effective human problem-solving processes: Problem
        description in physics. Cognition and Instruction, 1 (2), 177-216.
Kieras, D.E. (in press). What mental model should be taught: Choosing instructional content for
        complex engineered systems. In J. Psotka, D. Massey, and S. Mutter (Eds.), Intelligent
        tutoring systems: Lessons learned. Hillsdale NJ: Erlbaum Associates.

Motivating Students

Erickson, S.C. (1984). The essence of good teaching. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Horn, E., & Walberg H. (1984). Achievement and interest as functions of quantity and level of
       instruction. Journal of Educational Research 77 (4), 227-232.
Rubin, L.J. (1985). Artistry in teaching. New York: Random House.
Urguroglu, M., & Walberg, H. (1979). Motivation and achievement: A quantitative synthesis.
       American Educational Research, 16 (4), 375-389. (ERIC Document No. ED 206043).

Student Control of Learning

Bannister, B. D. (1986). Performance outcome feedback and attributional feedback: Interactive
        effects on recipient responses. Journal of Applied Psychology, 71 (2), 2033-210.
Bar-Tal, D. (1978). Attributional analysis of achievement-related behavior. Review of
        Educational Research, 48 (2), 259-271.
Kennelly, K. & Kinley, S. (1975). Perceived contingency of teacher administered reinforcements
        and academic performance of boys. Psychology in the Schools, 12, 449-453.
Schunk, D.H. (1985). Self-efficacy and classroom learning. Psychology in the Schools, 22, 208-
        223.
Stipek, D.J., & Weisz, J.R. (1981). Perceived personal control and academic achievement.
        Review of Educational Research, 51 (1), 101-137.
Urguroglu, M., & Walberg, H.J. (1979). Motivation and achievement: A quantitative synthesis.
        American Educational Research, 16 (4), 375-389. (ERIOC Document No. 6604352).

Out-of-Class Assignments

Graue, M.E., Weinstein, T., & Walberg, H.J. (1983). School-based instruction and learning: A
       quantitative synthesis. Journal of Educational Research, 76 (6), 351-360.
Paschal, R.A., Weinstein, T., & Walberg, H.J. (1984). The effects of homework on learning: A
       quantitative synthesis. Journal of Educational Research, 78 (2), 97-104.
Walberg, H.J. (1983). Scientific literacy and economic productivity in international perspective.
       Daedulus, 112 (2), 1-28.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                       111

Walberg, H.J. (1983). Synthesis of research on teaching. In M.C. Wittrock (ed.), Third
      handbook of research on teaching. Washington DC: American Educational Research
      Association.
Walberg, H.J. (1984). Improving the productivity of America’s Schools. Educational Leadership,
      41 (8), 19-36.
Yeshurun, S. (1973). A reinforcement study on service courses in mathematics and statistics.
      International Journal of Mathematics Education in Science and Technology, 4 (2), 127-
      132.


TECHNIQUES FOR EDUCATION/TRAINING SPECIALISTS

Systematic Approaches

Andrews, D.H., & Goodson, L.A. (1980). A comparative analysis of models of instructional
       design. Journal of Instructional Development, 3 (4), 2-16.
Branson, R.K. & Grow, G. (1987). Instructional systems development. In R.M. Gagne (Ed.),
       Instructional technology: Foundations (pp.397-428). Hillsdale NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum
       Associates.
Montague, W.E., Wulfeck, W.H., & Ellis, J/A. (1983). Quality CBI depends on quality
       instructional design and quality implementation. Journal of computer-Based Instruction,
       10 (3&4), 90-93.
Montague, W.E., Ellis, J.A., & Wulfeck, W.H. (1983). The Instructional quality inventory (IQI):
       A formative evaluation tool for instructional systems development (NPRDC TR 83-31).
       San Diego CA: Navy Personnel Research and Development Center.
Morgan, R.M. (1987). Planning for instructional systems. In R. M. Gagne (Ed.), Instructional
       technology: Foundations )pp. 379-396). Hillsdale NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Gott, S. (1990 Draft Paper). A Procedural Guide to Cognitive Task Analysis: The PARI
       Methodology; AFHRL Technical Paper. Wright Patterson Air Force Base OH: Air Force
       Human Resources Laboratory, Logistics and Training Division.

Training Objectives

Lawton, J.T., & Wanska, S. (1977). Advance organizers as a teaching strategy: A reply to
        Barnes and Clawson, Review of Educational Research, 47 (1), 233-244.
Kaplan, R., & Rothkopf, E.Z. (1974). Instructional objectives as directions to learners: Effect of
        passage length and amount of objective relevant content. Journal of Educational
        Psychology, 66 (3), 448--456. (ERIC Document No. EJ 106722).
Rothkopf, E.Z., & Kaplan, R. (1972). An exploration of the effect of density and specificity of
        instructional objectives on learning from text. Journal of Educational Psychology, 63,
        295-302.
Sullivan, H., & Higgins, N. (1983). Teaching for Competence. New York: Teachers College,
        Columbia University.

Writing Materials
112                                           AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002

Gagne, R.M. (1986). Instructional technology: The research field. Journal of Instructional
       Development, 8 (3), 7-14.
Jonassen, D.H. (1985). The technology of text. Volume 2: Principles for structuring, designing
       and displaying text. Englewood Cliffs NJ: Educational Technology Publications.
Kern, R.P., Sticht, T.G., Welty, D., & Hauke, R.N. (1976, November). Guidebook for the
       development of Army training literature. Alexandria VA: U.S. Army Research Institute
       for the Behavioral and Social Sciences.
Nugent, G.C. (1982). Pictures, audio, and print: Symbolic representation and effect on learning.
       Educational Communication and Technology Journal, 30, 163-174.
Rothkopf, E.Z. (1982). Adjunct aids and the control of mathemagenic activities during
       purposeful reading. In W. Otto & S. White (Eds.), Reading expository material (pp.109-
       138). New York: Academic Press.

Reading Grade Level

Duffy, T. (1985). Readability formulas: What’s the use? In T.M. Duffy & R. Waller (Eds.),
        Designing usable texts. New York: Academic Press.
Kern, R. (1979). Usefulness of readability formulas for achieving Army readability objectives:
        Research and state-of-the-art applied to the Army’s problem. Fort Benjamin Harrison ID:
        Technical Advisory Service, U.S. Army Research Institute. (AD-A086408/2).
Kern, R. Sticht, T., Welty, D., & Hauke, R. (1977). Guidebook for the development of Army
        training literature (P-75-3). Alexandria VA: U.S. Army Research Institute for the
        Behavioral and Social Sciences. (AD-A033935t).
Sticht. T. (1972). Learning by listening. In R. Freedle & J. Carroll (Eds.), Language
        comprehension and the acquisition of knowledge. Washington DC: V.H. Winston &
        Sons.
Sticht, T. (1985). Understanding readers and their uses of text. In T.M. Duffy & R. Waller
        (EDS.), Designing usable texts. New York: Academic Press.
Sticht, T., Armijo, L., Weitzman, R., Koffman, N., Roberson, K. Chang, F. & Moracco, J.
        (1986). Teachers, books, computers, and peers: Integrated communications technologies
        for adult literacy development (Summary progress report). Monterey CA: U.S. Naval
        Postgraduate School.

Built-on Knowledge

Bloom, B. (1976). Human characteristics and school learning. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Walberg, H.J., Strykowski, Rovai, E. & Hung S. (1984). Exceptional performance. Review of
       Educational Research, 54 (1), 87-112. (ERIC Document No. ED 72-07997).
Shavelson, R.J. (1974). Methods for examining representations of a subject matter structure in a
       student’s memory. Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 11 (3), 231-249.

Examples and Non-Examples

Bloom, B.S. (1968). Learning for mastery. Evaluation Comment, 1-12.
Gagne, E.D. (1985). The cognitive psychology of school learning. Boston: Little, Brown and
       Co.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                       113

Gagne, R.M. (1985). The Conditions of learning and theory of instruction. New York: Holt,
        Rinehart and Winston.
Merrill, M.D. (1983). Component display theory. In C.M. Reigeluth (Ed.), Instructional design
        theories and models: An overview of their current status. Hilldale NJ: Lawrence
        Erlbaum Associates.
Merrill, M.D. (1983). A lesson illustrating component display theory. In C.M. Reigeluth (Ed.),
        Instructional design theories and models: An overview of their current status. Hillsdale
        NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Merrill, M.D., & Tennyson, R.D. (1977). Teaching concepts: an instructional design guide.
        Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Educational Technology Publications.

Motivating Students

Erickson, S.C. (1984). The Essence of Good Teaching. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Keller, J.M. (1983). Motivational design of instruction. In C.M. Reigeluth (Ed.), Instructional-
        design theories and models: An overview of their current status. Hillsdale NJ: Lawrence
        Erlbaum Associates.
Keller, J.M., & Dodge, B. (1982, September). The ARCS model of strategies for course
        designers and developers. Ft. Monroe VA: Training Developments Institute.
Horn, E., & Walberg, H. (1984). Achievement and interest as functions of quantity and level of
        instruction. Journal of Educational Research, 77 (4), 227-232.
Urguroglu, M., & Walberg, H. (1979). Motivation and achievement: A quantitative synthesis.
        American Educational Research, 16 (4), 375-389. (ERIC Document No. ED 206043).

Designing Effective Illustrations

Levie, W.H., & Lentz, R. (1982). Effects of text illustrations: A review of research. Educational
        Communication and Technology Journal, 30 (3), 195-232.
Levin, J.R., Anglin, G.J., & Carney, R.N. (1987). On empirically validating functions of pictures
        in prose. In D.M. Willows & H.A. Houghton (Eds.), The psychology of illustration: I.
        Basic research. New York: Springer-Verlag.
Montague, W. E. & Knirk, F. G. (1993). What works in adult instruction: The management,
        design and delivery of instruction. International Journal of Educational Research. Vol.
        19, 327-443. Printed in Great Britain.
Wulfeck, W.H., Chang, F. R., & Montague, W.E. (1986). Document and display design. In T.
        Sticht, F. Chang, & S. Wood (Eds.), Advances in reading/language research: Volume 4,
        Cognitive science and human resources management (pp. 183-195). Greenwich CT: JAI
        Press.

Formative and Summative Evaluations

Branson, R.K., & Grow, G. (1987). Instructional systems development. In R.M. Gagne (Ed.).
      Instructional technology: Foundations (pp. 397-428). Hillsdale NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum
      Associates.
Cambre, M.A. (1981). Historical overview of formative evaluation of instructional media
      products. Educational Communication and Technology Journal, 29, 2-25.
114                                              AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002

Dick, W., & Carey, L. (1985). The systematic design of instruction. (2nd edition). Glenview IL:
       Scott-Foresman.
Markle, S.M. (1967). Empirical testing of programs. In P.C. Lange (Ed.), Programmed
       instruction: The sixty-sixth yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education,
       Part II. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Simulation

Blaiwes, A. S., & Regan, J.J. (1986). Training devices: Concepts and progress. In J.A. Ellis
        (Ed.), Military contributions to instructional technology (pp. 83-170). New York:
        Praeger Publishers.
Halff, H.M., Hollan, J.D. & Hutchins, E.L. (1986). Cognitive science and military training.
        American Psychologist, 41 (10), 1131-1139.
Schneider, W., Vidulich, M. & Yeh, Y. (1982) Training spatial skills for air-traffic control.
        Proceedings of the Human Factors Society (pp. 10-14). Santa Monica CA: Human
        Factors Society.
Semple, C.A., Hennesy, R.T., Sanders, M.S., Cross, B.K., Beith, B.H., & McCauley, M.E. (1981,
        January). Aircrew training devices: Fidelity features (AFHRL-TR-80-36). Wright
        Patterson Air Force Base OH: Air Force Human Resources Laboratory, Logistics and
        Training Division.

Criterion Referenced Testing

Bangert-Drownes, R.L. (1986, April). Effects of frequent classroom testing. American
         Educational Research Journal.
Ellis, J.A. & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1982). Handbook for testing in Navy schools (NPRDC SR 83-2).
         San Diego CA: Navy Personnel Research and Development Center. (AD-A122479).
Ellis, J.A. & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1986). Criterion-referenced measurement in military technical
         training. In J.A. Ellis (Ed.), Military contributions to instructional technology (pp. 60-82).
         New York: Praeger Publishers.
Roid, G. & Haladyna, T. (1982). A technology for test item writing. New York: Academic
         Press.
Samson, G.E., Graue, M.E., Weinstein, T., & Walberg, H.J. (1984). Academic and occupational
         performance: A quantitative synthesis. American Educational Research Journal, 21 (2),
         311-321. (ERIC Document No. EJ 303 651).

Maintaining Consistent Objectives, Testing, and Instruction

Ellis, J.A., & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1980, March). Assuring objective-test consistency: A systematic
         procedure for constructing criterion-referenced tests (NPRDC SR 80-15). San Diego CA:
         Navy Personnel Research and Development Center.
Ellis, J.A. & Wulfeck I, W.H. (1982). Handbook for testing in Navy schools (NPRDC SR 83-2).
         San Diego CA: Navy Personnel Research and Development Center. (AD-122479).
Ellis, J.A. & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1986). Criterion-referenced measurement in military technical
         training. In J.A. Elklis (Ed.), Military contributions to instructional technology (pp, 60-
         82). New York: Praeger Publishers.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                        115

Montague, W.E., Ellis, J.A., & Wulfeck II, W.H. (1983). Instructional quality inventory: A
      formative evaluation tool for instructional development. Performance and Instruction
      Journal, 22 (5), 11-14.

Time-sequencing Training

Dempster, F.N. (1987). Time and the production of classroom learning: Discerning implications
       from basic research. Educational Psychologist, 22 (1), 1-21.
Rothkopf, E.Z., & Coke, E.U. (1963). Repetition interval and rehearsal method in learning
       equivalence from written sentences. Journal of verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 2,
       406-416.
Smith, S.M., & Rothkopf, E.Z. (1984). Contextual enrichment and distribution of practice in the
       classroom. Cognition and instruction, 1, 341-358.

Memory Aids

Bellezza, F.S. (1981). Mnemonic devices: Classification, characteristics and criteria. Review of
       Educational Research, 51 (2), 247-275.
Braby, R., Kincaid, J.P., with Aagard, J.A. (1978, July). Use of mnemonics in training materials:
       A guide for technical writers (TAEG Report No. 60). Orlando FL: Training Analysis and
       Evaluation Group.
Ericsson, K. A., & Chase, W. G. (1982). Exceptional Memory. American Scientist, 70 (6).
Montague, W. E. & Knirk, F. G. (1993). What works in adult instruction: The management,
       design and delivery of instruction. International Journal Educational Research. Vol. 19,
       pp. 327-443. Printed in Great Britain.
Pressley, M, Levin, J., & Delaney, H. (1982). The mnemonic keyword method. Review of
       Educational Research, 52, 61-91.
Williams, S.S. (1979). Improving Memory: Developing imagery skills in returning adult
       students. Adult Education, 51 (5), 286-292.


PHYSICAL CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENT

Dunn, R. et. al. (1985). Light up their lives: A review of research on the effects of light on
       children’s achievement and behavior. Reading Teacher, 38 (9), 863-869.
Knirk, F. G. (1979). Designing productive learning environments. Englewood Cliffs, NJ:
       Educational Technology Publications.
Knirk, F. G. (1987). Instructional facilities for the information age. IR-76. Syracuse, NY: ERIC
       Clearinghouse on Information Resources.
Montague, W. E. & Knirk, F. G. (1993). What works in adult instruction: The management,
       design and delivery of instruction. International Journal of Educational Research, Vol. 19,
       327-443. Printed in Great Britain.
Sanders, M. S., & McCormick, E. J. (1987). Human factors in engineering and design (6th ed.).
       New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co.
Jones, D. M., & Broadbent, D. E. (1987). Noise. In G. Salvendy (Ed.), Handbook of human
       factors. New York: Wiley & Sons.
116                                         AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002

Woodson, W. E. (1981). Human factors design handbook: Information guidelines for the design
     of systems, facilities, equipment, and products for human use. New York: McGraw-Hill
     Book Co.

AUTOMATED TOOLS

Wall, J. (1991). Survey of Training Development Software Tools. Raytheon Service Company, 2
        Wayside Road, Burlington MA 01803.
AFH 36-2235, Volume 2 2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                          117


                                Attachment 3
                                Abbreviations

AETC             Air Education and Training Command
AFH              Air Force Handbook
AFMAN            Air Force Manual
AIMS             Automated Instructional Media Selection Model
ATC              Air Training Command
CAI              Computer Aided Instruction
CALS             Computer Aided Acquisition and Logistic Support (CALS) Human
                 System Components Committee
CBT              Computer Based Training
DIF              Difficulty, Importance and Frequency Model
ECA              Early Comparability Analysis Model
GAIDA            Guided Approach for an Instructional Design Advisor
GCASS            GTET Cost Analysis Support System
GMISS            GTET Management Information Support System
GTET             Guidelines for Transportable Education And Training System
ICW              Interactive Courseware
IQI              Instructional Quality Inventory
ISD              Instructional System Development
ISDA             Instructional System Development Automation
IVD              Interactive Video Disk Instruction
JS ISD/          Joint Service Instructional Systems Development
LSA              Logistic Support Analyses
LSAR DSS         Logistics Support Analysis Record Decision Support System
STAM             Sub Task Analysis Model
TAP              Test Analysis Package
TASCS            Training Analysis Support Computer System
TPDC             Training and Performance Data Center
TRACES           Training Cost Estimator System
TRANSFORM        Training System For Maintenance
