BY ORDER OF THE                                                                   AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 36-2235
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                        VOLUME 6

                                                                                                       1 NOVEMBER 2002

                                                                                                                      Personnel

                              INFORMATION FOR DESIGNERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL SYSTEMS

                                                                                 GUIDE TO NEEDS ASSESSMENT


RECORDS DISPOSITION: Ensure that all records created by this handbook are
maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule”

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO www site at:
http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.


OPR: HQ AETC/DOZ (Gary J. Twogood)                 Certified by: HQ USAF/DPDT
Supersedes: AFH 36-2235, Volume 6, 1 November 1993      (Col Patricia L. C. Priest)
                                                      Pages: 124/Distribution: F


This volume provides information and guidance for conducting Training Needs
Assessment in the Air Force. This handbook is a guide for Air Force personnel who
analyze training needs and determine performance requirements.

Chapter 1 GENERAL INFORMATION ........................................................................... 3
Figure 1 Air Force ISD Model........................................................................................ 10
Chapter 2 TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT PROCESS .......................................... 11
    Section A Purpose-Based Training Needs Assessment........................................ 13
       Section B Performance Problems and Their Causes ........................................................ 17
     Section C Air Force TNA Model............................................................................ 22
Figure 2 Air Force Training Needs Assessment (TNS) Model ................................. 23
       Section D TNA Process ..................................................................................................... 27
Figure 3 Air Force TNA Process ................................................................................... 27
Figure 4 Skill/Knowledge Deficiency........................................................................................... 29
Figure 5 Immediate and Long-Range Time Dimension .............................................................. 30
     Section E Integration of TNA Model and Process.............................................................. 46
Figure 6 TNA Integrated Flow Diagram ...................................................................................... 47
AFH 36-2235              Volume 6               1 November 2003                                                                 2



Chapter 3 HOW TO CONDUCT A TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT ...................... 49
    Section A Develop TNA Plan ................................................................................................ 50
Figure 7 TNA Planner Job Aid....................................................................................... 59
Figure 8 Strengths and Weakneses of Selected Data Collection Methods .................. 60
   Section B Implement TNA Plan................................................................................ 61
    Section C Report TNA Results.............................................................................................. 97
Chapter 4 TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT SCENARIOS .................................... 101
    Section A Headquarters United States Air Force TNA Scenario............................ 102
    Section B Major Command TNA Scenario.......................................................................... 105
    Section C Base/Unit TNA Scenario..................................................................................... 109
    Section D Individual TNA Scenario ..................................................................................... 112
    Section E Automated TNA Scenario ...................................................................... 115
Attachment 1 - GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
    INFORMATION..................................................................................................... 119
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2003                                           3




                               Chapter 1
                          GENERAL INFORMATION
                                    Overview

Introduction      Determining the actual need for training is a crucial activity in the
                  instructional system development (ISD) process. Failure to
                  accurately assess the need for training at the beginning of the
                  process can result in time and money being wasted on developing
                  training for non-training-related problems or developing
                  inadequate or unnecessary training to solve training-related
                  problems. Therefore, it is intended that this easy-to-read
                  handbook be used as a guide for conducting Training Needs
                  Assessment (TNA). This handbook supplements and expands
                  upon the TNA information currently found in AFMAN 36-2234.


Purpose           The purpose of this handbook is to provide basic guidelines for
                  conducting effective, cost-efficient training needs assessment. It
                  is intended to be used by trainers, instructional developers, and
                  managers to systematically assess training needs while
                  considering essential management issues.


Definition        TNA is the systematic study of a problem or innovation,
of TNA            incorporating data and opinions from varied sources, in order to
                  make effective decisions or recommendations involving training
                  solutions. Performance discrepancies or NEEDS are defined as
                  the difference between the desired performance or knowledge
                  (optimals) and the current performance or knowledge (actuals).
                  The goal of the trainer or instructional developer is to reduce or
                  eliminate performance deficiencies (needs).


Goal of           The goal of the TNA process is to effectively analyze problems in
TNA               order to increase the effectiveness of training and the cost-
                  efficiency of expenditures, thus optimizing the benefits of limited
                  training resources.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6          1 November 2003                                         4



Key terms          Needs assessment is a method of identifying performance
associated with    problems. The data is used to identify the knowledge and skills
needs assessment   needed for achieving an organizational goal.

                   To understand needs assessment, instructional designers must
                   know these key terms:

                          Term               Description
                   Attitudes          Attitudes are mental states that influence the
                                      choices individuals make.

                   Competencies       Competencies are the knowledge, skills,
                                      attitudes, values, motivations, and beliefs that
                                      people must have to be successful in their job.

                   Knowledge          Knowledge is concepts and facts that people
                                      need to do their job.

                   Need or gap        A need or gap is the difference between ‘what is’
                                      (actual state) and ‘what should be’ (desired
                                      state). It is the performance gap that separates
                                      what people ‘do’ or ‘should know’ to perform a
                                      job competently.

                                      The need or gap should link the knowledge,
                                      skills, and attitudes necessary for an individual to
                                      perform a job competently and with the desired
                                      results.

                   Needs              Needs assessment is the process used to
                   Assessment         identify gaps in performance.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6      1 November 2003                                          5




                          Term              Description
Key terms
associated with      Need            A needs assessment plan is a blueprint of the
needs assessment     Assessment      collected information about instructional needs.
(Continued)          Plan            This plan assumes that sufficient justification
                                     already exist to solve a human performance
                                     problem. A needs assessment plan should
                                     address the following key issues:

                                     Objectives: What results are desired from the
                                     needs assessment?
                                     Target audience: Whose needs will be
                                     assessed?
                                     Sampling procedure: What methods will be used
                                     to select a representative group?
                                     Data collection methods: How will information
                                     about needs be gathered?
                                     Specifications for instruments and protocols:
                                     What instruments should be used during needs
                                     assessment and how should they be used?
                                     What approvals are necessary to conduct the
                                     needs assessment and how will the instructional
                                     designer interact with members of the
                                     organization?
                                     Methods of data analysis: How will the
                                     information collected during needs assessment
                                     be analyzed?

                                     There are two types of needs assessment
                                     planning: comprehensive and situation-specific.
                                     Comprehensive planning is used to establish
                                     organization's curriculum and instructional plans
                                     that cover the basic training for every job
                                     category. Situation-specific needs assessment
                                     is used to correct specific performance
                                     problems.
                     Skills          Skills are the abilities that people need to
                                     possess to perform a job.


Bases of AF TNA      The approach used in this handbook incorporates features of the
                     "purposed-based" TNA model (Rossett, 1987), the TNA
                     handbook developed by the Washington State Department of
                     Transportation (1991), and AFMAN 36-2234.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6       1 November 2003                                            6



Characteristics      Training needs assessment has three essential characteristics:
of TNA
                         TNA is a cooperative process.
                         TNA is conducted for different levels.
                         TNA is an iterative process.

                     These characteristics are briefly described below.

                     TNA is a cooperative process.

                     Individuals involved in the TNA process include trainers or
                     instructional developers, managers, and executives. While the
                     trainers or instructional developers have the primary responsibility
                     for the mechanics of planning and conducting the TNA, managers
                     and executives are key participants in the process. They
                     normally generate the requirements for a TNA and are the main
                     users of the TNA output. Trainers or instructional developers
                     should plan for and obtain inputs from both the managers and
                     executives whenever possible. If training is the solution to the
                     performance problem, involving managers and executives in the
                     early phases of the ISD process will assure that the resulting
                     programs are accurately oriented to attaining organizational
                     goals, rather than isolated training programs developed by the
                     trainers or instructional developers and "sold" to management.

                     TNA is conducted for different levels.

                     The Air Force TNA process serves several different levels:

                         Headquarters US Air Force (HQ USAF)
                         Major Command (MAJCOM)
                         Operational (Base) Unit
                         Individual
AFH 36-2235          Volume 6       1 November 2003                                           7



Characteristics of      Each assessment is conducted in response to different
TNA (Continued)         organizational concerns. However, an integrated approach
                        relating the different types is useful because the training program
                        level may have an impact on other levels.

                        TNA is an iterative process.

                        The "real world" necessitates that TNA be an iterative process.
                        Far too often, training needs assessments are accomplished in a
                        crisis environment in reaction to new requirements, policies, or
                        equipment acquisitions. When TNAs are conducted, instructional
                        developers should maintain the results since the constantly
                        changing environment in the Air Force may require the specific
                        training at a later date. Unfortunately, TNAs are often performed,
                        recorded, and forgotten.


Roles and               Each organizational level within the Air Force has a specific role
responsibilities        and responsibility in the TNA process. The TNA roles and
                        responsibilities for each level are identified below.

                           HQ USAF
                              Manages AF-wide issues.
                              Establishes policies and standards.
                              Determines strategic goals and objectives.
                              Analyzes trends and command priorities.
                              Approves directives.
                              Develops budget.
                              Allocates resources.
                              Provides guidance and priority for training programs.
                              Defines roles and responsibilities.
                           AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND (AETC)
                              Maintains TNA expertise and assists MAJCOMs and
                              operational units as required.
                              Develops and maintains TNA publications.
                              Coordinates TNA publications with AF, MAJCOM, and
                              operational (base) units as appropriate.
                              Directs, develops, and delivers training courses and
                              programs.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6      1 November 2003                                       8



Roles and                MAJCOM
responsibilities            Selects methods for achieving strategic goals and
(Continued)                 objectives.
                            Develops and implements operational procedures.
                            Articulates standards.
                            Allocates and manages resources.
                            Determines performance requirements.
                            Identifies training needs.
                            Directs, develops, and delivers training courses and
                            programs.
                         OPERATIONAL (BASE) UNIT
                            Develops performance units and teams.
                            Refines procedures to meet standards.
                            Develops and delivers training courses.
                            Trains to success level.
                         INDIVIDUAL (MILITARY/CIVILIAN PERSONNEL)
                            Resolves individual issues.
                            Communicates training needs.
                            Participates actively in learning process.
                            Refines procedures.
                            Improves productivity.
                         TRAINER/INSTRUCTIONAL DEVELOPER
                            Analyzes AF, MAJCOM, operational (base) unit, and
                            individual training issues.
                            Coordinates with appropriate levels to determine purpose
                            of TNA.
                            Plans TNA.
                            Collects and analyzes TNA data.
                            Develops training to reduce or eliminate performance
                            deficiencies (needs).


Need                  While this handbook generally assumes a training solution,
assessment            management interventions other than training may be indicated
solutions             as a solution. Several examples of other management
                      interventions are:
                             Team-building sessions
                             Policy changes
                             Addition of incentive programs
                             Environmental climate changes
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6      1 November 2003                                          9



Need              Management intervention is clearly indicated when the data
assessment        collected during the assessment indicate that employees are
solutions         capable of performing a given task, but an intervening
(Continued)       organizational barrier exists.


Relationship      The context for considering training needs assessment is
to the ISD        integrated into the conceptual framework of course and program
process           development. This is one of the first activities considered or
                  performed by trainers or instructional developers. The approach
                  used in the Air Force to develop instruction is the Instructional
                  System Development (ISD) process. The Air Force ISD process
                  is an adaptation of the system engineering process to the
                  problems of designing, developing, implementing, and evaluating
                  instruction. The ISD process assumes that alternative solutions
                  to instructional problems will be more or less cost-efficient
                  depending upon the instructional need and environmental
                  constraints.
AFH 36-2235   Volume 6       1 November 2003                                          10




AF ISD           The Air Force ISD Model, illustrated in Figure 1, shows the
model            system functions and the phases of the ISD process embedded
                 within the quality improvement process. This handbook focuses
                 on activities associated with the earliest part of the overall ISD
                 process, with the TNA normally being conducted during the
                 analysis phase of ISD. Completion of an assessment basically
                 begins the ISD process. For a detailed explanation of the ISD
                 model and process, refer to AFMAN 36-2234.

                 Figure 1 Air Force ISD Model
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6       1 November 2003                                            11



                             Chapter 2
                TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT PROCESS
                                     Overview

Introduction       The training needs assessment (TNA) process is a continuous,
                   ongoing activity that, if carefully conducted, will provide valuable
                   feedback data to all participants involved in developing and
                   managing training courses or programs. The feedback data
                   resulting from the TNA process enables continuous quality
                   improvements to be made to training courses and programs.
                   This chapter describes in detail the assessment process used in
                   the Air Force and provides additional references to other
                   publications covering training needs assessment


Objectives         The objectives of this chapter are to:

                       Explain purposed-based TNA.
                       Discuss performance problems and their causes.
                       Examine the Air Force TNA model.
                       Review the various levels of analyses in the Air Force.
                       Describe the Air Force TNA process.


Where to read      This chapter contains five sections.
about it

                     Section            Title                                  Page
                           A     Purpose-Based Training Needs                    13
                                 Assessment
                           B     Performance Problems and Their                  17
                                 Causes
                           C     Air Force TNA Model                             22
                           D     Training Needs Assessment Process               27

                           E     Integration of TNA Model and Process            46
AFH 36-2235   Volume 6      1 November 2003                                      12



Additional       For additional information on the TNA process, see:
information
                     AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development.
                     Kaufman, R., Rojas, A. M. and Mayer, H. (1993). Needs
                     Assessment: A User's Guide. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:
                     Educational Technology Publications.
                     Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                     Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
                     Training Needs Assessment Handbook (1991). State of
                     Washington Department of Transportation. Work Force
                     2000, Work Group 4C.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6       1 November 2003                                          13



                                Section A
                 Purpose-Based Training Needs Assessment

Introduction         Training needs assessment (TNA) is an umbrella for analysis
                     activities used by instructional developers to examine and
                     understand performance problems. TNA is called by many
                     names. It is often referred to as front-end analysis, needs
                     analysis, problem analysis, and deficiency analysis. It really
                     doesn't matter what it is called as long as it is effectively and cost-
                     efficiently used to identify and solve problems. When looking at
                     purpose-based TNA, consider it as a cyclical process that is
                     periodically used to determine training and non-training needs of
                     organizations and individuals. Conducting needs assessment
                     studies enables instructional developers to obtain the data
                     needed to make informed decisions and recommendations. In
                     this section, purpose-based TNA is explained in detail in order to
                     better understand the overall assessment process.


Results of TNA       Conducting a TNA study results in information that is needed to
                     determine:

                         Optimal performance or knowledge ("what should be")
                         required
                         Actual performance or knowledge ("what is") at the present
                         time
                         Attitudes of managers, instructional developers, and
                         individuals
                         Causes of the deficiencies or problems
                         Solutions to the deficiencies or problems

                     These areas are further explained below in order to enhance
                     understanding of the process.

                     Determining Optimals
                     Optimals are what is desired or "what should be" on the job. The
                     emphasis is on what individuals need to know about the job, skills
                     they must have in order to perform the job well, and attitudes that
                     increase quality and productivity on the job.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2003                                            14



Results of TNA      Determining Actuals
(Continued)         Actuals are the "way it is" on the job. It is what the individuals
                    know about the job, what they can do on the job, and the
                    attitudes they have about the job. The problems can be
                    addressed once it has been determined what the difference is
                    between "what is" and "what should be." This difference or gap
                    between the optimal and actual is called the deficiency or need,
                    illustrated as follows:

                             OPTIMAL - ACTUAL = DEFICIENCY or NEED

                    The instructional developer's job is to reduce or eliminate the
                    discrepancies or needs. This cannot be accomplished until all
                    the details of the discrepancy or problem have been identified.
                    The nature and details of the performance problem are
                    determined by analyzing the optimals and actuals to identify the
                    gap (need) between the two.

                    Determining Attitudes
                    Attitudes are feelings or opinions about a problem or competence
                    related to it. Normally, everyone has an opinion or feelings about
                    a performance problem. The challenge of the TNA is to
                    determine what they are. The true nature and understanding of a
                    performance problem is not complete until the attitudes
                    surrounding the problem have been determined.

                    Determining Causes
                    Why is there a problem? What is causing it? Usually there are
                    underlying causes for individuals performing the way they do.
                    When determining the causes, try to find out what various
                    individuals think is contributing to the problem. Four possible
                    causes of performance problems are discussed in detail in the
                    next section. Determining the causes of the problem is central to
                    TNA.

                    Determining Solutions
                    Solutions are the ways or methods by which the performance
                    problem can be reduced or eliminated. In some instances,
                    instructional developers have little input into the kind of training
                    that will be developed. In most cases, decisions about the
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2003                                          15



Results of TNA      nature of the solution will be based on management preference.
(Continued)         However, management preference should be influenced by what
                    the instructional developers find out during the assessment.


What you have and   To conduct an effective, cost-efficient TNA, an instructional
need                development team requires specific information in order to
                    correctly identify the performance problem and determine the
                    proper solution. The following table shows what the team "must
                    know" and "must have" to conduct a training needs assessment.

                    If You Know …                 Then You Need ...
                    What the desired              To determine what the actual per-
                    performance or knowledge      formance and knowledge (actuals)
                    (optimals) should be          are.
                    What the optimals and         To determine the individual's
                    actuals are                   attitude or feelings about the job or
                                                  situation.
                    What the optimals,            To identify the cause(s) of the
                    actuals, and attitudes are    problem.
                    What is causing the           To develop solutions to the
                    problem                       training- related problems and
                                                  recommend sources for solving
                                                  non-training- related problems.


TNA techniques      Several different analysis techniques are available for use by the
                    instructional development team. The best technique to use is
                    determined by the purpose of the analysis. For example, during
                    a TNA a certain technique may be better for determining the
                    optimals, while another technique may be better for collecting
                    information on the actuals. The following table shows the
                    techniques that can be used for the various purposes.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2003                                     16




                    Purpose                          Technique
TNA techniques      Optimals                         Needs Analysis
(Continued)                                          Subject Matter Analysis
                                                     Task Analysis
                    Actuals                          Needs Analysis
                                                     Extant Data Analysis
                    Attitudes                        Needs Analysis
                    Causes                           Needs Analysis
                    Solutions                        Needs Analysis


Additional          For additional information on the TNA process, see:
information
                        AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development.
                        Deden-Parker, A. (1980). Needs Assessment in Depth.
                        Journal of Instructional Development, 1(1), 3-9.
                        Edwards, B. and Fiore, P. (1984). Conducting The Training
                        Needs Analysis. New York: Training By Design.
                        Kaufman, R. and English, F. W. (1979). Needs Assessment:
                        Concept and Application. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:
                        Educational Technology Publications.
                        Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                        Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2003                                        17



                                  Section B
                    Performance Problems and Their Causes


Introduction           Identifying the cause of a performance problem is a major
                       concern of the instructional development team. Problems, which
                       can have one or more causes, can only be solved when the
                       cause or causes are known. This section discusses the causes
                       of performance problems and some of the possible solutions.


Causes of              There are four basic causes of performance problems which the
performance            instructional development team will likely encounter. They are as
problems               follows and are explained further below:

                           Lack of Skill or Knowledge
                           Lack of Incentive or Improper Incentive
                           Lack of Environmental Support
                           Lack of Motivation


Lack of skill or       Individuals often cannot perform the required tasks because they
knowledge              lack the necessary skills or knowledge. Mager and Pipe (1984)
                       stated that some individuals could not perform a task if their life
                       depended on it. A subset of this common cause of performance
                       problems is the lack or absence of prerequisite skills or
                       knowledge.


Lack of incentive      Feedback, appraisals, rewards, and policies have a significant
or improper            impact on job performance. Performance problems are often
incentive              caused by "lack of, or improper incentives." Individuals normally
                       perform better if the results of their actions are known to them,
                       and their actual performance is linked or associated to the
                       optimal performance. When a situation exists where individuals
                       could perform better on the job if they wanted to, the lack of
                       improper incentives is often the contributing factor or cause of the
                       problem.

                       Strong, carefully selected incentives should be known to the
                       individuals and consistently practiced by management.
                       Individuals should also know the consequence of performing or
                       not performing their jobs.
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6      1 November 2003                                          18



Lack of            Environmental support is all the things that surround workers as
environmental      they do their job. Many of the environmental factors that have an
support            impact on job performance are not within the direct control of the
                   individual. For example, many of the problems associated with
                   the lack of training stem from environmental factors. Three basic
                   areas that should be examined when determining if the
                   environment is blocking effective performance are personnel,
                   policies and procedures, and tools. Brief explanations are
                   provided below.

                       Personnel – When determining if individuals are capable of
                       performing the job, consider if the individuals actually have
                       the physical and mental ability to perform the job. The
                       performance problem may be caused by the individual's
                       inability to do the job.

                      Identify all individuals who interact with the worker identified
                      as having performance problems. It could be that the
                      individuals the worker must depend on are actually causing
                      the problem. For example, the worker's supervisor or manager
                      may not know enough about the job, and thus may be causing
                      the performance problem by not providing the guidance and
                      support needed by the worker to effectively perform the job.

                      Policies and Procedures – Determine if organizational
                      policies and procedures are causing job performance
                      problems for the worker. For example, the procedures for
                      performing a task may be incorrect, thus causing the worker's
                      job performance to be unsatisfactory.

                      Tools – Tools are what the worker needs to perform the job
                      effectively and cost-efficiently. When the worker does not
                      have the tools required to perform the job, productivity and
                      quality are often affected. Therefore, when identifying the
                      cause of a performance problem, determine if the worker has
                      the tools required to perform the job. For example, if a worker
                      does not have a particular type of screwdriver that is required
                      to remove a piece of equipment, job performance is adversely
                      affected.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6       1 November 2003                                          19



Lack of motivation    Incentives and motivation are often discussed together as
                      possible causes of performance problems. However, recent
                      cognitive studies have differentiated between the two. Keller
                      (1985) illustrates motivation by using the following formula:

                                    VALUE x EXPECTANCY = MOTIVATION

                      The formula is explained as follows:

                      Value is the "worth" individuals attach to things or outcomes as
                      evidenced by their choice of options.

                      Expectancy is the confidence that individuals have that they can
                      successfully perform the task or job.

                      Motivation is based on the benefit that individuals see in what
                      they need to learn to do the job and the belief that they will be
                      able to perform the job.

                      For example, if individuals do not want to learn (low value) and
                      doubt they will be able to perform the job (low expectancy), their
                      motivation will be low.


Solutions linked      Training is an appropriate solution to problems caused by the
to causes             absence of skills, knowledge, or motivation. Training will not
                      solve problems attributed to factors such as incentives and
                      environmental support. The following table shows the four basic
                      causes of problems and provides several typical solutions.

                      Kinds of Causes                Typical Solutions
                      Lack of Skill or Knowledge     Provide skill or knowledge training.
                                                     Develop job aids.
                      Lack of Incentive or           Provide feedback.
                      Improper Incentive             Establish new policies.
                                                     Provide training for supervisors and
                                                     managers.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6       1 November 2003                                         20



Solutions linked
to causes               Kinds of Causes               Typical Solutions
(Continued)           Lack of Environmental    Match individuals to the job.
                      Support                  Redesign job.
                                               Improve interactivity between workers.
                                               Develop new policies and procedures.
                                               Provide adequate tools.
                      Lack of Motivation       Train so individuals can see benefits.
                                               Train so individuals believe they have
                                               the ability to learn to perform the job.


Solutions to          There are two broad, common solutions for the four basic causes
performance           of performance problems. The solutions are:
problems
                         Training Training interventions teach individuals to do
                         something through presentations, examples, practice, and
                         feedback which they:

                              Were never taught.
                              Never learned.
                              Forgot how to do.

                         Reporting and Restructuring This includes options such as:

                              Adapting new policies.
                              Developing a new appraisal system.
                              Changing work schedules.
                              Providing adequate tools.
                              Rewarding desired performance.
                              Implementing other managerial actions deemed as
                              appropriate resolutions to the problem.

                      It should be noted that job redesign, environmental intervention,
                      and organizational development may lead to solutions which
                      normally have little to do with training. In such cases, non-
                      training solutions should be recommended as indicated by the
                      training needs assessment.
AFH 36-2235   Volume 6      1 November 2003                                     21



Additional       For additional information on performance problems and their
information      causes, see:

                     Harless, J. (1975). An Ounce of Analysis Is Worth a Pound of
                     Objectives. Newnan, Georgia: Harless Performance Guild.
                     Harmon, P. (1979). Beyond Behavioral Performance
                     Analysis: Toward a New Paradigm for Educational
                     Technology. Educational Technology, 19(2), 5-26.
                     Keller, J. M. (1985). Motivation and Instructional Design: A
                     Theoretical Perspective. Journal of Instructional
                     Development, 2(4), 26-34.
                     Mager, R. and Pipe, P. (1984). Analyzing Performance
                     Problems (2nd Ed.). Belmont, California: Fearon.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2003                                        22



                                    Section C
                              Air Force TNA Model

Introduction         The Air Force Training Needs Assessment (TNA) model is
                     graphically depicted in Figure 2, shown on the next page. Each
                     section of the model is described in detail in order to enhance
                     understanding of the training needs assessment process. Each
                     type of analysis or assessment is further described below.


Types of analyses:   HQ USAF TNA studies are generated from the fundamental
HQ USAF              activities of the HQ staff. They focus on AF-wide issues such as:

                         Policy
                         Goals and objectives
                         Procedures
                         Personnel
                         Environment

                     Major changes to these areas or the acquisition of new
                     technology or equipment normally result in the need to conduct
                     an assessment. A TNA study may also be conducted as the
                     result of fundamental changes in the Air Force doctrine or
                     mission.


Types of analyses:   MAJCOM TNA studies are generally oriented to performance
MAJCOM               issues. These studies often stimulate decisions on training
                     resource allocation, operational procedures, and performance
                     requirements.

                      Figure 2 Air Force Training Needs Assessment (TNA) Model
                     (Next Page)
AFH 36-2235                  Volume 6           1 November 2002                                                                         23



 Type Analysis




                 Headquarters U.S. Air Force            Major Commands                  Units                    Individual
                  Headquarters U.S. Air Force
                          (Mega)                         Major Commands
                                                            (Macro)                      Units
                                                                                       (Macro)                     Individual
                                                                                                                  (Macro)
                           (Mega)                             (Macro)                   (Macro)                     (Macro)




                     USAF - Wide Issues
                      USAF - Wide Issues
                                                                                  Operational Issues
                  Achieve Strategic Goals/             Performance Issues          Operational Issues     Job Performance Issues
                   Achieve  Strategic
                     Objectives,      Goals/
                                 Charge                 Performance Issues                                 Job Performance Issues
 Purpose




                      Objectives,  Charge                                        Develop Performance
                   Policy Directive, Adopt           Determine Performance        Develop  Performance    Determine Performance
                    Policy Directive, Adopt           Determine and
                                                                Performance          Units/Teams           Determine
                  Fundamental   Procedure,         Requirements     Standards         Units/Teams               On thePerformance
                                                                                                                       Job
                   Fundamental    Procedure,        Requirements and Standards     Train to Success              On the Job
                    Adjust Organizational                                           Train to Success
                     Adjust Organizational
                        Environment
                          Environment
 Outcomes




                    New Policies Which                                            Operational Issues
                      New Policies  Which                                          Operational Issues    Existing Training Courses,
                     Influence Training                  New/Revised                                      Existing Training  Courses,
                       Influence Training                 New/Revised                                      New/Revised   Training
                  Objectives, New/Revised             Training Programs,         Develop Performance        New/Revised    Training
                   Objectives, New/Revised             Training Programs,         Develop  Performance        Course, Job-Aid
                    Training Programs,              Management  Intervention         Units/Teams                Course,Intervention
                                                                                                                        Job-Aid
                      Training Intervention
                               Programs,             Management Intervention          Units/Teams        Management
                  Management                                                       Train to Success       Management Intervention
                   Management Intervention                                          Train to Success
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                        24



Types of analyses:   Base or unit TNA studies are generally focused on operational
Base/Unit            issues. They determine what personnel must be able to do to
                     perform to the stated or required standard. Operational analyses
                     are often needed when new jobs are established or when there
                     are significant changes in jobs. These analyses are usually top-
                     down in direction and involve studying job tasks and performance
                     standards.


Types of analyses:   Individual TNA studies use a micro approach focusing on
Individual           individual performance. This type of study normally identifies skill
                     or knowledge deficiencies, which result in the development of
                     training to resolve the deficiency. The direction of this type of
                     assessment is from the bottom up and usually involves analyses
                     of performance data such as productivity measures, accident
                     information, and grievance reports.


Purpose              Each type of training needs assessment serves a specific
                     purpose, regardless of whether it is a mega or macro assessment
                     of an organization or a micro assessment of individuals.
                     However, the purposes are often interrelated. For example, a
                     new Air Force policy may have a direct impact on the operation of
                     a MAJCOM, which in turn could impact subordinate units, which
                     could also affect individuals within the units. As can be seen, the
                     changing of an Air Force policy could possibly require that a TNA
                     be conducted at each subordinate level in order to assess the
                     impact of the policy change. The interrelations between the
                     purposes are illustrated in the model by dashed lines.

                     The purpose of each type of assessment is described below.


Purpose: HQ USAF     Training needs assessments at the HQ USAF level assess or
(Mega)               analyze AF-wide issues. Conducting this type of a TNA study
                     can result in:

                         Achievement of strategic objectives
                         Development of new or revised policies
                         Revision of directives
                         Changes in fundamental procedures
                         Improvements in the environmental conditions
AFH 36-2235          Volume 6       1 November 2002                                          25



Purpose: MAJCOM         At the MAJCOM level, TNA studies focus more on performance
(Macro)                 issues within a particular command and can serve various
                        purposes. This type of assessment study often results in
                        activities such as:

                            Development of new requirements
                            Revisions to existing standards
                            Changes to current policies and directives


Purpose:                TNAs at the base or unit level focus on operational issues. Some
Base/Unit (Macro)       of the operational issues addressed during the assessment may
                        result in:

                            Determination of skill requirements
                            Allocation of training resources
                            Improvements in environmental conditions


Purpose:                Individual TNA focuses on individual job performance issues and
Individual (Micro)      results in determination of the individual's actual performance on
                        the job. The assessment is normally conducted by directly
                        observing job performance, interviewing individuals, or reviewing
                        performance records and information.


Outcomes                The model indicates that TNAs result in various management
                        interventions, which include both training and non-training
                        solutions.

                        For example, TNAs may determine that training is needed due to:

                            New strategic initiatives, such as the Air Force becoming the
                            single DoD trainer for basic flight training.
                            New systems, such as changing the current financial
                            management system to the Defense Business Operations
                            Fund (DBOF) system.
                            Selecting new methods to meet strategic initiatives, such as
                            Air Logistic Centers (ALC) competing for aircraft maintenance
                            repair contracts.
                            Development of new operational procedures due to basing
                            changes, such as force bed-down.
AFH 36-2235   Volume 6      1 November 2002                                      26



Outcomes             Differing performance requirements due to consolidated
(Continued)          wings changing maintenance organization manning.
                     New policies on flying tactics that require new skills to be
                     learned.
                     New flightline equipment that requires an increase in the crew
                     chief's skills and knowledge.
                     Severe climate locations that require personnel to learn
                     different fueling techniques.
                     Specialists being required to perform different jobs
                     (cross-utilization).
                     Individuals being promoted and having to learn new skills and
                     knowledge in order to perform their new jobs.

                 Also, TNAs may determine that non-training management
                 intervention may be the appropriate solution to an identified
                 problem. Non-training management interventions may include:

                     New facilities
                     Additional personnel
                     Improved working conditions
                     Changes in policies, directives, or procedures
                     New or better incentives
                     Improved management and supervision

                 While the outcome of a needs assessment may indicate either
                 the need for training or other non-training management
                 intervention, a combination of training and non-training
                 interventions is often indicated.


Additional       For additional information on the TNA model, see:
information
                     Kaufman, R., Rojas, A. M. and Mayer, H. (1993). Needs
                     Assessment: A User's Guide. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:
                     Educational Technology Publications.
                     Mager, R. and Pipe, P. (1984). Analyzing Performance
                     Problems (2nd Ed.). Belmont, California: Lake Publishing
                     Company: Fearon.
                     Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                     Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
                     Training Needs Assessment Handbook (1991). State of
                     Washington Department of Transportation. Work Force 2000,
                     Work Group 4C. (1991).
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2002                                        27



                                  Section D
                                 TNA Process

Introduction      The training needs assessment (TNA) process used in the Air
                  Force is a "generic" process that is applicable to all four types of
                  analyses previously discussed in this chapter. Instructional
                  development teams following this generic TNA process are able
                  to effectively and cost-efficiently identify problems and determine
                  the appropriate solutions to these problems. This approach
                  emphasizes the common aspects of methodology; that is, each
                  assessment has an overall purpose, a set of data that responds
                  to the purpose, and a method of obtaining and analyzing the
                  data.


TNA process       The generic process used to conduct TNA in the Air Force is
flow diagram      illustrated in Figure 3.

                  Figure 3 Air Force TNA Process

                                                  Determine
                                                   Purpose




                                                  Identify Data
                                                 Requirements




                                               Determine Data
                                              Collection Method




                                                  Collect and
                                                 Analyze Data




                                                Report Findings
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                       28



Steps of the           Following the steps of the Air Force TNA process will ensure that
TNA process            the assessment is conducted in an orderly process resulting in
                       identification of the problem with recommended solutions. Each
                       of the five steps of the process is described below.

                          Step               Process
                           1         Determine purpose.
                           2         Identify data requirements.
                           3         Determine data collection methods.
                           4         Collect and analyze data.
                           5         Report findings.


Step 1: Determine      The overall purpose of the TNA study is addressed in the first
purpose                step of the assessment process. The instructional development
                       team determines the purpose of TNA dynamics in the workplace,
                       proposed management action, publication, or other stimulus that
                       indicates that a training or other intervention is needed. The
                       purpose of conducting a TNA is determined by the type of
                       analysis or assessment performed, as previously discussed in
                       this chapter. The assessment sets the stage for detailed
                       determination of methods and data sources. By first determining
                       the purpose of the TNA, the type of analysis to be done and the
                       objectives of the assessment are identified. Some of the
                       purposes for conducting a TNA are discussed in the previous
                       section of this handbook.


Step 2: Identify       Once the type of analysis has been determined, the diagnostic
data requirements      information to be gathered is identified. Normally, this information
                       will document some type of performance deficiency or problem.
                       Remember, a performance deficiency is defined as the difference
                       between the desired performance and the actual performance.
                       The deficiency reveals a training need or other management
                       intervention. Figure 4 illustrates this principle.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                       29



Step 2: Identify       Figure 4 Skill/Knowledge Deficiency
data requirements
(Continued)
                            Desired
                          Performance


                                                                       Training Need /
                                            Deficiency       Reveals    Management
                                                                        Intervention


                             Actual
                          Performance



                       For example, a flightline supervisor is concerned about the lack of
                       skills and knowledge of the ground refueling personnel. A
                       baseline would be compiled on the actual performance, using
                       data such as certification information, and then comparing it to
                       the desired performance, which is based on the ground refueling
                       technical order (TO). The difference between the desired
                       performance and the actual performance defines or reveals the
                       training need.

                       Existence of a deficiency does not necessarily indicate that a
                       training problem exists or that the solution automatically involves
                       training. The problem may relate to motivation, job design, lack
                       of performance feedback, or other organizational barriers. As
                       suggested in Figure 2, other types of management interventions
                       are indicated in these cases. Interventions may range from team-
                       building exercises to changes in communications or incentives.

                       When conducting a TNA, the time dimension should be taken into
                       consideration. While instructional developers and managers tend
                       to think in terms of immediate solutions, larger and more complex
                       objectives, such as changes in the organizational environment,
                       introduction of new procedures, or shifts in technologies, require
                       a focus on long-range needs. This dimension is graphically
                       illustrated in Figure 5.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6           1 November 2002                                    30



Step 2: Identify       Figure 5 Immediate and Long-Range Time Dimension
data requirements
(Continued)
                                  Present
                                  Desired
                                Performance

                                                           Reveals          Immediate
                                                                         Training Needs
                                              Deficiency                 or Management
                                                                           Intervention



                                   Actual
                               Performance

                                                           Reveals        Long-Range
                                                                        Training Need
                                              Deficiency
                                                                        or Management
                                                                           Intervention

                                  Projected
                                   Desired
                                Performance




Step 3: Determine      Once the data requirements have been determined and a source
data collection        for data has been identified, the next step is for instructional
method                 developers or a development team to determine the best method
                       of collecting the necessary data in view of the data requirements.
                       Appropriate data sources and data collection methods, as well as
                       other key information needed to conduct the various types of
                       analyses or assessments, are shown in the following four tables.

                           Headquarters Air Force Training Needs Assessment
                           Major Command Training Needs Assessment
                           Base/Unit Training Needs Assessment
                           Individual Training Needs Assessment
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6      1 November 2002                                    31




Step 3: Determine        Headquarters Air Force Training Needs Assessment
data collection     Management Decision Level Air Staff
method              Direction of Analysis       Top Down
(Continued)
                    Focus                       Strategic Goals and Objectives
                                                Policy/Directives
                                                Fundamental Procedures
                                                New Technologies
                                                Organizational Environment
                    Primary Source of Data      Strategic Goals and Objectives
                                                New Missions, Products,
                                                Equipment, or Policies
                                                Reports and Trends
                                                HQ Staff
                    Output                      New Policies
                                                Training Objectives
                                                New or Revised Training
                                                Management Interventions
                    Methods or Techniques       Consultation with Focus Group
                                                Interview
                                                Survey Questionnaire
                                                Records
                                                Reports
                    Data Source                 HQ Goals and Objectives
                                                Organizational Environment
                                                Indices
                                                Efficiency Indices
                                                System Changes
                                                Management
                                                Work Plans and Schedules
                                                Resource Consumption Reports
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6      1 November 2002                                     32




Step 3: Determine            Major Command Training Needs Assessment
data collection     Management Decision      MAJCOM Staff
method              Level
(Continued)         Direction of Analysis    Top Down
                    Focus                    Strategic Goals and Objectives
                                             Performance Issues
                                             New or Revised Training
                                             New Technologies
                                             Management Interventions
                    Primary Source of Data   Strategic Goals and Objectives
                                             Operational Procedures
                                             Resource Allocation Reports
                                             MAJCOM Staff
                    Output                   New or Revised Training
                                             Management Intervention
                    Method or Technique      Focus Group Meeting
                                             Interviews/Observations
                                             Survey Questionnaire
                                             Extant Data Analysis
                    Data Source              Command Goals and Objectives
                                             Operational Procedures
                                             Reports
                                             Skill Inventories
                                             Organizational Environment Indices
                                             Efficiency/Productivity Indices
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6       1 November 2002                                       33




Step 3: Determine                Base/Unit Training Needs Assessment
data collection     Management Decision Organizational Staff
method              Level
(Continued)         Direction of Analysis   Top Down (Standards)
                                            Bottom Up (Tasks)
                    Focus                   Operational Issues
                                            Analysis of Specific Job or Group of
                                            Jobs
                    Primary Source of       Task Analysis
                    Data                    Job Description
                                            Managers, Supervisors, and Individuals
                    Output                  New or Revised Training
                                            Management Interventions
                    Methods or              Task/Job Analysis
                    Techniques              Consultation with SME or Focus Group
                                            Survey Questionnaire
                                            Interview/Observation
                                            Work Sample
                    Data Source             Job Description/Specification
                                            Performance Standards
                                            Task Analysis Reports
                                            Work Samples
                                            Job Literature
                                            Training Reports
                                            Operating Problem Analysis and Report
                                            Occupational Data
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6         1 November 2002                                     34




Step 3: Determine                  Individual Training Needs Assessment
data collection       Management Decision          Immediate Supervisor
method                Level                        Trainer
(Continued)           Direction of Analysis        Bottom Up
                      Focus                        Job Performance Issues
                      Primary Source of Data       Records and Reports
                                                   Performance Measurements
                                                   Supervisor
                                                   Trainer
                                                   Individual
                      Output                       New or Revised Training
                                                   Job Aids
                                                   Management Intervention
                      Method or Technique          Interviews/Observations
                                                   Survey Questionnaire
                                                   Focus Group
                                                   Testing
                                                   Work Sample
                      Data Source                  Performance Appraisals
                                                   Work Samples
                                                   Interviews/Observations
                                                   Survey Questionnaire
                                                   Test
                                                   Program/Training Reports
                                                   Occupational Data

                      Additional information on the advantages and disadvantages of
                      various methods of data collection is provided in the tables
                      starting on page 37. This information is an adaptation from
                      Steadham (1980).


Step 4: Collect and   Once the instructional developers or development teams have
analyze data          chosen the best method for collecting data, the actual data
                      collection process begins using the selected method. Before
                      starting the actual data collection, consider:

                      •   Obtaining commander's, manager's, or supervisor's support
                          for the project, as applicable.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                      35



Step 4: Collect and   Making sure everyone involved in the data collection process
analyze data          understands the purpose.
(Continued)           Letting those involved in the process know the benefit of the TNA
                      study and the resulting training or management intervention.

                      The advantages and disadvantages of the following assessment
                      methods will be discussed.

                      Observation
                      Surveys/Questionnaires
                      Panel of Experts
                      Print Media
                      Interviews
                      Problem Solving / Group Discussion
                      Tests
                      Extant Data, Records, Reports
                      Work Samples
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6     1 November 2002                                    36



                                    Observation

         Method                    Advantages                Disadvantages

  Can be as technical as      Minimizes interruption of   Requires a highly skilled
  time-motion studies or      routine work flow or        observer with both
  as functionally or          group activity.             process and content
  behaviorally specific as    Generates in situ data,     knowledge (unlike an
  observing a new staff       highly relevant to the      interviewer who needs,
  member interacting          situation where response    for the most part, only
  during a meeting.           to identified training      process skills).
  May be as unstructured      needs/interests will        Carries limitations that
  as walking through an       impact.                     derive from being able to
  office on the lookout for   When combined with a        collect first advantage
  evidence of                 feedback step, provides     listed in the preceding
  communication barriers.     for important comparison    column.
  Can be used normatively     checks between              Holds potential for
  to distinguish between      inferences of the           respondents to perceive
  effective and ineffective   observer and the            the observation activity
  behaviors,                  respondent.                 as "spying."
  organizational
  structures, and/or
  process.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6      1 November 2002                                    37



                              Surveys / Questionnaires

         Method                    Advantages                 Disadvantages

  May be in the form of       Can reach large numbers      Make little provision for
  surveys or                  of people in a short time.   free expression of
  questionnaires of a          Are relatively              unanticipated responses.
  random or stratified         inexpensive.                Require substantial time
  sample of respondents,       Give opportunity of         (and technical skills,
  or an enumeration of an      expression without fear     especially in survey
  entire "population."         of embarrassment.           mode) for development
  Can use a variety of         Yield data easily           of effective instruments.
  question formats: open-      summarized and              Are of limited utility in
  ended, projective,           reported.                   getting at causes of
  forced-choice, priority-                                 problems or possible
  ranking.                                                 solutions.
  Can take alternative                                     Suffer low return rates
  forms such as Q-sorts,                                   (mailed), grudging
  slip-sorts, or rating                                    responses, or
  scales, either pre-                                      unintended and/or
  designed or self-                                        inappropriate
  generated by                                             respondents.
  respondents.
  May be self-
  administered (by mail)
  under controlled or
  uncontrolled conditions,
  or may require the
  presence of an
  interpreter or assistant.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6     1 November 2002                                       38



                                 Panel of Experts

         Method                    Advantages                 Disadvantages

  Secures information         Is relatively simple and     Carries a built-in bias,
  from those persons who,     inexpensive to conduct.      since it is based on
  by virtue of their formal   Permits input and            views of those who tend
  or informal standing, are   interaction of a number of   to see training needs
  in a good position to       individuals, each with       from their own individual
  know the training needs     their own perspectives of    or organizational
  of a particular group:      the needs of the area,       perspective.
  Commander                   discipline, group, etc.      May result in only a
  Managers                    Establishes and              partial picture of training
  Supervisors                 strengthens lines of         needs due to the
  Subject Matter Experts      communication between        typically non-
  Once identified, data can   participants in the          representative nature (in
  be gathered from these      process.                     a statistical sense) of a
  individuals by using                                     key informant group.
  techniques such as
  interviews, group
  discussions, and
  questionnaires.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6    1 November 2002                                      39



                                    Print Media

         Method                    Advantages                 Disadvantages

  Can include professional   Is an excellent source of     Can be a problem when
  journals, handbooks,       information for               it comes to data analysis
  manuals, directives,       uncovering and clarifying     and synthesis into a
  user's guides, vendor      normative needs.              usable form (use of
  and specifications.        Provides information that     clipping service or key
                             is current, if not forward-   consultants can make
                             looking.                      this type of data more
                             Is readily available and is   usable).
                             apt to have already been
                             reviewed by the client
                             group.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6    1 November 2002                                      40



                                    Interviews

         Method                    Advantages                 Disadvantages

  Can be formal or casual,   Are adept at revealing        Are usually time-
  structured or              feelings, causes of and       consuming.
  unstructured, or           possible solutions to         Can be difficult to
  somewhere in between.      problems which the client     analyze and quantify
  May be used with a         is facing (or anticipates);   results (especially from
  sample of a particular     provide maximum               unstructured formats).
  group or conducted with    opportunity for clients to    Unless the interviewer is
  everyone concerned.        represent themselves          skillful, interviewee can
  Can be done in person,     spontaneously on their        easily be made to feel
  by phone, at the work      own terms (especially         self-conscious.
  site, or away from it.     when conducted in a           Relies for success on a
                             open-ended, non-              skillful interviewer who
                             directive manner).            can generate data
                                                           without making
                                                           interviewee feel self-
                                                           conscious, suspicious,
                                                           etc.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6      1 November 2002                                       41



                        Problem Solving / Group Discussion

         Method                      Advantages                 Disadvantages

  Resembles face-to-face       Permits on-the-spot           Is time-consuming
  interview technique, e.g.,   synthesis of different        (therefore initially
  structured or                viewpoints.                   expensive).
  unstructured, formal or      Builds support for the        Can produce data that is
  informal, or somewhere       particular service            difficult to synthesize and
  in between.                  response that is              quantify (more a problem
  Can be focused on job        ultimately decided on.        with the less structured
  (role) analysis, group       Decreases participant's       techniques).
  problem analysis, group      "dependence response"
  goal setting, or any         toward the provider since
  number of group tasks or     data analysis is (or can
  themes, e.g., "leadership    be) a shared function.
  training needs of the        Helps participants to
  command."                    become better problem
  Uses one or several of       analysts, better listeners,
  the familiar group-          etc.
  facilitating force-fields,
  consensus rankings,
  organizational mirroring,
  and simulation.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6     1 November 2002                                        42



                                       Tests

         Method                    Advantages                 Disadvantages

  Are a hybridized form of    Can be especially helpful    Availability of a relatively
  questionnaire.              in determining whether       small number of tests
  Can be very functionally    the cause of a recognized    that are validated for a
  oriented (like              problem is a deficiency in   specific situation.
  observations) to test an    skill or knowledge or, by    Do not indicate if
  individual's proficiency.   elimination, attitude.       measured skills and
  May be used to sample       Results are easily           knowledge are actually
  learned ideas and facts.    quantifiable and             being used in on-the-job
  Can be administered         comparable.                  or "back home" group
  with or without the                                      situation.
  presence of an assistant.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6       1 November 2002                                      43



                             Extant Data, Records, Reports

         Method                      Advantages                 Disadvantages

  Can consist of                Provide excellent clues to   Causes of problems or
  organizational charts,        trouble spots.               possible solutions often
  planning documents,           Provide objective            do not show up.
  policy manuals, audits,       evidence of the results of   Carry perspective that
  and budget reports.           problems within the          generally reflects the
  Individual records            agency or group.             past situation rather than
  (grievance, turnover,         Can be collected with a      the current one (or
  accidents, etc.).             minimum of effort and        recent changes).
  Include minutes of            interruption of workflow     Need a skilled data
  meetings, weekly /            since it already exists at   analyst if clear patterns
  monthly progress              the work site.               and trends are to
  reports, memoranda,                                        emerge from such
  program evaluation                                         technical and diffuse raw
  reports.                                                   data.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6      1 November 2002                                         44



                                    Work Samples

         Method                     Advantages                   Disadvantages

  Are similar to               Carry most of the             Case study method will
  observation, but in          advantages of records         take time away from
  written form.                and reports data.             actual work of the
  Can be products              Are the organization's        organization.
  generated in the course      data (its own input).         Need specialized content
  of the organization's                                      analysis.
  work, e.g., reports,                                       Analyst's assessment of
  program proposals,                                         strengths/weaknesses
  records, forms, letters,                                   disclosed by samples
  training designs.                                          can be challenged as
  Written responses to a                                     "too subjective."
  hypothetical but relevant
  case study provided by
  the analyst.


                     When sufficient data has been collected, the instructional
                     developer or development team analyzes the information to
                     determine the problem and its cause, and a solution is selected.


Step 5: Report       Results of a needs assessment may vary. During this process,
findings             you may be required to prepare both an interim report and final
                     report. The method for presenting the findings will depend on the
                     organization. A brief executive summary may be adequate for
                     some organizations and other organizations may require in-depth
                     reports.

                     Report data gathering findings on a regular basis to the
                     organization. You do not want to wait until the end of the process
                     to report controversial or unpleasant findings.

                     The items included in a formal needs assessment report are:
                        Executive summary
                        Objectives
                        Methodology
                        Findings
                        Conclusions
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6      1 November 2002                                    45



Step 5: Report          Recommendations
findings                Supporting data
(Continued)
                    After the cause of the problem has been determined, the
                    instructional developer or development team reports or
                    documents the findings. This report may contain information
                    such as:

                        Why the TNA study was conducted
                        Method of data collection
                        Who proved in the data
                        What is the problem
                        What is causing the problem
                        Recommended solution to the problem


Additional          For additional information on the TNA process, see:
information
                        Steadham, S. (1980). Learning To Select a Needs
                        Assessment Strategy. Training and Development Journal,
                        January, 56-61.
                        Training Needs Assessment Handbook (1991). State of
                        Washington Department of Transportation. Work Force
                        2000, Work Group 4C.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6      1 November 2002                                        46



                                Section E
                 Integration of TNA Model and Process

Introduction      In order for the instructional developer or development team to
                  identify a problem and determine an effective, cost-efficient
                  solution to the problem, the training needs assessment (TNA)
                  model and the assessment process should be thoroughly
                  understood as being one entity.


TNA model         Figure 6 illustrates the TNA model and the flow of the
and process       assessment process. This flow diagram is a graphic picture of a
integration       TNA study. It can be used as a quick reference by instructional
                  developers or development teams.

                  Figure 6 TNA Integrated Flow Diagram
                  (Next Page)
AFH 36-2235          Volume 6               1 November 2002                                                                                     47


    Type Analysis                                                                START


                    Organizational
                    Organizational                         Operational
                                                           Operational                              Units
                                                                                                    Units                    Individual
                                                                                                                              Individual
                       (Macro)
                        (Macro)                             (Macro)
                                                             (Macro)                              (Macro)
                                                                                                   (Macro)                     (Micro)
                                                                                                                                (Micro)


    Purpose
                  Achieve
                  Achieve Strategic
                             Strategic
                  Objectives,Change
                  Objectives,Change
                Policy
                 Policy /Statute,
                         /Statute, Adapt
                                   Adapt             Determine
                                                     Determine Performance
                                                                Performance                Determine
                                                                                           Determine Performance
                                                                                                     Performance       Determine
                                                                                                                       Determine Performance
                                                                                                                                  Performance
               Fundamental
               Fundamental Procedure,
                               Procedure,          Requirements
                                                   Requirements and
                                                                 and Standards
                                                                     Standards                 Requirements
                                                                                                Requirements                 On
                                                                                                                             On the
                                                                                                                                 the Job
                                                                                                                                     Job
                Adjust  Organizational
                Adjust Organizational
                         Climate
                          Climate

    Process
                                                        Determine
                                                        Determine Purpose
                                                                   Purpose
                                                      (Purpose
                                                       (Purpose Determined)
                                                                Determined)




                                                         Identify
                                                          Identify Data
                                                                   Data
                                                         Requirements
                                                         Requirements




                                                        Determine
                                                        Determine Data
                                                                   Data
                                                       Collection
                                                       Collection Method
                                                                  Method




                                                            Gather
                                                            Gather &&
                                                         Interpret
                                                          Interpret Data
                                                                    Data




                                                         Report
                                                         Report Findings
                                                                Findings



    Outcomes
                                                     Develop
                                                     Develop Trng
                                                             Trng Objectives
                                                                  Objectives
                                                      Develop
                                                      Develop Trng
                                                              Trng Program
                                                                   Program
                                                   Develop/Change
                                                   Develop/Change Trng
                                                                   Trng Course
                                                                        Course
                 Trng
                  Trng Objectives,
                       Objectives,                                                         Out
                                                                                           Out Program,
                                                                                                Program, Existing
                                                                                                          Existing
              New/Revised
              New/Revised Trng,
                            Trng, Course
                                  Course                                                       Trng
                                                                                                Trng Course,
                                                                                                     Course,
                 Mgmt                                New
                                                     New Trng
                                                          Trng Course,
                                                                Course, New/
                 Mgmt Intervention
                        Intervention                                    New/             New/Revised
                                                                                         New/Revised Trng
                                                                                                       Trng Course,
                                                                                                            Course,
                                                     Revised
                                                      Revised Trng
                                                              Trng Program,              Mgmt
                                                                    Program,             Mgmt Intervention,
                                                                                               Intervention, Job
                                                                                                             Job Aid
                                                                                                                 Aid
                                                    Course
                                                    Course Mgmt
                                                           Mgmt Intervention
                                                                  Intervention
AFH 36-2235   Volume 6      1 November 2002                                       48



Additional       For additional information on integration of the TNA model and
information      process, see:

                     Training Needs Assessment Handbook (1991). State of
                     Washington Department of Transportation. Work Force 2000.
                     Work Group 4C.
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6       1 November 2002                                        49



                          Chapter 3
         HOW TO CONDUCT A TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT
                                     Overview

Introduction       Previous chapters in this handbook have provided the basic
                   information necessary for understanding the purposes, types,
                   principles, and process of training needs assessment (TNA).
                   This chapter will focus on how to actually conduct a TNA study.


Objectives         The objectives of this chapter are to:

                       Describe how to plan for a TNA study.
                       Explain how to implement the plan.
                       Discuss reporting the TNA findings.
                       Integrate the TNA model and process into a descriptive
                       explanation of how to conduct a TNA study.


Where to read      This chapter contains three sections.
about it
                     Section            Title                                  Page
                           A     Develop TNA Plan                               50
                           B     Implement TNA Plan                             61
                           C     Report TNA Results                             97


Additional         For additional information on conducting a training needs
information        assessment, see:

                       AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development.
                       Kaufman, R., Rojas, A. M. and Mayer, H. (1993). Needs
                       Assessment: A User's Guide. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:
                       Educational Technology Publications.
                       Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                       Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
                       Training Needs Assessment Handbook (1991). State of
                       Washington Department of Transportation. Work Force 2000,
                       Work Group 4C.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2002                                         50



                                 Section A
                              Develop TNA Plan

Introduction       It is unlikely that an effective, cost-efficient training needs
                   assessment (TNA) study can be conducted without adequate
                   planning on the part of those involved in the study. This includes
                   all levels of management, instructional developers, subject matter
                   experts, and development teams, as well as other individuals as
                   applicable. Adequate planning is essential. This section
                   describes the necessary planning activities for conducting a TNA
                   study.


Needs assessment   Instructional designers should be able to substantiate why an
planning           assessment is needed. They should know the problem, the
                   number of people affected by it, and when they will propose a
                   solution for the problem.

                   Analysis of organizational charts, strategic business plans, job
                   categories, and human performance problems documents can
                   assist an instructional designer in the development of the needs
                   assessment plan.

                   Before developing the needs assessment plan, the instructional
                   designer should first validate what is known such as:
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2002                                  51




Needs assessment      Situation-Specific              Probing the Issues
planning                   Questions
(Continued)        What is happening now?    Determine how people are
                                             currently performing.
                                             Identify the levels of outputs and
                                             results that are currently being
                                             done.
                   What should be happening? Identify the relevant work
                                             standards or performance
                                             objectives.
                                             Inquiry about the relationship that
                                             exist between the organization's
                                             strategic business plan and
                                             employee performance.
                                             Determine the results that must be
                                             achieved.
                   How wide is the           Determine how the gap can be
                   performance gap?          measured.
                                             Research the historical trends of
                                             the performance.
                                             Determine if the performance gap
                                             continues to increase over time.
                   How important is the      Identify the effects of the gap on
                   performance gap?          the organization.
                                             Determine how the gap affects
                                             individuals inside and outside the
                                             targeted group.
                   How much of the           Determine if the problem can be
                   performance gap is caused broken into parts.
                   by deficiencies in        Verify if part of the problem is
                   knowledge, skills, or     caused by deficiencies in
                   attitudes?                knowledge, skills, attitudes, or
                                             environment.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6        1 November 2002                                          52




Needs assessment       Situation – Specific                Probing the Issues
planning                    Questions
(Continued)        What solutions are cost         Determine how to solve
                   effective and feasible?         environmental deficiency
                                                   problems.
                                                   How should problems caused by
                                                   deficiencies in knowledge, skills, or
                                                   attitudes be solved?
                   What unintended side            Validate if the target audience
                   effects of taking corrective    (performers) has altered their
                   action can be predicted?        behaviors during the needs
                                                   assessment process?
                                                   Validate if decision-makers
                                                   (management) interpreted findings
                                                   of the needs assessment in
                                                   conformity with logical conclusions
                                                   reached. Also, validate if will they
                                                   impose their own personal
                                                   interpretations on results.

                   Next, the instructional designer should:

                       Establish the objectives
                       Identify the target audience
                       Select sampling procedures
                       Identify appropriate data collection methods
                       Specify instruments and protocols, and
                       Choose methods of data analysis.


Why plan?          Successful assessments are based on careful planning. This is
                   planning which keeps the activities focused on the purpose for
                   conducting the TNA study. Planning should take into
                   consideration that there is always the possibility that the study will
                   be constrained in some manner, such as by environmental
                   conditions or management's reluctance to support the study.
                   Regardless of the constraints that may be encountered, adequate
                   planning before starting an assessment will result in an effective,
                   cost-efficient study being conducted.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6        1 November 2002                                        53



Steps in          To develop an effective TNA plan, the instructional developers or
TNA planning      the development team will need to follow a logical process. The
                  following steps provide procedures that can be followed during
                  the TNA planning phase.

                       Step            Procedure
                          1     Assess the Context
                          2     Determine Purpose of TNA
                          3     Determine Data Collection Method
                          4     Document TNA Plan


Specifying        Instructional designers should specify what instruments they will
instruments       use in the needs assessment. These instruments may be
                  commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) or custom-made products such
                  as questionnaires, interview guides, or observation guides.


Protocol          In conducting a needs assessment, instructional designer and the
                  organization should establish what is the business protocol.

                  Protocol means etiquette and it must be considered in planning
                  the needs assessment. It is the rule that guides organizational
                  behavior. Business protocol should provide guidance to
                  instructional designers how to:
                       Carry out the needs assessment
                       Interact with the client
                       Interpret the results
                       Deliver the results, and
                       Plan actions based on the results
                  During the process of establishing the business protocol,
                  instructional designers should also seek answers to these
                  questions:
                  1.   Who should I interact with during the needs assessment?
                  2.   Whose approval is needed to collect information?
                  3.   Who should receive the needs assessment results?
                  4.   Who should receive periodic process reports?
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                            54



Step 1: Assess the   In order to conduct a TNA study the developers or development
context              team should be aware of the organization's context. If its context
                     is not clearly understood, a study can cause more problems than
                     it solves. The first step in TNA planning is to assess the context
                     in which the assessment will be conducted. This can be
                     accomplished by thinking about and finding answers to questions
                     such as:

                         Who wants the problem solved or a new technology
                         introduced and why?
                         Who does not want the problem solved? Is there anyone
                         who prefers that things stay the way they are? Why do they
                         want it to stay the same?
                         Is this a performance problem or an innovation? If it is
                         perceived that there is a performance problem, who might
                         fear or attempt to block efforts to find the cause? If it is a
                         new system, technology, or innovation, who might not
                         support the change?
                         Who are the key sources of information for the TNA study?
                         Will they be accessible? Will you be able to go back to them
                         as you need more information?
                         What records might provide useful information? Are the
                         records available?
                         How much support does the TNA study have? Does the TNA
                         have support or will it be a problem to get the needed
                         resources such as money, personnel, and time to conduct the
                         study?
                         Who will need to be informed on the status of the TNA study?
                         Who needs to know and who does not need to know (at least
                         at first)?

                     Asking these types of questions will not solve all the problems,
                     but it will allow for a clear understanding of the nature or context
                     of the TNA. This knowledge can be used to establish resource
                     requirements and identify constraints.

                     This step enables the instructional developers to gain a clear
                     picture of the organizational context and a detailed listing of the
                     sources who can contribute to the TNA study.
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6       1 November 2002                                         55



Step 2: Determine   As discussed in Chapter 2 of this handbook, the Air Force TNA
purpose of TNA      model shows that there are four different purposes or entry points
                    in the TNA process. In this planning step, the purpose or type
                    (level) of assessment should be determined. Each purpose can
                    have various outcomes; some are similar, while others are
                    completely different. The entry points correlate to one mega and
                    two macro assessments (HQ USAF, MAJCOM, and Base/Unit)
                    and one micro assessment (individual). The model is presented
                    in this manner because in one instance an individual may have a
                    training need, while in other cases a base or an entire command
                    may require training or other management intervention.

                    Once the purpose and type (level) of the assessment have been
                    determined, the instructional developers or development team
                    can then think about finding answers to questions such as:

                        What is the desired performance (optimals)?
                        What are the individuals currently doing (actuals)?
                        What are the individual attitudes about the problem
                        (attitudes/feelings)?
                        What might be causing the problem (causes)?
                        What solutions are preferred (solutions)?

                    Finding tentative answers to questions such as these will enable
                    the purpose of the TNA to be more clearly defined.


Step 3: Determine   In order to determine the data collection method, the techniques
data collection     and tools to be used will need to be selected. TNA techniques
method              and tools are only briefly discussed in this step, with more
                    detailed information being provided in the next section of this
                    chapter. There are two important rules of thumb that should be
                    considered:

                        The TNA purpose influences the techniques selected and
                        questions asked.
                        The context influences the tools employed and the sources
                        contacted.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2002                                         56



TNA techniques      When determining the data collection method, there are three
                    basic TNA techniques that should be considered:

                        Extant data analysis
                        Needs analysis
                        Subject matter and task analysis

                    These techniques, which will be discussed in detail later in this
                    handbook, are described below.


Extant data         Extant data is the data that organizations collect which represents
analysis            the results of personnel performance. It includes information
                    such as:

                        Audits or productivity figures
                        Accident reports
                        Grievances
                        Absentee figures
                        Budget reports
                        Personnel records
                        Program evaluation reports

                    When using the extant data analysis technique, what individuals
                    do is not being analyzed; rather, the effects of their performance
                    are being analyzed. Using the effects of performance information
                    and then inferring back from those results, the instructional
                    developers or development team can draw a clear picture of the
                    actual performance. The outcomes of an individual's actions are
                    being sought in light of the current performance goals.

                    Extant data analysis identifies the actuals by providing a clear
                    picture of what is actually happening in the work environment, but
                    it does not tell why there is a problem or what the individual's
                    attitudes or feelings are about the problem.

                    To collect and review extant data, access to information that
                    already exists is needed. This may include:
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                         57



Extant data              Files and records kept within the organization
analysis                 Computer printouts
(Continued)              Contract award data
                         Certification data
                         Performance appraisals
                         Requests for transfer
                         Reports and records

                     Problems may often be encountered trying to gain access to this
                     type of information. Key actions are:

                         Determine what information is needed.
                         Find out where the information is located.
                         Gain access to it.

                     The steps for conducting an extant data analysis are given on
                     page 62.


Needs analysis       Needs analysis is the technique that fulfills the entire range of
                     TNA purposes. It is used to seek opinions on:

                         Actuals
                         Optimals
                         Attitudes
                         Causes
                         Solutions

                     While extant data analysis is about inferences based on results,
                     needs analysis is about opinions. Unlike information for extant
                     data analysis, which is already in existence, needs analysis
                     involves contact with sources to seek new information and
                     perspectives on why things are the way they are. Specific steps
                     for conducting a needs analysis are given on page 64


Subject matter and   Subject matter and task analyses yield information on optimal
task analysis        performance and knowledge requirements. By analyzing
                     documents and interacting with subject matter experts (SME), the
                     instructional developers or development team will be able to
                     develop a clear statement of the desired skills and knowledge of
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                          58



Subject matter and   the job performer. Specific steps for conducting subject matter
task analysis        and task analyses are given on page 71
(Continued)


TNA tools            There are four basic TNA tools or methods that can be used to
                     carry out the TNA techniques. The four tools, which will be
                     described in detail in the next section, are listed below.

                        Interviews are the most widely used TNA tool for collecting
                        data. Interviews can be used with most sources and they can
                        be effective either in person or over the telephone.

                        Observations are normally used to gather information about
                        actual performance and are most often linked to the task
                        analysis technique.

                        Focus Group Meetings are often effective, cost-efficient
                        methods of getting and disseminating information and gaining
                        the much-needed support for TNA studies. The use of focus
                        groups as a data collection method is based on the belief that
                        a group of individuals working together can produce a better
                        product than individuals working separately. Groups are often
                        used as a jury of experts to derive a consensus opinion on
                        optimals.

                        Surveys and Questionnaires allow the instructional
                        developers or development team to collect data anonymously
                        from large numbers of individuals. Effectively constructed
                        survey questionnaires lend themselves to rapid analysis of the
                        results.


Step 4: Document     In the first three steps of the TNA planning process, the
TNA plan             instructional developers have been thinking or planning how the
                     TNA study is to be conducted. During this planning period the
                     developers have thought about the context in which the TNA
                     study will be conducted, the purpose of the study, and the options
                     for data collection techniques and tools. At this point, it is time to
                     write or document the basic plan for the TNA study.

                     An example of a simple TNA planner job aid is provided in
                     Figure 7.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2002                                        59



Step 4: Document   A planner, such as this, can be used by developers to organize
TNA plan           and document the TNA context, purpose, and data collection
(Continued)        options. However, the key is to use a job aid planner that
                   satisfies the documentation needs.

                          Remember, document ONLY what is necessary
                               to have a usable, effective plan.

                   Figure 7 TNA Planner Job Aid
                        TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT PLANNER JOB AID
                                               CONTEXT
                   Resources                         Constraints
                   Managers
                   First Time Supervisors
                                                     Time and Money
                   SMEs
                   Extant Data
                                              PURPOSES
                   Description            Status               Sources
                   Optimals               On Hand              Master Task List
                   Actuals                Need                 Supervisors /
                   Attitudes              Need                 Standards
                   Causes                 Need Urgently        SMEs
                   Solutions              N/A                  Supervisors
                                                               Determine After
                                                               Cause Identified
                                     TECHNIQUES AND TOOLS
                   Stage Technique             Tool               Source
                      1     Subject Matter     Review             Directives
                            Analysis
                      2     TNA                Group Meeting      Managers/
                                                                  Supervisors
                      3     TNA                Interview          SMEs
                      4     Task Analysis      Review             Master Task List
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6       1 November 2002                                     60




Step 4: Document TNA plan (Continued)

Figure 8 Strengths and Weaknesses of Selected Data Collection Methods
                 Incumbent    Management Time                        Relevant
Methods          Involvement Involvement      Required Cost          Quantifiable
                                                                     Data
Interviews       High         Low             High        High       Moderate
Focus Groups     High         Moderate        Moderate Moderate Moderate
Observations     Moderate     Low             High        High       Moderate
Questionnaires High           High            Moderate Moderate High
and Surveys


Additional          For additional information on planning a TNA study, see:
information
                        Be a Better Needs Analyst. (1985). Alexandria, Virginia:
                        American Society For Training and Development.
                        Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                        Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6       1 November 2002                                        61



                                  Section B
                             Implement TNA Plan

Introduction       Once the training needs assessment (TNA) plan has been
                   sufficiently documented, it is time for the instructional developers
                   or the development team members to collect and analyze the
                   assessment data. This section provides information on how to
                   use the various TNA techniques, describes the TNA tools that are
                   available for collecting information, and discusses the use of
                   automation in the TNA process.


Where to           This section covers three main topics.
read about it

                         Topics                                                Page
                   TNA Techniques                                               62
                      How To Perform Extant Data Analysis                       62
                      How To Perform Needs Analysis                             64
                      How To Perform Subject Matter/Task Analysis               71
                   TNA Tools                                                    75
                      How To Conduct an Interview                               76
                      How To Observe Job Performance                            78
                      How To Conduct Focus Group Meetings                       81
                      How To Develop Surveys and Questionnaires                 84
                   Using Automation in TNA                                      95


Additional         For additional information on conducting a training needs
information        assessment, see:

                       AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development.
                       Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                       Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6        1 November 2002                                          62



                                     TNA Techniques

Introduction           In the first part of this section, the three techniques that are most
                       often used to conduct TNA studies are described in detail. The
                       three techniques are:

                           Extant data analysis
                           Needs analysis
                           Subject matter and/or task analysis


How to perform         The first TNA technique to be described is extant data analysis.
extant data            There are five basic steps involved in using this technique and
analysis               are described in detail below.

                          Step               Process
                           1         Examine the job and its outcome.
                           2         Identify quantitative results of the job.
                           3         Identify qualitative results of the job
                           4         Determine how to get data and eliminate obstacles.
                           5         Analyze the data.


Step 1: Examine        When examining the job and its outcome, the instructional
the job and its        developers or team members should be looking at what the
outcome                individuals do or might do, and the challenges with which they are
                       confronted. The focus should be on areas that have been
                       identified as problematic.


Step 2: Identify       This step begins by listing the tangible and possible quantitative
quantitative results   outcomes of the portion of the job identified as problematic. The
of the job             focus of this step is on results that can be identified and
                       measured objectively, such as the number of forms initiated to
                       order parts or the number of parts failing diagnostic tests. When
                       seeking subjective information, such as the kinds of aggregate
                       feelings that might appear on a survey, the developer is dealing
                       with the qualitative effects of individual performance.
AFH 36-2235           Volume 6      1 November 2002                                          63



Step 3: Identify         In this step, instructional developers should list any reports of
qualitative results      qualitative impact of personnel performance. For example, what
of the job               are customers or users saying? Have there been any complaints
                         or letters of appreciation? Instructional developers are seeking
                         the recorded and natural collection of opinions and responses.
                         Developers are not just counting comments; serious analysis is
                         required of recurring and subjectively derived themes within
                         extant data.


Step 4: Determine        Once the developers have the lists of quantitative and qualitative
how to get data          results of the job, they will need to determine where to get
and eliminate            supporting information. There may be some resistance to
obstacles                developers examining files or looking at computer printouts. To
                         examine the required data, developers may have to justify their
                         need to gain access to the information. Knowing what is needed
                         and how it will contribute to the TNA study will more than likely
                         present a compelling case for gaining access to the data.


Step 5: Analyze          Analysis of extant data provides information on what individuals
the data                 are actually doing on the job. As the data is analyzed,
                         instructional developers should consider the implications of what
                         has been discovered and scrutinize the results to understand an
                         individual's behavior. Developers may find outcomes that reveal
                         why there is a particular trend in behavior.

                         While extant data might not provide a complete picture of what is
                         going on in the work environment, it does provide a snapshot of
                         the results of what is actually and naturally happening in the
                         organization. The challenge is to determine if the extant data is
                         indicative of larger truths about what individuals are or are not
                         doing on the job. The larger truths become the basis for
                         developing questions for the latter stages of the TNA study.

                         Once the extant data has been analyzed and the developers are
                         conducting the assessment, they should periodically refer to the
                         results of the analysis, which will help keep the TNA focused and
                         on track.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2002                                            64



How to perform      As previously noted, needs analysis is a systematic process of
needs analysis      collecting opinions and ideas from a variety of sources on
                    performance problems, new systems, or technologies. Needs
                    analysis is the most comprehensive TNA technique. It is the
                    primary vehicle for collecting crucial information in order to get a
                    better understanding of the affected source's opinion or idea on
                    the problem, system, or technology.

                    When using the needs analysis technique, instructional
                    developers or development team members are interested in each
                    source's opinions about optimals, actuals, feelings, causes, and
                    solutions. On the other hand, during extant data analysis, the
                    developers' focus is on results and inferences about actual
                    performance from those results. Needs analysis is normally
                    conducted using one or more of the TNA tools, which are
                    interviews, observations, survey questionnaires, or focus group
                    interactions.

                    There are four basic steps involved in conducting a needs
                    analysis and are described in detail below.

                       Step              Process
                        1         Determine sources for needs analysis.
                        2         Select and use TNA tools.
                        3         Develop items.
                        4         Consider critical incident analysis.


Step 1: Determine   In order to perform this first step, instructional developers or
sources for needs   development team members will probably need to consult with a
analysis            wide range of sources during the TNA process and before
                    beginning to develop training or recommend other management
                    interventions. Some of the sources that can be used by
                    developers during the needs analysis are:

                        Potential trainees and their supervisors or trainers
                        Various levels of management
                        Customers or users
                        Civilian or military personnel
                        Subject matter experts (SME)
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                            65



Step 1: Determine    Once the sources have been identified, the developers then
sources for needs    determine how many individuals should be involved in the TNA
analysis             study. The number depends on two factors:
(Continued)
                         Whether the needed information is being obtained from
                         contacts with small numbers.
                         How much information and confirmation is needed to feel
                         confident and to convince others. Confidence refers to the
                         reliability of the data collected. That is, how likely is it that the
                         findings are due to the treatment or variables in questions
                         rather than an error in the survey or assessment method?

                     Developers should use confidence percentages (e.g., developers
                     are 95% certain that the data collected reflects aircraft
                     maintenance personnel's attitude toward the use of automated
                     systems for stripping paint from an aircraft) only if subjects are
                     randomly selected to interview or survey.

                     Developers should consider the amount of resources such as
                     time, money and personnel required to achieve the response rate
                     needed to employ inferential statistics in the TNA report. The use
                     of inferential statistics depends on a large response rate upon
                     which to make generalizations. Specific skills are needed to
                     employ and interpret inferential statistics; therefore, using
                     inferential statistics will probably require that a statistician be on
                     the development team.


Step 2: Select and   There are several tool options available to the developer that
use TNA tools        can be used to conduct a TNA. These tools are listed below and
                     are categorized in one of two areas with some tools listed in both.

                         Individual or small number needs assessment
                             Person to person
                             Telephone surveys
                             Questionnaires
                             Focus group meetings
                         Large number inquiries
                             Telephone survey
                             Questionnaires
                             Automated process
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                        66



Step 2: Select and   Decisions about which tool to use to conduct the TNA study are
use TNA tools        influenced by:
(Continued)
                         Purpose of study
                         Tool use factors

                     The influence of each area on tool selection is explained below.


Purposes of study    The purposes or reasons for conducting the assessment will
                     influence how developers approach the sources. There are no
                     hard and fast rules. The choices depend on the purposes of the
                     TNA study and the particular situation. Some of the possible
                     purposes for conducting an assessment are to:

                         Determine Optimals. When determining optimals there is
                         normally no need to worry about anonymity when trying to get
                         information on what an optimal performer knows and does.
                         More often than not this is speculative. Therefore, interviews
                         and focus group meetings are appropriate. The problem with
                         relying on survey information about optimals is that
                         responses rarely provide sufficient detail. Also, optimals for
                         an organization are normally set by individuals in upper
                         management.
                         Determine Actuals. Actuals are more difficult to determine
                         than optimals. Individuals may not want to provide
                         information on what is actually happening on the job.
                         Developers may want to use anonymous surveys and
                         observations and inferences from extant data to get a clear
                         picture of what is really going on.
                         Determine Attitudes. If respondents believe that what they
                         say will be used without attribution, interviews and focus
                         group meetings can be used. If respondents are not trusting,
                         the developer will probably have to rely upon anonymous
                         surveys to solicit their attitudes, priorities, and confidence
                         surrounding the situation.
                         Determine Causes of the Problem. In order to get reliable
                         information about causes of problems, the instructional
                         developers or the development team will probably need to
                         either establish a trusting relationship with the interviewees or
                         convince survey respondents that their responses are truly
                         anonymous.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6       1 November 2002                                          67



Purposes of study         Involve Large Numbers. The developers solicit support or
(Continued)               "buy in" from a large number of individuals at various levels
                          within an organization or unit. In this situation, focus group
                          meetings and surveys may be a cost-efficient tool to use to
                          achieve "buy-in." If a few individuals resist, individual
                          meetings with them would be appropriate.


Tool use factors      Each tool has different characteristics that affect its
                      appropriateness for conducting a TNA study. When selecting the
                      proper tool for the situation, consider the following factors.

                          Anonymity of Sources. Surveys and questionnaires allow
                          anonymity of the source, while interviews and focus groups
                          do not.
                          Cost/Time. The cost and time factor is determined by such
                          items as the number of interviewees, size of groups, location
                          of the participants, and length of interviews and meetings.
                          Opportunity to Follow Up. This is probably the greatest
                          strength of the interview and focus group meeting. Once the
                          instructional developers or the development team members
                          have asked a question and it has been answered, the
                          developers can pursue it further at a later time, if necessary.
                          Questionnaires do not allow the follow-up flexibility.
                          Response Rate. Rates are normally higher with the more
                          personal tools such as the interview or focus group meeting.
                          Survey response rates are often very low; however, the rates
                          can be affected by certain techniques such as management
                          requiring that individuals respond to the survey.
                          Ease of Analysis. The ease of data analysis is a factor to be
                          considered when selecting the data collection tool. All tools
                          can cause data analysis problems if the appropriate tool is
                          not used to collect data. A good tool now being used for data
                          collection and analysis is the automated (computer) system,
                          which allows large amounts of data input, more forced-choice
                          questions, and greater flexibility.
                          Risk. When selecting the appropriate tool, developers
                          should consider the risk to those in the TNA study, especially
                          to professionals who may be involved in the focus groups.

                      The tool use factors are summarized by Rossett (1987) in the
                      table below.
AFH 36-2235          Volume 6        1 November 2002                                             68




Tool use factors (Continued)

                                 NEEDS ASSESSMENT TOOLS

                                Interviews                                 Print Survey
Factors                In Person
               Individual       Small        Telephone           Small n         Large n
                                Groups
Anonymity None              None             None                Some            High
of sources
Cost          Depends       Depends          Depends on          Low             Usually high,
              on number,    on number,       length, number,                     especially in
              distance,     distance,        and cost of calls                   development of
              length        length                                               instrument
Follow-up     Good          Fair oppor-      Good oppor-         Some or none    None
Questions     oppor-        tunity           tunity
              tunity
Response      High          High             Usually high        Depends on      Usually low
Rate                                                             quality of
                                                                 questions and
                                                                 anonymity
Ease of       Depends       Depends          Depends             Easy with       Depends on
Analysis                                                         preparation     quality of
                                                                                 questions and
                                                                                 data analysis
                                                                                 preparation
Risk          Some          High, need       Some                Some, print     High, many
                            group skills                         endures         people receive,
                                                                                 and print
                                                                                 endures
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6       1 November 2002                                        69




Step 3: Develop      The success of TNA studies depends, to a larger degree, on the
items                quality of the items or questions developed to collect data. The
                     approach shown here is from Rossett's (1982) work on item
                     typology. Item typology is based on the purposes for conducting
                     the assessment. Typology solves the problem of "what to ask."
                     Every item, whether used in an interview, focus group, telephone
                     survey, or questionnaire, should show a relationship to one type
                     of question or another. The table below describes the types of
                     questions and the table on the next page provides a quick
                     summary of item typology.

                                           Types of Questions
                        Type             Used to ...
                                  Seek general information about the problem.
                             1    Describe situation that led to initiation of TNA.
                                  Ask what is needed.
                                  Seek details of the situation.
                             2    Describe the problem in detail.
                                  Ask for details.
                                  Determine what job incumbents know.
                             3    Find out if they can do the job.
                                  Provide proof.
                                  Seek individual attitudes.
                             4    Determine how individuals feel about situation,
                                  which is grouped into four areas:
                                     Feelings about the topic, skills, and knowledge.
                                     Feelings about training related to the topic.
                                     Perception of the topic as a priority in relation to
                                     other topics.
                                     Confidence related to the topic.
                                  Ask for attitudes and motivation.
                                  Seek causes of problems.
                             5    Determine what is creating or contributing to the
                                  problem.
                                  Seek basic information about respondents.
                             6    Gain information about respondents that can be
                                  used in light of their opinion or performance.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                       70




Step 3: Develop                             Selecting Item Types
items (Continued)
                       Use Type …             To Acquire Information On ...
                                       What the problems are.
                               1       Who thinks there are problems.
                                       Who doubts these problems.
                                       What should be happening, in general terms.
                                       What is actually happening, in general terms.
                                       What should be happening, in detail.
                               2       What is actually happening, in detail.
                                       Who has opinions on the details.
                                       Where attention should be focused during the
                                       TNA and training program.
                                       Whether or not potential trainees know what they
                               3       need to know.
                                       Whether or not trainees are truthful.
                                       How people feel about the job, task, system, skill,
                               4       etc.
                                       How they feel about training on it.
                                       What priority this has to the sources.
                                       Whether or not trainees feel they are able to
                                       learn it.
                                       What sources think is causing the problem.
                               5       Which of the possible causes of problems is
                                       causing this problem.
                                       Who the respondents are.
                               6       Whether demography or situation influences
                                       answers to items.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                         71



Step 4: Consider       Critical incident analysis is a type of questioning, which also takes
critical incident      the instructional developer from general to specific details of
analysis               performance problems. Critical incident analysis (Flanagan,
                       1954) is a systematic search for the proverbial "war stories." It is
                       based on interacting with sources to extract details of an
                       individual's experiences. With critical incident analysis,
                       developers identify the details of successful and unsuccessful on-
                       the-job performance. By requiring people to think back on real
                       interactions, thoughts, challenges, successes and failures, the
                       descriptions of actuals and optimals improve in quality, depth,
                       and detail. Critical incident analysis contributes to effective
                       quality training development.


How to perform         Subject matter analysis and task analysis are similar
subject matter /       techniques for identifying skills and knowledge. Their major
task analysis          difference is the focus or emphases of the analysis. When
                       conducting the analysis, instructional developers should not only
                       focus on the behavioral aspect of job performance, but also on
                       what individuals must know to perform the task. Subject matter
                       and task analysis consist of two basic parts:

                       Search for details of skills and knowledge of the master
                       performer.
                       Representation of the information so that elements, structures,
                       and relationships are clearly depicted.

                       There are four basic steps involved in performing a subject matter
                       or task analysis. These basic steps are described below:

                          Step              Process
                           1         Determine data sources.
                           2         Select tools and collect data.
                           3         Analyze and organize data.
                           4         Document TNA results.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                          72



Step 1: Determine      The first of the basic steps in performing a subject matter/task
data sources           analysis is to determine the appropriate data sources for the TNA
                       study. Data sources can be categorized into two broad areas:

                           Subject matter experts (SME) or subject matter specialist
                           (SMS)
                           Documentation such as technical orders (TO), reports,
                           checklist, and job aids

                       If effectively used, both of these sources will contribute
                       significantly to the data collection process. However,
                       instructional developers should select the sources very carefully
                       to ensure that the most knowledgeable SMEs are selected and
                       that the documents chosen as informational sources accurately
                       describe the performance and knowledge requirements or
                       environmental situation. When possible, instructional developers
                       use both sources and compare the information gathered in order
                       to validate the results.


Step 2: Select         Initially, in the TNA planning stage, the purpose of the study was
tools and collect      determined, and in the first step of the subject matter or task
data                   analysis process, the sources of data were determined.

                       Once the data sources have been determined, the TNA tools to
                       be used in the data collection process should be determined.
                       Tools that can be used to collect data are interviews,
                       observations, surveys and questionnaires, and focus group
                       meetings, which are described in the next part of this section. If
                       the situation allows, it is normally better to use more than one tool
                       to collect data. This enables developers to use the data collected
                       with one tool to be validated against data collected using another
                       tool.

                       When the type of tools to be used in the data collection process
                       has been determined, instructional developers begin the data
                       collection process by making necessary preparations. For
                       example, if a survey or questionnaire is to be used to collect data,
                       some of the required preparations are:
                            Develop the instrument to be used.
                            Decide who will receive the instrument.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                        73



Step 2: Select             Determine how many individuals will need to be surveyed.
tools and collect          Set the schedule for data collection.
data (Continued)
                       Regardless of how the data is to be collected, instructional
                       developers or development team members will need to make
                       adequate preparations to ensure that the necessary data is
                       collected in an effective, cost-efficient manner.


Step 3: Analyze        In this step the collected data is analyzed to determine:
and organize data
                           What is the desired job performance?
                           What is the actual job performance?
                           What is the attitude of the individuals?
                           What is the problem?
                           What is causing the problem?
                           What are the recommended solutions?

                       During the data analysis process, developers should also be
                       concerned with organization of the data. By organizing the data,
                       the developers can see how the information goes together and
                       add structure to the job or situation that is being analyzed.
                       Organizing and structuring the data during the analysis process
                       will provide the overall framework for what needs to be done and
                       provide a "roadmap" for getting it done.


Step 4: Document       During the data collection and analysis process, developers have
TNA results            been writing down information. Now, in this step, they document
                       the results of the TNA study. It is important that the report
                       communicates what was found out during the study. The
                       information in the report can be documented in any one of
                       various methods. For example, it can be presented in an outlined
                       narrative text or it can be graphically presented using graphs and
                       charts.

                       Either of these formats can be presented using print-based
                       material or computers.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6        1 November 2002                                          74



Step 4: Document   The key to documenting the findings is to ensure that the
TNA results        information is communicated effectively to the various sources
(Continued)        that will be using the information in the report to make decisions
                   and take corrective actions.

                                 Remember, document only what is
                                   necessary and keep it simple.


Additional         For additional information on the techniques for conducting a
information        TNA study, see:

                       AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development.
                       Kaufman, R., Rojas, A.M. and Mayer, H. (1993). Needs
                       Assessment: A User's Guide. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:
                       Educational Technology Publications.
                       Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                       Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
                       Zemke, R. and Kramlinger, T. (1982). Figuring Things Out: A
                       Trainer's Guide to Needs and Task Analysis. Reading,
                       Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6         1 November 2002                                      75



                                     TNA Tools

Introduction    In this part of the section, the four most often used tools to conduct
                TNA studies are described in detail. The tools are:

                          Interviews
                          Observations
                          Focus group meetings
                          Surveys and questionnaires


Interviews      Interviews are one of the easiest tools for gathering information
                about organizational or performance problems. Interviews can be
                conducted one-on-one or by telephones. The benefits of each
                method are listed below:

                Benefits                                  One-on-one      Telephone
                                                          Method          Method*
                Human interaction                               b              b
                Observe facial gestures and non-
                verbal cues                                     b
                Can be conducted in a structured
                environment (e.g., objectives and               b              b
                questions)
                Can be conducted in an unstructured
                environment (e.g., objectives but no            b              b
                questions)
                Individuals who cannot be easily
                accessed                                                       b
                Effective in gathering small amount of
                information                                                    b
                Use of a script** (e.g., questions)             b              b

                *    When conducting a telephone interview use a moderate tone,
                avoid speaking to rapidly, and keep the discussion focused.

                ** A script combined with an interview protocol maintains the
                accuracy and consistency of the data. Script interviews inhibit
                spontaneity.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6         1 November 2002                                         76



How to conduct an     Interviews are active interchanges between the developer and
interview             the sources. This interchange can be in person or it can be
                      accomplished by telephone. Interviews can also be conducted
                      with one individual or a group of individuals. They may be formal,
                      highly structured interchanges with prepared questions, or they
                      may be very casual with a great deal of flexibility. There are four
                      basic steps in conducting an interview. An explanation of each
                      step follows:

                         Step             Title
                          1        Prepare for the interview.
                          2        Begin the interview.
                          3        Conduct the interview.
                          4        Conclude the interview.


Step 1: Prepare for   Before conducting an interview, instructional developers should
the interview         make adequate preparations. Some of the activities that will help
                      get ready for the interview are as follows.

                          Know why the interview is being conducted. Developers
                          need to know the purpose for conducting the interview. That
                          is, they need to understand what they are looking for and
                          what they expect to gain by conducting the interview.
                          Have a plan or guide for conducting the interview.
                          Having a plan or guide will help keep the interview on track.
                          It will ensure that the purpose of the interview is achieved and
                          that the needed information is gained from each source being
                          interviewed.
                          Know the subject or task to be discussed in the
                          interview. Developers should know something about the
                          subject, task, or problem to be addressed in the interview to
                          ensure that the time spent conducting the interview is
                          effective.
                          Choose the time and place of the interview wisely. The
                          time and place chosen for the interview can have a significant
                          impact on the information collected during the interview. To
                          achieve the best results, the place should be quiet and
                          comfortable, with no distractions. If possible, the time and
                          location of the interview should be acceptable to the
                          interviewee.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                         77



Step 2: Begin the      There are a number of important points that the developer should
interview              observe when beginning the interview. Some of these items are:

                           Be on time for the interview. Regardless of whether the
                           interview is being conducted in person or by telephone, start
                           on time. The interviewee's first impression of the interview
                           and interviewer is often a lasting impression. Therefore, the
                           first moments are critical to the overall success of the
                           interview.

                           Ensure that the interviewee knows the purpose and
                           intent of the interview. The developers should explain who
                           they are, find out personal information about the interviewee,
                           explain why the interview is being conducted, and discuss the
                           intent of the interview.

                           Make sure the interviewee is comfortable and relaxed.
                           Ensure that the environmental conditions are appropriate for
                           the interview. To help the interviewee relax, start the
                           interview by making "small-talk" and getting to know the
                           interviewee. This will enhance the interviewee's willingness
                           to provide needed information.

                           Ask simple, non-controversial questions at first. Asking
                           difficult and controversial questions at the beginning of the
                           interview can make the interviewee apprehensive and
                           reluctant to provide needed information.

                           Allow and encourage interviewees to do most of the
                           talking during the main part of the interview. The
                           interviewer will likely do most of the talking during the initial
                           stage of the interview and when summarizing at the end of
                           the interview. However, during the main part of the interview
                           the interviewer should let the interviewee do most of the
                           talking. During this time the interviewer should guide the
                           interview to keep it on track.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6       1 November 2002                                         78



Step 3: Conduct       Success of the interview will depend, to a great degree, on how
the interview         well the first two steps of the process are accomplished. In this
                      step, success of the interview depends on:

                          Asking the right questions. Each question should seek
                          information that is focused on the purpose of the interview.

                          Hearing how the interviewee answers the questions.
                          Active listening is very important during interviews. The
                          interviewer should clearly understand what is being said and
                          meant by the interviewee.

                          Documenting how the interviewee answers each
                          question. The interviewer should not try to remember what
                          is said during the interview. The interviewee's responses to
                          questions should be documented. This can be done by
                          taking notes or using a tape recorder.


Step 4: Conclude      The manner in which the interview is concluded will change for
the interview         each interview since it depends on what happens during the
                      interview. However, there are several items to considered when
                      concluding an interview:

                          Give the interviewee time to ask questions.
                          Summarize what has been said during the interview.
                          Explain how the information will be used in the needs
                          assessment process.
                          Inform the interviewee that additional data may be needed at
                          a later date.
                          Thank the interviewee for participating in the interview.


How to observe job    Observation is a method used to collect data during a needs
performance           assessment. When used systematically, this method can provide
                      meaningful results. Observational data can be collected in a
                      structured or unstructured fashion. The structured observations
                      reduce the potential for bias, increase the reliability of
                      observations, and provide an accurate way to report data. You
                      should use unstructured method of observation to obtain an initial
                      feel for a situation then follow-up with a structured observation.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6          1 November 2002                                        79



How to observe job    Observation is an effective method of gathering information for
performance           the TNA study. Information is obtained by directly observing
(Continued)           behavior and interacting with individuals on the job. When using
                      this tool, developers use their senses to perceive what is actually
                      going on in the work environment at the time of individual
                      performance. During the period of observation, developers will
                      want to determine:

                          How exemplary performers do their job.
                          How average performers do their job.
                          What problems performers have on the job that are different
                          from the others.
                          What is causing the problem.

                      There are four basic steps that developers should follow in order
                      to effectively observe job performance. An explanation of each
                      step follows:

                            Step               Title
                             1         Prepare for observation.
                             2         Notify individuals who will be observed.
                             3         Conduct observation.
                             4         Follow up observation.


Step 1: Prepare for   In the first step, instructional developers or development team
observation           members should make the necessary preparations for observing
                      job performance. The developers should:

                          Clearly understand the purpose of the observation.
                          Select the method of observation that will provided the
                          desired information.
                          Develop a checklist or guide to structure the observation
                          process.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                              80



Step 2: Notify         Make sure that everyone (workers, supervisors, and
individuals who        management) directly or indirectly involved in the observation is
will be observed       informed of the process. Ensure they know:

                           The purpose of the observation.
                           The scope of the observation.
                           How long the observation will last.
                           That it is not an evaluation of personnel.
                           That all personnel should perform their jobs normally.

Step 3: Conduct        Once the developers have made preparations for the observation
observation            period and everyone involved in the process has been informed;
                       the next step is to conduct the observation.

                       Zemke and Kramlinger (1982) suggest that the observation
                       process should be done in two stages. The first stage is a
                       holistic look at the overall situation. It is intended to get the "big
                       picture" or a "broad-brush" look at the tasks involved. The
                       second stage of the observation process, which is conducted
                       after the first look has been completed, focuses on the details of
                       the tasks.


Step 4: Follow up      Normally, during the observation period, questions or situations
observation            will require the developer to make a follow-up to the observation
                       period. For example, developers may find it necessary to follow
                       up in order to find answers to questions about how a task is
                       performed, to get a better understanding as to why a task is
                       performed in a specific manner, and to resolve conflicts in the
                       way different individuals perform the same task.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6         1 November 2002                                        81



How to conduct        The focus group meeting is an effective TNA tool. Through
focus group           meetings, information can be gathered and dispensed quickly,
meetings              and rapport can be established between the instructional
                      developers and personnel within an organization or unit. Focus
                      group meetings are used to:

                          Solicit opinions about actuals, optimals, attitudes, causes and
                          solutions.
                          Determine options and range of alternatives.
                          Prioritize and make decisions.
                          Make individuals aware of what is happening.
                          Build rapport and solicit support.

                      There are five basic steps that instructional developers should
                      follow to conduct an effective focus group meeting. An
                      explanation of each step follows:

                         Step              Title
                          1        Prepare for the meeting.
                          2        Start the meeting.
                          3        Conduct the meeting.
                          4        Conclude the meeting.
                          5        Follow up as required.


Step 1: Prepare for   Normally, preparing for a focus group meeting is similar to
the meeting           preparing for interviews and observations. Preparation for group
                      meetings usually involves activities such as:

                          Determining why the meeting is being conducted. The
                          developers need to be clear on the purpose of conducting the
                          meeting. For example, is the purpose of the meeting to
                          determine the optimals of the job or is it to isolate the causes
                          of the problem?

                          Developing a plan or guide for conducting the group
                          meeting. A plan or guide is essential for conducting an
                          effective meeting that produces the desired results. The
                          guide should identify the purpose of the meeting, establish
                          the roles and responsibilities of the participants in the
                          meeting, and set the procedures for conducting the meeting.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                             82




Step 1: Prepare for        Identifying participants and assigning roles. There are
the meeting                four key roles that should be filled in order to have a
(Continued)                successful group meeting. These roles or positions are:

                               Planner. This person, who is normally an instructional
                               developer or member of the development team, is
                               responsible for planning the meeting, selecting the
                               participants, and assigning roles to the participants.

                               Facilitator. The facilitator carries out the established plan
                               or agenda by working with the group to achieve the
                               desired goals of the meeting. This requires the facilitator
                               to be supportive and responsive to the group, while
                               keeping the group focused and moving toward the goal.

                               Recorder. The individual selected to be the recorder
                               documents what happens during the meeting. This
                               individual should record what is said and not editorialize.

                               Participants. These are the individuals who are brought
                               together to express their opinions, share ideas, and ask
                               questions to ensure that the purpose of the meeting is
                               achieved.

                           Preparing the meeting place. When planning the meeting,
                           the developers should try to select a meeting place that is
                           adequate and convenient to the participants. The meeting
                           facility should be set up or arranged prior to the meeting to
                           ensure that everything is conducive to a successful group
                           meeting.


Step 2: Start the      Getting started on the "right foot" is critical to the success of any
meeting                group meeting. There are several things developers can do
                       initially that will help ensure that the meeting accomplishes the
                       desired goals, such as the following:

                           Introduce the participants. It helps to "break the ice."
                           Groups normally work together better and productivity is
                           higher when individuals know something about the other
                           participants in the group.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                         83



Step 2: Start the          Inform group participants of the plan or agenda for the
meeting                    meeting. Individuals and groups perform better when they
(Continued)                are informed about what is planned and how it is going to be
                           accomplished.

                           State the purpose of the group meeting. If individuals
                           participating in the group meeting know the purpose of the
                           meeting, it helps the facilitator keep the meeting on track and
                           moving toward the expected goals or outcomes.

                           Ensure that the participants understand the rules or
                           process by which the group meeting will be conducted.
                           If individuals know the rules, they are likely to be more
                           productive and achieve the desired goals more readily.


Step 3: Conduct        Once the initial activities of starting the meeting have been
the meeting            completed, the next step is to conduct the meeting. In order to
                       conduct an effective group meeting, two things must happen.

                           Progress toward the goal or purpose must be
                           maintained. Progress of the meeting should always be
                           focused on the purpose of the meeting. This is to ensure that
                           the information being generated during the meeting will
                           enable the developers to complete the TNA study.

                           Participation by each individual is essential in the group
                           process. Ensure that the outcome of the meeting is a group
                           effort. However, remember that individual ideas and attitudes
                           are important to the group process. All individuals should be
                           encouraged to actively participate in the group effort; this
                           helps them "buy in" to the final output and makes them feel
                           like a part of the team.


Step 4: Conclude       Before concluding the meeting, instructional developers or
the meeting            members of the development team should:

                           Determine if the purpose of the meeting has been achieved.
                           Decide if the information collected is sufficient to complete
                           the TNA study.
                           Summarize what has been discussed.
                           Thank the members for participating in the group effort.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                          84



Step 5: Follow up      In the last step of conducting a group meeting, developers take
as required            the required follow-up actions to complete activities resulting from
                       the meeting. For example, it may be necessary to brief
                       management, send copies of the meeting to the participants, or
                       find answers to questions remaining unanswered from the
                       meeting. It is also a good idea to officially (through channels)
                       thank each participant. This shows the individuals and
                       management that the developers appreciate their efforts in the
                       study.


How to develop         Developing good surveys and questionnaires is not an easy
surveys and            task. Following a systematic process, you can achieve the
questionnaires         desired results. The steps involved in preparing and
                       implementing surveys and questionnaires are:

                          Step               Title
                           1         Preparing
                           2         Designing
                           3         Developing Questions
                           4         Writing Cover Letters
                           5         Piloting Testing


Step 1: Preparing      Before constructing a survey or questionnaire:

                           Establish a goal. Identify the purpose of the survey or
                           questionnaire.
                           Familiarize yourself with difficult terms. Use a subject matter
                           expert (SME) to explain technical jargon in layman terms.
                           Observe people in their work environment. Watch how
                           people actually perform job tasks.
                           Review reports. Analyze the data in reports to identify trends.


Step 2: Designing      It is important to consider the following factors when designing a
                       survey or questionnaire:

                           The size of the survey: For large groups use closed-ended
                           quantitative questions. These can be scored and tabulated
                           easily by a computer.
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6         1 November 2002                                        85




Step 2: Designing    Conduct separate interviews or focus group, if qualitative
(Continued)          information also needs to be collected.

                         How data will be analyzed: Consider using external agencies
                         to assist in analyzing the data. Large universities with data
                         processing departments can provide this service for a
                         nominal fee.

                         Using color schemes: Use a color-coding system if a large
                         number of surveys are being sent to different sources. This
                         technique allows surveys to be pre-sorted and distributed
                         easily.


Step 3: Developing   Nothing is more frustrating than sending out surveys and finding
questions            out later that the respondents misinterpreted the question(s).
                     Following a few basic guidelines, you can avoid this situation.

                     Most surveys and questionnaires use two types of questions:
                     open-ended and closed-ended.


Open-ended           Open-ended questions require respondents to answer in their
questions            own words. This type of question encourages in-depth
                     responses as opposed to limited responses.

                         Sequence: The sequencing of questions is important. Begin
                         survey or questionnaire with simple and interesting questions.
                         Potentially sensitive questions should be located near the
                         end of the survey or questionnaire.

                         Length: A question should seek information about only one
                         item. Questions asking for multiple items of information
                         should be avoided. Respondents usually overlook the
                         second portion of multiple item questions.

                         Complexity: Always word questions so they can be
                         answered easily. Avoid asking questions that require
                         extensive calculations.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6        1 November 2002                                        86




Closed-ended      Closed-ended questions allow respondents to choose from
questions         defined options. Respondents cannot elaborate on their
                  answers for closed-ended questions. These types of closed-
                  ended questions are:

                      Multiple choice: Multiple choice is the most common type of
                      closed-ended question. This question lists three or more
                      potential answers from which the respondent must choose.

                      Forced Choice: You can only make one choice with forced-
                      choice questions (e.g., yes or no and true or false).

                      Nominal Scale: Questions with no prescribed order use
                      nominal scales. For example:

                     Which of the following departments do you work with most
                     closely?

                     a.   Technology
                     b.   Information Services
                     c.   Human Resources
                     d.   Marketing

                      Likert Scale: Questions that ask respondents to rank, rate
                      values, or attitudes use Likert scales. When using the Likert
                      scales, assign the most positive value at the high end of the
                      scale.


Closed-ended      For example:
questions
(Continued)          1 = strongly disagree
                     2 = disagree
                     3 = somewhat agree
                     4 = agree
                     5 = strongly agree
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6        1 November 2002                                          87


                      Interval Scales: Use an interval scale question to collect
                      demographic data. This type of question is useful in obtaining
                      information about a range of possibilities. For example:

                         How many times have you attended training classes about
                         your computer system within the last 3 years?

                         Under 4
                         4
                         5
                         6
                         Over 6

                         Questions must be clear and concise to be effective. Use
                         simple words and avoid leading and negatively phrased
                         questions. Below is a chart that identifies when to use
                         specific questions:


Step 4: Writing       The cover letter should provide the purpose of the survey or
cover letters         questionnaire and explain how to complete it. It should describe
                      how respondents will benefit from the study.

                      Include in the letter an endorsement from a senior staff person
                      stating the importance of the study. Also, communicate whether
                      the information will remain confidential or not.

                      The letter should provide instructions explaining how to use the
                      survey or questionnaire. The instructions should:

                         Describe if the respondents should circle or check the correct
                         answer or answer the question with a comment


Step 4: Writing           State how long it takes to complete the survey or
cover letters             questionnaire
(Continued)               Identify when to complete and where to return the survey or
                          questionnaire


Step 5: Piloting      You should pilot test the survey or questionnaire before
testing               distributing it to the entire population. A pilot test can identify
                      problems such as:

                          Are the instructions clear and concise?
                          Can respondents understand the questions?
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2002                                       88


                        Can respondents answer questions easily?
                        Do respondents have enough space to record comments?

                    The pilot testing process consists of several steps. If diverse
                    groups will be surveyed, select a few people from each group or
                    subgroup. In a private setting:

                        Distribute the form and ask respondents to complete it while
                        you wait and remain onsite.
                        Observe the group's reactions closely and watch facial
                        expressions for reactions. This will indicate if the survey or
                        questionnaire causes confusion or frustration.
                        Encourage respondents to express problems they have with
                        the survey or questionnaire.
                        Summarize the results of the pilot test.
                        Make the appropriate changes to the survey or questionnaire.


How to develop      Surveys and questionnaires are widely used assessment tools.
surveys and         They are normally an effective, cost-efficient method of collecting
questionnaires      information from large numbers of individuals. The process is as
                    follows:

                        Surveys or questionnaires are prepared for a specific
                        purpose.
                        Surveys or questionnaires are randomly sent to individuals in
                        the field.
                        Individuals respond to the sender.
                        Data is analyzed.
                        Results are documented.


How to develop      There are five basic steps involved in developing an effective
surveys and         survey or questionnaire. An explanation of each step follows:
questionnaires
(Continued)
                       Step             Title
                        1        Determine what is needed and from whom.
                        2        Develop effective items.
                        3        Write clear directions.
                        4        Develop cover letter.
                        5        Check survey or questionnaire.
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6         1 November 2002                                          89



Step 1: Determine    In the first step, it is necessary to determine what is actually
what is needed and   needed and the source of information. Determining what is
from whom            needed is a very important step in survey or questionnaire as to
                     whether everyone will be surveyed or a random sample of the
                     population will provide adequate information. If the population is
                     too large for everyone to receive a survey or questionnaire, a
                     sampling of the population should be surveyed. To ensure that
                     the sampling represents the entire population, randomization
                     should be used.

                     Randomization is the process by which developers ensure that
                     all members of the population have an equal and fair chance of
                     being selected to receive the survey or questionnaire. The
                     number of individuals selected for the randomly drawn sample
                     depends on the total population size. Statistics books present
                     tables of the minimum number of individuals who must be
                     sampled to make generalizations about the larger population.
                     The following is a portion of the National Education Association
                     table that illustrates sample sizes required for a given population.

                                          Sample Size Requirements
                             Population Size                      Sample Size
                                   100                                  79
                                   200                                 132
                                   500                                 217
                                   1000                                278
                                   3000                                341
                                   8000                                367
                                  15000                                375



Step 1: Determine    When conducting a random sample, some control of the sampling
what is needed and   may be required. For example, developers must ensure that the
from whom            sample is not focused in one MAJCOM, which could easily skew
(Continued)          the data collected.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6      1 November 2002                                       90



Step 2: Develop      The type of questions to be asked on surveys or questionnaires is
effective items      determined by the purpose of the survey and what information is
                     needed. An item topology, which provides information on the
                     various types of questions to ask, is found on page 85.

                     When developing surveys and questionnaires, the format and
                     wording of the items or questions is also important. There are
                     two basic question formats that can be used. They are:

                         Forced-choice
                         Open-ended

                     These question formats are described below.

                     Forced-Choice Questions. A forced-choice item provides
                     respondents with a fixed set of options from which to choose. For
                     example, the item will say "which of the following" or "rank the
                     following" or "rate the following according to ..."

                     Forced-Choice Question Example:

                     What types of training are used in the organization? Estimate the
                     percentage of training for each method.
                     1. On-the-Job          ____%     6. Simulators            ____%
                     2. Computer-Based      ____%     7. Maintenance Trainer
                                                                               ____%
                     3. Self-Study Packages
                                          ____%       8. Actual Equipment
                                                                               ____%
                     4. Classroom           ____%
                                                      9. Weapon System         ____%
                     5. Part-Task Trainer   ____%
                                                      10. Other (What Kind?)
                                                                               ____%
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6       1 November 2002                                        91




Step 2: Develop      There are several ways to develop forced-choice items. The
effective items      choices are nominal, ordinal, and interval. Each type of forced-
(Continued)          choice question has implications for data analysis. For example:

                     Nominal scales name or describe who the respondent is.
                     Nominal Example:

                     Check the block that applies to you:

                             ____ Male
                             ____ Female


                     Ordinal scales ask respondents to select a category, which
                     reflects some type of ranking.
                     Ordinal Example:

                     Which best describes your confidence in your ability to operate
                     the new computer?

                             _____ Very confident
                             _____ Confident
                             _____ Somewhat confident
                             _____ Not at all confident


                     Interval scales provide options in which the difference between
                     units is equal and predictable. These are often used to gather
                     demographic data.
                     Interval Example:

                     How many times have you attended training classes on your
                     computer system in the last five years?

                             ____ 0
                             ____ 1-3
                             ____ 4-6
                             ____ 7-9
                             ____ more than 9
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6        1 November 2002                                         92



Step 2: Develop       Open-Ended Questions. An open-ended item allows the
effective items       respondent to make a personal answer. The range of responses
(Continued)           is wide. Often a combination of forced-choice and open-ended
                      questions is appropriate.

                      Open-Ended Question Example:

                      How well does the instructional system development (ISD)
                      process support development of training for the ten methods
                      listed in the previous question?


                      When developing items, wording is equally as important as the
                      format. Select words that are familiar, and not loaded with
                      controversial meanings. The characteristics of the population will
                      influence the search for the right words to use. There are several
                      rules that will help developers choose the right word when
                      developing an item. Some of the rules are:

                          Keep the reading grade level at the appropriate level for the
                          population.
                          Use standard English.
                          Avoid multi-syllable words when possible.
                          Use short sentences.
                          Don't use jargon unless it is necessary to understand the
                          item.


Step 3: Write clear   Write clear directions so the respondent will understand the
directions            survey or questionnaire. Include explanations, definitions,
                      acronyms, and abbreviations. Information such as this will
                      improve the survey, make it easier for the respondent, and
                      improve the probability that the necessary data is collected.
                      Good directions will tell the respondents what they will be
                      expected to do and how.


Step 4: Develop       The cover letter is an important part of the survey or question-
cover letter          naire; it is the first thing the respondent sees. The cover letter
                      should be clear and to the point, and provide the necessary
                      information about the survey or questionnaire. An effective cover
                      letter includes information such as:
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6      1 November 2002                                          93



Step 4: Develop          States why the respondent has received the survey or
cover letter             questionnaire.
(Continued)              Identifies the purpose of the survey or questionnaire.
                         Explains why the survey or questionnaire should be
                         completed and returned.
                         Provides directions on how and when to respond.
                         Expresses appreciation to the respondent for participating in
                         the survey.


Step 5: Check        In order to develop an effective, cost-efficient survey or
survey or            questionnaire, developers should make sure each part is
questionnaire        reviewed or checked before it is finalized. It is often easy to
                     overlook a vital part of a survey during the development process.
                     A good method for ensuring that nothing is left out of the survey
                     or questionnaire is to develop a simple job aid to ensure that
                     nothing is overlooked. An example of a job aid that can be used
                     is included below.
AFH 36-2235     Volume 6      1 November 2002                                         94




                      Survey/Questionnaire Development Checklist Job Aid
Step 5: Check
survey or          Survey/Questionnaire Cover
questionnaire         Is the survey/questionnaire addressed directly to the
(Continued)           respondent?
                      Is the purpose of the survey/questionnaire clearly stated?
                      Does it include appropriate introductory comments?
                      Does it explain how the respondent was selected to receive
                      the survey/questionnaire?
                      Is the importance of responding explained?
                      Does it explain how and when to respond?
                      Is the respondent "thanked" for participating?

                   Survey/Questionnaire Directions
                      Are the directions clear?
                      Are they brief?
                      Are they written for the appropriate audience?
                      Do they include all of the information needed to respond to
                      the survey/questionnaire?

                   Survey/Questionnaire Items
                      Are the items and pages numbered?
                      Are the items written to the appropriate reading and interest
                      level of the respondent?
                      Are bolding, highlighting, underlining and white space used
                      appropriately?
                      Is there only one purpose per item?
                      Is each item linked to a specific item type?
                      Are the items clustered or grouped according to the parts of
                      the job or task?
                      Are the items primarily forced-choice items?


Additional         For additional information on TNA techniques and tools, see:
information
                       AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development.
                       Mager, R., and Pipe, P. (1984). Analyzing Performance
                       Problems (2nd Ed.). Belmont, California: Fearon.
                       Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                       Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
                       Zemke, R. and Kramlinger, T. (1982). Figuring Things Out: A
                       Trainer's Guide to Needs and Task Analysis. Reading,
                       Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2002                                             95



                           Using Automation in TNA

Introduction      Traditionally, TNA studies were conducted with tools that required
                  paper and pencil to gather and document the information.
                  However, most tools that require paper and pencil are also
                  adaptable to an automated process. This is especially true for
                  large TNA studies that use the survey or questionnaire as the
                  instrument for gathering the information.


When to use       When making the determination to use an automated system to
automated         conduct a needs assessment, instructional developers or
systems           development team members should consider several key factors:

                      Sample Size. If the assessment requires information to be
                      gathered from a large number of individuals or the amount of
                      information to be collected from each individual is significant,
                      then it is likely that automation would eliminate much of the
                      labor-intensive activities of entering and analyzing the data.

                      Cost. The cost associated with an automated study will
                      normally be less than a manual study if the population for the
                      TNA study is large (over 100).

                      Extensive Analysis. If the collected data requires extensive
                      analysis, then it is likely that once the database is developed,
                      analysis will be easier and can be done more quickly.

                      Automatic Report Generation. If the goal is to have some
                      of the TNA reports automatically generated from the analysis,
                      instructional developers should consider automating the
                      process.

                      Statistical Studies. When it is necessary to conduct a
                      statistical study to assure reliability and validity of the data,
                      then automation is probably the best way to conduct the
                      analysis.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6      1 November 2002                                        96



Application of      Automated systems are applicable to all stages of the TNA
automated           process. For example, automation can be used in:
systems
                        Administration of TNA Data. There are several options for
                        inputing data. Some of the options include optical imaging,
                        Profs system, or computer modem.

                        Analysis of TNA Data. Options include standard database
                        packages such as Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
                        (SPSS) and Statistical Analysis System (SAS), custom-built
                        software for specific task, or authoring software to build
                        instruments and analyze data.

                        Reporting TNA Data. Most software is designed to provide
                        summaries of the database analysis and many have
                        structured reports to meet diverse user needs.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6       1 November 2002                                          97



                                    Section C
                                Report TNA Results

Introduction          The training needs assessment (TNA) study concludes when the
                      results of the study have been communicated to those who
                      require the information. The information can be reported by
                      various methods; however, the key to good reporting is to keep
                      it simple and report only what is necessary.


What should be        Reporting the results of a study should focus on several key
reported?             areas. Providing information in these areas is essential.
                      Individuals reading the report should obtain a clear understanding
                      of:

                          Why the TNA study was conducted.
                          How the data was gathered.
                          What was found during the study.
                          What are the implications of the findings.


How should it be      Another key aspect of reporting the results of a TNA study is to
reported?             determine how to present the information in the report. As
                      previously mentioned, a key to good reporting is to keep it simple
                      and report only what is required. However, there are other
                      factors that play a part in good reporting and should be
                      considered when reporting the results of a study. Some factors
                      to be considered are:

                          Use purpose of the TNA study as the organizing theme to
                          present outcomes.
                          Select what is essential to include in the report and what can
                          be omitted.
                          Keep narratives brief by placing details in appendices.
                          Use tables and charts to simplify information.
                          Use percentages and other descriptive data to present
                          information.
                          Use standard English.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6       1 November 2002                                        98



How to report TNA    Once the study has been completed, it is time to report the
results              findings or results. As with any activity, in the TNA process there
                     are specific steps that should be considered when reporting
                     results of a study. The following prescribed steps will ensure that
                     findings are reported in a clear, organized manner. These steps
                     are described below.

                        Step             Title
                         1         Decide who should know the results.
                         2         Determine why the report is being prepared.
                         3         Decide how to report the findings.
                         4         Report the results of the study.
                         5         Communicate effectively.


Step 1: Decide       Before starting the process of reporting the results of a TNA
who should know      study, the developers should decide who needs to be informed of
the results          the results of the study. It is likely that the individuals who need
                     to know the results of the study will be similar to the individuals
                     that were identified during the planning stages of the assessment.
                     Once it has been determined who needs to be informed, the
                     developers should decide why the individuals were selected.
                     Knowing why individuals were selected will help focus the content
                     of the report on their needs.


Step 2: Determine    In order to develop an effective, comprehensive report of the TNA
why the report is    findings, developers should determine the reasons or purposes
being prepared       for the report. Once the reasons have been determined,
                     developers can build the report around those reasons. There are
                     many different reasons for reporting the results to various
                     individuals at different organizational or unit levels. For example,
                     some of the reasons are to:

                         Provide information on optimals, actuals, and attitudes.
                         Identify the problems and causes.
                         Report details surrounding the issues.
                         Recommend solutions.

                     Knowing why the report is being prepared will help keep it
                     focused on the purpose.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6      1 November 2002                                         99



Step 3: Decide         In this step, developers should decide on the most effective
how to report the      method of communicating the TNA results. The results of a study
findings               can be effectively communicated orally, in writing, or by
                       automated methods. The most effective method will depend on
                       the nature and scope of the results and to whom the information
                       is being provided. Another consideration is how management, at
                       the various levels, wants to receive the information.

                       When deciding the most effective method of reporting the results,
                       developers should also consider whether the report should be
                       formal or informal. This will be determined, to a great degree, by
                       to whom the information is being provided, and how it will be
                       used.


Step 4: Report the     When developing a report, developers or team members should
results of the study   provide specific information on:

                           Why the training needs assessment study was conducted.
                           How the information was gathered.
                           Findings of the study.
                           Implications of the study.

                       Effectiveness and acceptability of the report will depend on how
                       well the above information is documented.

                                Remember, keep it simple and report only
                                     the necessary information.

Job aids for TNA       Job aids can help develop and report results of TNA studies. An
reporting              example of a simple job aid that can help develop and report TNA
                       results is provided below. It should be remembered that this job
                       aid is only an example and can be expanded or changed as
                       necessary.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 6        1 November 2002                                     100



Job aids for TNA
reporting                Job Aid For Checking TNA Report Content and Format
(Continued)           Yes     No   N/A             Report Content and Format
                                         Is the report being provided to those who need
                                         to know the information?
                                         Does the report explain the purpose of the
                                         TNA study?
                                         Does the report explain how the TNA
                                         information was gathered?
                                         Are the results of the TNA study explained?
                                         Are the implications of the TNA study
                                         addressed?
                                         Does the report include recommendations?
                                         If the report is lengthy, is the content
                                         summarized?
                                         Are applicable appendices and references
                                         included in the report?
                                         Was the reporting method (oral, written, or
                                         automated) selected based on purpose and
                                         need?
                                         Was the formality selected based on purpose
                                         and need?
                                         Is the report format clear, brief, and to the
                                         point?
                                         Is the content of the report well organized?
                                         Is the report of high quality?
                                         How does the report look? Is it professional?
                                         Is the report easily duplicated, if necessary?


Additional            For additional information on reporting the results of TNA studies,
information           see:

                          Kaufman, R., Rojas, A. M. and Mayer, H. (1993). Needs
                          Assessment: A User's Guide. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:
                          Educational Technology Publications.
                          Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                          Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
                          Zemke, R. and Kramlinger, T. (1982). Figuring Things Out: A
                          Trainer's Guide to Needs and Task Analysis. Reading,
                          Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2002                                    101



                              Chapter 4
                TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT SCENARIOS
                                      Overview

Introduction        In this chapter, sample training needs assessment (TNA)
                    scenarios are provided. Scenarios are provided for the types of
                    TNA studies as outlined in Figure 2 (page 22), which include
                    Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF), Major
                    Command (MAJCOM), Base/Unit, and individual. A scenario for
                    an automated TNA study is also included. While realistic
                    scenarios have been used, there is no suggestion that these
                    examples outline the only way to conduct a TNA. The examples
                    are intended to serve as guides for instructional developers or
                    development team members in applying the principles and
                    procedures contained in this handbook.


Where to read       This chapter contains five sections.
about it

                      Section           Title                               Page
                            A    HQ USAF TNA Scenario                       102
                            B    MAJCOM TNA Scenario                        105
                            C    Base/Unit TNA Scenario                     109
                            D    Individual TNA Scenario                    112
                            E    Automated TNA Scenario                     115


Additional          For additional information on TNA scenarios, see:
information
                        AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development.
                        Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood
                        Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.
                        Training Needs Assessment Handbook (1991). State of
                        Washington Department of Transportation. Work Force 2000,
                        Work Group 4C.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2002                                       102



                                Section A
         Headquarters United States Air Force (USAF) TNA Scenario

Introduction        In the organizational hierarchy, the highest type or level of
                    training needs assessment (TNA) within the organization is at the
                    HQ USAF level. A scenario for this type of assessment is
                    provided below as an example. While this is a realistic scenario,
                    it by no means suggests that this is the only way to conduct a
                    TNA at the Headquarters level. This example is provided only as
                    a guide for conducting assessments.


Issue               Change Air Force financial management procedures.


Situation           The HQ USAF staff must change the financial management
                    procedures to operate the Air Force in a "business-like" manner.
                    The change in policy and directives is necessary to comply with
                    the Department of Defense (DoD) initiative to conduct all financial
                    management operations like a business. While the magnitude of
                    the task is known to be large, the total impact on current Air
                    Force-level resource management policies and procedures is not
                    exactly clear.


Action              To address this problem, the HQ staff has decided to develop a
                    strategic plan for implementing new financial management
                    policies in an effective, timely manner in the Air Force. First, the
                    staff established overall objectives and goals for implementing
                    the new policies and procedures. Second, once the objectives
                    and goals were established, the staff "scoped" the tasks involved
                    in implementing new policies and procedures to determine the
                    magnitude of the job. After the tasks were "scoped," the staff
                    developed a long-range plan for implementing the new Air Force
                    policies and procedures.


TNA process         Using Figure 3 (page 28) in this handbook, instructional
                    development personnel in conjunction with other HQ staff
                    members make up a team to accomplish the following steps.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                      103




TNA process               Step              Title
(Continued)
                           1        Determine Purpose
                           2        Identify Data Requirements
                           3        Determine Data Collection Method
                           4        Collect and Analyze Data
                           5        Report Findings


Step 1: Determine      The first step in conducting a TNA is to determine the purpose of
purpose                the study. Using Figure 2 (page 23) in this handbook, and the
                       scenario above, a HQ USAF-type analysis is suggested since this
                       is an Air Force-wide issue that touches every organizational level.
                       The assessment is a mega, organizational-type assessment.
                       The HQ staff establishes the goals and objectives for operating
                       Air Force financial management functions in a "business-like"
                       manner. Achievement of the goals and objectives involves new
                       polices and procedures. Anticipated outcomes are new policies
                       and procedures, new financial accounting systems, and
                       personnel training courses. Other management interventions
                       may also be indicated as the TNA study continues.


Step 2: Identify       The scenario identifies a new financial management procedure to
data requirements      be used in the Air Force to fund its day-to-day operations. Since
                       the new procedures affect all areas of financial management,
                       data requirements will need to be identified in the various areas
                       of financial management and from the different organizational
                       levels from the DoD level down to the base or unit level. The
                       basic task in this step is to identify data that will show what the
                       current process is and how it will need to be changed to meet the
                       new DoD requirement.


Step 3: Determine      To begin this step, the instructional developers should review the
data collection        table starting on page 32 of this handbook in order to determine
method                 the best method for data collection. Since the basic problem
                       relates to new financial management procedures compared to
                       current procedures, there are several methods that can be used
                       to collect data. A review of the table indicates that a panel of
                       experts is probably a good method for collecting data since they
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6         1 November 2002                                      104



Step 3: Determine     can provide the much- needed expertise on both the current and
data collection       new financial management procedures. Print media and problem
method                solving/group discussion methods might also be used to collect
(Continued)           the needed data.


Step 4: Collect and   Once developers have determined the data collection method, in
analyze data          this case a panel of experts, they begin the process of collecting
                      the needed data from the panel of experts. This can be
                      accomplished by discussion groups, interviews, or surveys. The
                      panel of experts provides the developers with the much-needed
                      data on the details of the new DoD policy, current financial
                      management procedures, and existing financial management
                      systems, as well as problem areas that will be encountered.
                      When the developers have collected adequate data, they
                      organize and analyze the data. Analysis of the data will enable
                      the developers and the HQ staff to formulate conclusions about
                      what needs to be done to implement the new DoD policies and
                      procedures.


Step 5: Report        Based on the findings of the data analysis, the developers or
findings              development team members report their findings and
                      recommendations to the appropriate management level.
                      Management then uses the reported findings to develop the plan
                      for implementing the new DoD policy. The plan identifies tasks
                      that must be performed in order to implement the new policy,
                      describes how the tasks will be performed, and identifies who is
                      responsible for performing the tasks and when the tasks will be
                      performed.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2002                                      105



                              Section B
                     Major Command TNA Scenario

Introduction      The second type or level of training needs assessment (TNA) is
                  that of the Major Command (MAJCOM). The MAJCOM
                  assessment is very similar to the HQ USAF assessment. They
                  are both organizational assessment; the basic difference is in
                  their purpose. The same scenario that was used for the HQ
                  USAF assessment is used again for this type of assessment.
                  Although this is a realistic scenario, it by no means suggests that
                  this is the only way to conduct a TNA at the MAJCOM level. The
                  example below is to be used only as a guide for conducting an
                  assessment.


Issue             Change Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command (HQ AFMC)
                  financial management procedures to comply with new Air Force
                  procedures.


Situation         The AFMC staff must change the Command's financial
                  management procedures in order to operate the command in a
                  "business-like" manner. The change in procedures is necessary
                  to comply with new Air Force policy. The Command will be
                  required to develop and implement a plan to change the resource
                  management policies and procedures, and establish new
                  standards within AFMC.


Action            In order to address this problem, HQ AFMC has decided to
                  develop a plan to implement the new resource management
                  procedures in an effective, timely manner. First, the Command's
                  instructional developers and staff, who make up the development
                  team, must establish the necessary goals and objectives for
                  implementing the new procedures at the Command and base/unit
                  level. Once the goals and objectives have been determined, the
                  team must identify the tasks involved in implementing the
                  Command procedures. Finally, once the tasks have been
                  identified, the team develops a plan for implementing the new
                  procedures and setting milestones for implementing each phase
                  of the plan.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                     106



TNA process            Using Figure 3 (page 28 in this handbook, the development team,
                       at the headquarters, accomplishes the following steps.

                          Step              Title
                           1        Determine Purpose
                           2        Identify Data Requirements
                           3        Determine Data Collection Method
                           4        Collect and Analyze Data
                           5        Report Findings


Step 1: Determine      The first step in conducting a TNA is to determine the purpose of
purpose                the assessment. Using the scenario above and Figure 2 (page
                       23) in this handbook, one can see that a MAJCOM-type analysis
                       is suggested since the focus of the assessment is on perfor-
                       mance issues. The MAJCOM-level assessment is a macro,
                       organizational-type assessment. When the team has determined
                       that the Headquarters-type assessment (in this case HQ AFMC)
                       is appropriate, the team develops goals and objectives for
                       implementing the new financial management procedures and
                       standards within the Command. Anticipated outcomes of the
                       assessment are new Command policies and procedures, new
                       operating standards, training courses for personnel, and possible
                       new financial management systems.


Step 2: Identify       The scenario identifies new Command policies and procedures
data requirements      that will need to be developed in order to address the new
                       performance requirements and standards resulting from new
                       financial management policies and procedures that will be used
                       by the Air Force to fund the day-to-day operations within the
                       Command. The new policies and procedures will affect almost
                       every area of financial management, and therefore, data
                       requirements will need to be identified in the various areas of
                       financial management at the Command level. Also, it will be
                       necessary to identify data sources at both the HQ USAF and
                       base/unit level in order to have a complete picture of the current
                       financial management policies and procedures. In this step, the
                       task will be to identify data that describes the current financial
                       management procedures as well as the new DoD and Air Force
                       requirements. There will be a variety of data sources that can be
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                      107



Step 2: Identify       used by the development team to determine current financial
data requirements      management procedures. Also, the DoD and AF will have data
(Continued)            that describes the new financial management requirements.


Step 3: Determine      In this step, the instructional developers start by reviewing the
data collection        table beginning on page 32 of this handbook. This table helps
method                 identify the best data collection methods for a MAJCOM-type
                       assessment. In this case, since the methods for collecting data
                       are numerous, the development team will use a panel of experts,
                       problem solving/group discussion, interviews, and print media.
                       Having a combination of data collection methods will allow the
                       development team to use a wide variety of data from various
                       sources and in different formats. Using data from different
                       sources will allow the team to conduct a better analysis by the
                       data comparison technique.


Step 4: Collect and    Once the developers select the data collection methods to be
analyze data           used, they develop the necessary data collection instruments
                       such as checklists and interview guides. After the instruments
                       have been developed, the team schedules interviews, problem
                       solving/group discussions, and interviews. Using the data
                       collection instruments, the team conducts meetings and
                       interviews at the various organizational levels in order to collect
                       data on current and new procedures. The team also collects all
                       related print media such as directives, manuals, pamphlets, and
                       user's guides that describe the current financial management
                       procedures, as well as data on the new policies and procedures
                       being directed by DoD and the Air Force. After collecting
                       sufficient data on current and future financial management
                       procedures, the team organizes the data from the various
                       sources into a logical order that describes the current procedures
                       as well as the new requirements. When the data has been
                       organized, the team analyzes the data to determine what
                       changes should be made in the Command in order to implement
                       the Air Force's new financial management policies and
                       procedures.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2002                                     108



Step 5: Report      Based on the data analysis, the team reports their findings to the
findings            appropriate management level. The report includes information
                    such as the purpose of the study, how the assessment was
                    conducted, what the results of the TNA were, and the team's
                    recommendations for implementing new financial management
                    policies and procedures.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2002                                      109



                                Section C
                          Base/Unit TNA Scenario

Introduction      The third type of training needs assessment (TNA) is the
                  base/unit assessment. This assessment is at the operational
                  level and is macro in scope. At this level, the assessment
                  focuses on operational issues such as performance requirements
                  and standards. The same scenario that was used for the
                  Headquarters USAF and MAJCOM assessments is also used for
                  the base/unit assessment. This is a realistic scenario; but it by no
                  means suggests that this is the only way to conduct a TNA at the
                  base/unit level. The example below is to be used only as a guide
                  for conducting an assessment.


Issue             Change Air Logistic Center (ALC) financial management
                  procedures to comply with new Headquarters Air Force Materiel
                  Command (HQ AFMC) financial management policies and
                  procedures.


Situation         HQ AFMC must change its financial management policies and
                  procedures to comply with new DoD and HQ USAF directives.
                  The directives require AFMC's financial management activities to
                  be conducted in a "business-like" manner. The ALC's Financial
                  Management staff, along with instructional developers, must
                  assess the new policies and procedures and develop a plan for
                  implementing these policies and procedures at the operational
                  level. The plan must be implemented in an effective, timely
                  manner to ensure that the day-to-day financial management
                  activities of the ALC are impacted as little as possible during the
                  transition period.


Action            To ensure that the ALC is prepared to implement the new
                  financial management policies and procedures, the development
                  team assesses the requirements so an orderly and logical plan
                  can be developed to implement the new policies and procedures
                  in an effective, timely manner. The team first establishes goals
                  and objectives for the TNA study. The goals and objectives
                  provide the necessary framework for conducting the study. Once
                  the goals
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                      110



Action                 and objectives have been determined, the team begins the study
(Continued)            by following the steps for conducting a TNA study. During the
                       study, the team identifies the jobs and tasks that must be trained
                       in order for the work force to be able to meet new performance
                       requirements and standards.


TNA process            Using Figure 3 (page 28) in this handbook, the development team
                       at the ALC accomplishes the following steps.

                          Step              Title
                           1        Determine Purpose
                           2        Identify Data Requirements
                           3        Determine Data Collection Method
                           4        Collect and Analyze Data
                           5        Report Findings


Step 1: Determine      As with any TNA, the first step of the process is to determine the
purpose                purpose of the assessment. Using the scenario above and
                       Figure 2 (page 23) in this handbook, it can be seen that the
                       base/unit type assessment is appropriate since it is a macro
                       assessment that focuses on operational issues. This type of
                       assessment is the only assessment that focuses on operational
                       issues. Once the purpose has been determined, the goals and
                       objectives are established. Achievement of the goals and
                       objectives involves new policies and procedures for conducting
                       financial management activities such as new and revised
                       financial management systems to support the new procedures,
                       new jobs and task requirements, new standards, personnel
                       training, and other management interventions.


Step 2: Identify       New policies and procedures are required in order to conduct the
data requirements      ALC's day-to-day financial management activities in a "business-
                       like" manner. Since the new policies and procedures will affect
                       every aspect of the ALC's daily operation, the development team
                       will need to identify data requirements from every level within the
                       ALC. Data needed from the MAJCOM will also need to be
                       identified. In this case, data requirements focus on obtaining
                       data from subject matter experts (SME) on the current
                       procedures and systems. Also, HQ AFMC data on the new
                       policies and procedures is identified as a data requirement.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                     111



Step 3: Determine     The development team, referring to the table starting on page 32
data collection       of this handbook, selects a combination of data collection
method                methods. They decide on a job/task analysis of each function in
                      both the financial management and product directorate. The
                      team will conduct on-site observations and interviews, and send
                      questionnaires to SMEs to collect the necessary data on jobs and
                      tasks in the current financial management process. Also, the
                      team will use print media such as directives to collect the
                      information on the new financial management policies and
                      procedures from HQ USAF and HQ AFMC.


Step 4: Collect and   Using the selected data collection methods, the team observes
analyze data          SMEs performing the various financial management jobs and
                      tasks. The team also interviews selected SMEs and sends
                      questionnaires to others to obtain additional information about
                      how the current financial management process works. In order to
                      obtain information on the new policies and procedures, the team
                      requests from HQ USAF, HQ AFMC, and the ALC all available
                      data on the new financial management policies and procedures.
                      Once adequate data has been collected, the team formats and
                      organizes the data in order to describe how the current financial
                      management process works as compared to the way the new
                      process will work. This process allows the development team to
                      analyze the data and determine the differences in the old and
                      new processes and make recommendations as to what must be
                      done at the ALC to implement the new policies and procedures.


Step 5: Report        Once the data has been collected and analyzed, the team reports
findings              its findings to the appropriate management levels in the ALC.
                      The report includes an explanation of why the study was
                      conducted, describes how the assessment was conducted,
                      provides management with the results of the study, and makes
                      recommendations for implementing the new financial
                      management policies and procedures at the ALC.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6      1 November 2002                                       112



                                 Section D
                          Individual TNA Scenario

Introduction      The fourth type of training needs assessment (TNA) is the
                  individual assessment. This assessment is at the individual,
                  micro level. During this type of assessment the focus is on
                  determining individual job performance requirements and
                  standards. Again, the same scenario has been used to show the
                  continuity of the various types or levels of assessments. This
                  realistic scenario, however, by no means suggests that this is the
                  only way to conduct an individual-type assessment. The example
                  below is provided only as a guide for performing a TNA at the
                  individual level.


Issue             Productivity has decreased significantly in the operations and
                  maintenance (O&M) Division of Financial Management, and
                  worker dissatisfaction has increased.


Situation         The ALC implemented new financial management policies and
                  procedures to comply with HQ AFMC directives. This change
                  required all workers in the Financial Management and Product
                  Directorates to be trained in the new financial management
                  procedures. After the new procedures were implemented and the
                  workers were trained, productivity in the O&M Division of
                  Financial Management has declined significantly.


Action            In order to determine why worker productivity and job satisfaction
                  in the O&M area have declined, the O&M Team Leader and
                  instructional developers decide that a TNA is needed. Since the
                  number of individuals working in the O&M division is small and
                  the problem is limited to this one area, the instructional
                  developers select the individual-type assessment as the
                  appropriate level. The TNA will provide the necessary insight into
                  what is causing the problem in the O&M area and will allow
                  instructional developers to develop training to solve the problem
                  or recommend other management interventions, as appropriate.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                       113



TNA process            Using Figure 3 (page 28) in this handbook, the development team
                       at the ALC accomplishes the following steps.

                          Step               Title
                           1         Determine Purpose
                           2         Identify Data Requirements
                           3         Determine Data Collection Method
                           4         Collect and Analyze Data
                           5         Report Findings


Step 1: Determine      Each TNA study begins by defining the purpose of the
purpose                assessment. The scenario above and Figure 2 (page 23) in this
                       handbook indicate that the individual micro level assessment is
                       appropriate since only a few individuals in one specific area of
                       Financial Management are having problems.


Step 2: Identify       In this case, the decline in productivity may be identified through
data requirements      both internal (performance evaluations, error rates, job
                       dissatisfaction) and external (complaints) methods. The data
                       requirement will focus on job, task, and skill requirements and
                       standards in the O&M Division.


Step 3: Determine      Using the table starting on page 32 of this handbook, the
data collection        developer team selects a combination of data collection methods.
method                 The developers decided to collect extant data about the workers'
                       performance and standards, conduct direct observations and
                       interviews with the workers, and use print media such as
                       handbooks and job aids. Using these methods, the developers
                       will be able to determine the optimals and actuals of job
                       performance and what is causing the poor performance.


Step 4: Collect and    Data collection is accomplished by : (a) observing and making
analyze data           notes on each worker's job performance, (b) interviewing each
                       worker using an interview guide, and (c) collecting extant data on
                       worker performance since the implementation of the new
                       procedures and collecting of print media such as directives,
                       manuals, and handbooks that describe how each job and task
                       are to be performed.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                       114



Step 4: Collect and   The developers organize and analyze the collected data to
analyze data          assess what is actually happening on the job, and to determine
(Continued)           what should be happening on the job and what is causing the
                      performance problems. Analysis of the data enables the
                      developer to propose corrective actions and make
                      recommendations to solve training- and non-training-related
                      problems.

Step 5: Report        At this point, the development team reports the assessment
findings              findings to the appropriate management level in the ALC. The
                      report includes the purpose of the assessment, describes how
                      the assessment was conducted, reports the results or findings,
                      and makes recommendations for solving the performance
                      problem. The recommendations may include both training and
                      non-training solutions to the problem.
AFH 36-2235    Volume 6       1 November 2002                                         115



                                Section E
                          Automated TNA Scenario

Introduction      The automated training needs assessment (TNA) study is the last
                  scenario to be discussed in this handbook. Automated TNAs can
                  be used with any of the four types or levels of assessment that
                  have been discussed in this handbook. However, the benefits of
                  the automated assessment process are greater when large
                  amounts of data must be collected and analyzed quickly. For
                  example, using an automated TNA process would probably not
                  be effective or cost-efficient when the assessment only requires
                  the instructional developer to interview a few workers and collect
                  extant data resulting from previous performance. Automated
                  assessments can aid instructional developers in collecting,
                  organizing, analyzing and reporting the results of the TNA.

                  The automated TNA scenario is realistic; however, it by no
                  means suggests that this is the only way to conduct a study. The
                  example below is to be used only as a guide for conducting an
                  automated assessment.


Issue             Improve engineering staff capabilities.


Situation         The Director of Engineering Services has determined that the
                  engineering staff needs additional and periodic training in order
                  for the Command to remain a competitive leader in military-
                  industrial engineering. While the training requirements are not
                  exactly clear, the Director has noticed a constantly increasing
                  number of problems in the various engineering departments. It
                  also appears to the Director that the engineering staff is not
                  keeping up with technological advances in their specific field of
                  engineering.


Action            The director decided to form a team of instructional developers
                  and engineers to look into the existing problem with the
                  engineering staff. The team has been tasked to conduct a
                  training needs assessment and to develop any required training
                  programs or recommend any other management interventions
                  that might be indicated by the assessment.
AFH 36-2235         Volume 6       1 November 2002                                          116



TNA process            Using Figure 3 (page 28) in this handbook, the Command's team
                       accomplishes the following steps.

                          Step               Title
                           1         Determine Purpose
                           2         Identify Data Requirements
                           3         Determine Data Collection Method
                           4         Collect and Analyze Data
                           5         Report Findings


Step 1: Determine      Regardless of whether the TNA process is automated or not, the
purpose                first step is always to determine the purpose of the assessment.
                       Using the scenario above and Figure 2 (page 23) in this
                       handbook, the team sees that the focus of the assessment is on
                       performance issues and standards for a larger number of
                       engineers located at various centers throughout the Command.
                       This indicates that the Major Command (MAJCOM) level is the
                       appropriate assessment level.

                       Once the team has determined the purpose of the assessment,
                       the goals and objectives of the TNA are established.
                       Achievement of the goals and objectives involves determining
                       how engineers in the various engineering departments are
                       currently performing, how they should be performing, and what is
                       causing the problem. The anticipated outcome is new training
                       programs for the engineers. Other management interventions
                       may also be indicated as a result of the assessment.


Step 2: Identify       The scenario identifies that the Command's engineering
data requirements      departments are having performance problems that must be
                       resolved in order for the Command to remain a competitive
                       leader in military-industrial engineering. In this step, since the
                       problem appears to be Command-wide, it will be necessary to
                       identify data that indicates what engineers are currently doing
                       (actuals) throughout the Command and what they should be
                       doing (optimals).
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6         1 November 2002                                        117



Step 3: Determine     In this step, the team should review the table starting on page 32
data collection       of this handbook to determine the best method to collect the data
method                from the engineers. A review of the table indicates that the best
                      data collection to use is the survey/questionnaire since it can be
                      used to collect data from a large target audience. However, the
                      team is faced with several other issues relative to collecting data
                      from such a large, diverse audience scattered throughout the
                      command. In order to effectively conduct the assessment, the
                      team decides to use an automated process as much as possible
                      since a number of software programs are already available to
                      assist in automating the process. Using automation allows the
                      team to develop a survey/questionnaire that can be sent and
                      responded to electronically by each engineer in the command
                      since each engineer is "networked" with the command's computer
                      system. Using an automated survey/questionnaire also adds
                      needed flexibility by allowing each engineer to "branch" to their
                      specific field of engineering, as appropriate. Also, automated
                      surveys/questionnaires can be easily changed, if necessary, and
                      the developer can be innovative in designing the
                      survey/questionnaire.


Step 4: Collect and   Once the team has decided to use an automated
analyze data          survey/questionnaire to collect the data, the team must select the
                      appropriate software to use for data collection and analysis. The
                      survey/questionnaire can be developed using a standard word
                      processing program and data analysis can be accomplished by
                      using an "off-the-shelf" generic statistical analysis package.
                      When the software has been selected, the team develops the
                      survey/questionnaire using subject matter experts (SME) to
                      develop the content. When the survey/questionnaire is complete
                      it is electronically transmitted to engineers at the various centers,
                      who in turn complete the parts that specifically apply to them.
                      The survey/ questionnaires are then electronically returned to the
                      Command for analysis. Automated surveys/questionnaires allow
                      the Command to survey all of its engineers in an effective, cost-
                      efficient manner. Once the surveys/ questionnaires are returned,
                      the team creates a single master file from the response files
                      received from the centers. The output is then imported through a
                      computer program into a spreadsheet program. The optimals are
                      then input into a spreadsheet program. Analysis of the
                      spreadsheets allows the team to determine the training needs or
                      other management interventions.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6      1 November 2002                                    118



Step 5: Report      The automated assessment process allows the data already in
findings            the computer to be organized and presented to management as a
                    computer-generated report with the necessary graphs and tables.
                    Also included in the report is the purpose of the assessment, how
                    the TNA was conducted, and the recommended solutions to any
                    problems identified during the assessment.




                                        RICHARD E. BROWN III, Lt General, USAF
                                        DCS/Personnel
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6        1 November 2002                                   119



                                   Attachment 1

   GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

AFPD 36-22             Military Training
AFI 36-2201            Developing, Managing and Conducting Military Training
AFI 36-2301            Professional Military Education
AFMAN 36-2234          Instructional System Development
AFMAN 36-2236          Handbook for Air Force Instructors
AFH 36-2235            Information for Designers of Instructional Systems (12 Volumes)
               Vol 1   ISD Executive Summary for Commanders and Managers
               Vol 2   ISD Automated Tools/What Works
               Vol 3   Application to Acquisition
               Vol 4   Manager's Guide to New Education and Training Technologies
               Vol 5   Advanced Distributed Learning: Instructional Technology and
                       Distance Learning
               Vol 6   Guide to Needs Assessment
               Vol 7   Design Guide for Device-based Aircrew Training
               Vol 8   Application to Aircrew Training
               Vol 9   Application to Technical Training
              Vol 10   Application to Education
              Vol 11   Application to Unit Training
              Vol 12   Test and Measurement Handbook

   David H. Jonassen, Wallace H. Hannum & Martin Tessmer (1999). Task Analysis
   Methods for Instructional Design. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. 275 pages.
   ISBN 0805830863.

   Allison Rossett (1999). First Things Fast: A Handbook for Performance
   Analysis. Jossey-Bass. 241 pages. ISBN 0787944386.

   Be a Better Needs Analyst. (1985). Alexandria, Virginia: American Society For
   Training and Development.

   Carlisle, K. (1986). Analyzing Jobs and Tasks. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:
   Educational Technology Publications.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2002                                     120


   Deden-Parker, A. (1980). Needs Assessment in Depth. Journal of Instructional
   Development, 1(1), 3-9.
   Dick, W. and Carey, L. (1990). The Systematic Design of Instruction (3rd Ed.).
   Glenview, Illinois: Harper Collins.

   Edwards, B. and Fiore, P. (1984). Conducting The Training Needs Analysis. New
   York: Training By Design.

   Flanagan, J. (1954). The Critical Incident Technique. Psychological Bulletin, July,
   327-358.

   Gagne, R., Briggs, L. and Wager, W. (1992). Principles of Instructional Design
   (4th Ed.). Fort Worth, Texas: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.

   Harless, J. (1975). An Ounce of Analysis Is Worth a Pound of Objectives.
   Newnan, Georgia: Harless Performance Guild.

   Harmon, P. (1979). Beyond Behavioral Performance Analysis: Toward a New
   Paradigm for Educational Technology. Educational Technology, 19(2), 5-26.

   Kaufman, R. and English, F. (1979). Needs Assessment: Concept and
   Application. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.

   Kaufman, R., Rojas, A. M. and Mayer, H. (1993). Needs Assessment: A User's
   Guide. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational Technology Publications.

   Keller, J. M. (1985). Motivation and Instructional Design: A Theoretical
   Perspective. Journal of Instructional Development, 2(4), 26-34.

   Mager, R. and Pipe, P. (1984). Analyzing Performance Problems (2nd Ed.).
   Belmont, California: Fearon.

   Mager, R. (1972). Goals Analysis. Belmont, California: Fearon Publishers.

   Rossett, A. (1982). A Typology for Generating Needs Assessments. Journal of
   Instructional Development, 6(1), 28-33.

   Rossett, A. (1987). Training Needs Assessment. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:
   Educational Technology Publications.

   Steadham, S. (1980). Learning to Select a Needs Assessment Strategy. Training
   and Development Journal, January, 56-61.

   Training Needs Assessment Handbook (1991). State of Washington Department
   of Transportation. Work Force 2000, Work Group 4C.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 6       1 November 2002                                       121


   Wolfe, P., Wetzel, M., Harris, G., Mazour, T. and Riplinger, J. (1991). Job Task
   Analysis: Guide to Good Practice. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Educational
   Technology Publications.

   Zemke, R. and Kramlinger, T. (1982). Figuring Things Out: A Trainer's Guide to
   Needs and Task Analysis. Reading, Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley.
AFH 36-2235   Volume 6      1 November 2002                   122



                     Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC            Air Education and Training Command
AF              Air Force
AFH             Air Force Handbook
AFI             Air Force Instruction
AFMAN           Air Force Manual
AFMC            Air Force Materiel Command
AFPAM           Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD            Air Force Policy Directive
ALC             Air Logistic Center
DBOF            Defense Business Operations Fund
DoD             Department of Defense
HQ              Headquarters
HQ USAF         Headquarters United States Air Force
ISD             Instructional System Development
JPR             Job Performance Requirements
MAJCOM          Major Command
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
SAS             Statistical Analysis System
SME             Subject Matter Expert
SMS             Subject Matter Specialist
SPSS            Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
TNA             Training Needs Assessment
TO              Technical Order
USAF            United States Air Force
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6        1 November 2002                                       123



                                         Terms
The following list of definitions includes those terms commonly used in the application of
needs assessment in instructional system development and as used in this handbook.
The list is not to be considered all-inclusive.

Actuals. The actual job performance or knowledge.

Attitude. (a) The emotions or feelings that influence a learner's desire or choice to
perform a particular task. (b) A positive alteration in personal and professional beliefs,
values, and feelings that will enable the learner to use skills and knowledge to
implement positive change in the work environment. Also see Knowledge and Skill.

Deficiency. The difference or "gap" between desired performance or knowledge and
the actual performance or knowledge. Also called "need."

Expectancy. An individual's perception or confidence that they can perform or succeed
at a given task.

Instructional System. An integrated combination of resources (students, instructors,
materials, equipment, and facilities), techniques, and procedures performing effectively
and efficiently the functions required to achieve specified learning objectives.

Instructional System Developer. A person who is knowledgeable of the instructional
system development (ISD) process and is involved in the analysis, design,
development, implementation, and evaluation of instructional systems. Also called
Instructional Designer, Instructional Developer, Curriculum Developer, and other terms.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible,
process for planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems.
ISD ensures that personnel are taught in a cost-efficient way the skills, knowledge, and
attitudes essential for successful job performance.

Job Aid. A checklist, procedural guide, decision table, worksheet, algorithm, or other
device used by a job incumbent to aid in task performance. Job aids reduce the amount
of information that personnel must recall or retain.

Job Performance Requirements (JPR). The tasks required of the human component
of a system, the conditions under which these tasks must be performed, and the quality
standards for acceptable performance. JPRs describe what people must do to perform
their jobs.

Knowledge. Use of the mental processes which enable an individual to recall facts,
identify concepts, apply rules or principles, solve problems, and think creatively.
Knowledge is not directly observable. A person manifests knowledge through
performing associated overt activities. Also see Attitude and Skill.
AFH 36-2235       Volume 6        1 November 2002                                       124


Motivation. An individual's belief or value about a thing or situation, combined with
their expectancy.

Need. The measurable deficiency or "gap" between the desired or optimal performance
and the actual performance.

Optimals. The desired job performance or knowledge.

Skill. The ability to perform a job-related activity that contributes to the effective
performance of a task. Skills involve physical or manipulative activities, often requiring
knowledge for their execution. All skills are actions having specific requirements for
speed, accuracy, or coordination. Also see Attitude and Knowledge.

Subject Matter Expert (SME). (a) An individual who has thorough knowledge of a job,
duties/tasks, or a particular topic, which qualifies him/her to assist in the training
development process (for example, to consult, review, analyze, advise, or critique). (b)
A person who has high-level knowledge and skill in the performance of a job.

Task. A unit of work activity or operation which forms a significant part of a duty. A
task usually has clear beginning and ending points and directly observable or otherwise
measurable processes, frequently but not always resulting in a product that can be
evaluated for quantity, quality, accuracy, or fitness in the work environment. A task is
performed for its own sake; that is, it is not dependent upon other tasks, although it may
fall in a sequence with other tasks in a duty or job array.

Task Analysis. The process of describing job tasks in terms of job performance
requirements (JPR) and the processing of analyzing these JPRs to determine the
training requirements. Also see Job Performance Requirements.

Training Needs Assessment (TNA). A systematic study of job performance and the
environment that influences it in order to make effective, cost-efficient decisions or
recommendations about how to solve a problem or innovation. It is the process of
identifying the difference between the desired performance or outcome and the actual
performance or outcome.

Value. The worth assigned by an individual to a thing or outcome.
