BY ORDER OF THE                                                                    AIR FORCE HANDBOOK 36-2235,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                         VOLUME 1

                                                                                                         2 SEPTEMBER 2002

                                                                                                                          Personnel

                             INFORMATION FOR DESIGNERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL SYSTEMS -
                             ISD EXECUTIVE SUMMARY FOR COMMANDERS AND MANAGERS


RECORDS DISPOSITION: Ensure that all records created by this handbook are maintained
and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule”

NOTICE:         This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO www site at:
http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.


OPR: HQ AETC/DOZ (Frank W. Schufletowski, Ph.D.)                                             Certified by: HQ USAF/DPDT
Supersedes AFH 36-2235, Volume 1, 1 November 1993                                                  (Col Patricia L. C. Priest)
Pages: 23/Distribution: F


This handbook provides commanders and managers a brief overview of Instructional System
Development (ISD) in the Air Force. It acquaints them with the principles and concepts of ISD,
and provides internal guidance on procedures and methods for applying ISD. The handbook also
stresses the importance of continuous quality improvements in the ISD process.

   Section A Introduction ........................................................................................................... 2
   Section B ISD – What It Is ..................................................................................................... 4
Figure 1 System Functions .......................................................................................................... 5
Figure 2 ISD Phases.................................................................................................................... 6
Figure 3 Quality Improvement ..................................................................................................... 9
   Section C Distinctive Features of ISD................................................................................... 16
   Section D Responsibilities of Commanders and Managers..................................................... 18
   Section E Air Force Manuals and Handbooks ....................................................................... 19
   Section F Summary............................................................................................................... 22
Attachment 1 – Glossary of References and Supporting Information......................................... 23
2                                            AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                          Section A
                                        Introduction

Education and        Education and training are essential for the effective operation of the Air
training are         Force, but can be expensive and can account for a large portion of the
essential            Air Force’s annual budget. A major concern for every commander and
                     manager is whether personnel are adequately prepared to do the job.


Instruction is not   There is a tendency to assume that instruction is the solution for every
always the answer    operational problem. This assumption results in wasted dollars when it’s
                     not valid. The tendency is for commanders and managers to request
                     more instruction than needed, or to request instruction for a non-
                     instructional-related problem.

                     The challenge is to provide adequate instruction for your personnel when
                     they need it.


ISD is the answer    Since 1965, the Air Force has used the Instructional System
                     Development (ISD) process to help commanders and managers resolve
                     the instructional dilemma. ISD is a systematic, flexible, proven process
                     for determining whether instruction is necessary in a given situation, for
                     defining what instruction is needed, and for ensuring development of
                     effective, cost-efficient instruction. Quality Improvement (QI) is
                     constantly emphasized in the ISD Process.


Air Force policy     AFPD 36-22 directs that Air Force instruction be developed using the
                     ISD process. Also, AFMAN 36-2234 provides information on ISD
                     concepts, principles, and procedures, with specific applications of the
                     ISD process spelled out in various volumes of AFH 36-2235 (see
                     Attachment A).
AFH 36-2235      Volume 1      2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                               3



Air Force training   AFMAN 1-1 states that people are the decisive factor in war. It is
doctrine             imperative that people receive the right education and training at the
                     right time. Education and training should:

                     -   Prepare forces for combat.
                     -   Be as realistic as possible.
                     -   Be conducted for all forms and levels of war.
                     -   Give special attention to training for joint and combined employment.

                     ISD can help ensure that you meet these objectives.


This handbook        This executive summary is intended for you, the commander or manager.
                     Its purpose is to acquaint you with the essence of the ISD process, to
                     reveal how it can help you, and to explain what you can do to aid the
                     process. This summary will help you realize the importance of what you
                     can contribute to the successful application of the process. Should you
                     want additional information about the process and how to apply it, check
                     the documents listed in Attachment A.
4                                             AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                         Section B
                                      ISD – What It Is

Introduction         The Air Force ISD process is a conceptual adaptation of the systems
                     engineering process to the problems of developing, implementing, and
                     evaluating instruction. ISD results in alternative solutions to
                     instructional problems which may be more or less cost-efficient,
                     depending on the instructional need and environmental constraints. ISD
                     also clarifies that a systems approach, which involves choosing among
                     alternative solutions, will produce the most effective results.


Goal of ISD          The goal of ISD is to increase the effectiveness and cost-efficiency of
                     education and training, as follows:

                     -   Develop instruction based on job performance requirements.
                     -   Eliminate irrelevant skills and knowledge instruction from courses.
                     -   Ensure that graduates acquire the necessary skills, knowledge, and
                         attitudes to do the job.


Product of the ISD   The product of the ISD process is a total quality instructional system that
process              is cost-efficient and produces graduates who can do the job.


The ISD model        The Air Force ISD model is designed to represent simplicity and
                     flexibility, so that instructional designers with varying levels of expertise
                     can understand the model and use it to develop effective, cost-efficient
                     instructional systems. The model is composed of three distinct, yet
                     interrelated parts. These parts are system functions, ISD phases, and
                     quality improvement. The three parts of the model are depicted in
                     Figures 1 through 3.


System functions     Figure 1 shows the basic top-level system functions of the ISD model,
                     which are instructional system management, support, administration,
                     delivery, and evaluation. Evaluation is shown as the central feedback
                     "network" for the total system.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 1     2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                 5



System functions      Figure 1. System Functions.
(Continued)




System functions      The system functions of the ISD model are defined as follows:
defined
                      Management is the function of directing or controlling instructional
                      system development and operations.

                      Support is the function of maintaining all parts of the system.

                      Administration is the function of day-to-day processing and record
                      keeping.

                      Delivery is the function of bringing instruction to students.

                      Evaluation is the function of gathering feedback data through formative,
                      summative, and operational evaluations to assess system and student
                      performance.


Planning              Although not a specific phase of the ISD process, planning is a key
                      event. Planning the ISD structure and functions includes determining
                      ISD process management and evaluation strategies, and estimating
                      resource requirements and constraints. Planning also includes
                      determining the instructional needs and concepts, and it must take place
                      before developing an instructional system or revising courses. Planning
                      cannot be overemphasized.
6                                  AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



ISD phases   Figure 2 graphically depicts the ISD phases embedded within the system
             functions. As shown, the phases used in the systems approach are
             analysis, design, development, and implementation, with evaluation
             activities integrated into each phase of the process.

             Figure 2. ISD Phases.




             The instructional development process, which the model summarizes,
             requires instructional designers to:

             - Analyze and determine what instruction is needed.
             - Design instruction to meet the need.
             - Develop instructional materials to support system requirements.
             Implement the instructional system.

             Evaluation is a central function that takes place in every phase.

             Symbolically, Figure 2 shows that each phase of the model depends on
             all of the other phases. The phases are described next.
AFH 36-2235      Volume 1     2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                 7



Analysis phase      In courses that tie the content directly to preparing a student to do a job,
                    the instructional designer analyzes the job performance requirements and
                    develops a task list. Remember, job performance requirements may also
                    include skills such as problem solving, leadership, and management. The
                    designer then analyzes the job tasks and compares them with the skills,
                    knowledge, and abilities of the incoming students. The difference
                    between what they already know and can do, and what the job requires
                    them to know and be able to do, determines what instruction is needed.
                    The activities of formative evaluation begin during the analysis phase
                    with process and product evaluations.


Design phase        In the design phase, the instructional designer develops a detailed plan of
                    instruction which includes selecting the instructional methods and media,
                    and determining the instructional strategies. Existing instructional
                    materials are reviewed to determine their applicability to the specific
                    instruction under development. In this phase, the instructional designers
                    also develop objectives and tests, as well as design the instruction. The
                    implementation plan for the instructional system is developed and a
                    training information management system is designed, if required.
                    Formative evaluation activities continue in this phase with process and
                    product evaluations.


Development phase   In this phase, both the student and instructor lesson materials are
(Continued)         developed. If the media selected in the design phase included items such
                    as videotapes, sound/slides, interactive courseware, and training devices,
                    these are produced. If a training information management system was
                    developed, it is installed in this phase. As a final step in this phase, the
                    implementation plan is updated. Instructional designers also
8                                           AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Development phase   validate each unit/module of instruction and its associated materials as
                    they are developed. Validation includes:

                    -   Internal review of the instruction and materials for accuracy
                        (formative evaluation).
                    -   Individual and small-group tryouts (formative evaluation).
                    -   Operational (field) tryouts of the "whole" system (summative
                        evaluation).

                    Revision of units/modules occurs as they are validated, based on
                    feedback from the formative and summative evaluation activities. The
                    last step in this phase is to finalize all instructional materials.


Implementation      After the instructional system has been designed and developed, and the
phase               validation activities of formative and summative evaluation have been
                    completed, it is time to actually implement the "whole" system. In this
                    phase, the instructional system is fielded under normal operating
                    conditions. To ensure continuing quality of the fielded system,
                    operational evaluations, including both internal and external evaluations,
                    provide the necessary periodic feedback for the life cycle of the operating
                    system.


Evaluation          Evaluation is a continuous process beginning during the analysis phase
                    and continuing throughout the life cycle of the instructional system.
                    There are three types of evaluation.

                    -   Formative Evaluation includes process and product evaluations
                        conducted during the analysis and design phases. It also includes
                        validation, which is conducted during the development phase and
                        includes individual and small-group tryouts.

                    -   Summative Evaluation includes operational tryouts and is
                        conducted as the last step of validation in the development phase.

                    -   Operational Evaluation includes periodic internal and external
                        evaluation of the operational system during the implementation
                        phase.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 1     2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                 9



Total system model    Figure 3 completes the Air Force ISD model. It depicts the system
                      functions and ISD phases embedded within the quality improvement
                      process.

                      Figure 3. Quality Improvement.




System functions      An extension of the systems approach places the ISD process within the
                      functional design of a total instructional system. The basic top-level
                      system functions are instructional system management, support,
                      administration, delivery, and evaluation. Evaluation and quality
                      improvement are key parts of the system. Evaluation is the central
                      feedback network for the total system.


Quality               Quality Improvement (QI) is the continuous, organized creation of
improvement           beneficial change to the instructional system. The objective of QI is to
defined               foster continuous improvements in both the ISD process and the
                      products of the process.
10                                        AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



ISD and quality   All of the principles of quality are implemented in the ISD process. The
relationship      ISD process helps ensure total quality in the education and training
(Continued)       environment. The relationship between the following key concepts of QI
                  can be easily seen in the process. The relationships between QI and ISD
                  are provided in the following paragraphs.

                  Know your mission. ISD depends on mission and job analysis for the
                  necessary data to design, develop, and implement instruction. All
                  instruction should be based directly on mission or job requirements. The
                  quality checks in the analysis process help eliminate instruction that is
                  unrelated to the job.

                  Job analysis uses data from many sources, including mission statements
                  found in regulations or locally developed statements. Analysts or
                  curriculum developers also make use of management engineering
                  reports, occupational survey data, and direct observation to determine
                  the actual job requirements.

                  As part of the job analysis process, a Training Needs Assessment (TNA)
                  is conducted to determine what the actual performance problem(s) is
                  (are). In some cases, a problem isn’t due to a lack of instruction, but to
                  deficiencies within the job structure or environment. The ISD process
                  helps ensure that instruction is not developed for non-instructional
                  problems. Instruction may also be developed as a "preventive"
                  measure—that is, to prevent problems and to meet the informational and
                  educational needs of Air Force personnel.

                  Customers

                  Know your customers. The information gained in the mission/job
                  analysis process gives the instructional design team information that
                  defines the customer's expectations.

                  The customer defines quality. ISD emphasizes criterion-based
                  instruction. The criteria are directly linked to performance requirements
                  in the field. Field representatives identify education and training
                  requirements which instructional providers such as Air Education and
                  Training Command (AETC) or other training
AFH 36-2235       Volume 1     2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                11



ISD and quality      organizations are then under "contract" to satisfy. All evaluations are
relationship         focused on the graduate’s actual job performance.
(Continued)
                     Set goals and standards. The goals and standards for an instructional
                     development effort come in many variations. First, the job requirements
                     and the impact of the performance deficiency determine the timing
                     required for the development process and the conduct of the
                     instructional program. Second, the content of the instruction is
                     determined by the person’s need to do the job. The design team must
                     directly translate the cues, conditions, and performance standards of the
                     job directly into the instructional program.

                     Focus on customers. As mentioned earlier, the gaining unit or work
                     center needs determine instructional requirements. By continuing to
                     trace the relationship between the job requirements and the person’s need
                     to do the job, a continual focus on the actual field requirement is
                     maintained. In addition, the ISD process requires that the capabilities,
                     aptitudes, and attitudes of the target audience be considered.

                     Manage by fact. Each phase of the ISD process requires constant
                     evaluation against the job requirements identified earlier in the process.
                     In addition, a myriad of tools have been developed to ensure that design
                     and development decisions are made with supporting data. For example,
                     a number of media selection tools are being used which provide
                     managers information that matches training media with the instructional
                     requirements. These matches are based on learning theories and
                     development cost factors (money and time). ISD is designed to guide
                     the design team to awareness of factors affecting their decisions.

                     Team Players

                     Foster teamwork. An instructional program can’t be designed and
                     developed in a vacuum. In order to develop effective instruction, the
                     design team must be in constant touch with the work center and
                     evaluation offices. This ensures that the instruction matches the
                     performance requirements of the job.
12                                        AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



ISD and quality    Empower your people. ISD is a problem solving, decision making
relationship       model. Since ISD is flexible and since there are any number of ways to
                   solve a given instructional problem, a design team can be allowed
                   freedom and given authority to design, develop, and implement
                   instruction that meets job performance requirements.

                   Final Product

                   Integrate quality in all phases. Evaluation is continuous quality
                   checking. This is true during each phase of the ISD process, from
                   analysis to evaluation. Built-in checks in each phase ensure the quality of
                   the ISD process and instructional products with emphasis on the
                   graduate’s performance.

                   Evaluate quality constantly. The ISD process is a cyclical, ongoing
                   process of continuous improvement. As curriculum developers progress
                   through the different phases of ISD, the process and products of each
                   phase are constantly evaluated against the instructional requirements and
                   principles of learning. The results of the evaluations determine which
                   phase of ISD to enter next. Constant evaluation identifies changes in
                   instructional requirements due to updates in equipment and personnel,
                   which results in new ISD efforts to provide the best possible instruction
                   to Air Force personnel.


Basis of process   The basis of process improvement is Quality Air Force (QAF). QAF is a
improvement        management philosophy and a methodology that work together to
(Continued)        produce continuous process improvements. It is based on the following
                   ten principles.

                   -   All work is a process.
                   -   Processes receive work from suppliers, add value, and deliver output
                       to customers.
AFH 36-2235        Volume 1      2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                             13



Basis of process      -   Anyone from whom a process receives work is a supplier.
improvement           -   Anyone to whom a process delivers output is a customer.
                      -   Customers have needs and expectations.
                      -   Customers will define and measure quality in terms of those needs
                          and expectations.
                      -   Quality is meeting customer needs and expectations.
                      -   Improving process quality increases productivity.
                      -   Processes can be identified, understood, measured, and improved.
                      -   The people who operate the processes know best how to improve
                          them.


Procedure for         In order to ensure process improvements, you will need to use a
process               systematic method to identify and correct the causes of the problems.
improvement           The six steps of process improvement are outlined in the following table.

                          Step               Activity
                           1        Define the process and determine the main problem areas.
                           2        Analyze the problems and identify the causes of each.
                           3        Identify and evaluate possible changes to the process.
                           4        Implement the changes and monitor the process.
                           5        Institutionalize the changes.
                           6        Repeat for continuous improvements.


Ways to implement     There are many different ways to implement the basic procedure
the procedure         mentioned above. Two of the ways are:

                      -   "Chart it, check it, change it"
                      -   Shewhart Cycle (plan-do-check-act)

                      Each of these techniques uses the six basic steps mentioned above.
14                                      AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                         Chart It, Check It, Change It


What it is      "Chart it, check it, change it" is a simple phrase that summarizes one of
                the ways to implement the procedure. It is a systematic approach to
                continuous improvement. This approach has three principal steps, as
                shown below and in Figure 4.

                       Step                    What You Do
                1. Chart it            -   Describe the process.
                                       -   Gather data.
                2. Check it            -   Analyze the data.
                                       -   Evaluate the process.
                                       -   Identify opportunities.
                3. Change it           -   Improve the process.
                                       -   Institutionalize the change.


How to use it   Chart It
                                                         Figure 4. Chart it, Check it,
(Continued)     - Using a process flowchart,
                                                                      Change it.
                   describe the process to be
                   improved.
                - Gather data on the process and
                   its products.                                      CHART IT

                Check It
                - Analyze the data to isolate the
                   problems and opportunities.
                - Evaluate the process to identify
                   alternative approaches.
                - Identify opportunities (i.e.,                       CHECK IT
                   useful changes) from the
                   alternatives.

                Change It
                - Improve the process by
                   implementing changes identified
                   as opportunities.                                 CHANGE IT
AFH 36-2235      Volume 1       2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                           15



How to use it       Change It

                    -   Institutionalizing the changes through training, standardization, and
                        other means. Then, use another process (or use this same one again)
                        to make further improvements.

                                     Shewhart Cycle


 What it is         The Shewhart Cycle is a systematic approach to achieving a continuous
                    improvement in quality. The cycle includes planning, doing, checking,
                    and acting. Because the approach involves repetition, it is represented
                    graphically as a circle in Figure 5.


 How to use it      Steps in the Shewhart cycle are:
                                                             Figure 5. Shewhart Cycle.
                    -   Plan an approach for
                        quality improvement. Study
                        the process flow and any
                        existing data. Formulate
                        possible improvements,                      ACT
                                                                              PLAN
                                                                   ON THE
                        experiments to be run, or                  RESULTS
                                                                               AN
                                                                              APPROACH
                        additional data to be gathered.
                    -   Do the activity planned.
                                                                   CHECK       DO
                        Implement the planned                      THE
                                                                   RESULTS
                                                                                THE
                                                                               ACTIVITY
                        improvement effort. Train the
                        individuals who are
                        responsible for
                        implementation.

                        - Check the results. Measure the results of the improvement
                          effort you implemented. Analyze the data you collected.
                        - Act on the results. If the effort was truly an improvement,
                          standardize and document it. If it was not successful, determine
                          what could be done to improve it.
                        - Repeat. Continue around the cycle again by planning and
                          carrying out further activities.
16                                          AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                        Section C
                               Distinctive Features of ISD

Introduction        Actual instructional design offers great potential for creativity and cost
                    avoidance through application of state-of-the-art instructional technology
                    and advances in management, communication, and behavioral sciences.
                    Still, there are real-world constraints; therefore, compromises and trade-
                    offs may be necessary. These are management decisions.

                    The instructional designer who applies the ISD process is better able to
                    present what the trade-offs involve, so that commanders and managers
                    can make timely, effective, and cost-efficient management decisions.

                    A commander or manager who understands the process and renders
                    sound, timely decisions on these matters is an invaluable asset to
                    instructional development programs.


What is required?   From the description of the ISD process in Section B, it is apparent that
(Continued)         developing an instructional system involves considerable effort. You
                    may ask, "Is it necessary to invest all of this effort in every course?"
                    Obviously, practical considerations such as time and resources available
                    to develop the system and the number of students to be trained, dictate
                    that the procedures and techniques described in AFMAN 36-2234 be
                    selectively applied. Although the ISD process is flexible, there are limits
                    on how much of the process can be bypassed and still produce an
                    effective, cost-efficient instructional system.

                    -   The minimum requirements in the development process that should
                        be accomplished are listed below.
                    -   As best you can, determine the essential job tasks.
                    -   Determine the skills and knowledge required to perform these tasks.
                    -   Determine if personnel with the necessary skills and knowledge
                        already exist. If they do not, proceed with the balance of this list.
                    -   Derive objectives that, if met, would ensure these skills and
                        knowledge.
AFH 36-2235          Volume 1     2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                 17



What is required?       -   Develop test items for these objectives that can be used to determine
                            whether or not the objectives are achieved.
                        -   Devise the means for the student to achieve these objectives.
                        -   To the extent that you can, determine whether or not the student has
                            achieved these objectives.
                        -   Where the objectives were not achieved, revise the system as
                            necessary.


Key concepts            There are several key concepts that make the ISD process distinctive.

                        -   The instruction to be provided is determined by job requirements.
                        -   Instruction requirements are based on a behavioral analysis that
                            results in measurable, observable objectives.
                        -   Instruction is provided only on that portion of the job requirements
                            that the student has not already mastered.
                        -   Measurement is keyed to the objectives, and students are measured
                            against criteria rather than in comparison to a norm.
                        -   The instruction is student-oriented. Objectives are stated in terms of
                            student performance. Instruction is also described in terms of
                            student activity.
                        -   The student and the instructor both know the instructional goals and
                            when they have been attained.
                        -   If the system doesn’t teach, it may be the fault of the system design
                            (rather than the student) and the system must be reworked until it is
                            effective.


Potential benefits      Based on many years of successful demonstrations, there is empirical
(Continued)             evidence that competent use of the ISD process can improve instruction
                        in distinct ways.

                        Effectiveness. Through use of design and development procedures,
                        careful selection of what requires instruction, measurement and
                        evaluation of instruction, and revision of the instructional system until it
                        meets its objectives, the effectiveness of the instruction will be greatly
                        increased.
18                                             AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Potential benefits     Cost-efficiency. The ISD process indicates that effective instruction can
                       be developed in a highly cost-efficient manner. Also, added visibility of
                       the education and training process provided by ISD aids in the
                       justification and equitable distribution of resources. While it is not
                       reasonable to believe that use of the ISD process will always result in
                       dollars saved, it is evident that ISD will provide a more cost-efficient
                       means of developing instruction.


                                           Section D
                       Responsibilities of Commanders and Managers

Introduction           The Air Force expects you, as a commander or manager, to support the
                       application of the ISD process. It is your responsibility to ensure that the
                       process is used to develop an effective and cost-efficient instructional
                       system while continually improving the quality of the process.


What you should        As a commander or manager, you should:
do
                       -   Rely on an ISD process to develop instructional systems.
                       -   Ensure that sufficient numbers of competent individuals are assigned
                           as instructional designers and managers.
                       -   Provide adequate training for your untrained instructional designers
                           and managers.
                       -   Coordinate your instructional system requirements through the unit
                           ISD managers and base support organizations.
                       -   Provide resources (people, funds, equipment, time, etc.) to support
                           the process.
                       -   Conduct periodic quality checks and eliminate instruction unrelated
                           to the job.


What you shouldn’t As a commander or manager, you should not:
do
(Continued)        - Require a course to be developed before you have determined that
                      there is a valid education or training problem, that a course is an
                      effective, cost-efficient solution, or that an existing course could fix
                      the problem. For example, don’t say: "We need a one-week course
                      in shop safety because the accident rate in our machine shop has been
                      increasing for the past six months." Instead, say: "The accident rate
                      in the machine shop has been increasing for the past six months.
                      Conduct an analysis to determine what must be done to correct the
                      situation." If education or training is part of the solution, develop the
AFH 36-2235         Volume 1     2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                               19


                           necessary instruction.

                       -   Set unreasonable suspense dates for development of the instructional
                           system. Development of instructional systems can be a relatively
                           slow process; however, normally there are


What you shouldn’t         options in the development process that will make a substantial
do                         difference in the development time. Imposing an unrealistic suspense
                           date may force the instructional designers to bypass essential parts of
                           the process that can cause the system to be ineffective and inefficient.

                       -   Delay planning for the instructional system if you are managing the
                           acquisition of a defense or support system. The initial planning for
                           the system should actually start before entering the analysis phase of
                           the ISD process.


                                          Section E
                               Air Force Manuals and Handbooks

Air Force Manual,      This manual describes the principles and processes of Instructional
AF MAN 36-2234,        System Development (ISD) for developing education and training
Instructional          programs in the United States Air Force. This manual applies to
System                 personnel who plan, design, develop, implement, approve, administer,
Development            conduct, evaluate or manage instruction for the Air Force.


Air Force              This handbook provides information and guidance for applying
Handbook,              instructional technology and ISD process described in AFMAN 36-2234.
AFH 36-2235,
Volume 2, ISD
Automated Tools /
What Works


Air Force              This handbook provides the necessary information and guidance to
Handbook,              ensure that the ISD process is properly applied during defense
AFH 36-2235,           acquisition.
Volume 3,
Application to
Acquisition
20                                          AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002



Air Force            This handbook provides an overview of the communications and
Handbook,            computer technologies for education and training.
AFH 36-2235,
Volume 4,
Manager’s Guide to
New Education and
Training
Technologies


Air Force            This handbook provides the necessary information and guidance for
Handbook,            designers of instructional systems on how and when to incorporate
AFH 36-2235,         training technologies into ISD.
Volume 5,
Instructional
Technology and
Distance Learning



Air Force            This handbook provides the necessary information and guidance for
Handbook,            conducting a Training Needs Assessment.
AFH 36-2235,
Volume 6, Guide to
Needs Assessment


Air Force            This handbook provides the necessary information and guidance to
Handbook,            ensure that the ISD process is properly applied during design of
AFH 36-2235,         instruction for device-based aircrew training.
Volume 7, Design
Guide for Device-
based Aircrew
Training


Air Force            This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan,
Handbook,            design, develop, approve, administer, or manage aircrew training in the
AFH 36-2235,         Air Force.
Volume 8,
Application to
Aircrew Training
AFH 36-2235       Volume 1      2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                  21



Air Force             This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan,
Handbook,             design, develop, approve, administer, or manage technical training in the
AFH 36-2235,          Air Force.
Volume 9,
Application to
Technical Training


Air Force             This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan,
Handbook,             design, develop, approve, administer, or manage education in the Air
AFH 36-2235,          Force.
Volume 10,
Application to
Education


Air Force             This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan,
Handbook,             design, develop, approve, administer, or manage unit training in the Air
AFH 36-2235,          Force.
Volume 11,
Application to Unit
Training


Air Force             This handbook serves as a guide for Air Force personnel who plan
Handbook,             develop Criterion-Referenced test and measurement instruments, who
AFH 36-2235,          validate instructional resources and operationally evaluate instructional
Volume 12, Test       systems
and Measurement
22                                      AFH 36-2235 Volume 1 2 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                    Section F
                                    Summary

ISD checklist   In summary, an ISD checklist for commanders and managers will help
                you manage the ISD process within your organization. A sample
                checklist is provided below.

                             ISD Checklist for Commanders and Managers
                -   Do I understand the ISD process?
                -   Do I recognize why it takes the requisite detail to design an effective,
                    cost- efficient instructional system?
                -   Do I provide leadership, management, and resource support?
                -   Do I define the limiting constraints such as time, manpower, or
                    equipment?
                -   Do I ensure that the ISD process results in continual quality process
                    improvements?
                -   Do I encourage instructional designers to be creative and imaginative
                    when designing instructional systems?
                -   Has an Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) been identified for
                    managing and coordinating the instructional development process?
                -   Have I required only essential documentation of the ISD process?




                                          RICHARD E. BROWN III, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Personnel
AFH 36-2235      Volume 1     2 SEPTEMBER 2002                                           23


                                      Attachment 1

        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


AFPD 36-22             Military Training
AFI 36-2201            Developing, Managing and Conducting Military Training
AFI 36-2301            Professional Military Education
AFMAN 36-2234          Instructional System Development
AFMAN 36-2236          Handbook for Air Force Instructors
AFH 36-2235            Information for Designers of Instructional Systems (12 Volumes)
               Vol 1   ISD Executive Summary for Commanders and Managers
               Vol 2   ISD Automated Tools/What Works
               Vol 3   Application to Acquisition
               Vol 4   Manager’s Guide to New Education and Training Technologies
               Vol 5   Advanced Distributed Learning: Instructional Technology and
                       Distance Learning
               Vol 6   Guide to Needs Assessment
               Vol 7   Design Guide for Device-based Aircrew Training
               Vol 8   Application to Aircrew Training
               Vol 9   Application to Technical Training
              Vol 10   Application to Education
              Vol 11   Application to Unit Training
              Vol 12   Test and Measurement Handbook
