BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           29 OCTOBER 2004

                                                                 Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                     EVALUATION OF GROUND RADAR SYSTEMS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/XOOY                                                          Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO
                                                                           (Maj Gen Teresa M. Peterson)
Supersedes AFI 13-101, 25 January 2002                                                        Pages: 8

This instruction implements AFPD 13-1, Theater Air Control Systems. Headquarters (HQ) Air Combat
Command (ACC)/DOY is the MAJCOM office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this instruction.
Offices of collateral responsibility (OCR) for this instruction are HQ Pacific Air Forces (PACAF)/DOY,
HQ US Air Forces Europe (USAFE)/DOY, HQ ACC/DOG and HQ Air National Guard (ANG)/C4. This
instruction provides guidance and procedures for the Air Force program for evaluating ground surveil-
lance radar systems (fixed, tethered and mobile). This instruction applies to all ground radar units
assigned to or gained by HQ ACC/DOY, HQ PACAF/DOY, HQ USAFE/DOY, HQ AETC/DOF, HQ
ACC/DOG and HQ ANG/C4. It does not apply to US Air Force Reserve (USAFR) units and members.
Affected systems include Joint Surveillance, North Warning, Tethered Aerostat Radar, North Atlantic
Defense, Ground Theater Air Control Systems (GTACS), and Hemispheric Radar. Major Commands
(MAJCOM) are to forward proposed MAJCOM-level supplements to this volume to HQ USAF/XOOY,
through HQ ACC/DOY, for approval prior to publication in accordance with (IAW) AFPD 13-1. Copies
of MAJCOM-level supplements, after approved and published, will be provided by the issuing MAJCOM
to HQ USAF/XOOY, HQ ACC/DOY and the user MAJCOM and National Guard Bureau OPRs. Field
units below MAJCOM level will forward copies of their supplements to this publication to their parent
MAJCOM OPR for post publication review. Send comments and suggested improvements to this publi-
cation on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to HQ ACC/
DOY, 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101, Langley AFB VA 23665-2789.
This instruction is affected by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. Records Management: Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are managed and maintained IAW
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management, and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and dis-
posed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Sche dule (RDS) located at https://
webrims.amc.af.mil.
2                                                                      AFI13-101 29 OCTOBER 2004



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision reorganizes text and updates references and addresses. It deletes the radar system evaluation
course, the requirement for managing the technical repository for Air Force radar systems evaluations,
and the technical and engineering consultation for radar related matters.
AFI13-101 29 OCTOBER 2004                                                                                 3


                                                Chapter 1

                                      POLICY AND CONCEPTS

1.1. Introduction. Radar sensors and systems play a vital role in tactical, air defense and air traffic con-
trol. Many special types of configurations of radars are installed in numerous operational environments. It
is imperative the capabilities and limitations of each radar sensor, command and control (C2) and system
be determined so they can be configured to provide optimum performance and effectively meet their oper-
ational requirements.

1.2. Policy. The Air Force policy is to ensure tactical and strategic air defense ground radars, C2 systems,
and electronic resources are installed, maintained, and operated in a high state of readiness to provide a
quick reaction to the threat of both limited and general wars. Ground electronics evaluation provides man-
agement with a tool for determining the capability of each radar to detect, identify, track and control air-
craft; determine aircraft height; provide ground-to-air communications; and to maximize operational
readiness and flight safety. In addition, ground electronics evaluations determine the configuration for
optimal performance in a dynamic radar environment. Lastly, the C2 system evaluation further ensures
the radar sensors are properly integrated into C2 system and the C2 system properly processes tracks and
displays the radar data.

1.3. RESPONSIBILITIES
   1.3.1. HQ ACC/DOY is the OPR for this instruction; HQ USAFE/DOY, HQ PACAF/DOY, HQ
   AETC/DOF, HQ ACC/DOG and HQ ANG/C4 are the OCRs.
       1.3.1.1. HQ ACC/DOY will review all requirements for 84 Radar Evaluation Squadron (RADES)
       support. Radar systems that feed data into a NORAD Region Air Operations Center (RAOC) or
       Air Defense Sector (ADS) as a part of Homeland Air Surveillance (NORTHCOM AOR) will
       receive top priority over all other requirements.
       1.3.1.2. HQ ACC/SCW is the tasking authority for 84 RADES evaluation activity.
   1.3.2. The lead command is responsible for funding evaluations to support fleet-wide program acqui-
   sition and modernization efforts:
       1.3.2.1. HQ ACC/DRR will ensure platform modernization or new system acquisition programs
       include funding to support necessary evaluations.
       1.3.2.2. Program element monitors (PEM) will ensure fleet-wide modification programs include
       funding to support necessary evaluations.
   1.3.3. MAJCOMs that operate ground surveillance radar systems will:
       1.3.3.1. Program funds for the evaluation of systems under the commander’s operational control
       and related flight support.
       1.3.3.2. Provide flight support for evaluating command fixed, tethered and mobile radars.
       1.3.3.3. Request services for baseline, special, and system radar evaluations according to Chap-
       ter 4.
4                                                                      AFI13-101 29 OCTOBER 2004


       1.3.3.4. When a fixed radar system is not being evaluated using RADES' automated remote
       recording and monitoring equipment, the using command must maintain a periodic radar evalua-
       tion program.

1.4. ACC is the executive agency for the USAF Radar Evaluation Program. In addition to responsibilities
noted in paragraph 1.1., ACC will:
    1.4.1. Maintain the Air Force's radar systems evaluation capability through 84 RADES, who will:
       1.4.1.1. Conduct baseline, special, system evaluations and continuous performance monitoring
       and evaluation for ground surveillance radar systems.
       1.4.1.2. Support other Service, Department of Defense (DoD) agency, government, or non-gov-
       ernment organization requests on a case-by-case basis. Approval authority is HQ ACC/DOY.
       1.4.1.3. Conduct radar site surveys, site analysis, and coverage predictions.
    1.4.2. Publish procedures for securing radar evaluation services and for defining MAJCOM support
    responsibilities.
    1.4.3. As the Combat Air Forces (CAF) lead command, ACC will establish a periodic evaluation pro-
    gram for mobile surveillance radar systems (i.e., GTACS). This program will be tailored to mission
    requirements, detected losses in system performance, and/or time since the last evaluation.

1.5. 84 RADES will provide subject matter expertise for planning, development, testing and implemen-
tation of radar systems, C2 systems and related matters.

1.6. Waivers.
    1.6.1. HQ ACC/DOY, HQ PACAF/DOY, HQ AETC/DOF, and HQ USAFE/DOY will serve as the
    respective MAJCOM OPR with waiver authority for all waiver requests to this instruction. File a copy
    of approved written waivers with this volume IAW AFI 33-360, Volume 1, Air Force Content Man-
    agement Program--Publications.
    1.6.2. All waiver requests will be submitted in writing through channels to the appropriate MAJCOM
    OPR.
AFI13-101 29 OCTOBER 2004                                                                                   5


                                                 Chapter 2

                                            REQUIREMENTS

2.1. An initial baseline evaluation is required as soon as possible after a unit completes installation accep-
tance testing and resolves major exceptions. The radar should be operationally stable and properly con-
nected with its control center. A baseline evaluation and integration to the control center is required
before the radar is fully mission capable. Mobile radar systems may require a baseline evaluation if their
deployed location becomes fixed.
   2.1.1. Re-baseline and integration into the control center is necessary following major repairs, major
   modifications, or permanent radar relocation or as specified in AFMAN 11-225, United States Stan-
   dard Flight Inspection Manual.
   2.1.2. A baseline evaluation, in conjunction with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is
   required prior to FAA commissioning radars in the Joint Surveillance System.
   2.1.3. Monitor performance of previously baselined fixed radars on a continuous basis. Perform a
   special evaluation when degradation is indicated.

2.2. Developmental Testing (DT)/Operational Testing (OT) Taskings:
   2.2.1. Support 46 TS for DT.
   2.2.2. Support 605 TS for OT.
   2.2.3. Support AFOTEC for OT.
   2.2.4. Support 133 TS for DT and OT.

2.3. The 84 RADES shall certify new radar systems prior to integration into the Atmospheric Early
Warning System (AEWS) when certification services are requested by NORAD and approved by ACC/
DOY and SCW for scheduling.

2.4. Manpower. HQ AFPC assigns personnel to the 84 RADES to conduct radar evaluation. Normally,
enlisted personnel will have a 5-skill level. Upon upgrade, the 84 RADES Commander will ensure the
special experience identifier is in the member’s records and ensure an assignment availability code is
annotated IAW the ACC stabilized tour guides.
6                                                                          AFI13-101 29 OCTOBER 2004


                                                  Chapter 3

                                       TYPES OF EVALUATIONS

3.1. Baseline Evaluation. This evaluation is performed to:
    3.1.1. Determine optimum configuration of adjustable and selectable features (software and hard-
    ware), capabilities and limitations, including airspace coverage. It is tailored to individual radar site
    and missions and includes effects of weather and terrain on detection and tracking performance. Ded-
    icated flights are required to make this assessment.
    3.1.2. Provide a performance database, determine operational parameters, and airspace coverage as a
    basis for inclusion in the RADES electronic monitoring evaluation system.

3.2. Special Evaluation. This evaluation is performed to:
    3.2.1. Assist operating organization in isolating the causes of substandard performance.
    3.2.2. Determine the effects of proposed and existing modifications on the operational capability and
    recommend configuration.
    3.2.3. Determine the best site location or positioning of a radar and the optimum setting of adjustable
    features for use under varying conditions.
    3.2.4. Support radar acquisitions, developmental and operational test and evaluation programs, and
    system integration.

3.3. System Evaluation. This evaluation determines how well multiple sensors integrate into a central
facility or system to include assessment of the radar inputs processing portion of the central system; i.e.,
radar message handling, tracker and display functionality.

3.4. Continuous Performance Monitoring and Evaluation : A continuous and near real-time evalua-
tion process performed on previously baselined radars. The data collected during the baseline evaluation
is used for initial pass/fail criteria and establishes a baseline for performance for each individual radar sys-
tem. This evaluation is performed to:
    3.4.1. Continuously monitor/assess radar performance based on short- and long-term trends.
    3.4.2. Continuously monitor radar data quality for error-free communication service.
    3.4.3. Detect radar performance deviations from established standards.
    3.4.4. Alert users of system effectiveness and deterioration in detection capability.
    3.4.5. Allow for corrective action to be effected before complete system failure.
AFI13-101 29 OCTOBER 2004                                                                                 7


                                                Chapter 4

                                   REQUESTING RADES SUPPORT

4.1. All requests for 84 RADES support will be submitted to HQ ACC/SCW (OPR). The email address is
acc.scw@langley.af.mil. HQ ACC/SCW will coordinate the requests with ACC Communications Group
(acccg.cc@langley.af.mil) and HQ ACC/DOY (acc.doy@langley.af.mil) for prioritization.

4.2. All radar evaluation/site survey requests will, as a minimum, contain the following information:
   4.2.1. Purpose. Define problems and state the reason for the request
   4.2.2. Location
   4.2.3. Type of radar or C2 system and associated equipment to be evaluated
   4.2.4. Desired date for support
   4.2.5. Mission impact if the evaluation is not performed by the desired date
   4.2.6. Special items of concern and other pertinent information
   4.2.7. Points of contact
   4.2.8. Funding source to conduct requested support. After being tasked, 84 RADES will contact
   requesting unit to provide cost estimate and secure fund cite. If applicable, include funds for dedicated
   flights if requestor is not providing aircraft.

4.3. HQ ACC/DOY must review and approve all requests for 84 RADES support, other than radar eval-
uations and radar site surveys. All requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis with priority given
to support the NORTHCOM/NORAD/PACOM (ANR/Hawaii) missions. Other priorities will be to Air
Force, other service or DoD agency, other government agency, or non-government agency, in that order.
Prioritizations for requests are:
   4.3.1. Priority 1. Operational systems, off the air
   4.3.2. Priority 2. Operational system degraded
   4.3.3. Priority 3. New program
   4.3.4. Priority 4. Operational system
   4.3.5. Priority 5. All others

4.4. Forms Prescribed and Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                               RONALD E. KEYS, Lt General, USAF
                                               DCS/Air and Space Operations
8                                                               AFI13-101 29 OCTOBER 2004


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
U.S. Air Force
AFI 13-101, Evaluation of Ground Radar Systems
AFI 33-360, Volume I, Air Force Content Management Program--Publications
AFMAN 11-225, United States Standard Flight Inspection Manual
AFMAN 36-2108, Enlisted Classification
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFPD 13-1, Theater Air Control Systems
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management
CFETP 1C5X1 for AFSC 1C5X1, Aerospace Control and Warning Systems
