BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-110
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         26 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                         CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION
                                                                        PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Pubs website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AF/A2RM                                                              Certified by: AF/A2R
                                                                        (Mr. Kenneth K. Dumm)
                                                                                        Pages: 7
Supersedes: AFI 14-110, 1 September 1997


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations. It establishes procedures and
guidelines and defines responsibility within the Air Force for notifying the appropriate
Congressional committees on intelligence matters having significant operational or acquisition
consequences for the United States Air Force (USAF). It complies with the direction contained
in the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq, subchapter III,
Accountability for Intelligence Activities), implementing the guidance and procedures detailed in
the Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 112 for activities relating to the Department of
Defense Directive (DoDD) 5205.12, Military Intelligence Program. This publication applies to
Active Duty (AD), Air Force Reserve (AFR), Air National Guard (ANG), and Department of the
Air Force (DAF) Civilians. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFIRIMS). Submit change
recommendations using an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). This publication may not be supplemented.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates changes to references and office symbols primarily generated by the
creation of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) and the Under Secretary of Defense for
Intelligence (USD[I]) and corrects office symbols to align with the creation of the Deputy Chief
of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) (AF/A2). The change designates a
new publication OPR. This revision includes the most recent guidance on reporting intelligence
 2                                                               AFI14-110 26 September 2013


activity to Congress as stated in ICD 112, Congressional Notification and Intelligence Reform
and Terrorism Prevention Act (IRTPA) of 2004.
1. OVERVIEW. This publication is intended to ensure efficient notification of Congress
concerning intelligence matters that have significant operational or acquisition consequences for
the USAF or the Department of Defense (DoD). The information contained within does not
supersede or modify Secretary of the Air Force Office of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL)
publications and does not countermand or modify intelligence oversight laws, and reporting
requirements nor does it supersede or modify governing documentation that deals with Air Force
(AF) Intelligence functions and responsibilities. Information involving Special Access Programs
(SAPs) must follow DoDD 5205.07, Special Access Program (SAP) Policy, DoD Instruction
(DoDI) 5205.11, Management, Administration, and Oversight of DoD Special Access Programs
(SAPS) and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 16-701, Special Access Programs, guidance which
identifies the DoD Director, Special Access Program Central Office, as the person who will
approve anyone notifying Congress regarding SAPs. AF/A2 is the waiver authority for non-
compliance items; these requests must be submitted through the chain-of-command to the
publication OPR.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
     2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
     (AF/A2). AF/A2 provides recommendations to the Secretary of the Air Force for
     Congressional notification on significant intelligence matters.
        2.1.1. When the AF/A2 becomes aware of an intelligence matter that requires
        congressional notification, AF/A2 shall, in coordination with SAF/LL, determine which
        relevant committees, in addition to the HPSCI and SSCI, should be informed of the
        intelligence matter and when the committees should be informed. If appropriate, the
        Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) shall
        participate in this determination. In the event that the AF/A2 assesses that some other
        disposition would be more appropriate, AF/A2 will forward this recommendation to the
        Air Force Chief of Staff (CSAF) and the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) for a final
        determination.
        2.1.2. If SECAF determines that notification of Congress is warranted, AF/A2 will
        ensure coordination with, or notification of, all appropriate Department of Defense and
        Intelligence Community (IC) departments and agencies prior to notifying Congress.
        These may include, but are not limited to, the following:
           2.1.2.1. Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)).
           2.1.2.2. Director of National Intelligence (DNI), Office of Legislative Affairs.
           2.1.2.3. Director, Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).
           2.1.2.4. Director, National Security Agency (NSA).
           2.1.2.5. Director, National Geospatial Intelligence Agency (NGA).
           2.1.2.6. Director, National Reconnaissance Office (NRO).
AFI14-110 26 September 2013                                                                      3


   2.2. Directorate for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Resources
   (AF/A2R). AF/A2R is responsible for maintaining all documentation generated by this
   publication, including written notification documents and copies of coordination documents.
   2.3. Director of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL). Once SECAF determines that
   Congressional notification is appropriate, SAF/LL implements notification of Congress on
   significant intelligence matters. Upon making the determination that Congressional
   notification would be appropriate, SAF/LL will coordinate with the OUSD(I), to ensure that
   the Secretary of Defense is appropriately informed.
   2.4. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Financial Management and Comptroller
   (SAF/FM). In matters that concern budgetary, financial, cost and economic issues, SAF/FM
   shall participate with AF/A2 and SAF/LL in making the determination about which relevant
   committees should be informed and when they should be informed.
   2.5. Director of Public Affairs (SAF/PA). SAF/PA will be notified of all items reported to
   congressional committees. This notification will allow SAF/PA to prepare for follow-on
   media inquiries related to the same subject.
3. REPORTING DETERMINATION.
   3.1. As required by the National Security Act, Congress must receive written notification of
   significant anticipated intelligence activities and significant intelligence failures. General
   guidelines for determining the types of activities that warrant notification follow:
      3.1.1. Significant anticipated intelligence activities include:
          3.1.1.1. Intelligence activities that entail, with reasonable foreseeability, significant
          risk of exposure, compromise, and loss of human life.
          3.1.1.2. Intelligence activities that are expected to have a major impact on important
          foreign policy or national security interests.
          3.1.1.3. An IC element's transfer, to a recipient outside of that IC element, of defense
          articles, personnel services, or "controlled equipment" valued in excess of $1 million,
          as provided in Section 505 of the National Security Act.
          3.1.1.4. Extensive organizational changes in an IC element.
          3.1.1.5. Deployment of new collection techniques that represent a significant
          departure from previous operations or activities or that result from evidence of
          significant foreign developments.
      3.1.1.6. Significant activities undertaken pursuant to specific direction of the President
      or the National Security Council (this is not applicable to covert action, which is covered
      by Section 503 of the National Security Act).
      3.1.1.7. Significant acquisition, reprogramming, or non-routine budgetary actions that
      are of Congressional concern and that are not otherwise reportable under the National
      Intelligence Program Procedures for Reprogramming and Transfers.
      3.1.2. Significant intelligence failures are failures that are extensive in scope, continuing
      in nature, or likely to have a serious impact on United States (US) national security
      interests and include:
 4                                                                 AFI14-110 26 September 2013


            3.1.2.1. The loss or compromise of classified information on such a scale or over
            such an extended period as to indicate a systemic loss or compromise of classified
            intelligence information that may pose a substantial risk to US national security
            interests.
            3.1.2.2. A significant unauthorized disclosure of classified intelligence information
            that may pose a substantial risk to US national security interests.
            3.1.2.3. A potentially pervasive failure, interruption, or compromise of a collection
            capability or collection system.
            3.1.2.4. A conclusion that an intelligence product is the result of foreign deception or
            denial activity, or otherwise contains major errors in analysis, with a significant
            impact on US national security policies, programs, or activities.
     3.2. As a matter of policy, IC elements shall provide Congress written notification of other
     significant intelligence activities and illegal activities. General guidelines for determining
     these types of intelligence activities warranting notification follow:
        3.2.1. Significant intelligence activities include:
            3.2.1.1. Substantial changes in the capabilities or known vulnerabilities of US
            intelligence operations or intelligence resources.
            3.2.1.2. Programmatic developments likely to be of Congressional interest, such as
            major cost overruns, a major modification of, or the termination of, a significant
            contract.
            3.2.1.3. Developments that affect intelligence programs, projects or activities that are
            likely to be of Congressional concern because of their substantial impact on national
            security or foreign policy.
            3.2.1.4. The loss of life in the performance of an intelligence activity.
            3.2.1.5. Significant development in, or the resolution of, matters previously reported
            under these procedures.
        3.2.2. Illegal activities include:
            3.2.2.1. An intelligence activity believed to be a violation of US law, including any
            corrective action taken or planned in connection with such activity.
        3.2.2.2. Significant misconduct by an employee of an IC element or asset that is likely to
        seriously affect intelligence activities or otherwise be of Congressional concern,
        including human rights violations.
            3.2.2.3. Other serious violations of US criminal law by an employee of an IC element
            or asset, which, in the discretion of the head of an IC element, warrant Congressional
            notification.
4. EFFICIENT NOTIFICATION OF CONGRESS. Once the determination has been made
that Congress must be notified, the appropriate committees must be contacted. The terms
"congressional committees" or "committees" include, but are not limited to, all intelligence
oversight committees, the Chairman and Ranking Minority Members of the committees,
members of the committees, Staff Directors and Minority Staff Directors, and their designated
AFI14-110 26 September 2013                                                             5


and appropriately cleared staff. Congressional reporting beyond the intelligence oversight
committees will be at the discretion of the reporting organization.




                                         ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                         Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 6                                                           AFI14-110 26 September 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFI 16-701, Special Access Programs, 1 November 1995
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDD 5205.07, Special Access Program (SAP) Policy, July 1, 2010
DoDD 5205.12, Military Intelligence Program, November 14, 2008
DoDI 5205.11, Management, Administration, and Oversight of DoD Special Access Programs
(SAPS), February 6, 2013
ICD 112, Congressional Notification, 16 November 2011
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act (IRTPA) of 2004
National Security Act of 1947
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Air Duty
AF—Air Force
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AF/A2R—Director of ISR Resources
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
CSAF—Chief of Staff, Air Force
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DNI—Director of National Intelligence
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
AFI14-110 26 September 2013                                                  7


DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
HAC—House Appropriations Committee
HASC—House Armed Services Committee
HPSCI—House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Intelligence Community
ICD—Intelligence Community Directive
IRTPA—Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
NGA—National Geospatial Intelligence Agency
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
NSA—National Security Agency
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAC—Senate Appropriations Committee
SAF/FM—Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/LL—Director of Legislative Liaison
SAF/PA—Director of Public Affairs
SAP—Special Access Program
SASC—Senate Armed Services Committee
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SSCI—Senate Select Committee on Intelligence
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USD(I)—Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
