BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            25 JANUARY 2011

                                                                            Operations Support

                                                         AIR FORCE SUPPORT TO THE
                                                 PROLIFERATION SECURITY INITIATIVE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A5XP                                                              Certified by: AF/A5X
                                                               (Brig Gen Richard T. Devereaux)
                                                                                        Pages: 9


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 16-6, International Arms
Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and the DOD Foreign Clearance Program. It
provides guidance and procedures for Air Force implementation of the Department of Defense
Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) program. This Instruction is consistent with Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 3520.02A, Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) Activity
Program. It applies to all Air Force organizations and offices including the Air Force Reserve
and Air National Guard. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at any level, but
all supplements must be routed to the OPR for this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
AF/A5XP using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form
847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records             Disposition           Schedule            (RDS)           located          at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Overview.
   1.1. Purpose.
       1.1.1. The purpose of this Instruction is to implement AFPD 16-6 and establish
       procedures for USAF implementation of the PSI program. The PSI was established in
       accordance with DODI 2060.02, Department of Defense (DOD) Combating Weapons of
       Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy and further described in Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
       Staff Instruction 3520.02A, Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) Activity Program. The
2                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 JANUARY 2011


       Air Force will support Joint Staff, Combatant Command, and other Federal agencies’
       efforts to plan, exercise, and execute PSI activities.
    1.2. Background.
       1.2.1. The PSI is a global, multinational effort aiming to stop the trafficking of weapons
       of mass destruction (WMD), their delivery systems, and related materials to and from
       states and non-state actors of proliferation concern. Furthermore, the National Strategy
       to Combat WMD identified the need for a more robust set of tools to prevent
       proliferation, with particular emphasis on interdiction capabilities. The U.S. participates
       in PSI operational activities and exercises. It also serves as a member of the Operational
       Experts Group (OEG) that coordinates PSI activities.
       1.2.2. Joint Publication 3-40, Combating WMD, defines WMD Interdiction (WMD-I) as
       operations to track, intercept, search, divert, seize or otherwise stop the transit of WMD,
       its delivery systems, or related material, technologies and expertise. In peacetime,
       WMD-I operations are planned and executed to intercept dual-use materials and expertise
       in transit aboard nonmilitary transports. DODI 2060.02 tasks the Services to organize,
       train, equip, and otherwise prepare their respective forces to combat WMD, its means of
       delivery, and related materials. The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Joint
       Staff, the Geographic Combatant Commands, Strategic Command (STRATCOM), and
       the Services are tasked by CJCSI 3520.02A to participate in the execution of PSI,
       including operational, exercise, and training activities. The Services are specifically
       tasked to provide planning support, as required; coordinate subordinate organizations’
       participation in accordance with plans and procedures; provide support to Service
       operational elements and the Joint Staff during exercise execution, as required; provide
       necessary operations, communications, and logistics support in accordance with
       established procedures; and participate as observers or controllers during exercises, as
       required.
       1.2.3. Air Force support to U.S. participation in PSI is an example of an activity within
       the Proliferation Prevention pillar outlined in Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 2-
       1.8, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (C-CBRN) Operations. In
       addition, certain components of the PSI program may also be based on obligations arising
       from international treaties and international agreements as referred to in AFPD 16-6.
       Successful implementation of Proliferation Prevention operations can greatly reduce the
       level of effort and resources necessary to execute the operations described in the
       remaining C-CBRN pillars, i.e., Counterforce, Active Defense, Passive Defense, and
       Consequence Management.
    1.3. Other Sources of PSI Policy and Guidance.
       1.3.1. CJCSI 3520.02A provides general guidance to the Air Force on participation in
       PSI activities, funding and planning for participation.
       1.3.2. AFPD 16-6 establishes Air Force policy to ensure comprehensive implementation
       of all relevant international arms control and nonproliferation agreements.
       1.3.3. AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear
       Operations, outlines policy to ensure the Air Force plans, organizes, trains, and equips
       personnel to conduct C-CBRN operations across the operational spectrum, including
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 JANUARY 2011                                                     3


       interdiction operations characterized by the Air Force as Proliferation Prevention. Air
       Force organizations participating in PSI activities will refer to AFPD 10-26 for additional
       responsibilities.
       1.3.4. Air Force organizations supporting PSI exercises will comply with the provisions
       of AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program. AFI 10-204
       describes the planning, execution, and after-action process for Air Force participation in
       exercises, including those conducted by the Joint Staff and Combatant Commands.
       1.3.5. AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, prescribes and
       explains how the Air Force participates in the Joint Planning and Execution Community
       (JPEC). This includes force presentation and Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and
       Execution Segment (DCAPES) for the planning, deployment, employment, sustainment,
       redeployment, and reconstitution of forces. AFI 10-401 guides Air Force participation in
       operational PSI activities.
       1.3.6. Air Force organizations participating in PSI exercises or operational activities will
       collect and submit observations to improve Air Force support to PSI in accordance with
       AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. AF/A3/5.
       2.1.1. AF/A5XP is the Air Force single point of contact for issues regarding the
       implementation of CJCSI 3520.02A as authorized in DODI 2060.02. AF/A5XP will
       coordinate Air Force implementation of CJCSI 3520.02A, synchronizing and integrating
       Air Force support, to include MAJCOM and Numbered Air Force (NAF) activities.
       2.1.2. AF/A5XP will:
           2.1.2.1. Participate in Joint Staff, OSD, and STRATCOM Center for Combating
           WMD planning activities as required to ensure adequate Air Force support. Support
           may include participation in workshops, meetings, and planning conferences.
           2.1.2.2. Provide support as required to participate in PSI exercises as observers or
           controllers.
           2.1.2.3. Develop processes for the implementation of Air Force support to the PSI in
           accordance with AFPD 16-6. This will include the formulation, as necessary, of
           strategies, doctrine, concept of operations (CONOPS) and compliance plans to
           support PSI activities.
           2.1.2.4. Review and provide appropriate input to the guidance that supports PSI
           activities. Provide advice and assistance related to foreign clearance issues, as
           required, to support PSI planning and execution.
           2.1.2.5. Provide PSI awareness training to Air Force personnel supporting PSI
           activities.
           2.1.2.6. Develop and monitor performance indicators to assess the effectiveness of
           Air Force support to PSI.
 4                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 JANUARY 2011


            2.1.2.7. Pursue efforts to promote and discuss PSI activities with partner countries
            using partnership-building ways and means as described in the Air Force Global
            Partnership Strategy.
            2.1.2.8. Manage Air Force education and training for PSI.
     2.2. AF/A2 will:
        2.2.1. Support U.S. intelligence efforts to expose and monitor state and non-state actor
        plans and intentions involving proliferation of WMD or WMD-related materials.
        Intelligence personnel provide required support to Joint Staff, OSD, and Interagency
        organizations to facilitate PSI activities.
        2.2.2. In coordination with AF/A5XP, the Air Force Intelligence Analysis Agency will:
            2.2.2.1. Support PSI activities.
            2.2.2.2. Coordinate with OSD, its components, and other U.S. departments and
            agencies as required on intelligence matters supporting PSI activities.
            2.2.2.3. Provide representation to PSI workshops, meetings, and planning
            conferences, as required.
            2.2.2.4. Coordinate with operational elements of other U.S. Government agencies, as
            required.
     2.3. MAJCOMs.
        2.3.1. MAJCOMs and their NAFs, with an air component command role will provide
        planning support and forces, as required, to support COCOM participation in PSI
        activities. Activities may include exercises, tabletops, command post exercises, and other
        operations, as required.
        2.3.2. In coordination with AF/A5XP, MAJCOMs and their NAFs, with an air
        component command role will:
            2.3.2.1. Program operations and maintenance (O&M) funds to support PSI activities,
            as required.
            2.3.2.2. Coordinate with COCOMs to plan and ensure strategic lift, intelligence,
            surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR), and other required Air Force resources are
            available to support exercises and operations.
            2.3.2.3. Assist subordinate units in supporting PSI activities, as required.
3. Reporting.
     3.1. Air Force units participating in PSI activities will prepare after-action reports,
     assessments, and lessons learned, as required, using established processes to include the Air
     Force Lessons Learned (L2) Program.
     3.2. AF/A5XP and any MAJCOMs and their NAFs with an air component command role
     will ensure all appropriate after-action reporting and assessments are posted on appropriate
     security cooperation databases such as Air Force Security Cooperation Knowledgebase or
     COCOM Theater Security Cooperation Management Information Systems (TSCMIS), as
     required.
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 JANUARY 2011                                        5


4. Adopted Forms:

  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                       JOHNNY A. WEIDA, Maj Gen, USAF
                                       Asst DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
 6                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 JANUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction, Dec 2002
NSPD 20, Counterproliferation Interdiction
National Strategy for Combating Terrorism, Sep 2006
National Strategy for Aviation Security, Mar 26, 2007
National Implementation Plan for the War on Terror, Jun 2006
DODD 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, Jan 9, 2001
DODD 2060.02, Department of Defense (DOD) Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction
(WMD) Policy, Apr 19, 2007
DODD 4500.54E, DOD Foreign Clearance Program, Dec 28, 2009
DODD 5525.5, DOD Cooperation with Civilian Law Enforcement Officials, Jan 15, 1986
The National Military Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction, Feb 13, 2006
JP 3-40, Combating WMD, 10 Jun 2009
JP 3-03, Doctrine for Joint Interdiction Operations, 03 May 2007
Joint Integrating Concept for Combating WMD, Version 1.0, 10 Dec 2007
Proliferation Security Initiative Exercise Planning Handbook
CJCSI 3520.02A, Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) Activity Program, 01 Mar 2007
CJCSI 5715.01 Series, Joint Staff Participation in Interagency Affairs, 31 Jul 2006
CJCSI 3511.01, CJCS Exercise Program Funding, 30 Jul 1999
CJCSI 4120.02, Assignment of Movement and Mobility Priority, 01 Jun 2009
AF Global Partnership Strategy, Building Partnerships for the 21st Century
AFDD 2-1.8, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations, 26 Jan 2007
AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations, 26 Sep
2007
AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and the DOD
Foreign Clearance Program, 29 Dec 2010
AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program, 12 Jul 2002
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 07 Dec 2006
AFI 16-601, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, 07 Jun 2004
AFI 16-603, Education and Training Requirements for Implementation of, and Compliance with,
Arms Control Agreements, 12 May 2007
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 JANUARY 2011                                                    7


AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 26 Jun 2009
AFMAN 16-604, Implementation of, and Compliance with, the Treaty on Open Skies, 20 Oct
2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
CBRN— Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations
DOD— Department of Defense
DODD— Department of Defense Directive
MAJCOM— Major Command
NAF— Numbered Air Force
OEG— Operational Experts Group
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
PSI— Proliferation Security Initiative
SAF— Secretary of the Air Force
TSCMIS— Theater Security Cooperation Management Information Systems
US— United States
USAF— United States Air Force
WMD— Weapons of Mass Destruction
WMD—I – Weapons of Mass Destruction Interdiction

Terms
Air Component Command―—A command consisting of the air component commander and
all forces (individuals, units, detachments, organizations, and installations) under that command,
including the support forces that have been assigned to a combatant command or further assigned
to a subordinate unified command or joint task force.
Compliance Plans―—A plan developed by the MAJCOM or below for ensuring compliance
with a treaty or international agreement. Compliance plans include an office of primary
responsibility and point of contact, a summary of organizational assets and activities that are
covered by the subject agreement, and a detailed listing of specific agreement provisions and the
methods for carrying out the provisions.
Counter—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations (C-
CBRN)―Activities taken to detect, deter, disrupt, deny, or destroy an adversary’s CBRN
capabilities and to minimize the effects of an enemy CBRN attack. The Air Force interlinked
operational pillars of C-CBRN operations are proliferation prevention, counterforce, active
 8                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 JANUARY 2011


defense, passive defense, and consequence management. These operational-level pillars support
the overarching guidance, in the form of military mission areas, provided in the National
Military Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction (NMS-CWMD), and the operational
pillars identified in Joint Publication (JP) 3-40, Joint Doctrine for Combating Weapons of Mass
Destruction (WMD) and the National Strategy to Combat WMD.
Nonproliferation―—Those actions (diplomacy, arms control, multilateral agreements, threat
reduction assistance, and export controls) taken to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction by dissuading or impeding access to, or distribution of, sensitive technologies,
material, and expertise.
Operational Experts Group―—An ad hoc group consisting of representatives from the U.S.
and 19 other countries for the discussion and resolution of issues related to PSI interdiction,
exercises, and outreach events.
Performance Indicators―—Quantitative and qualitative means of assessment that provide an
agency the means by which it can internally monitor and evaluate its own efforts to identify areas
needing improvement and assessing the quality of performance of ongoing and completed
activities over time.
Proliferation Prevention―Proliferation prevention operations are designed to restrict the
spread of CBRN weapons and prevent adversary acquisition of CBRN materials and
technology by supporting political, economic, military, and diplomatic efforts to discourage
the pursuit and acquisition of weapons of mass destruction and deny proliferation by
enabling interdiction of dangerous materials before they reach enemy hands. (AFDD 2—
1.8)
Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) Activities―Includes the three major types of PSI
exercises and other training events such as Geographic Combatant Command or CJCS—
sponsored exercises, PSI games, tabletops, command post exercises, and simulations, PSI key
industry workshops, as well as all PSI interdiction operations, coordination, and reporting.
PSI Exercises―There are three types of PSI exercises: 1) multinational interdiction
exercises managed by the PSI OEG (and hosted by an OEG participating nation), 2)
regional interdiction exercises conducted and led by a PSI partner, and 3) national
interdiction exercises conducted by a PSI—endorsing nation.
Theater Security Cooperation Management Information Systems (TSCMIS)―A tracking
mechanism, accessible to other DOD components, used by Combatant Commanders,
Military Department Chiefs, Combat Support Agency Directors, and applicable Defense
Agency and Field Activity Directors to account for their steady—state security cooperation
activities.
Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD)―—Chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear
weapons capable of a high order of destruction or causing mass casualties, but excluding the
means of transporting or propelling the weapon where such means is a separable and divisible
part from the weapon.
Weapons of Mass Destruction Interdiction—―Operations to track, intercept, search, divert,
seize, or otherwise stop the transit of WMD, its delivery systems, or related materials,
technologies and expertise.
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-607 25 JANUARY 2011                                        9


WMD Delivery Systems―—Equipment, material, and related technologies usable for systems
capable of delivering WMD.
WMD Related Materials―Technical expertise, materials, and sophisticated dual—use
technology that can be used in the development of WMD.
