Administrative Changes to AFI 13-415, Advanced Weapons Director Course Management
Program

OPR: AF/A3O-CS

Add in Attachment 2, AWDC Graduate Authorization Listing, the 606 ACS to Tier 1,
Priority 1 with 2 authorizations.



           Tier 1       Priority           Unit            Authorizations

              1             1       606 ACS                       2
                                       Attachment 2
                AWDC GRADUATE UNIT AUTHORIZATION LISTING

 Tier 1      Priority                Unit                Authorizations
                           606 ACS                             2
                           726 ACS                              2
    1            1
                           729 ACS                              2
                           621 ACS                              2
                           610 ACF                              1
    1            2
                           623 ACF                              1
                           325 ACS                              1
    1            3
                           607 ACS                              3
    2            1         8 WPS                                6
                           752 OSS                              1
    2            2         Adversary Tactics
                                                                1
                           Support Squadron
    2           3          422 TES                               1
Note: ANG units strive to maintain at least one (1) AWDC graduate.

26 November 2014
BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-415
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 28 JULY 2014

                                               Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                       ADVANCED WEAPONS DIRECTOR
                                                      COURSE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A3CG                                                         Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                   (Maj Gen Steven M. Shepro)
                                                                                      Pages: 10




This instruction implements policy guidance in AFPD 13-1, Command and Control Enterprise.
This instruction details the Advanced Weapons Director Course (AWDC) graduate management
program. This instruction applies to all active duty and Air National Guard (ANG) units
involved with the training and employment of Weapons Directors (WD) (Air Force Specialty
Code (AFSC) 1C5X1D). Offices of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) for this publication are
Headquarters (HQ) Pacific Air Forces (PACAF)/A3O, HQ US Air Forces in Europe
(USAFE)/A3C, Air Combat Command (HQ ACC/A3C), and National Guard Bureau
(NGB/A3Y). This Air Force Instruction (AFI) does not apply to the US Air Force Reserve or the
Civil Air Patrol. References to forms within this instruction also equate to electronic products
when authorized. Major Commands (MAJCOM) are to forward proposed MAJCOM-level
supplements to this volume to HQ USAF/A3O-CS for approval prior to publication in
accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Copies of
MAJCOM-level supplements, after approved and published, will be provided by the issuing
MAJCOM to HQ USAF/A3O-CS, HQ ACC/A3C, and the user MAJCOM and NGB offices of
primary responsibility (OPR). Field units below MAJCOM level will forward copies of their
supplements to this publication to their parent MAJCOM OPR for post publication review. Send
comments and suggested improvements to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication, through channels, to HQ ACC/A3C, 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101,
Langley AFB VA 23665-2789. This instruction is affected by the Paperwork Reduction Act of
1995. Records management: Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
 2                                                                   AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014


Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).
This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in
this publication are Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013 and Executive Order 9397.
Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement.


1. General Guidance.
     1.1. Objective and Scope. This instruction provides guidance for nomination, selection,
     management, and utilization of United States Air Force (USAF) AWDC graduates.
     1.2. Waiver authority for requirements of this volume will be IAW AFI-33-360, Publications
     and Forms Management. Waiver requests must come from commanders (or civilian
     directors) of the affected unit seeking relief from compliance through the command chain up
     to the appropriate tier approval authority (i.e., Tier 0, 1, 2, 3) (or publications approval
     authority if non-tiered). See AFI 33-360 for definition of Tier Ratings.
        1.2.1. Waiver requests may be sent via email or memorandum, and include the
        following:
            1.2.1.1. Reference and text of the specific          requirement    for   which   the
            commander/director is requesting a waiver.
            1.2.1.2. Rationale for the waiver: Explain which of the following three reasons IAW
            AFI 33-360, apply and describe why:
                1.2.1.2.1. The cost of compliance creates unacceptable risk to a higher priority
                task;
                1.2.1.2.2. The expected cost of compliance outweighs the benefit;
                1.2.1.2.3. Personnel cannot comply with the requirement due to a lack of
                resources (training, funds, equipment, facilities, guidance or manpower).
        1.2.2. Time period or circumstance for which the waiver will be required.
        1.2.3. Risk mitigation measures the requesting commander will implement during the
        waiver period.
        1.2.4. Impact if waiver is disapproved.
        1.2.5. Approved waivers will be uploaded into the unit's Management Internal Control
        Toolset (MICT) for inspection activity review and publication OPR's situational
        awareness/filing.
2. AWDC Student Selection.
     2.1. Purpose. This chapter describes the procedures for nominating and selecting AWDC
     students; responsibilities of the agencies involved and nominees; primary/supplemental board
     procedures; nominee/select withdrawal/deferment protocol, alternate activation, and waiver
     procedures/timelines.
     2.2. Responsibilities.
AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014                                                                      3


     2.2.1. ACC/A3 will ensure 57th Wing (WG) has adequate resources to manage and
     oversee the AWDC as one of the Command’s premier advanced enlisted training courses.
     2.2.2. ACC/A3C will serve as waiver authority for nomination prerequisites, syllabus,
     and graduation requirement waivers. A3C will also approve all student selections.
     2.2.3. ACC/A3CG is the agency responsible for oversight of the nomination and
     selection process to include:
        2.2.3.1. Distributing the AWDC Selection Board Announcement message, to include
        nomination criteria (based on the needs of the Air Force), security package due date,
        nomination package due date, selection board convening dates, and selection message
        release date.
        2.2.3.2. Conducting the selection board IAW paragraph 2.4.
        2.2.3.3. Coordinating the selection message, to include notifying the selectees’ chain
        of command and providing guidance to selectees concerning preliminary preparation
        and course reporting instructions.
     2.2.4. Squadron commanders (or equivalent) are responsible for nominating qualified
     individuals, ensuring AWDC selectees meet course prerequisites, and initiating waiver
     request actions or withdrawal/deferment requests when selectees are unable to meet
     course prerequisites before the class start date (CSD) (T-2). Squadron commanders are
     responsible for providing a complete candidate nomination package in accordance with
     this instruction and the AWDC Selection Board Announcement Message (T-2). Failure
     to provide the required information could result in disqualification of the nominee. Do
     not submit additional paperwork (e.g., additional recommendation letters or endorsement
     letters).
  2.3. Nomination Criteria. The Air Force Education and Training Course Announcement
  (ETCA) located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil and AWDC Selection Board Announcement
  Message establish Advanced Weapons Director Course nomination criteria.
     2.3.1. Nomination Package Timelines. Nomination packages for the AWDC selection
     board are due per the nomination message. Nominee information [SF86 (Security
     Clearance Questionnaire), Special Access Program, Personal Information (SAP PI) Sheet,
     AF Form 2586 (Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate) and 57 WG/AP Processing
     Checklist] are due to 8 WPS/AWDC no later than (NLT) 30 days prior to the board date
     to facilitate initial security clearance screening. Late nomination packages will not be
     accepted. AWDC Selection Board and nomination package timelines, due dates, and
     examples        will      be      available    on    the    8      WPS      web      site
     https://wwwmil.nellis.af.mil/units/usafws/8WPS.htm.
     2.3.2. AWDC selectees will attend classes and ensure qualifications are current as
     specified in the AWDC selection board results message (T-2). Immediately upon
     selection notification, all primary and alternate selectees must begin processing
     requirements outlined in the ACC/A3CG, AWDC selection message. All AWDC
     students must have a current clearance of Secret or higher with a minimum of a National
     Agency Check/Local Agency Check (NAC/LAC) investigation no more than 4.5 years
     old by class start date, or have an open Special Background Periodic Reinvestigation
4                                                                    AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014


       (SBPR) (T-2). Selectees without the required access must contact their unit security
       managers and submit all applicable paperwork. Failure to initiate this security clearance
       action within the necessary time may result in inadequate security access upon reporting
       to the AWDC for training. Reference ETCA for specific security requirements.
    2.4. Selection Board.
       2.4.1. ACC/A3CG will host two AWDC selection boards each year, approximately 6
       months prior to the applicable AWDC class-start date.
       2.4.2. The board chairperson will be a representative of ACC/A3CG unless an alternate
       is appointed; the chairperson will be responsible for the conduct and overall leadership of
       the board. The chairperson will select the board dates, board members, ensure board
       members receive nomination package materials, and manage the student selection board
       process.
       2.4.3. MAJCOMs will provide one representative for the selection board at
       ACC/A3CG’s request. MAJCOM representatives must be familiar with their Command's
       requirements. MAJCOM representatives may participate in the board process via
       telephone or email as required.
       2.4.4. ACC/A3CG will release the selection board results per the nomination message,
       typically 5-7 days after selection board adjournment.
       2.4.5. ANG receives one slot per year. NGB/A3YG conducts a separate board from all
       packages received to determine their best nomination. Nominee name is provided to
       A3CG prior to the AWDC selection board. ANG nominee name will be officially
       released in the AWDC selection message.
       2.4.6. Withdrawal, alternate activation, and deferment. AWDC candidates may need to
       withdraw from consideration/selection or be deferred "grandfathered" to a subsequent
       class due to humanitarian reasons or operational necessity. ACC/A3CG is the approval
       authority for nominee/select withdrawal prior to CSD, for alternate activation and is final
       approval authority for all deferment “grandfathering” actions. Due to the time sensitivity
       inherent in activating available alternates, the potential student’s Squadron Commander
       (SQ/CC) (or designated representative) will coordinate withdrawal requests directly with
       ACC/A3CG prior to CSD, with a courtesy copy to 8th Weapons Squadron Commander
       (WPS/CC) (T-2).
       2.4.7. Alternate activation. When an AWDC select is withdrawn and a selection board-
       designated alternate is available, ACC/A3CG will coordinate with 8 WPS/CC to activate
       the alternate and notify all concerned parties. If the AWDC can accommodate more
       students than selected at the central board, the 8 WPS/CC may request ACC/A3CG to
       activate AWDC alternates. ACC/A3CG will notify appropriate organizations of the
       alternate activation.
    2.5. Student Guidance.
       2.5.1. The Air Force ETCA and the ACC AWDC Selection Board Announcement
       Message outline reporting and attendance procedures.
       2.5.2. Selectees must ensure they meet all CSD requisites prior to reporting to AWDC.
       CSD requisites are defined in the AWDC syllabus and in the ACC/A3CG Selection
AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014                                                                        5


      Message after each selection board. If an individual is unable to meet course entry
      requisites due to extenuating circumstances, the select’s SQ/CC must submit a CSD
      waiver request (T-2).
3. Waivers.
   3.1. Types of AWDC Waivers. There are three broad waiver categories within the AWDC
   program: selection board, CSD, and end of course (graduation) waivers. Selection board
   and CSD waiver requests must be submitted through the applicant’s squadron commander or
   designated alternate to ACC/A3CG, with courtesy copy to 8 WPS/CC. The 8 WPS/CC will
   submit graduation waivers to ACC/A3C for approval (T-2).
      3.1.1. Selection Board Waivers. Selection board waivers include Time-In-Service (TIS)
      and rank waivers. Waiver requests for individuals exceeding the TIS requirement are
      evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Nominees requiring a waiver to meet the selection
      board must submit a waiver letter through their squadron commander or designated
      representative to ACC/A3C (T-2). Include the following information: 1) specific reason
      for waiver request, 2) justification for waiver and 3) plan to mitigate shortfall, either
      before CSD or for graduate assignment management. Approval of these waiver requests
      by ACC/A3C does not guarantee selection at the board, only that the nominee will be
      allowed to compete for selection.
      3.1.2. CSD waivers (T-2). Waivers are for requirements that must be met by AWDC
      selectees prior to CSD.       These requirements include Combat Mission Ready
      (CMR)/Basic Mission Capable (BMC) lookback, currency defined by Mission Design
      Series (MDS)/Specialty in the AWDC Selection Board Announcement message. Do not
      submit these waivers for the selection board. The 8 WPS/CC may disenroll individuals
      who report to AWDC without meeting minimum requirements and do not have a waiver.
      3.1.3. Graduation Waivers. If AWDC students are unable to complete all syllabus
      requirements by the established class graduation date, the USAFWS/Commandant (CO)
      will prepare a consolidated “graduation” requirement waiver request to ACC/A3C NLT
      the start of the Integration (INT) phase (T-2). The waiver request will include a detailed
      summary of the training deficiency, including any extenuating circumstances as well as
      an assessment of combat air forces (CAF) impact for not meeting syllabus requirements.
4. AWDC Graduate Utilization.
   4.1. General. AWDC graduates perform a critical role in command and control (C2) battle
   management execution. They receive highly specialized training and possess comprehensive
   knowledge of air-to-air weapons, electronic warfare, threat systems, and C2 platforms.
   Commanders are encouraged to employ AWDC graduates in key leadership and training
   positions within their weapons and tactics or training office to take advantage of the
   graduate’s extensive knowledge, skills, and leadership abilities. AWDC graduates are able to
   instruct core WD skills and tasks. Graduates are highly proficient WDs and able to assist
   Weapons Officers in leading Mission Planning Cell organization and execution. In addition,
   AWDC graduates are highly skilled in identifying and debriefing mission execution errors
   and recommending areas for improvement to enhance individual and crew mission
   employment.
 6                                                                     AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014


     4.2. Mission Area Expertise. AWDC graduates receive extensive training and possess a
     high degree of skill and knowledge executing a wide variety of mission areas to include:
        4.2.1. Offensive counter air (OCA) and defensive counter air (DCA) missions.
        4.2.2. Air refueling missions, to include capabilities/limitations and employment of U.S.
        and coalition air refueling assets.
        4.2.3. Close air support planning and execution.
        4.2.4. Airspace management and deconfliction.
        4.2.5. Mission Planning Cell organization and execution.
        4.2.6. Interpreting Air Tasking Order (ATO), Airspace Control Order (ACO), and
        Operational Tasking Data Link (OPTASK LINK) documents and producing relevant
        mission execution documents.
5. AWDC Graduate Management.
     5.1. Purpose. This chapter provides specific guidance on assignment management policies
     and award of Specialty Experience Identifier (SEI) 904 for AWDC graduates.
     5.2. Graduate Tracking. AWDC graduates are highly qualified C2 operators and ensuring
     their expertise is matched with unit requirements is a top priority. Upon course completion,
     graduates are awarded the SEI 904. This SEI will be utilized to track graduates and manage
     assignments within the Air Force personnel system.
        5.2.1. Award of AWDC SEI 904. 8 WPS/AWDC initiates AF Form 2096 action to
        assign the SEI 904 to graduates upon successful completion of course curriculum.
        5.2.2. Unit Manning Authorizations. Units authorized AWDC graduates will specify
        AWDC graduate authorizations on their Unit Manning Document by adding the SEI 904
        to individual 1C5X1D position numbers (T-2). The numbers of authorizations per unit
        are outlined in Attachment 2.
        5.2.3. Assignment Vacancies. All active duty AWDC graduate assignments are
        managed via EQUAL-Plus. MAJCOM Functional Managers will identify AWDC
        vacancies throughout their Command and coordinate with AFPC/DPAA3 to advertise
        and fill assignments via EQUAL-Plus.
     5.3. Assignment Tier/Priority Matrix. AWDC assignments are prioritized through a Tier
     System, as outlined in Table 1 below. Upon completion of AWDC, graduates are normally
     assigned to fill a vacant Tier-1 position (3 years), followed by a Tier-2 assignment (2 years).
     The needs of the Air Force are the primary determining factors with regard to AWDC
     graduate placement.

Table 1. Assignment Tier/Priority Matrix.
                                Tier 1
Priority 1       Control and Reporting Center
Priority 2       Air Defense Unit
Priority 3       Formal Training Unit
                                Tier 2
AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014                                                              7


Priority 1   USAF Advanced Weapons Director Course Instructor
Priority 2   Operations Support Squadron
Priority 3   Operational Test Squadron
   5.4. AWDC Assignment Management. Units may request assignment deferment for new
   graduates for up to one year upon completion of AWDC. Commanders should utilize
   Assignment Availability Code (AAC) 39 IAW AFI 36-2110, Assignments, Table 2.1.
   Further assignment deferment requests will be coordinated through respective MAJCOM
   Functional Managers (T-2).




                                       BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                       DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
 8                                                          AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 13-1, Command and Control Enterprise (C2 Enterprise)
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFI 36-2110, Assignments
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2096, Classification/On-the-Job Training Action

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC—Assignment Availability Code
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
ATO—Air Tasking Order
AWDC—Advanced Weapons Director Course
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
C2—Command and Control
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CC—Commander
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CO—Commandant
CSD—Class Start Date
DCA—Defensive Counterair
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
INT—Integration
LAC—Local Agency Check
AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014                             9


MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MFM—MAJCOM Functional Manager
NAC—National Agency Check
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NLT—No Later Than
OCA—Offensive Counterair
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPTASK LINK—Operational Tasking Data Link
PA—Privacy Act
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PI—Personal Information
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAP—Special Access Program
SBPR—Special Background Periodic Reinvestigation
SEI—Special Experience Identifier
SQ—Squadron
TIS—Time in Service
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Forces Europe
USAFWS—United States Air Force Weapons School
WD—Weapons Director
WG—Wing
WPS—Weapons Squadron
 10                                                                  AFI13-415 28 JULY 2014


                                       Attachment 2
                AWDC GRADUATE UNIT AUTHORIZATION LISTING

 Tier 1      Priority                Unit                Authorizations
                           726 ACS                             2
      1          1         729 ACS                              2
                           621 ACS                              2
                           610 ACF                              1
      1          2
                           623 ACF                              1
                           325 ACS                              1
      1          3
                           607 ACS                              3
      2          1         8 WPS                                6
                           752 OSS                              1
      2          2         Adversary Tactics
                                                                1
                           Support Squadron
    2           3          422 TES                               1
Note: ANG units strive to maintain at least one (1) AWDC graduate.
