BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-501
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            5 JANUARY 1994
                                                              Certified Current, 3 March 2010
                                                        AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                                 20 MAY 2014

                                                                                   Operations

                                                  PROGRAM ACTION DIRECTIVES (PAD)
                                                   AND PROGRAMMING PLANS (PPLAN)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOOB                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO
(Maj Bradley R. Pray)                                             (Maj Gen Edwin E. Tenoso)
                                                                                    Pages: 12
Supersedes:   AFR 27-4, 29 July 1988.
                                           (AFRC)
OPR: HQ AFRC/A8PB                                               Certified by: HQ AFRC/A5A8
                                                               (Brig Gen William B. Waldrop)
                                                                                     Pages:8


This instruction implements AFPD 10-5, Basing. It provides guidance for the Air Staff, major
commands (MAJCOM), organizations, units, or functions as they prepare and manage PADs or
PPLANs.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates a Program Guidance Letter.
1. Definition of Terms. See Attachment 1.
2. Objective of a PAD. A PAD describes Air Force initiatives that help accomplish a major
action. It assigns responsibilities and identifies critical tasks as milestones. In some cases,
MAJCOMs use a Headquarters US Air Force (HQ USAF) PAD as a basis for developing
PPLANs. A PAD may also describe Air Force initiatives supporting a major joint action, such as
 2                                                      AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014


establishing a new unified command. In such cases, the PAD serves as the Air Force part of a
joint implementation or programming document. See Attachment 2 for format.
     2.1. (Added-AFRC) The publication of an AF PAD drives a sequence of actions. A
     Programming Plan (PPlan) is the normal staff instrument used in which all implementation
     activities can be scheduled and assigned OPRs. AFRC/A5A8 will certify all PAD action
     completions to HHQ.
3. Objective of a PPLAN. A PPLAN, like a PAD, describes Air Force initiatives that help
accomplish a major action, but in greater detail. A PPLAN, written below HQ USAF-level, is
usually more specific and focuses more on tasks or milestones.
     3.1. Some major actions, such as transferring a function from one command to another,
     require an inter-MAJCOM or interagency PPLAN.
     3.2. (Added-AFRC) The AFRC Programming Process. The AFRC Programming
     Process is divided into three phases (Program Development, Program Execution, and
     Program Sustainment). During the first phase, Program Development, proponents of mission
     additions or changes adhere to the AFRC Corporate Planning Process. AFRCI 16-501,
     AFRC Corporate Structure, covers the AFRC budget planning and mission/unit change
     process. After corporate approval, a mission moves into the Program Execution phase. At
     this time, PPlans are brought from draft status to operational documents. The goal is to have
     the initial PPlan draft completed prior to the Site Activation Task Force (SATAF). The
     PPlan carries Vice Commander directed instruction for implementing organizational and
     mission changes. A Program Manager authors a PPlan which details all the actions
     necessary to successfully execute a programmatic action. A PPlan is central to the SATAF
     process. In the course of a SATAF, PPlan annexes developed to support a programming
     action are confirmed, updated, and modified. The new PPlan, (Attachment 2), is an umbrella
     document that contains information from Site Surveys and SATAFs organized along
     functional lines. A PPlan is an electronic document (soft copy) which is stored on the
     Reserve Program Management (RPM) SharePoint website. A PPlan is closed when all
     Milestones are considered complete; the Program Manager may request closure when it is
     determined Programmatic actions are complete. Closure of a PPlan represents movement
     into Program Sustainment phase.
     3.3. (Added-AFRC) Programming Message (PMsg). When the scope of an action is less
     than that requiring a complete PPlan, a PMsg is used (Sample PMsg format in Atch 3).
     Many execution actions are straight forward and have limited cross-functional impact (i.e. a
     manpower change, a new UTC assigned), and will not require a multiple annex PPlan. A
     PMsg would be recommended in these examples. A PMsg may also be used to direct a
     specific action (i.e. place a unit in conversion status), while a PPlan is being developed. The
     AFRC manager for PPlans and PMsgs determines when a PMsg is appropriate.
4. Objective of a Program Guidance Letter (PGL). A PGL is an internal HQ USAF
document that provides formal guidance for actions within an organization or for transferring a
function from one organization to another within a command. Use PGLs when the level of detail
in a PAD is more than required. See Attachment 3 for format.
     4.1. (Added-AFRC) AFRC/A8PB is the focal point at AFRC for all Program Guidance
     Letters (PGLs).
AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014                                                                 3


5. Responsibilities for PADs:
   5.1. HQ USAF Assistant Vice Chief of Staff decides which office within the HQ USAF will
   be responsible for a PAD, depending on the subject matter.
   5.1. (AFRC) AFRC/A8PB is the AFRC focal point for all PADs. Directors and Functional
   Area Managers (FAMs) will coordinate with A8PB on the implementation of AF directed
   PAD actions.
   5.2. PAD office of primary responsibility (OPR):
         Determines which organizations are needed to implement the action.
         Assigns responsibilities.
         Develops the PAD with help from Air Staff functional experts.
         Designates other OPRs and offices of collateral responsibility (OCR) to develop
          annexes, when necessary, that spell out to each organization what it must do.
         Gets approval from the sponsoring Deputy or Assistant Chief of Staff.
         Prints and distributes the PAD.
         Terminates the PAD when it is no longer needed or the actions are complete.
   5.3. HQ USAF/XOOB is the OPR for AFI 10-501, provides guidance to PAD OPRs, and
   numbers PADs sequentially within each fiscal year (i.e., 94-1, 94-2).
6. Responsibilities for PPLANs:
   6.1. MAJCOMs and agencies develop procedures for program guidance such as PPLANs.
      6.1.1. (Added-AFRC) Authority. For applicability, review the basic AFI 16-403,
      Updating the USAF Program Installations, Units, and Priorities and Movement of Air
      Force Units. An action involving a unit move requires a movement directive according
      to AFI 16-403.
      6.1.2. (Added-AFRC) When To Prepare an AFRC PPlan:
          6.1.2.1. (Added-AFRC) An AFRC Programming Directive (PPlan or PMsg) is
          required to support a basing decision that results in a significant change in force
          structure or mission. Examples of basing decisions include: base closure actions,
          major system acquisitions and/or conversions, standup of a new unit, movement of a
          unit or mission from one installation to another, or a significant change to an existing
          unit or mission. A significant change is assumed when more than 35 manpower
          positions are assigned, realigned, remissioned, or terminated within an existing
          program. This number may be one person at thirty-six separate locations or any
          combinations that exceed 35 positions. In addition, some actions impacting smaller
          numbers of positions may be deemed significant due to HHQ interest or unique
          attribute (i.e. first unit in new weapon system). This determination resides with HQ
          AFRC/A8P.
          6.1.2.2. (Added-AFRC) The format for an AFRC PPlan is contained in the sample
          PPlan at Attachment 2. Attachment 2 represents the new format (beginning in
4                                                   AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014


       FY13) that incorporates Site Surveys, Site Visits, SATAFs, and Planning Conference
       minutes into one document that addresses elements of a unit action. The PPlan and
       associated documents are electronically stored in RPM and resides on SharePoint at:
       https://afrc.eim.us.af.mil/apps/pms/AFRC_PMS/default.aspx. A workspace is
       created on RPM for programs emerging from the planning phase. The RPM website
       is a collaborative site that affords personnel with an interest in the program’s progress
       to be able to obtain real time documents and progress assessments.
       6.1.2.3. (Added-AFRC) AFRC PPlans are serially numbered by fiscal year; for
       example, 13-01, 13-02, etc. HQ AFRC/A8PB only assigns PPlan numbers for
       documents originated by the HQ AFRC staff. A master listing of PPlans is available
       on the RPM website.
    6.1.3. (Added-AFRC) Responsibilities:
       6.1.3.1. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFRC Strategic Basing Branch (A8PB) will:
          6.1.3.1.1. (Added-AFRC) Assign PPlan development responsibilities to the
          corporate panel that manages the accounts of the unit(s) impacted by law or HHQ
          directive. The corporate panel is the headquarters’ proponent for the proposed
          programming action. There are six corporate panels; CAF Forces, MAF Forces,
          C2ISR/Space/Cyber/UAV Forces, Logistics Support, Installation Support, and
          Force Support.
          6.1.3.1.2. (Added-AFRC) Serve as the process owner for PPlan publication, site
          surveys, SATAFs and beddown processes in accordance with AFI 10-503 AFRC
          SUP, Base Unit Beddown Program. 6.1.3.1.3. (Added) Ensure Program
          Managers are trained on Reserve Program Management System (RPM) and
          provides quality control responsibilities on RPM.
       6.1.3.2. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFRC Panel Chairs will:
          6.1.3.2.1. (Added-AFRC) In concert with A8PB, appoint a Program Manager
          for each executable programming decision that falls within their area of
          responsibility.
          6.1.3.2.2. (Added-AFRC) Ensure coordination is timely, detailed and complete.
          Coordinate on the PPlan during development and assist with final staff review.
       6.1.3.3. (Added-AFRC) The Program Manager will:
          6.1.3.3.1. (Added-AFRC) Draft and update PPlans; lead in the writing of the
          summary basic plan. Distribute PPlan versions to appropriate agencies for review
          and comment.
          6.1.3.3.2. (Added-AFRC) Attend planning conferences, conduct internal staff
          meetings to review the basic plan and assist functional experts in writing
          supporting annexes.
          6.1.3.3.3. (Added-AFRC) Coordinate with internal and external staff agencies
          to ensure information and communication is provided to personnel working
          execution actions.
          6.1.3.3.4. (Added-AFRC) Schedules and conducts site visits, site surveys, and
AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014                                                             5


           SATAF events as required and is the command representative (team chief) for
           these actions.
           6.1.3.3.5. (Added-AFRC) Ensure the PPlan is posted in Reserve Program
           Management (RPM), the electronic collaboration tool, which serves as the
           centralized repository for all programmatic execution documentation. This
           includes the separate listing of Milestones and Action Items in RPM to facilitate
           progress tracking. Ensure that conference, SATAF, and annex tasks are entered
           in RPM. Program managers are assigned ‘owner’ status in RPM, which allows
           them to grant permissions to functional managers to make entries in the RPM.
           6.1.3.3.6. (Added-AFRC) Identify lessons learned for the Program Execution
           phase and document any issues to AFRC/A8PB and AFRC/A9L.
        6.1.3.4. (Added-AFRC) The Functional Area Managers will:
           6.1.3.4.1. (Added-AFRC) Furnish finished staff annexes, appendices, and a list
           of Action Items for the PPlan. Propose Milestones to the PPlan Program Manager
           for activities in their area of responsibility.
           6.1.3.4.2. (Added-AFRC) Monitor the status of Action Items and help resolve
           problems as required.
           6.1.3.4.3. (Added-AFRC) Report progress on Action Items and Milestones
           through RPM updates.
           6.1.3.4.4. (Added-AFRC) Monitor the currency of their respective functional
           staff annexes and submit corrections or changes to the PPlan Program Manager.
     6.1.4. (Added-AFRC) Closure of PPlans/PMsgs. AFRC PPlans are directive on
     AFRC organizations. Tracking PPlan Milestones and taskings is the specific
     responsibility of the Program Manager of the PPlan. When the PPlan objective is
     attained and all Milestones are complete, the Program Manager will notify HQ
     AFRC/A8PB who will schedule a close-out event for the PPlan.
        6.1.4.1. (Added-AFRC) When a PPlan or PMsg is ready for closure; the
        PPlan/PMsg Program Manager coordinates with the Headquarters’ Functional Area
        Manager (FAM) that will assume advocacy and sustainment responsibility for the
        program.
        6.1.4.2. (Added-AFRC) The PPlan/PMsg Manager will organize a close-out event
        with the FAMs, NAF, Wing, and/or units to ensure all parties understand the program
        is transitioning to the Program Sustainment phase and identify remaining Actions
        Items and their status. This event may be held by electronic means, i.e. Defense
        Connect Online, Video Teleconferencing, Office Communicator System, etc.
        6.1.4.3. (Added-AFRC) Once coordination is complete, the PPlan/PMsg Manager
        will request AFRC/A8PB release an official PPlan/PMsg “notification of closure”
        indicating that the FAM has taken responsibility of the program. (Attachment 4)
        (Added) The “notification of closure” should be addressed to include all agencies that
        received the original PPlan/PMsg.
6                                                 AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014


    6.1.5. (Added-AFRC) Elements of a PPlan: Every PPlan is a directive from the
    AFRC/CV to execute a programmatic change. A PPlan represents authority to allocate
    resources and remodel facilities. Each PPlan is unique and requires varied supporting
    annexes to achieve mission success. PPlans are written with standardized formatting.
    Similar missions will have similar PPlan elements. PPlans should be written to specify
    how and when actions will be accomplished. The PPlan will also define who will
    accomplish cited actions.
       6.1.5.1. (Added-AFRC) Each PPlan will have a Basic Plan (similar to an executive
       summary). It contains the purpose, authority, references, participating organizations,
       program guidance, background, responsibilities, milestones and program management
       of the Plan.
       6.1.5.2. (Added-AFRC) Every PPlan (or PMsg) will contain criteria for IOC and
       FOC attainment. The Program Manager will work with functional experts to
       recommend a review of supervisory personnel staffing, UTC fulfillment, the ability to
       perform UTA training, and access to operational support equipment in recommending
       specific IOC and FOC criteria.
       6.1.5.3. (Added-AFRC) A PPlan is organized along functional lines. The Table of
       Contents will vary according to the complexity of the programming action.
       Summaries from site visits and planning conferences should be organized by function
       and placed as appendices to functional annexes. (i.e. all Manpower and Personnel
       activity will be found in Annex B)
       6.1.5.4. (Added-AFRC) Annexes contain the detailed instruction, schedule, and
       assignment of responsibility for specific tasks that must be accomplished to conclude
       the programmatic action. Annexes are further clarified with the inclusion of
       Appendices listing equipment, finance, manpower, etc., in detail.
    6.1.6. (Added-AFRC) Environmental:
       6.1.6.1. (Added-AFRC) The Program Manager should promptly initiate the
       Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) in conjunction with PPlan
       development. EIAP is initiated on AF IMT 813. An AF IMT 813 Template is
       located on the AFRC RPM home page. EIAP is regulated under 32 CFR Part 989
       and AFI 32-7001. AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, applies to both
       continental United States (CONUS) and overseas actions.
       6.1.6.2. (Added-AFRC) All actions require submission of an AF IMT 813, Request
       for Environmental Impact Analysis, to the host environmental planning function for
       review and final disposition. If the action is on a non-AFRC base, the program
       manager must complete sections 1-6 of AF IMT 813 and send to HQ AFRC/A7PP.
       6.1.6.3. (Added-AFRC) Within AFRC, the environmental planning function is in
       HQ AFRC/A7PP. HQ AFRC/A7PP will perform a preliminary environmental impact
       analysis, AF IMT 813 Section 7-17, and then send to both AFRC locations and non-
       AFRC locations for concurrence or further evaluation. The proponent must state in
       the PPlan that the environmental impact analysis has begun and indicate its status at
       the time of PPlan publication. The Program Manager will make the AF IMT 813
AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014                                                             7


        available for review during the entire planning and review phase and notify annex
        managers of its final disposition.
     6.1.7. (Added-AFRC) Base Level Implementation Plans. The Commander’s staff at
     an AFRC base will use this supplement as a guide for preparing a base-level
     Implementation Plan. Where required by a PPlan, AFRC bases must prepare a
     supporting Implementation Plan. AFRC bases may also prepare an Implementation Plan
     to meet base level requirements. AFRC bases are authorized to develop Implementation
     Plans with their tenant organizations.
     6.1.8. (Added-AFRC) PPlan Progress Reporting/AFRC Program Management:
        6.1.8.1. (Added-AFRC) Progress Reports. The reporting process is accomplished
        electronically through Reserve Program Management System (RPM). Program
        Managers and Commanders will make progress updates in accordance with timelines
        established in the PPlan. Updating is accomplished through the use of Program
        Manager and Commander’s assessment blocks in the PPlan portion of RPM. Updates
        for Milestones and Tasks are made in their respective sections in the RPM.
        6.1.8.2. (Added-AFRC) Process to Update PPlans. To update an assessment:
        Open a specific workspace, (i.e. ‘Workspace 13-29’). Select the PPlan icon. Select
        ‘Edit Item’ from the drop down menu. The Commander’s and Manager’s assessment
        blocks are now available for comment. After providing comments, save by clicking
        the ‘OK’ button at top or bottom of screen.
        6.1.8.3. (Added-AFRC) Process to Update Milestones and Action Items. To
        update Milestones and Action items the process is the same. Select the bold header
        ‘Milestones’ or ‘Action Items’. Select the icon for the line which you wish to
        edit/update. Type in free verse in assessment block, select action (i.e. close out
        items), or edit dates and descriptions of activity. When finished, select OK button to
        save changes.
  6.2. If a MAJCOM or agency needs a HQ USAF PAD as a basis for a PPLAN, they ask the
  Air Staff to develop one or designate a PAD OPR.




                                         BUSTER C. GLOSSON, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Plans and Operations

                                         (AFRC)

                                         JAMES F. JACKSON, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         Commander
 8                                                      AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-AFRC) AFI 10-503 AFRCSUP, Base Unit Beddown Program, in revision
(Added-AFRC) AFI 16-403, Updating the USAF Program Installations, Units, and Priorities
and Movement of Air Force Units; 25 Jan 2011
(Added-AFRC) AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 Aug 2006
(Added-AFRC) AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, 4 Nov 2011
(Added-AFRC) AFI 33-324, The Air Force Information Collection and Report Management
Program updated 6 March 2013
(Added-AFRC) 32 CFR 989, The Air Force Environmental Impact Analysis Process, 15 July
1999 updated 1 Jul 2012
(Added-AFRC) Adopted Forms
(Added-AFRC) AF813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis
(Added-AFRC) AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
(Added-AFRC) AFRCHOI16-501, AFRC Corporate Structure, 18 Jun 2009

Terms
(Added-AFRC) Action Item—An activity to conclude a tasking identified during the planning
stages of a programmed action. Normally, several action items must be accomplished to achieve
a Milestone.
(Added-AFRC) Annex—A major subdivision of a PPlan prepared by a functional staff agency.
An annex contains enough detail to stand alone. It establishes the tasks and procedures which
the functional agency must complete to attain the basic plan's objective. If a formal annex is not
necessary, the Director may submit a paragraph of functional area instructions to be included in
the basic plan.
(Added-AFRC) Appendix—A subdivision of an annex providing additional detail, such as
aircraft movement timelines, for a functional subarea.
(Added-AFRC) Basic Plan—The PPlan OPR (with assistance from the PPlan OCR) writes the
Basic Plan. It contains the purpose, authority, references, participating organizations, program
guidance, background, responsibilities, milestones and program management of the Plan. If
possible, the Basic Plan is distributed to the PPlan project officers at or before the first working
group meeting.
(Added-AFRC) Changes—After the PPlan is signed, changes, clarification, etc., to an annex or
appendix may only be added after written coordination through the PPlan OPR and OCR. The
best time to recommend changes is during three-letter and two-letter coordination.
(Added-AFRC) Formal Change—A published PPlan change. Altered PPlans will be annotated
with the change number and date on the cover sheet of the PPlan.
AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014                                                                  9


(Added-AFRC) Full Operational Capability (FOC)—Condition of an organization indicating
that it can perform its entire mission.
(Added-AFRC) Functional Area Manager (FAM)—The FAM is the principal advisor to their
respective commander/functional director/DCS on the management and oversight of all
personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support operational planning and
execution.
(Added-AFRC) Functional Area POC—Identifies and monitors all actions needed within a
functional area to accomplish the project on time. Develops functional area PPlan annex.
Tracks, assesses, and oversees status of action items to meet project milestones. Reviews and
coordinates action item status lists within functional area. Provides status to PPlan OPR.
(Added-AFRC) Initial Operational Capability (IOC)—The first attainment of the capability
to employ effectively an item of equipment or a system with adequately trained, equipped and
supported personnel.
(Added-AFRC) Joint Programming Plan—A coordinated intercommand document which
defines program objectives in detail, identifies and assigns intercommand staff responsibilities,
and ensures future actions are completed on time. The Director of Plans (A8), or equivalent, of
each participating organization signs the coordinated Joint PPlan.
Major Action—An initiative in which several organizations work cooperatively towards a
common goal by consolidating taskings, OPRs, and other separate directives.
(Added-AFRC) Milestone—A major event which is of primary importance to the program
accomplishment. Project progress is measured in Milestones accomplished, and project
completion is defined by close out of identified Milestones. A Milestone may include a single
action item or several contributing action items.
(Added-AFRC) Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—A designated staff office that
develops and manages PPlans. An OPR is designated for each PPlan. The functional OPR is the
command proponent of the action for the proposed program. Within AFRC the functional OPRs
are the corporate panels; Global Reach Division (A8M), Global Power Division(A8W), and
Global Vigilance Division(A8V). Strategic Basing Branch (A8PB) serves as the functional OPR
for execution regarding Logistic Support, Installation Support, and Force Support panel
programs. The PPlan OPR will assign management responsibility to a Program Manager who is
familiar with the objective of the programming document and has a working knowledge of the
functional areas that will participate in its development and execution. The overall OPR for
AFRC Programming Execution is A8PB, Strategic Basing Branch.
Program Action Directive (PAD)—A formal planning document that helps accomplish a major
action such as the reorganization or formation of a MAJCOM, organization, unit, or function.
Examples include establishing Air Education and Training Command, normalizing Air Force
Intelligence, or carrying out directions from the Defense Base Closure and Realignment
Commission. The PAD is also used to direct programs on new acquisitions and modifications.
It states the objective of the program, assigns specific tasks to OPRs and OCRs, and establishes
milestones.
(AFRC) Program Action Directive (PAD)—A PAD describes Air Force initiatives that help
accomplish a major action. It assigns responsibilities and identifies critical tasks as milestones.
 10                                                    AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014


MAJCOMs use a Headquarters US Air Force (HQ USAF) PAD as a basis for developing PPlans.
A PAD may also describe Air Force initiatives supporting a major joint action, such as
establishing a new unified command.
Program Guidance Letter (PGL)—A formal planning document that establishes direction,
assigns tasks, and provides guidance (for example, Morale, Welfare, and Recreation/Services
integration or Civil Air Patrol reorganization).
(AFRC) Program Guidance Letter (PGL)—A PGL is an internal HQ USAF document that
provides formal guidance for actions within an organization or for transferring a function from
one organization to another within a command.
(Added-AFRC) Programming Message (PMsg)—A PMsg directs responsible parties to
accomplish necessary actions in message format. It will be used when the scope of an action is
significantly smaller than that requiring a complete PPlan. Development and coordination of a
PMsg is similar to that of a PPlan in accordance with this supplement. For any given action, HQ
AFRC/A8PB will determine whether to use a PPlan or PMsg.
(Added-AFRC) Programming Plan (PPlan)—A PPlan provides guidance to accomplish a
particular one-time, non-recurring project (e.g., unit relocation, system acquisition/beddown, or
base closure or drawdown). It documents the project's objective and actions necessary for
implementation. PPlan content may vary depending on the type of action involved. PPlans
identify essential actions (for example: personnel actions, delivery schedule of new unit
equipment, essential facilities required and available, logistics and sustainment activities) to
accomplish a program. A PPlan is a coordinated document which identifies staff actions and
assigns staff responsibilities for defining program objectives in detail and for making sure future
actions are completed on time. When acquiring an installation from another command, the
gaining command is responsible for preparation of the PPlan. Write a PPlan as soon as enough
information is available and authority exists (e.g.: Approved CONOPS, Manpower and Funding
approved in POM).
Programming Plan (PPLAN)—A formal planning document written below HQ USAF-level
that helps accomplish and record major actions.
(Added-AFRC) Project—A set of activities and a schedule required to accomplish a one-time
undertaking of limited duration (normally two years or less) such as a base closure, unit transfer
or inactivation, or system beddown.
(Added-AFRC) Reserve Program Management (RPM)—A SharePoint collaboration site for
storing documents and updating the status of all AFRC Programming Actions. A workspace is
created for each programming action where managers and subject matter experts upload
milestones and action items, make monthly input on status, and upload documents to a Plan
library.
(Added-AFRC) Revised PPlan—A completely new PPlan which replaces a previously
published PPlan of the same number and subject.
AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014                                                            11


                                        Attachment 2
                                  HQ USAF PAD FORMAT


                                                                            Page
Preface                                                                     i
Special Instructions; Record of Changes; Disposal Instructions; Security    ii
Classification Guide; Termination
Table of Contents                                                           iii
Background of the Plan, its Objective, Authority or References,             1 thru
Assumptions, Effective date, OPR

Annexes
Annex A       Concept of Operations; Milestones                                 A-1 thru
Annex B       Manpower and Organization                                         B-1 thru
Annex C       Personnel Actions (Military and Civilian)                         C-1 thru
Annex D       Comptroller-Funding                                               D-1 thru
Annex E       Programming                                                       E-1 thru
Annex F       Engineering and Services-Environmental Impact Analysis Process F-1 thru
              (EIAP)
Annex G       Logistics                                                         G-1 thru
Annex H       Command, Control, Communications, and Computers                   H-1 thru
Annex I       Administration                                                    I-1 thru
Annex J       Public Affairs; Congressional Notification                        J-1 thru
Annex K       Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) Responsibilities                 K-1 thru
Annex L       HQ USAF Responsibilities                                          L-1 thru
Annex M       Air Staff Points of Contact                                       M-1 thru
Annex N       Major Command Responsibilities                                    N-1 thru
Annex O-W     As Required
Annex X       Distribution                                                      X-1 thru
*Delete or add annexes as required.
 12                                                    AFI10-501_AFRCSUP_I 20 MAY 2014


                                         Attachment 3
                                  HQ USAF PGL FORMAT

1. Background:
2. Objective:
3. Authority/References:
4. A summary of the responsibilities of each of the parties affected by the PGL.
