BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2B-52,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 2

                                                                        24 FEBRUARY 2012
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 4 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                 B-52 UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                           CRITERIA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFGSC/A2                                                             Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                (Brig Gen Mark W. Westergren)
                                                                                       Pages: 21


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for evaluating and qualifying personnel performing intelligence duties in B-52 units.
This publication applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG)
intelligence personnel supporting B-52 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be
considered functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented ,
but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior
to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items. In order for units to have time to prepare for compliance, this
publication becomes effective 60 days after the publication date.
 2                                                                                      AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION.                                                                                                              3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................    3
       1.3.   Grading Instructions. .............................................................................................           4
       1.4.   Additional Training. ...............................................................................................           4
       1.5.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ..................................................................................                 4
       1.6.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          4

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS.                                                                                                           5
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    5
       2.2.   Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation. .....................................................                           5
       2.3.   External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) Evaluation. ....................................................                           6
       2.4.   Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. .........................................................................                   7
       2.5.   Nuclear Mission Support Evaluation: ....................................................................                       7
       2.6.   Targeting/Weaponeering Specialized Training (TWST) Evaluation. ....................                                            7
Table 2.1.    Intelligence Evaluation. .........................................................................................             7

Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                                9
       3.1.   General Grading Standards. ...................................................................................                 9
       3.2.   General Grading Areas. .........................................................................................               9
Table 3.1.    General Grading Criteria. .......................................................................................              9
       3.3.   Specialized Training Grading Criteria. ..................................................................                     14
Table 3.2.    External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation Grading Criteria. ...................................                                14
Table 3.3.    Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Grading Criteria. ..............................................                            15
Table 3.4.    Nuclear Mission Support Evaluation Grading Criteria. .........................................                                15
Table 3.5.    Targeting/Weaponeering Specialized Training Grading Criteria. .........................                                       15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              17
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                                 3



                                          Chapter 1

                               GENERAL INFORMATION.

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IEs) and examinees with
procedures and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and
periodic evaluations. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202,
Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and this instruction.
   1.1.1. Objective. The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to perform
   required duties safely and effectively IAW applicable instructions and directives.
   1.1.2. Waivers. AFGSC/A2 is the waiver authority for this publication. Submit waivers to
   AFGSC/A2 through MAJCOM/A2. AFGSC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of any significant
   trends in waiver correspondence that may indicate a concern with policy and guidance.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy AFGSC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and
responses. AFGSC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if
such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
   1.2.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   completed all Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training (MQT)
   and/or Specialized Training requirements, as outlined in AFI 14-2B-52, Volume 1, B-52 Unit
   Intelligence Training. Additionally, the examinee must have on file a satisfactory
   gradesheet, AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet (see Attachment 4 in AFI 14-2B-52,
   Volume 1) from an intelligence qualification trainer or supervisor for each designated area
   listed in Table 2.1. The gradesheets will be filed IAW AF/A2 guidance regarding on-line
   documentation. (T-2)
   1.2.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for conducting all
   intelligence evaluations. To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will be
   thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   1.2.3. Prior to commencing, the IE will brief the examinee on the evaluation conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria. The examinee will accomplish required
   planning IAW the duty position being evaluated. The examinee will provide IEs with a copy
   of necessary data or materials. (T-3)
   1.2.4. Conduct evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Required areas for evaluation are
   shown in Table 2.1. Evaluations should take place in conjunction with peacetime, in-
   garrison events to the maximum extent possible. When it is impossible to evaluate a required
   area in a peacetime event (e.g., actual deployment briefing or post-mission aircrew
   debriefing), evaluations may be conducted via an alternate method (i.e., simulated, staged or
   by verbal examination) in order to complete the evaluation. Document the reasons and type
   of alternate method used in the Comments section of the AF Form 4350, Certificate of
   Intelligence Qualification. (T-2)
   1.2.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-3)
 4                                                             AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


1.3. Grading Instructions. Standards and performance parameters are contained in AFI 14-
202, Volume 2, and this instruction. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the standards provided in this volume and assign an
appropriate grade for the area. These grades will be compiled by the IE to determine the overall
qualification level. (T-2)
     1.3.1. IEs will use the grading criteria in this instruction to determine individual area grades.
     IE judgment must be exercised when the wording for general graded areas is subjective and
     when specific situations are not covered. (T-2)
     1.3.2. General Criteria.    The following general grading criteria will be used to grade
     individual items:
        1.3.2.1. Q. Qualified. Performance is correct. Quickly recognizes and corrects errors.
        1.3.2.2. Q-. Qualified with discrepancies. Performance indicates limited proficiency.
        Despite discrepancies/errors, performance does not jeopardize aircrew safety or
        commander’s intent during mission execution. Errors of omission or commission are
        rapidly identified and corrected with minimal impact on mission accomplishment.
        1.3.2.3. U. Unqualified. Performance indicates lack of knowledge or ability.
        Performance could compromise aircrew safety or mission accomplishment. Errors of
        commission or omission were not identified and/or corrected.
     1.3.3. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades, the IEs will determine
     the overall qualification level. IE judgment will be the determining factor in arriving at the
     overall qualification, based on the observed events and tasks IAW this instruction. (T-2)
        1.3.3.1. Qualification Level 1 (Q-1). Performance demonstrates desired knowledge and
        proficiency. Limited discrepancies were identified and they were resolved in the course
        of the evaluation.
        1.3.3.2. Qualification Level 2 (Q-2). Performance demonstrates ability but some
        additional training is required and/or a grade of unqualified was observed in a task.
        1.3.3.3. Qualification Level 3 (Q-3). The member demonstrated an unacceptable level of
        safety, performance or knowledge. Examinee received an area grade of unqualified in
        any of the tasks identified by this volume.
1.4. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training at their
discretion. Document any additional training to be performed IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, as
supplemented. (T-2)
1.5. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall “Q-3” qualification will be
placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on a mission
evaluation (INIT MSN or MSN), that individual may not perform mission duties or specialized
duties unsupervised until remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on
a specialized evaluation, that individual may not perform specialized duties until remedial
actions are accomplished, but he may perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-2)
1.6. Documentation. Evaluations will be documented on AF Form 4350 and in coordination
with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                                    5


                                            Chapter 2

                              EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS.

2.1. General. Evaluations must include all required areas depicted in Table 2.1. If it is not
possible to accomplish a required area in a realistic training environment in conjunction with
local events, the IE may elect to evaluate the area by an alternate method (i.e., staged, simulated,
verbally, etc.) in order to complete the evaluation. If the IE determines the required area cannot
be adequately evaluated by an alternate method, an additional evaluation will be necessary to
complete the requirements. (T-2)
2.2. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
   2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluation. A comprehensive knowledge examination will be conducted
   as part of initial and periodic mission qualification evaluations (INIT MSN/MSN) to
   determine the examinee’s knowledge in the required areas listed in AFI 14-2B-52, Volume 1,
   Chapter 2. This includes, but is not limited to: B-52 systems and capabilities, threat
   knowledge, personnel recovery (PR), force protection and B-52 unit intelligence procedures.
   Evaluations in each knowledge category will be based on the unit’s master question file
   (MQF). Examinees will take a separate visual recognition test. Research, Analysis and
   Dissemination (RAD) and Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE)
   involve knowledge intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the
   evaluation and will be evaluated as a subset of each applicable graded area, as indicated on
   individual gradesheets. Examinations will be recorded on the AF Form 4350 IAW AFI 14-
   202, Volume 2. Reference Table 2.1 for required knowledge examinations. (T-2)
   2.2.2. Task Evaluation. Units may use evaluation materials provided by MAJCOM/A2 or
   may assemble evaluation materials themselves using current intelligence, unit tasking and
   Area of Responsibility (AOR) scenarios that incorporate all appropriate evaluation
   requirements from Table 2.1. Evaluations during exercises or deployments are not
   prohibited; however, units should apply operational risk management principles to the
   scheduling of the evaluation. Note: Real-world contingencies may provide a unique
   opportunity to conduct an evaluation; however, factors beyond the control of the examinee
   and IE might preclude its successful completion, and therefore, determination of applicability
   will be left to the discretion of the Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO). The following
   guidelines are provided to assist in constructing evaluation materials: (T-2)
       2.2.2.1. Intelligence Briefings.      The examinee should assemble briefings from
       information provided by the IE; message traffic, intelligence reports and imagery. Other
       sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may also be used to fulfill this
       requirement. Evaluated briefings include: Mission planning cell (MPC) initial situation
       briefings, Feasibility and Capabilities (FEASCAP) briefing, pre-take off briefing,
       assumption of alert briefing, and step briefing.
       2.2.2.2. Mission Planning Cell Support. Scenario or actual contingency/exercise
       materials may be used for this purpose. The examinee should provide adequate mission
       materials tailored to the target and assigned/alternate munitions. The number of tasked
       targets in a weaponeering exercise should be of sufficient volume to be challenging and
       should allow the IE to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in developing weaponeering
 6                                                            AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


        solutions. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in
        planning, coordinating and conducting the entire mission package construction process.
        2.2.2.3. Mission Planning Process. Conduct mission planning observations during actual
        missions whenever possible. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s
        proficiency in the use of automated systems used to support the mission planning.
        Observe the trainee’s ability to plan, coordinate and provide intelligence support to the
        local mission planning process.
        2.2.2.4. Combat Mission Folder Construction/Targeting Process/Weaponeering.
        Scenario or actual contingency/exercise materials may be used for this purpose. The
        examinee should provide adequate mission materials tailored to the target and
        assigned/alternate munitions. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s
        proficiency in planning, coordinating and conducting the entire combat mission folder
        construction process. The number of tasked targets in the targeting and weaponeering
        exercises should be of sufficient volume to be challenging and should allow the IE to
        evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in conducting the entire targeting process and
        developing weaponeering solutions.
        2.2.2.5. Reporting. Construct mission reports (MISREPs) using information provided in
        aircrew debriefings. Complete MISREPs IAW MAJCOM/theater intelligence reporting
        directives.
2.3. External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) Evaluation. EIT evaluations will be conducted IAW
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, as supplemented. Only qualified EITs may conduct unsupervised
intelligence training for aircrews, Security Forces, or other key agencies outside the intelligence
flight. Upon completion of EIT training profiles, as outlined in AFI 14-2B-52, Volume 1, the
individual will be evaluated on the ability to present training in each applicable sub-category.
The individual must also demonstrate knowledge of the information presented by successful
completion of a test based on questions from the MQF (85 percent minimum score needed to
pass). Evaluators will give the examinee no less than 4 hours’ notice of the subject matter or
briefing topic for the evaluation. (T-2)
     2.3.1. The individual must complete the specific training identified for the event and be
     evaluated on the task or briefing element by an IE. Document the evaluation on the AF 4350
     and IAW AF/A2 guidance regarding on-line documentation. The individual must maintain
     currency for the subject matter IAW AFI 14-B-52, Volume 1, and must be reevaluated
     periodically, as described in this instruction. (T-2)
     2.3.2. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation.
     All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated. (T-2)
     2.3.3. An EIT receiving a grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area
     must not allowed to perform EIT duties unsupervised until additional training is
     accomplished. An EIT receiving a grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading
     area will result in an overall “Q-3” for the EIT evaluation. This restriction is placed in the
     Comments section and “yes” is marked in the Restrictions section of the AF Form 4350. (T-
     2)
     2.3.4. EITs will be graded using the criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                                  7


2.4. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
Volume 2, as supplemented. Upon completion of the IE specialized qualification profiles,
successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the SIO, individuals will be qualified to be IEs. (T-
2)
   2.4.1. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation.
   2.4.2. An IE receiving a grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area will
   receive an overall “Q-3” for the IE evaluation. The individual must not perform IE duties
   until additional training is complete. This restriction is placed in the Comments section and
   “yes” is marked in Restrictions on the AF Form 4350. (T-2)
   2.4.3. IEs will be graded using the criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
2.5. Nuclear Mission Support Evaluation: NMS evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-
202, Volume 2. (T-2)
   2.5.1. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation.
   Evaluations will be conducted as a matter of course or via periodic method to ensure
   proficiency.
   2.5.2. An individual required to support this mission receiving a grade of "U" in any graded
   area must not develop combat mission materials until additional training has been
   accomplished and the individual has been certified as "Q". (T-2)
   2.5.3. Grade NMS using criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
2.6. Targeting/Weaponeering Specialized Training (TWST) Evaluation. TWST evaluations
will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-2)
   2.6.1. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation.
   2.6.2. An individual required to support this mission receiving a grade of "U" in any graded
   area must not be permitted develop combat mission materials, mensurate points, or conduct
   weaponeering tasks until additional training has been accomplished and the individual has
   been certified as "Q". (T-2)
   2.6.3. Grade TWST using criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluation.
R = Required area of evaluation
INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
AREA TITLE                       INIT       MSN        EIT            IE    TWST       NMS
                               MSN

Knowledge Evaluation
                                  R           R
(MQF Test)
-- B-52 Systems Academics
-- Intelligence Support to the
 8                                                        AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


Nuclear Mission
-- AOR Threats
-- AOR Visual Recognition
-- Personnel Recovery
Academics
-- Intelligence Integration in
Force Protection
-- RAD and IPOE
-- Combat Mission Folder
Construction Academics
-- Targeting Process
Manual Order of Battle (OB)
Automated OB                       R           R
ATO/ACO/SPINS/JIPTL
                                   R           R
Breakout
MPC Initial Situation
Briefing/ Assumption of            R*         R*
Alert Briefing
FEASCAP Briefing                   R           R
Mission Planning Cell
Weaponeering                       R           R
Pre-Take Off Briefing              R           R
Step Briefing                      R           R
Debriefing                         R           R
Intelligence Reports               R           R
TWST 1 – MPC Materials                                                        R
TWST 2 – Point
                                                                              R
Mensuration
TWST 3 - Weaponeering                                                         R
Instructional Ability                                   R
Evaluator Ability                                                   R
Nuclear Mission Support                                                                  R
Note: Gradesheets task elements for each area are included in AFI14-2B-2, Volume 1,
Attachment 4. There is one Academics Gradesheet to record training and trainee performance
for all the knowledge events. For each area, mark the appropriate information and record the
training IAW AFI 14-2B-52, Volume 1. Passing criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85%
of answers correct.
* Either the MPC Initial Situation Briefing or Assumption of Alert Briefings may be
evaluated; both are not required.
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                                  9



                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Grading Standards.
   3.1.1. The grading criteria in this chapter are divided into two sections: General Grading
   Criteria and Specialized Training Grading Criteria. Use all sections for criteria applicable to
   the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
   3.1.2. If major areas are divided into sub-areas, assign only one grade to each overall major
   area. Annotate discrepancies in sub-areas on the back of the AF Form 4350. (T-2)
   3.1.3. Gradesheets in AFI 14-2B-52, Volume 1 used by the trainer to document completed
   training should be used to assist the IE in determining the overall qualification. (T-2)
3.2. General Grading Areas.

Table 3.1. General Grading Criteria.
KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
Q          Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in test based on MQF.
Q-         Not applicable
U          Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q          Correctly identified at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
Q-         Not applicable
U          Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
MANUAL OB
Q          Without the use of automated intelligence support systems and IAW Mil
           Standard 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual
           (FM) 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics, accurately plotted all threats/items
           within .5nm of center point of coordinates on a Tactical Pilotage Chart (TPC) or
           larger-scale chart, consistently used correct OB symbology, identified
           inconsistencies or errors in OB. Plotted to appropriate level of detail with regard
           to unit requirements. Accurately used of DD/MM/SS vs. DD/MM.mm.
           Accurately maintained OB to unit specifications, including classification and
           currency. Applied correct classification and security markings used on all
           products generated.
Q-         Plotted 95% of the OB within .5nm of center point of coordinates on a TPC (or
           larger-scale chart), and the remaining 5% within 1nm on a TPC (or larger-scale
           chart). Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little prompting.
U          Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify
           errors or inconsistencies in OB. Unable to complete tasks without significant
           supervision or intervention. Incorrectly classified materials or applied
           classification and security markings.
AUTOMATED OB
Q          Demonstrated proficiency in using applicable intelligence support systems to
 10                                                     AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


          maintain OB, including “current as-of” times and classification. Able to input
          OB manually with zero typographical errors. Successfully downloaded, printed,
          exported and displayed data. Able to manipulate data, display threat rings and
          perform terrain-masking analysis. Correctly converted geographic coordinates
          and Military Grid Reference System. Able to utilize applicable tools to aid in
          mission planning. Applied correct classification and security markings used on
          all products generated.
Q-        Required some assistance, but no impact on mission success.
U         Required significant assistance. Lacked proficiency in operating intelligence
          support systems to the detriment of mission performance. Incorrectly classified
          materials or applied classification and security markings.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q         Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas.
          Demonstrated clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass on to
          next shift. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated
          understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting
          analysis. Quickly identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to
          appropriate audience. Correctly annotated message traffic log, identified
          significant events and issued threat update codes (TUCs). Applied correct
          classification and security markings on all products generated.
Q-        Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover and was able to recover
          with prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances
          (e.g. relocation, attacks, etc.) vs. poor planning.
U         Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist
          usage. Displayed deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability to
          recover, even with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next shift.
          Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information to proper
          audience. Poor understanding of limitations of unit assets and/or the impact
          information might have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrectly
          classified materials or applied classification and security markings.
DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q         Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist or
          local procedures. Tailored, relevant content. Easily understood by audience.
          Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience. Hit key
          points, including synopsis of military and political situation that generated the
          deployment, and enemy activity and force disposition in AOR and along
          deployment route. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had
          potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and
          sources. Showed ability to discern irrelevant information. Demonstrated
          understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting
          analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Applied correct classification and security
          markings on all products generated.
Q-        Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission.
          Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U         Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key
          areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                             11


             Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor
             understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact
             information might have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrectly
             classified materials or applied classification and security markings.
INITIAL SITUATION/SITUATION BRIEFING
Q            Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical
             sequence. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well
             tailored analysis relevant to audience. Effective use of visual aids. Concise, yet
             thorough, delivery. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had
             potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and
             sources. Showed ability to discern irrelevant information. Demonstrated
             understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting
             analysis. Quickly identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to
             appropriate audience. Fielded questions correctly. Applied correct classification
             and security markings on all products generated.
Q-           Briefing poorly organized, hard to follow, somewhat redundant, but no impact
             on mission. Able to recover when prompted.
U            Failed to use checklist. Briefing very confusing, major omissions that would
             hamper audience understanding of the situation. Unable to recover. Major
             mission impact. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic
             research. Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information to
             proper audience. Poor understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets
             and/or the impact information might have on the mission. Fabricated
             information. Incorrectly classified materials or applied classification and
             security markings.
ATO/ACO/SPINS/JIPTL BREAKOUT
Q            Demonstrated ability to access correct ATO/ACO/SPINS/JPITL and any
             changes. Correctly extracted mission tasking, airspace control measures and
             other information relevant to unit or tasking. Applied correct classification and
             security markings on all products generated.
Q-           Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
             mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U            Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have jeopardized
             mission planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention.
             Incorrectly classified materials or applied classification and security markings.
MPC INITIAL SITUATION BRIEFING (I.E. FRAG DROP)
Q            Sufficiently prepared, researched and delivered a briefing to operations and
             intelligence personnel that covered appropriate and necessary items. Items
             include, but are not limited to the following: Tactical scenario, fragged assets,
             Commander intent, target significance, tasked weapons, environmental
             considerations, threat considerations and recommended route. Clearly
             articulated and communicated key briefing items to the audience.
Q-           Committed errors in developing briefing materials. Marginally covered key
             threat and other intelligence data. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal
             assistance.
U            Errors, omissions or delays in developing and disseminating the briefing.
 12                                                        AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


            Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention. Incorrectly
            classified materials or applied classification and security markings. Failed to
            clearly articulate and/or disseminate key threat information.
FEASCAP BRIEFING
Q           Relayed appropriate target, weaponeering and threat information to audience.
            Clearly organized and professionally delivered, with appropriate visual aids and
            mission materials. Concise yet thorough. Clear understanding of target and
            primary threats. Applied correct classification and security markings on all
            products generated.
Q-          Briefing could be better prepared or organized. Some difficulty with use of
            mission materials.
U           Failed to use checklist. Organization or lack of preparation seriously impacted
            audience understanding of the briefing. Poor understanding of the requirements
            or lack of adequate mission materials delayed mission planning timeline. Major
            omissions of information critical to the planning cycle. Incorrectly classified
            materials or applied classification and security markings.
MISSION PLANNING CELL SUPPORT
Q           Demonstrated clear understanding and proper use of mission planning materials.
            Chose scales and views appropriate for mission. Knew proper channels for
            requesting information or materials. Accurate portrayal of target, terminal area
            threats and hazards as well as ingress and egress factors to consider. Provided
            all mission materials in correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials neat
            and well organized. Considered all factors that could impact successful mission
            accomplishment. Provided thorough terrain analysis with respect to threats,
            route and target area. Applied correct classification and security markings on all
            products generated.
Q-          Errors or minor omissions in mission materials which would not preclude
            mission accomplishment. Minor problems in organizing mission materials and
            identifying and ordering requirements. Corrected when prompted.
U           Major omissions or errors which would have impacted mission. Poor
            understanding of mission requirements or sources for mission materials. Chose
            incorrect scales or views for target. Incorrectly plotted target or threats. Did not
            know how to request information or target materials. Incorrectly classified
            materials or applied classification and security markings.
WEAPONEERING
Q           Developed/chose correct weaponeering solutions. Successfully employed most
            current Joint Munitions Effectiveness Manuals software/tools. Appropriately
            referenced Joint Munitions Effects Manual (JMEM) data sources. Applied
            correct classification and security markings on all products generated.
Q-          Deficiencies in depth of knowledge and comprehension of weaponeering
            procedures. Did not adversely affect overall task accomplishment.
U           Did not understand how to use weaponeering reference materials/tools. Chose
            incorrect weaponeering solution. Incorrectly classified materials or applied
            classification and security markings.
PRE-TAKE OFF BRIEFING
Q           Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                              13


            sequence. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level
            of detail, covered all applicable items: takeoff, ingress, target area, egress, and
            appropriate PR considerations. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in
            information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of
            research methods and sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant
            information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit
            assets when conducting analysis. Correctly annotated message traffic log,
            identified significant events and issued TUCs. Applied correct classification and
            security markings on all products generated. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-          Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered.
            Minor omissions or errors but was able to recover with minor prompting.
U           Failed to use checklist. Very confusing or redundant. Major gaps in
            information, unable to recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical
            ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Fabricated information.
            Demonstrated lack of understanding of B-52 mission capabilities. Incorrectly
            classified materials or applied classification and security markings.
ASSUMPTION OF ALERT BRIEFING
Q           Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical
            sequence. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level
            of detail, covered all applicable items. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in
            information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of
            research methods and sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant
            information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit
            assets when conducting analysis. Correctly annotated message traffic log,
            identified significant events and issued TUCs. Applied correct classification and
            security markings on all products generated. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-          Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered.
            Minor omissions or errors but was able to recover with minor prompting.
U           Failed to use checklist. Very confusing or redundant. Major gaps in
            information, unable to recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical
            ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Fabricated information.
            Demonstrated lack of understanding of B-52 mission capabilities. Incorrectly
            classified materials or applied classification and security markings.
STEP BRIEFING
Q           Well organized and concise; presented relevant facts in timely fashion.
            Appropriate for the particular mission. Highlighted changes and updates since
            mission briefing. Applied correct classification and security markings on all
            products generated.
Q-          Made updates with prompting - not proactive. Omissions would not have
            affected mission effectiveness.
U           Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information.
            Demonstrated lack of understanding of B-52 mission capabilities. Incorrectly
            classified materials or applied classification and security markings.
DEBRIEFING
Q           Thoroughly prepared and was able to extract pertinent mission results in timely
            manner. Quickly identified perishable information. Controlled the debrief,
 14                                                      AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


           asked amplifying questions, and recognized irrelevant information. Collected all
           significant intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish reporting
           requirements IAW theater directives. Applied correct classification and security
           markings on all products generated.
Q-         Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some amplifying questions
           that would have enhanced detail of information gathered.
U          Failed to use checklist. Not prepared. Disjointed flow. Failed to identify
           perishable information. Completely missed a debrief. Not enough detail to
           accomplish reporting requirements. Incorrect classification.
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
Q          Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent
           information available with minimal to no extraneous information. Properly
           formatted. Met reporting timelines. Correctly annotated message traffic log,
           identified significant events and issued TUCs. Applied correct classification and
           security markings on all products generated.
Q-         Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
           extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or
           formatting, but pertinent information was included.
U          Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills confused meaning of information
           or omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the
           correct users through appropriate channels). Incorrectly classified materials or
           applied classification and security markings.
3.3. Specialized Training Grading Criteria. The following grading criteria apply to duty
positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications (e.g., External Intelligence
Trainer, Intelligence Evaluator, and Targeting/Weaponeering Specialized Training).

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation Grading Criteria.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY
Q          Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and
           made timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives. Effectively fielded
           and accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated subject matter
           knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference
           materials. Applied correct classification and security markings on all products
           generated.
Q-         Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures,
           requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or
           organization of instruction. Did not adversely affect training.
U          Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
           training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training.
           Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of
           knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness.
           Incorrectly classified materials or applied classification and security markings.
VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q           Correctly identified at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
Q-          Not applicable
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                                      15


U               Fails to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.

Table 3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Grading Criteria.
EVALUATOR ABILITY
Q         Efficiently and effectively leads and manages training presentations and
          discussions in order to meet training objectives. Demonstrated ability to evaluate
          effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and made timely decisions,
          incorporated all objectives. Completed appropriate evaluation records accurately.
          Adequately assessed and recorded performance. Comments were clear and
          pertinent. Applied correct classification and security markings on all products
          generated.
Q-        Minor problems in managing training presentation and discussions in order to
          meet training objectives. Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of
          unit procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in
          communicating or organization of evaluation. Did not adversely affect the
          evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in evaluation records. Comments were
          incomplete or slightly unclear.
U         Inability to lead and/or manage training presentations and discussions. Training
          objectives not met. Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to
          the examinee. Did not plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions
          that adversely affected the evaluation process. Unfamiliar with procedures,
          requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
          detracted from evaluator effectiveness. Did not complete required forms or
          records. Comments were invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document
          performance. Incorrectly classified materials or applied classification and
          security markings.

Table 3.4. Nuclear Mission Support Evaluation Grading Criteria.
Q               Successfully received, collated, and developed requisite mission materials to
                support a representative B-52 nuclear mission. Provided thorough and timely
                support to operations personnel in developing, quality-controlling, and
                disseminating mission materials to local aircrews and planners. Flawlessly
                followed and adhered to security requirements and handling procedures.
                Judiciously followed checklists and procedures. Applied correct classification
                and security markings on all products generated.
Q-              Deficiencies in quality of mission materials. Minor problems in developing
                mission materials and following security and operations requirements. Mission
                materials not developed in a timely fashion.
U               Failed to use checklist. Failed to produce quality mission materials. Failed to
                meet mission material production timelines. Failed to meet security and
                handling requirements. Incorrectly classified materials or applied classification
                and security markings.

Table 3.5. Targeting/Weaponeering Specialized Training Grading Criteria.
MISSION PLANNING CELL MATERIALS (TWST-1)
 16                                                       AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


Q          Successfully and accurately analyzed (i.e. "broke out") ATO/ACO/SPINS.
           Successfully plotted a representative number of targets or other points to
           command standards for tolerance/error. Obtained in a timely fashion appropriate
           target materials for a representative mission. Provided timely and appropriate
           support to operations planning personnel.
Q-         Deficiencies in quality of mission materials. Minor problems in developing
           mission materials and following security and operations requirements. Mission
           materials not developed in a timely fashion.
U          Failed to produce quality mission materials. Failed to correctly analyze tasking
           documents (i.e. ATO/ACO). Failed to meet mission material production
           timelines. Failed to meet security and handling requirements. Incorrectly
           classified materials or applied classification and security markings.
POINT MENSURATION (TWST-2)
Q          Correctly and accurately received and validated and mensurated geographic
           points to support a representative mission. Successfully rendered mensurated
           points within command or national or theater standards. Explained the nature of
           point mensuration certification and the differences between local and National
           Geospatial Intelligence Agency certification.
Q-         Not Applicable
U          Failed to render/produce a representative number of mensurated points within
           local/national/theater standards/tolerance errors. Incorrectly classified materials
           or applied classification and security markings.
WEAPONEERING (TWST-3)
Q          Correctly and accurately developed weaponeering solutions. Upon receipt of
           tasking of a representative mission, developed weaponeering solutions for
           gravity (unguided), cluster and precision-guided munitions. Effectively
           employed and used JMEM software, developing accurate weaponeering
           recommendations. Solution/answers (i.e. probability of damage, other factors)
           are similar to those of highly trained personnel to within a degree of latitude of
           .05 percentage points of error. Accurately explained the basis for answers
           provided and inputs used in developing the answers.
Q-         Not Applicable
U          Failed to render/produce accurate weaponeering solutions. Unable to explain
           inputs used in weaponeering solutions and/or basis for inputs of the problems.
           Incorrect classification.




                                           LARRY D. JAMES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance
                                           and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                         17


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection, 15 August 2007
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2B-52, Volume 1, B-52 Unit Intelligence Training, 24 February 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
US Army Field Manual, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer
FEASCAP—Feasibility and Capabilities
FRAG—Fragmentary
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT—Initial (Evaluation)
 18                                                    AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


INIT MSN—Initial Mission
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
JIPTL—Joint Integrated Prioritized Target List
JMEM—Joint Munitions Effects Manual
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MISREP—Mission Report
MPC—Mission Planning Cell
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
NMS—Nuclear Mission Support
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OGI—Operations Group Intelligence
POL—Political
PR—Personnel Recovery
QUAL—Qualification (Evaluation)
Q—Qualified
QT—Qualification Training
RAD—Research, Analysis, and Dissemination
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TWST—Targeting/Weaponeering Specialized Training
TPC—Tactical Pilotage Chart
TUC—Threat Update Code

Terms
Additional Training—Any training recommended to remedy deficiencies identified during an
evaluation that must be completed by the due date. This training may include self-study,
instruction, computer-based training or supervised tasks. Additional training must include
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                                  19


demonstration of satisfactory knowledge or proficiency to an IE, supervisor or trainer to qualify
as completed.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain the training frequency of
those in CMR status. Personnel must be able to attain CMR currency status within 30 days, or as
otherwise specified in the applicable AFI 14-2MDSv1.
Certification—Procedure used to document competency in a particular task.                      Not
interchangeable with “qualification,” which requires AF Form 4350 documentation.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed IQT/MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks and
knowledge required by their respective AFI 14-2MDS, Volume 1.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements are intended to ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of
proficiency in a given event.
External Intelligence Trainer (EIT)—Current and qualified (BMC or CMR) intelligence
personnel who have completed the EIT Specialized Training and maintain currency as an EIT.
Only EITs may conduct unsupervised intelligence training for aircrew.
External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains external
intelligence trainer qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member as an external intelligence trainer (i.e., INIT EIT and RQ EIT)
as directed in AFI 14-2MDS, Volume 1. The designator for the external intelligence trainer
evaluation is “EIT” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
External Intelligence Training—Intelligence training given by intelligence personnel to
aircrew or other non-intelligence AFSC personnel.
Initial Evaluation—The first evaluation of any type for a duty position (e.g., INIT MSN, INIT
EIT).
Initial Qualification Training (IQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel for
basic duties in an assigned position for a specific MDS, weapons system, intelligence
organization, function or activity, without regard for a unit's specific mission.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE)—Current and qualified (BMC or CMR) intelligence personnel who
have completed the IE Specialized Training. Only IEs may conduct intelligence qualification
(mission or specialized) evaluations (initial or periodic).
Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains IE
qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an
intelligence member as an IE (i.e., INIT IE and RQ IE) as directed in this volume. The
designator for the IE evaluation is “IE” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Intelligence Qualification Trainer—Intelligence personnel designated by the SIO to conduct
qualification training for other intelligence personnel. Intelligence Qualification Trainers must
meet requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202 Volume 1.
Internal Intelligence Training Program (IITP)—The internal intelligence training program is
a unit-developed and maintained program. It is intended to facilitate all personnel in maintaining
 20                                                          AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012


their qualifications and currencies. This volume provides a basic starting point for B-52
intelligence units and may be modified by the SIO based on the unit’s requirements.
Internal Training Program Manager—The Internal Training Program Manager is appointed
by the SIO to oversee the execution of the Internal Training Program.
Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN)—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
qualification (CMR or BMC) of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member (i.e., INIT MSN, RQ MSN). The mission qualification
evaluation is administered to ensure the individual’s ability to support full mission planning and
employment in accomplishing the unit’s operational mission. The designator for the mission
qualification evaluation is “MSN” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel to
perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. AFI 14-2B-52, Volume 1, prescribes
minimum MQT requirements.
Proficiency—The quality of having competence and a command of the fundamentals derived
from practice and familiarity. A measure of how well a task is completed. An individual is
considered proficient when he/she can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed,
accuracy, and safety.
Qualification Evaluation (QUAL)—An evaluation that determines the examinee's suitability
for being awarded the Basic Qualification designation. The QUAL is administered to ensure
basic qualification in support to the MDS, weapons system, organization, function or activity,
and duty position of the intelligence professional. The designator for the qualification evaluation
is “QUAL” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP)—Task requirements that apply to BMC and CMR
intelligence personnel. The RIP outlines minimum CT requirements and is designed to focus
training on capabilities needed to accomplish the B-52 unit’s core tasked missions. The RIP
establishes the minimum number of task requirements per training cycle for BMC and CMR
qualified personnel. All intelligence personnel filling duty positions that are designated BMC or
CMR will accomplish these requirements.
Recheck—A subsequent evaluation used to remedy a failed evaluation.
Requalification Evaluation—An evaluation administered to remedy a loss of qualification due
to expiration of a required periodic evaluation, loss of currency exceeding 6 months (as specified
in applicable AFI14-2XXv2) or a recheck following a failed evaluation.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)—The SIO is the highest-ranking Air Force officer holding
the 14N3 or 14N4 Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) or Series 0132 Civilian serving in an Air
Force intelligence position. The SIO's authority extends to all directly subordinate units.
Installations with intelligence activities in different chains of command will have separate SIOs.
In this capacity, the SIO provides senior guidance on all policy development, interpretations, and
applications. Further, the SIO serves as the chief advisor and mentor for AF intelligence
officers, enlisted and civilians (as appropriate) in terms of career development and progress.
Specialized Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
specialized qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
AFI14-2B-52V2 24 February 2012                                                              21


requalify an intelligence member for a particular skill or duty position. Specific types of
specialized qualification evaluations will be identified in AFI 14-2MDS, Volume 1.
Specialized Training—Training in any skills necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions
but is not required for every intelligence unit member. Specialized Training is accomplished
after Mission Qualification Training and after the member has attained CMR or BMC status, and
is in addition to CMR or BMC requirements.
Supervised Status—The status of a member who must operate under the supervision of either
an instructor or a designated supervisor (as specified in the applicable AFI14-2MDSv2 qualified
in that specific position). The evaluator determines when supervision is required. The type of
supervisor, i.e., instructor or designated supervisor, is as specified in the applicable AFI14-
2MDSv2, or as determined by the SIO.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA commander level.
