BY ORDER OF THE                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-202 VOLUME 1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              10 MARCH 2008
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 17 September 2012
                                                                                        AFISRA
                                                                                      Supplement
                                                                                  17 APRIL 2013

                                                                                      Intelligence

                                                                   INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A2FM                                                                Certified by: AF/A2F
                                                                            (Mr. Neil R. Greene)
Supersedes:    AFI14-202, 28 March 1994                                                 Pages: 31
                                           (AFISRA)
OPR: AFISRA/A3T                                                         Certified by: AFISRA/A3
                                                                        (Colonel Kevin B. Glenn)
                                                                                         Pages:15


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures. It establishes the Air Force Intelligence Personnel Training (IPT) Program and is
applicable to all Air Force active, Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve officer,
enlisted, and civilian intelligence personnel assigned to Air Force intelligence functions and
activities. As part of the IPT Program, this instruction establishes Initial Qualification Training
(IQT), Mission Qualification Training (MQT), Specialized Training, and Continuation Training
(CT) requirements for intelligence personnel to support Air Force objectives. AFI 14-202,
Volume 1, Intelligence Training, does not apply to personnel currently on flying status.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. The WICC-TDS record-keeping system referenced in this
instruction holds System-of-Record Notice (SORN) number F014 AF/A2FM A, WICC-TDS.
Restrictions expressed in an instruction can be made more, but not less, restrictive by
supplement. The provisions of higher-level publications take precedence over lower-level
 2                                                                    AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


publications. This policy document supports all Air Force Intelligence Training Transformation
(IT2) efforts as mandated by DoD and other national policy directives.

(AFISRA) AFI 14-202 Volume 1, 10 March 2008 is supplemented as follows. This
supplement provides information and instructions for the Air Force (AF) Intelligence
Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) Agency (AFISRA) intelligence training programs. This
supplement applies to all AFISRA subordinate organizations. This supplement does not apply to
Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. The term Major
Command (MAJCOM), used throughout this supplement refers to AFISRA for AFISRA units.
This supplement also applies to members of other commands, Direct Reporting Units (DRU),
and Field Operating Agencies (FOA) (assigned and attached) when performing intelligence
duties in or on AFISRA weapon systems, functions or activities and under AFISRA oversight.
The Privacy Act of 1974 affects this supplement. This publication may be supplemented at any
level, but all direct supplements must be routed through the OPR prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Maintain records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting
records managers as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements new guidelines that clarify terms and concepts for intelligence
training, clarify requirements/procedures to document training, clarify procedures to perform
training without a 14-2 MDS, describe training programs in Multi-MDS wings and describe
procedures to deal with personnel with previous qualifications in the same MDS. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

       1.       ...............................................................................................................................    3
       2.     Initial Qualification Training (IQT). ......................................................................                         9
       3.       ...............................................................................................................................    9
       4.       ...............................................................................................................................   11
Table 1.      Proration Allowance. .............................................................................................                  13
       5.     Specialized Training. .............................................................................................                 14
       6.     Multiple Qualifications at a Multi-MDS Location. ...............................................                                    14
       7.     DELETED. ............................................................................................................               14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                    15

Attachment 2—INTELLIGENCE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                   21
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                             3


Attachment 3—QUALIFICATION TRAINING FLOW OF EVENTS                                               23

Attachment 4—(Added-AFISRA) AFISRA TRAINING OFFICE OF PRIMARY
             RESPONSIBILITY (OPR)                                                                24

Attachment 5—(Added-AFISRA) AFISRA FORM 402, INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL
             CERTIFICATIONS                                                                      25

Attachment 6—(Added-AFISRA) AFISRA FORM 402, INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL
             CERTIFICATIONS EXAMPLE                                                              28

Attachment 7—(Added-AFISRA) AFISRA FORM 403, CERTIFICATION OF
             INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL TRAINING                                                     29

Attachment 8—(Added-AFISRA) AFISRA FORM 403, CERTIFICATION OF
             INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL TRAINING EXAMPLE                                             31


1. General. This instruction prescribes basic policy and guidance for training intelligence
personnel according to AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures. This instruction takes
precedence over mission design series (MDS), weapons system, intelligence function or activity-
specific instructions. Unique, customized, and/or specialized training programs are defined in
AFI 14-2 MDS, weapons system, intelligence functional, activity-specific, Volume 1,
Intelligence Training, instructions.
   1.1. Program Goals. The Intelligence Personnel Training (IPT) Program ensures all
   personnel conducting intelligence duties in an intelligence function or activity attain and
   maintain the qualifications and currencies needed to support their unit's mission effectively.
   There are several levels of training required for development of the intelligence and military
   skills to prepare intelligence personnel to complete their assigned mission. Attachment 3
   illustrates the flow of events for initial qualification and mission qualification training which
   will be explained in this instruction.
   1.2. Waiver Authority. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, the AF CFM is the
   waiver authority for training issues as related to this instruction. Submit waiver requests to
   the basic guidance in this instruction through applicable training channels to MAJCOM/A2
   or designated level. MAJCOM/A2s will forward requests in message or memo format to AF
   CFM. Waivers to supplemental guidance will be handled by the MAJCOM agency that
   generated the supplement.
   1.2. (AFISRA) The AFISRA Directorate of Operations (A3) is the MAJCOM/A2
   equivalent level for the purpose of this supplement. Waivers to the basic instruction will be
   routed through applicable training channels to AFISRA/A3 for forwarding to the AF Career
   Field Manager (CFM). AFISRA/A3 is the waiver authority for this supplement. Waivers to
   this supplement will be requested through applicable training channels to AFISRA/A3T.
       1.2.1. (Added-AFISRA) This document assigns responsibilities, establishes policies,
       and directs action for AFISRA units not covered by other organizations’ training
       instructions/guidance, and training qualifications/certifications.
4                                              AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


       1.2.2. (Added-AFISRA) The AFISRA/A3T will coordinate mission-specific training
       required by Combat Support Agency (CSA) for specific mission areas. This coordination
       will be conducted with the knowledge of the appropriate AFISRA representative staff
       office at the CSA to ensure a coordinated Air Force position and demand signal.
       1.2.3. (Added-AFISRA) AFISRA/A3T will review subordinate unit supplements to
       training procedures and this supplement and will provide feedback as required.
    1.3. Responsibilities:
    1.3. (AFISRA) Commanders of units without published AFI 14-2 (Mission Design Series
    [MDS]) volumes will supplement this publication and implement certification and/or
    qualification processes for Intelligence Personnel IAW 14-202 volume guidance.
       1.3.1. AF/A2:
           1.3.1.1. Sets policy for conducting and executing IPT programs to include oversight
           of the Intelligence Formal Training Units (IFTU) and Formal Training Units (FTU),
           as applicable.
           1.3.1.2. Delegates office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this instruction to
           AF/A2F.
           1.3.1.3. Monitors and reviews MAJCOM Mission Design Series (MDS), weapons
           systems, intelligence functional, activity-specific IPT programs, ensuring
           MAJCOM/A2 policies, guidance and instruction supplements are consistent with this
           directive.
       1.3.2. MAJCOM/A2s. MAJCOM/A2s are responsible for the overall management of the
       command's intelligence training program. The Air National Guard (ANG) is considered a
       MAJCOM for the purpose of this instruction.
       1.3.2. (AFISRA) For the purpose of this supplement, all ISR activities are considered
       operations for AFISRA and its subordinate intelligence units. For the purposes of this
       supplement, AFISRA/A3 is MAJCOM/A2 equivalent responsible for the Intelligence
       Personnel Training (IPT) Program and AFISRA/A3T has overall responsibility for
       implementing the AFISRA IPT Program. The AFISRA Training OPR for each MDS,
       weapons system, intelligence function and activity is identified in the specific AFI 14-
       2(MDS). Attachment 2 identifies the AFISRA training OPRs for weapon systems,
       intelligence functions, or specific activities that do not have a specific AFI 14-2(MDS)
       volume.
           1.3.2.1. Theater Indoctrination Training. Ensure the Numbered Air Force (NAF)/Air
           Force Forces (AFFOR A-2) or equivalent unit develops and provides theater
           indoctrination training as needed for their AOR to ensure intelligence personnel are
           trained on unique theater requirements. As a minimum, this training will include a
           thorough review of specific theater requirements and procedures, theater threat status
           and weapon systems, reporting instructions, connectivity requirements, host nation
           agreements and applicable OPLANs/CONPLANs.
           1.3.2.1. (AFISRA) Theater indoctrination training may be in the form of a target
           country, area or route certification IAW the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS). For AFISRA
           intelligence personnel who are not governed by a specific AFI 14-2(MDS), target
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                        5


        country, area or route certifications will be developed as directed by the unit
        Commanders, and submitted for review to the applicable AFISRA training OPR.
        Theater indoctrination training will consist of the following sections:
           1.3.2.1.1. (Added-AFISRA) General Mission Area Overview to include:
           history, geography, prominent threat indicators, and threat assessment.
           1.3.2.1.2. (Added-AFISRA) Target Country Overview to include: description,
           culture, activities, organization, and maps of area.
           1.3.2.1.3. (Added-AFISRA) Target Military Overview to include: strategic and
           overall tactical objectives, command and control, order of battle, and Nuclear,
           Biological and Chemical (NBC) capability.
           1.3.2.1.4. (Added-AFISRA) Target Communication Overview to include:
           equipment, networks, cover terms and cover names.
        1.3.2.2. Lead MAJCOM. AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, establishes
        a lead MAJCOM and user commands for each MDS, weapons system, intelligence
        function and activity. When a lead MAJCOM is not identified, then AF/A2 will
        designate the lead MAJCOM.
           1.3.2.2.1. AFI 14-2 MDS, weapons system, intelligence function, activity -
           specific, Volume 1, Intelligence Training (Referred to as AFI 14-2(MDS)v1
           throughout the remainder of this instruction). The lead MAJCOM, in coordination
           with user commands, will develop and manage the appropriate AFI 14-2(MDS)v1
           to standardize intelligence training requirements, regardless of mission
           designation and command of assignment. AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 may be more but not
           less restrictive than this instruction. Unresolved differences between lead and user
           commands will be elevated to AF/A2F for final resolution.
           1.3.2.2.2. AFI 14-2(MDS)v1-Specific Training Conference. Lead commands will
           host MDS, weapons system, intelligence function, activity-specific training
           conferences every other year, or more frequently if required, in the form of an
           Intelligence Realistic Training Review Board (IRTRB). The training conference
           will review all training programs for currency, applicability, compliance and
           effectiveness, and address issues in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. Attendees should include
           training representatives from user commands, formal schools, training and
           standardization offices (as applicable), and select unit representatives. When
           possible, MAJCOMs should schedule IRTRBs in conjunction with other events to
           minimize travel costs.
           1.3.2.2.2. (AFISRA) AFISRA/A3T, in conjunction with the training OPR, will
           facilitate a Training Planning Team (TPT), Training Advisory Group (TAG), or
           training conference annually for any AFISRA MDS, weapon system, intelligence
           function, or specific activity with an associated AFI 14-2(MDS)V1 which
           AFISRA is the OPR. The TPT, TAG, or training conference will review training
           programs for currency, applicability, compliance and effectiveness and will
           address training issues in AFI 14-2(MDS)V1, and fulfill the function of the
           Intelligence Realistic Training Review Board (IRTRB). Training conferences for,
           intelligence function, or specific activity not governed by an AFI 14-2(MDS) will
6                                    AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


    be conducted as directed by the AFISRA training OPR.
    1.3.2.2.3. Program Guidance Letters (PGL) will follow guidance provided in AFI
    36-2201 Volume 2.
    1.3.2.2.4. Master Question File (MQF) and Training Materials. The lead
    MAJCOM/A2 will develop and maintain the MQFs for the MDS, weapons
    system, intelligence functions and activities for which they are designated lead
    MAJCOM IAW AFPD 14-2. Likewise, the lead MAJCOM/A2 will develop and
    maintain standardized training materials to be used in qualification training. The
    MAJCOM MQF is the baseline. Units may augment the MQF with their unit
    specific questions.
    1.3.2.2.4. (AFISRA) IAW       AFI     14-202     Volume         2,     Intelligence
    Standardization/Evaluation Program, the AFISRA Stan/Eval section will manage
    Master Question Files (MQF) for positions requiring qualification training. The
    AFISRA training OPR will review test banks for certification training.
       1.3.2.2.4.1. (Added-AFISRA) Test Banks. AFISRA training OPR will
       ensure mission specific certification tests are available for use and distribution
       to applicable intelligence personnel.
         1.3.2.2.4.1.1. (Added-AFISRA) Test bank development may be delegated
         to specific subordinate units to create certification test banks for MDS,
         weapon systems, or intelligence functions and activities.            Those
         organizations will submit the test banks to AFISRA/A3T or training OPR
         for dissemination. AFISRA/A3T retains oversight responsibility of all
         published test banks.
         1.3.2.2.4.1.2. (Added-AFISRA) Units will forward any required test bank
         changes to AFISRA training OPR as necessary. AFISRA training OPR will
         review test banks annually and distribute changes to the test banks.
             1.3.2.2.4.1.2.1. (Added-AFISRA) Units may edit test bank questions
             to accommodate local testing procedures, classification limitations,
             administrative errors or recent changes to systems and/or operational
             procedures; however, the subject matter of individual questions may not
             be altered.
         1.3.2.2.4.1.3. (Added-AFISRA) Local Procedures Certification Test
         Banks. Units may develop and distribute local procedures test questions to
         augment Higher Headquarters (HHQ) certification test banks. Units may
         develop local certification test banks for intelligence activities that do not
         have an AFISRA master test bank.
    1.3.2.2.5. (Added-AFISRA) To ensure standardization, AFISRA training OPR
    will retain oversight responsibility of training materials, but may delegate their
    actual review and update to lower echelons. Completed training materials will be
    returned to AFISRA training OPR in a standardized format (.txt, .xml, or as
    required by HHQ). Training materials will be maintained by AFISRA training
    OPR.
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                         7


        1.3.2.3. Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU)/Formal Training Unit (FTU). The
        lead MAJCOM for training is the command tasked with providing formal training
        (HQ AETC or lead MAJCOM, as applicable). The lead MAJCOM for training is
        responsible for execution of the IFTU/FTU program to include ensuring adequate
        resourcing and funding for sustainment of existing IFTUs/FTUs, excluding TDY-to-
        school costs. The using MAJCOM which requests stand-up of a new IFTU/FTU or
        increases the requirements of an existing course will also be responsible for
        identifying and providing all funding related to start-up costs unless already funded as
        part of a weapons system package.
        1.3.2.4. Formal School Courses. The lead MAJCOM for training and user
        MAJCOMs will coordinate formal school courses and syllabi to ensure training
        requirements of user MAJCOMs are met. Coordination will be conducted IAW AFI
        36-2201 Volume 5 procedures. These courses and syllabi should be developed to
        support the Air Force Mission Essential Task List. Send proposals for amending
        existing course prerequisites and syllabi or deleting obsolete courses through the
        appropriate headquarters to the lead MAJCOM for training for approval. The lead
        MAJCOM for training will process the approved changes in coordination with the Air
        Force Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA) OPR. Access the
        ETCA website at https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
        1.3.2.5. Formal Course Review (FCR). Training commands will convene FCRs
        annually or more frequently if required. The FCR reviews formal training programs
        and syllabi for currency, applicability, compliance and effectiveness. Attendees
        should include training representatives from user commands, curriculum developers,
        formal schools, training and standardization offices (as applicable), and selected unit
        representatives. When possible, schedule FCRs in conjunction with an IRTRB to
        minimize travel cost and maximize participation.
        1.3.2.6. MAJCOMs providing intelligence related training will, within their
        intelligence courses, establish student progress review procedures and outline
        processes to address student elimination when students fail to progress.
     1.3.3. Unit Senior Intelligence Officers (SIOs). SIOs, supervisors or their designated
     representatives will ensure individuals receive training to successfully support the unit's
     mission and maintain individual proficiency. The SIO is the oversight authority in
     determining when qualification for intelligence service is subject to review due to an
     individual’s questionable duty performance. Questionable duty performance includes, but
     is not limited to, lack of proficiency in intelligence duties, failure to meet stan/eval
     criteria, failure to meet currency requirements, lack of progress or lack of judgment.
        1.3.3.1. For units who do not have a published AFI 14-2(MDS) vol 1-3 series, the
        SIO will ensure there is local written guidance that directs the local qualification
        training program in accordance with AFI 14-202 Vols 1-3. The SIO will use
        MAJCOM provided guidance and instruction to develop a local qualification training
        program. The local guidance will cover qualification training, the standardization and
        evaluation program to validate training and general intelligence procedures.”
     1.3.4. Intelligence Personnel. Intelligence personnel are responsible for monitoring and
     completing all training requirements.
8                                               AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


    1.4. Qualification Training Time Limitations. Intelligence personnel entered in an in-unit
    qualification training program, with the exception of upgrade training, should be dedicated to
    that program; i.e., training requirements have priority over non-training related duties.
    Training time limitations for qualification training completion are contained in applicable
    AFI 14-2(MDS)v1s. In-unit training will begin no later than 45 days (90 days for AFRC and
    ANG) after reporting to a new duty station or unit, unless waived by the MAJCOM/A2.
       1.4.1. Every effort must be made to afford the trainee an opportunity to complete
       qualification training with as few competing commitments as possible.
       1.4.2. First term airmen are encouraged to complete the First Term Airman Course
       (FTAC) or equivalent at their gaining unit prior to beginning in-unit qualification
       training.
    1.5. Trainer Requirements. The unit SIO will designate in writing those intelligence
    personnel certified to conduct qualification training (IQT/MQT/Specialized Training) for
    intelligence personnel. Trainers should be selected based upon their qualifications, currency,
    and areas of expertise. The SIO will ensure trainers are qualified in areas on which they
    provide instruction prior to conducting training. Trainer qualification will be in accordance
    with AFI 36-2201 Volume 3 and AFI 14-2(MDS)v1, as applicable.
    1.6. Recurrency Training. Reference applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 for duty position specific
    currency requirements.
       1.6.1. Loss of Currency up to 6 Months. Intelligence personnel (and non-intelligence
       personnel assigned to intelligence functions and activities) must demonstrate proficiency
       in all delinquent items with an intelligence qualification trainer or SIO-designated
       supervisor.
       1.6.2. Loss of Currency Exceeding 6 Months. AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 establishes which items
       will result in unqualified status if an individual is not current and will require
       requalification according to paragraph 1.7.
    1.7. Requalification Training. Intelligence personnel revert to unqualified status upon
    expiration of their qualification evaluations or loss of currency exceeding 6 months (for
    currency items specified in applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 according to paragraph 1.6.2),
    whichever occurs first. This includes specialized qualifications and currencies. For all
    intelligence personnel, unless made more restrictive in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1, requalification
    requirements are as follows:
       1.7.1. Unqualified up to 2 Years. Complete training in all delinquent items (as
       applicable), as well as any additional training as directed by the Senior Intelligence
       Officer and be task evaluated.
       1.7.2. Unqualified 2 to 5 Years. Complete appropriate formal requalification course and
       be task evaluated. When a requalification course does not exist or quotas are not
       available, units will request waivers as specified in the AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
       1.7.3. Unqualified Over 5 Years. Complete the appropriate MDS specific IFTU (basic
       (B) or transition (TX)) or in-unit IQT as determined by the MAJCOM/A2.
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                           9


       1.7.4. Currency issues described above are independent of the award/retention of an Air
       Force Specialty (AFS). For guidance on these issues consult AFI 36-2101, Classifying
       Military Personnel Officer and Enlisted.
2. Initial Qualification Training (IQT). IQT prepares intelligence personnel for basic
qualification to perform basic duties in an assigned position for a specific MDS, weapons
system, intelligence function or activity, without regard for a unit's specific mission. The
Intelligence Qualification Evaluation (QUAL) is administered at the conclusion of IQT.
Evaluation specifics are addressed in AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization and
Evaluation Program.
   2.1. General Requirements. Unless specified in applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1, the primary
   method of initial qualification is to attend and complete the appropriate formal training
   courses listed in the Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Completing the
   appropriate formal IQT courses satisfies all unit initial qualification training requirements.
   When a formal course does not exist or quotas are not available, units will request waivers as
   specified in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 to conduct in-unit initial qualification training,
   using formal school courseware (see paragraphs 1.4 and 2.3). The lead MAJCOM will
   incorporate IQT program requirements into the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
       2.1.1. (Added-AFISRA) Fast Tracked Status. IAW AFI 14-202v2, records of newly
       assigned personnel will be reviewed for previous experience. If transferable skills are
       identified in this review, personnel may be fast tracked via an abbreviated training
       program outlined in the associated AFI 14-2(MDS) series or localized guidance, as
       applicable.
       2.1.2. (Added-AFISRA) For AFISRA intelligence personnel that do not have a Formal
       Training Unit (FTU) in place, initial qualification, mission qualification or certification
       training programs will be developed IAW this supplement.
   2.2. IQT Prerequisites. Before attending formal training courses, intelligence personnel must
   comply with the appropriate formal course training prerequisites prescribed in the ETCA.
   2.3. In-Unit IQT Requirements. For in-unit initial qualification training, commanders will
   obtain and use the current formal school courseware as the baseline reference for their
   programs.
       2.3.1. Academic Training. Accomplish academic training requirements as directed in
       applicable courseware.
       2.3.2. Written Examinations. Satisfy requirements of AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
       Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v2.
       2.3.3. Task Evaluations. Satisfy requirements of AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence
       Standardization and Evaluation Program, and applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v2.
3. Mission Qualification Training (MQT). MQT follows IQT and is training needed to qualify
intelligence personnel to perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. The
applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 and other relevant AFIs prescribe minimum MQT requirements.
Completion of Specialty Training Standard task and knowledge training requirements may be
accomplished concurrently with MQT.
10                                           AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


  3.1. (Added-AFISRA) Upgrade Training. Positions identified as upgrade positions will
  have corresponding prerequisite entry-level mission requirements.          Personnel being
  considered for upgrade training must complete Initial Qualification Training (IQT) and
  Mission Qualification Training (MQT) on a prerequisite mission position prior to the upgrade
  or have previous experience that qualifies them to complete in-unit IQT and the required
  MQT for that upgrade. Additional requirements may be outlined in the associated AF 14-
  2(MDS) series or localized guidance, as applicable.
     3.1.1. (Added-AFISRA) Any upgrade positions for an MDS, weapon system,
     intelligence function, or specific activity with an associated 14-2(MDS) series will be
     designated in volume 1 of that 14-2(MDS) series.
     3.1.2. (Added-AFISRA) For AFISRA Intelligence personnel that are not governed by a
     specific AFI 14-2(MDS), upgrade positions will be designated by the unit Commander
     and submitted for review to the applicable AFISRA training OPR.
  3.2. (Added-AFISRA) Certification Training.            Intelligence training required for
  crewmembers and accomplished through training processes that do not require formal
  mission qualification evaluations. Certifications can include Area of Responsibility (AOR),
  specialized or mission specific duties and are necessary supplements to certain weapon
  system qualifications.
     3.2.1. (Added-AFISRA) Certifications are attained through academic instruction and
     completed with a written examination and/or a performance assessment. Certifications
     will be identified in the specific AFI 14-2(MDS) or local training instruction.
     3.2.2. (Added-AFISRA) Tabletop Certification is a tool available for use by Unit
     Commanders to certify an individual or a crew, who already have earned crew position
     qualifications, is/are able to perform duties in a mission track/area. Tabletop
     Certifications may also be used when mission schedules preclude an individual or crew
     from performing in a particular mission area for such a length of time that currency is
     unable to be maintained. The goal of the Tabletop Certification is to convey to the
     Commander that the crew and/or individual(s) is/are fully prepared to perform tasked
     mission(s) safely and successfully.
         3.2.2.1. (Added-AFISRA) The Unit Commander or equivalent is the lowest-level
         authorized to have Tabletop Certification authority. Unit Commanders determine
         whether these procedures may apply to any additional squadron duty positions.
         3.2.2.2. (Added-AFISRA) Tabletop Certification training          must   include   all
         information required for successful mission execution.
     3.2.3. (Added-AFISRA) Intelligence certifications may be documented on an AFISRA
     Form 402, Intelligence Personnel Certifications (Attachment 6), AFISRA Form 403,
     Certification of Intelligence Personnel Training (Attachment 8) or an electronic
     equivalent approved by AFISRA Training OPR. Associated AFI 14-2(MDS)V1 or local
     training instruction will direct how certifications are documented, when applicable.
         3.2.3.1. (Added-AFISRA) General documentation procedures for the AFISRA
         Forms 402 and 403 are outlined in Attachment 5 or 7, respectively, of this
         publication.
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                           11


   3.3. (Added-AFISRA) Difference Training. Units will conduct difference training for new
   features, variations, capabilities, and/or procedures. Difference training is also used to train
   established capabilities within the specified MDS, weapon system, intelligence function or
   activity. Document all difference training completion in the individual’s training folder on
   the prescribed form in the specific AFI 14-2(MDS) or localized guidance.
       3.3.1. (Added-AFISRA) Difference training for a specified MDS, weapon system,
       intelligence function or activity will be coordinated through AFISRA Training OPR prior
       to implementation.
       3.3.2. (Added-AFISRA) Difference Training requirements may be incorporated into
       basic qualification and/or certification standards and will be outlined in 14-2(MDS)v1 or
       localized guidance.
   3.4. (Added-AFISRA) Initial Cadre. An initial cadre will be selected when difference
   training does not exist in the MDS, weapon system, intelligence function or activity. In these
   instances, units will form an initial cadre of personnel for whom certain training requirements
   may be waived.
       3.4.1. (Added-AFISRA) The Group/CC or equivalent will designate Initial cadre in
       writing and forward to the Wing/CC or equivalent for approval. Initial cadre will be made
       up of instructor and instructor evaluator personnel.
       3.4.2. (Added-AFISRA) The Wing Commander or equivalent will review and approve
       the resulting training plan and forward to AFISRA Training OPR. Note: This authority
       may be delegated down to the Group Commander or equivalent depending on the MDS,
       weapon system, intelligence function, or activity.
       3.4.3. (Added-AFISRA) The initial cadre will complete all difference training and
       document it on the prescribed form specified in AFI 14-2(MDS) or localized guidance.
       3.4.4. (Added-AFISRA) Initial cadre is responsible for developing study guides, job
       qualification standards, training task lists, and checklists for each effected position,
       intelligence function or activity, as applicable.
       3.4.5. (Added-AFISRA) The initial cadre will be responsible to provide difference
       training to other units and/or personnel (as required).
4. Continuation Training (CT). Continuation training provides the volume, frequency, and mix
of training necessary for intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency at their assigned
qualification. Applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 prescribes minimum CT training requirements.
   4.1. Intelligence Personnel Status. Intelligence personnel (and non-intelligence personnel
   assigned to intelligence functions or activities) may be assigned Mission Ready, Combat
   Mission Ready, Basic Mission Capable, or Basic Qualification status.
       4.1.1. Mission Ready (MR)/Combat Mission Ready (CMR) is the status of intelligence
       personnel who have satisfactorily completed MQT and maintain qualification and
       currency in the appropriate tasks and knowledge required by their respective AFI 14-
       2(MDS)v1 and other applicable instructions.
       4.1.2. Basic Mission Capable (BMC) is the status of intelligence personnel who have
       satisfactorily completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain
12                                           AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


     MR/CMR status. BMC personnel must be able to attain MR/CMR currency status within
     30 days, or as otherwise specified in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. BMC personnel
     may not deploy without attaining MR/CMR currency status prior to deploying in support
     of unit operations. Personnel deploying to support other than unit taskings may deploy in
     BMC status.
     4.1.3. Basic Qualification (BQ) is the status of intelligence personnel who have
     satisfactorily completed IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not
     perform mission duties unsupervised. The member must perform at a minimum level as
     established in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. BQ personnel may not deploy without
     additional training.
  4.2. Training Events. Intelligence personnel training events are tracked and updated using
  the on-line documentation system.
  4.3. Currency. The Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) and currency requirements are listed
  in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. RIP outlines the minimum CT requirements and is designed to focus
  training on capabilities needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. RIP events are
  specific to an MDS, intelligence function or activity. BMC and MR/CMR intelligence
  personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks identified in the applicable AFI 14-
  2(MDS)v1.
  4.3. (AFISRA) The unit Commander, in coordination with the AFISRA training OPR, will
  determine currency requirements, including Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) events, for
  intelligence personnel (and non-intelligence personnel assigned to intelligence functions or
  activities and performing an intelligence function) that are not governed by a specific AFI
  14-2(MDS).
     4.3.1. MAJCOM/A2, or equivalent SIO, may adjust currency requirements for training
     events unique to an organization. For example, assume AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 directs
     specific intelligence training tasks in support of the air-to-ground mission for that MDS,
     but a particular unit which has this same MDS assigned is unique in that it only has an
     air-to-air mission.
     4.3.2. Temporary Duty (TDY). Individuals preparing to depart on an extended TDY
     (e.g., professional military education (PME)) should ensure all training requirements are
     current prior to departure. Members should complete a proportionate amount of training
     requirements by the end of the month preceding the date of departure for TDY. When
     possible and practical, trainers and trainees should be proactive in obtaining and
     completing necessary training that may expire while TDY.
     4.3.3. Permanent Change of Station (PCS). Upon PCS to the same or like MDS,
     weapons system, intelligence function or activity, individuals meeting the requirements
     specified in the gaining MAJCOM intelligence directives (if applicable) will retain
     current qualifications. The gaining unit will note the member’s evaluation due dates and
     enter the member into the local MQT. Upon completion of MQT, the member will be
     entered into CT/RIP. The member will complete the mission evaluation as previously
     scheduled. Unless directed by the SIO there is no requirement to do a mission evaluation
     (MSN) ahead of the already scheduled MSN suspense. The member’s next evaluation
     due date will remain the same from the losing unit. Members should complete a
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                           13


         proportionate share of training requirements by the end of the month preceding the date
         of departure for PCS. Upon PCS to a different MDS, weapons system, intelligence
         function or activity, individuals will enter qualification training beginning with IQT per
         the specific AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 and prepare to progress through the requisite training and
         stan/eval events until becoming mission ready as directed by the SIO.
   4.4. Proration of Training. Prorate training requirements for personnel not available for
   training events (for example, PCS, TDY, or emergency leave). Prorate requirements in direct
   proportion to the number of days of non-availability. Do not prorate for non-availability of
   15 days or less. For every 30 days beyond 15 days, prorate training requirements one month,
   but not to less than one event. Additional proration guidance may be established in each AFI
   14-2(MDS)v1. For example, an individual is granted emergency leave for 20 days in Jan. He
   then goes to the NCO Academy Feb-Mar and is gone for 45 days (65 days cumulative). His
   SIO authorized him a total of 2 months proration from his training cycle. Since AFI 14-
   2(MDS)v1 requires a debrief be done quarterly (i.e., once every 90 days), the individual now
   has 150 days from his last debrief to complete the debrief requirement. (2 months/60 days
   proration + 90 days for the requirement = 150 days)

Table 1. Proration Allowance.

 CUMULATIVE DAYS OF NON-                  MONTHS OF PRORATION
 AVAILABILITY                             ALLOWED
 0-15                                     0
 16-45                                    1
 46-75                                    2
 76-105                                   3
 106-135                                  4
 136-165                                  5
 166-195                                  6
 196-225                                  7
 226-255                                  8
 256-285                                  9
 286-315                                  10
 316-345                                  11
 over 345                                 12


   4.5. Failure to Complete Continuation Training Requirements. Report individuals in AEF
   Reporting Tool (ART) and/or SORTS (as applicable) non-mission ready (N-MR), if they fail
   to complete periodic continuation training requirements as defined in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
   Waiver requirements and waiver authorities will be specified in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
 14                                            AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


5. Specialized Training. Specialized Training is training in any skill necessary to carry out the
unit’s assigned missions that is not required for every intelligence unit member. Specialized
Training is accomplished after Mission Qualification Training and after the member has attained
MR/CMR or BMC qualification, and is in addition to MR/CMR or BMC requirements. For
example, an External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) requires Specialized Training and a specialized
evaluation (referred to as an “EIT” evaluation) to conduct intelligence training for non-
intelligence AFSC personnel (e.g., pilots, aircrew, civil engineers). EITs have additional
qualification and currency requirements to maintain proficiency in conducting intelligence
training. All members will complete MQT before entering Specialized Training unless it is
specifically directed as part of MQT in applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. See applicable AFI 14-
2(MDS)v1 for Specialized Training requirements. If a unit has responsibility for providing
intelligence training to non-intelligence AFSC personnel, the unit must have written guidance
outlining its EIT specialized training in the form of an AFI 14-2(MDS) series, MAJCOM or local
guidance.
6. Multiple Qualifications at a Multi-MDS Location. In multi-MDS wings, it may be more
effective for the SIO to determine intelligence personnel hold qualification to support more than
one MDS. In this case, MQT for each additional MDS would train to satisfy the MQT events not
previously addressed and already trained in earlier MQT. The member would then be tested by
written examination and be task evaluated on those training items via a mission evaluation. The
AF Form 4350 would be annotated with the specific areas evaluated. Units wishing to exercise
this method must author local written guidance to outline program requirements and staff to
MAJCOM/A2 for approval. At a minimum, the MAJCOM/A2 will review the written guidance
biennially or when the unit updates the guidance.
7. DELETED.




                                            DAVID A. DEPTULA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS/Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance

                                            (AFISRA)

                                            ROBERT P. OTTO, Maj Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                   15


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 3305.02, General Intelligence Training
(Added-AFISRA) AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 8 November 2011
(Added-AFISRA) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
(Added-AFISRA) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
(Added-AFISRA) AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 November 1993
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel Officer and Enlisted
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training
AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation
AFI 36-2201, Volume 2, Air Force Training Program Training Management
AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On the Job Training Administration
AFI 36-2201, Volume 5, Air Force Training Program Career Field Education and Training
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
(Added-AFISRA) AFPD 36-26, Air Force Military Training, 27 September 2011
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008
Adopted Forms
(Added-AFISRA) AFISRA Form 402, Intelligence Personnel Certifications
(Added-AFISRA) AFISRA Form 403, Certification of Intelligence Personnel Training
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
 16                                          AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


Abbreviations and Acronyms


ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
(Added-AFISRA) AF—Air Force
(Added-AFISRA) AFI—Air Force Instruction
(Added-AFISRA) AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(Added-AFISRA) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(AFISRA) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AIA—Air Intelligence Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
(AFISRA) ANG—Air National Guard
(Added-AFISRA) AOR—Area of Responsibility
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
(AFISRA) BMC—Basic Mission Capable
BQ—Basic Qualification
CCP—Consolidated Cryptologic Program
(Added-AFISRA) CFM—Career Field Manager
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
(AFISRA) CMR—Combat Mission Ready
(Added-AFISRA) CSA—Combat Support Agency
CT—Continuation Training
CTC—Combat Targeting Course
(Added-AFISRA) DCGS—Distributed Common Ground System
(Added-AFISRA) DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
(Added-AFISRA) DSO—Direct Support Operator
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer/Training
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                               17


FCR—Formal Course Review
(Added-AFISRA) FOA—Field Operating Agency
FTU—Formal Training Unit
(AFISRA) FTU—Formal Training Unit
FYDP—Future Years Defense Plan
(Added-AFISRA) HHQ—Higher Headquarters
(Added-AFISRA) IAW—In Accordance With
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
(AFISRA) IQT—Initial Qualification Training
IPT—Intelligence Personnel Training
(AFISRA) IPT—Intelligence Personnel Training
IRM—Intelligence Resource Manager
IROC—ISR Operations Course
(Added-AFISRA) IRTRB—Intelligence Realistic Training Review Board
(Added-AFISRA) ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
(AFISRA) MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
(AFISRA) MDS—Mission Design Series
(Added-AFISRA) MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
(AFISRA) MQT—Mission Qualification Training
(Added-AFISRA) NBC—Nuclear, Biological and Chemical
N-BMC—Non-Combat Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
N-MR—Non-Mission Ready
(Added-AFISRA) NTI—National Tactical Integration
OJT—On-the-Job Training
(Added-AFISRA) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PGL—Program Guidance Letters
PR—Progress Review
 18                                            AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


PSU—Primary Support Unit
(Added-AFISRA) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
(AFISRA) RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RTRB—Realistic Training Review Board
SCE—Service Cryptologic Element
SRB—Student Review Board
(Added-AFISRA) TAG—Training Advisory Group
(Added-AFISRA) TARP—Tactics Analysis Reporting Program
(Added-AFISRA) TASE—Tactics Analysis Studies Element
(Added-AFISRA) TPT—Training Planning Team
(Added-AFISRA) TSO—Tactical Systems Operator
USAFWS—United States Air Force Weapons School

Terms
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain MR/CMR status.
Personnel must be able to attain MR/CMR currency status within 30 days, or as otherwise
specified in the applicable AFI 14-2-(MDS)v1.
Basic Qualification (BQ)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not perform mission duties
unsupervised. BQ is a prerequisite for all personnel to enter MQT. The member must perform at
a minimum level as established in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
(Added-AFISRA) Certification— Intelligence training required for personnel and
accomplished through training processes that do not require formal mission qualification
evaluations.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks and knowledge
required by their respective AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. See Mission Ready (MR).
Continuation Training (CT)—Additional training exceeding the minimum upgrade training
requirements. Continuation training provides the volume, frequency, and mix of training
necessary for intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency in their assigned qualification. AFI
14-2(MDS)v1 prescribes minimum CT requirements.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a
given event.
(Added-AFISRA) Difference Training— Training for new features, variations, capabilities, or
procedures; or used to train established capabilities within the specified MDS, weapon system,
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                             19


intelligence function or activity. The engineering specialist who manufactured the new
capability can conduct this training, if applicable.
Formal Course—Training courses listed in the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcement (ETCA).
(Added-AFISRA) Initial Qualification Training— Training needed to qualify intelligence
personnel for basic duties in an assigned position for a specific MDS, weapon system,
intelligence function or activity, without regard for a unit’s specific mission
Initial Qualification Training (IQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel for
basic duties in an assigned position for a specific MDS, weapons system, intelligence function or
activity, without regard for a unit's specific mission.
(Added-AFISRA) Mission Qualification Training— Training needed to qualify individuals to
perform their specific mission in an assigned position. This training is a prerequisite for Combat
Mission Ready (CMR) or Basic Mission Capable (BMC) status.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel to
perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 prescribes
minimum MQT requirements.
Mission Ready (MR)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily completed
MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks and knowledge required
by their respective AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. See Combat Mission Ready (CMR).
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having the
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Proficiency—The quality of having competence and a command of the fundamentals derived
from practice and familiarity. A measure of how well a task is completed. An individual is
considered proficient when he/she can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed,
accuracy, and safety.
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP)—Program that outlines the minimum CT requirements and
is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions.
RIP events are specific to an MDS, intelligence function or activity. BMC and MR/CMR
intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks identified in the applicable AFI 14-
2(MDS)v1.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)—The highest-ranking Air Force officer holding the 14N3 or
14N4 Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) or Series 0132 Civilian and serving in an Air Force
intelligence position. The SIO's authority extends to all directly subordinate and tenant
intelligence units within the organizational chain of command. Installations with intelligence
activities in different chains of command will have separate SIOs. In this capacity, the SIO
provides senior guidance on all policy development, interpretations, and applications. Further,
the SIO serves as the chief advisor and mentor for AF intelligence officers, enlisted and civilians
(as appropriate) in terms of career development and progress.
(Added-AFISRA) Tabletop Certification— Tabletop Certification is a tool available to certify
a position-qualified individual or crew to perform duties in a mission track/area. Tabletop
Certifications may also be used when mission schedules preclude an individual or crew from
 20                                              AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


performing in a particular mission area for such a length of time that currency is unable to be
maintained.
Training Command—The MAJCOM assigned responsibility for formal school training (not
necessarily AETC) in each MDS, weapons system, intelligence function or activity.
Specialized Training—Training in any skill necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions
that is not required for every intelligence unit member. Specialized Training is accomplished
after MQT and after the member has attained MR/CMR or BMC status, and is in addition to
MR/CMR or BMC requirements. For example, as outlined in AFI 14-2F-16, Volume 1, F-16
Unit Intelligence Training, an External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) requires Specialized Training
and certification to conduct intelligence training for pilots. EITs have additional qualification and
currency requirements to maintain proficiency in conducting intelligence training.
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                         21


                                  Attachment 2
                     INTELLIGENCE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

Figure A2.1. Intelligence training requirements.
 Qualification   Training        Ready Intelligence Program Standardization & Evaluation
 Status          Requirement     (RIP)/Continuation Training (Stan/Eval) Check Requirement
                 for Status      (CT)3 Currency Requirement
 BQ6             IQT1            No                             QUAL4
 MR/CMR7         IQT + MQT2+ Yes                                Initial (INIT MSN) and Periodic
                 Certification                                  (20 month cycle) (MSN) 5
 BMC8            IQT + MQT + Yes                                Initial (INIT MSN) and Periodic
                 Certification                                  (20 month cycle) (MSN)
 Notes:
 1IQT consists of AFSC awarding courses and IFTU/FTU


 2MQT is a unit-developed training program specific to the unit’s mission


 3CT consists of internal intelligence training and Ready Intelligence Program requirements


 4QUAL—Qualification Evaluation—the evaluation administered to ensure basic qualification
 in the duty position of the intelligence professional.


 5MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation—the evaluation administered to ensure the
 individual’s ability to support full mission planning and employment in accomplishing the
 unit’s operational mission. Note: The periodic cycle upon which evaluations are given is based
 on the 20-month Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) rotation cycle. Evaluations coming due during
 a unit’s AEF vulnerability period must be completed prior to entering the window. See AFI 14-
 202 Volume 2, Table 5.1.


 6BQ—Basic Qualification—Upon completion of IQT, intelligence personnel attain BQ status.
 BQ is a prerequisite for MQT. BQ is not a long-term qualification status.


 7MR/CMR—Combat Mission Ready—The status of intelligence personnel who have
 satisfactorily completed MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks
 and knowledge required by their respective AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
22                                         AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


8BMC—Basic Mission Capable—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed training (MQT), are qualified in the unit mission but do not maintain MR/CMR
status. Personnel accomplish training required to remain familiarized in all the primary
missions of their unit. These personnel may also maintain specialized qualifications.
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                      23


                                       Attachment 3
                   QUALIFICATION TRAINING FLOW OF EVENTS

Figure A3.1. Qualification training flow of events
 24                                         AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


                             Attachment 4 (Added-AFISRA)
        AFISRA TRAINING OFFICE OF PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY (OPR)

Table A4.1. AFISRA Training Office Of Primary Responsibility (OPR).

      Intelligence Weapons Systems or Mission Areas              Training OPR

National Tactical Integration (NTI)                          AFISRA/A2XX
Tactical Systems Operator (TSO)                              361 ISRG
Direct Support Operator (DSO)                                361 ISRG
Tactics Analysis Reporting Program (TARP)/Tactics Analysis
Studies Element (TASE)                                       AFISRA/A2
Cyber                                                        AFISRA/A3T
Special Mission Activity                                     AFISRA/ZQ
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                          25


                               Attachment 5 (Added-AFISRA)
        AFISRA FORM 402, INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL CERTIFICATIONS

A5.1. (AFISRA) AFISRA Form 402, Intelligence Personnel Certifications. This form is
optional, unless directed by AFISRA. Use in place of AFISRA Form 403 when directed. When
used, comply with the following guidance when completing an AFISRA Form 402. See
Attachment 6 for sample AFISRA Forms 402.
A5.2. (AFISRA) Purpose. The AFISRA Form 402 provides a permanent record and
certification source for intelligence personnel certifications not attained through an AF Form
4350 qualification.
   A5.2.1. (AFISRA) Maintain AFISRA Form 402 in intelligence personnel member’s
   permanent training folder. For intelligence personnel with multiple intelligence certifications
   attained through difference training, only one AFISRA Form 402 is required; specify the
   primary mission MDS, intelligence system, function or activity designation. File AFISRA
   Forms 402 will be filed in an intelligence personnel member’s permanent training folder, as a
   training completion document.
   A5.2.2. (AFISRA) Unit training shops will document all initial, downgrade and re-
   certifications for intelligence personnel assigned/attached to their unit.
       A5.2.2.1. (AFISRA) The AFISRA Form 402 will document all certifications attained in
       previous and current MDS(s), intelligence system(s), function(s) and/or activity(s).
       Retain in individual training records as a historical source document.
       A5.2.2.2. (AFISRA) During the initial review of individual training records, review
       previous AFISRA Form 402 entries to determine all applicable certifications of newly
       assigned/attached intelligence personnel. Following the initial review, document
       applicable intelligence personnel certifications accepted by the gaining unit commander
       on a new AFISRA Form 402.
A5.3. (AFISRA) General Data Entry.
   A5.3.1. (AFISRA) Complete individual identification block with last name, first name,
   middle initial, any titles (e.g., Jr. or II), unit MDS, intelligence system, function and/or
   activity (under Activity) and unit organization/location.
   A5.3.2. (AFISRA) Use one line for each certification.
   A5.3.3. (AFISRA) Enter each certification in chronological order, based on the date the
   action is completed, unless that field was updated due to a re-certification. All new AFISRA
   Forms 402 should start with dates of applicable certifications in chronological order.
   A5.3.4. (AFISRA) For date fields in the AFISRA Form 402, use a two-digit day, three-
   letter month and four-digit year format (e.g., 20 Dec 2011), or as required by electronic form
   (20111220). Mark the date fields in pencil to allow for periodic certification updates.
A5.4. (AFISRA) Certification.
   A5.4.1. (AFISRA) Certified Event Title. Enter each certification title in the top block on
   the AFISRA Form 402.
 26                                             AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


   A5.4.2. (AFISRA) Enter the rank, name and organization of the instructor who completed
   applicable training for the certified event below the event title of the Certified Event block
   for the Activity under which the certification is given.
   A5.4.3. (AFISRA) Date Certified. Enter the effective date of certification. Mark the date
   fields in pencil to allow for periodic certification updates.
   A5.4.4. (AFISRA) Certification Official/Organization.          The Certifying Official (i.e.
   certified/qualified instructor) will sign in this column.
   A5.4.5. (AFISRA) The Certifying Official is the person authorized by governing directives
   to approve or certify intelligence personnel for a specific position or event.
A5.5. (AFISRA) Decertification. Decertification of events fall into two categories:
Decertification for Cause (with prejudice) and Discretionary Decertification (without prejudice).
   A5.5.1. (AFISRA) Decertification for Cause. Used for observed substandard performance.
       A5.5.1.1. (AFISRA) This action is normally associated with Commander-Directed
       Downgrade, but also applies to commander-directed decertification of evaluators and
       trainers (resulting from substandard performance).
       A5.5.1.2. (AFISRA) To document Decertification for Cause, place an ”X” in the
       appropriate box; enter date of decertification in the Decertification Date block; enter
       name, rank, organization, office symbol and signature of the decertifying official in the
       Decertifying Official/Organization block.
   A5.5.2. (AFISRA) Discretionary Decertification. An administrative action not based on
   performance.
       A5.5.2.1. (AFISRA) Such decertification is warranted when loss of currency or
       certification occurs that will not be regained IAW AFI 14-2(MDS)V1; when instructor-
       certified events become core mission events; or when a higher certification is obtained
       making the previous entry obsolete. Discretionary Decertification is also applicable for
       decertification of evaluators and trainers as a result of reasons other than substandard
       performance.
       A5.5.2.2. (AFISRA) To document Discretionary Decertification, place an ”X” in the
       appropriate box; enter the date of decertification in the Decertification Date block; enter
       name, rank, organization, office symbol and signature of the decertifying official in
       Decertifying Official/Organization block. Note: For decertification due to loss of
       currency with no requirement for re-certification, the effective date of decertification will
       be the date of certification loss.
       A5.5.2.3. (AFISRA) For events that have changed in name only (e.g., Imagery Screener
       to Intelligence Screener) no action is necessary. If desired for clarity, annotate
       ―Renamed (new title) under Remarks.
       A5.5.2.4. (AFISRA) For members who change MDS, intelligence system, function
       and/or activity (Intelligence Activity) while assigned/attached to the same organization,
       prepare a new AFISRA Form 402 indicating the new Intelligence Activity and transcribe
       all events which apply to the new Intelligence Activity.
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                    27


A5.6. (AFISRA) Unusual Circumstances. When unusual circumstances require additional
information for an AFISRA Form 402 entry, use additional lines as necessary or re-accomplish
the AFISRA Form 402.
A5.7. (AFISRA) Computer Generated AFISRA Form 402. Units may use a computer-
generated AFISRA Form 402 to make new entries or corrections as long as cumulative hard
copy entries are maintained. Computer-generated AF forms must mirror AF forms published on
the Air Force e-Publishing web site.
   A5.7.2. (AFISRA) The signature on a computer-generated AFISRA Form 402 certifies:
       A5.7.2.1. (AFISRA) New or rescinded certification attained while assigned/attached to
       unit of certifying official.
       A5.7.2.2. (AFISRA) All cumulative entries were maintained; that they were signed or
       had proper documentation; or were carried forward from a previously signed computer-
       generated AFISRA Form 402.
 28                                       AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


                           Attachment 6 (Added-AFISRA)
 AFISRA FORM 402, INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL CERTIFICATIONS EXAMPLE

Table A6.1. AFISRA Form 402, Intelligence Personnel Certifications Example.
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                                          29


                               Attachment 7 (Added-AFISRA)
AFISRA FORM 403, CERTIFICATION OF INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL TRAINING

A7.1. (AFISRA) AFISRA Form 403, Certification of Intelligence Personnel Training. This
form is optional, unless directed by AFISRA. When used, comply with the following guidance
for completing an AFISRA Form 403. Special certifications may be documented IAW AFI 14-
2(MDS)V1 or local training instruction on AFISRA Form 403, AFISRA Form 402 (see
Attachment 6). Certifications will be signed by a certified instructor. See Attachment 8 for
sample AFISRA Form 403.
A7.2. (AFISRA) Purpose. The AFISRA Form 403 provides a permanent record/certification
source for intelligence personnel certifications not attained through an AF Form 4350
qualification.
   A7.2.1. (AFISRA) Maintain AFISRA Form 403 in intelligence personnel member’s
   permanent training folder. For intelligence personnel with multiple intelligence certifications
   attained through difference training, only one AFISRA Form 403 is required; specify the
   primary mission MDS, intelligence system, function or activity designation. File AFISRA
   Forms 403 will be filed in an intelligence personnel member’s permanent training folder, as a
   training completion document.
   A7.2.2. (AFISRA) Unit training shops will document all initial, downgrade and re-
   certifications for intelligence personnel assigned/attached to their unit.
A7.3. (AFISRA) General Data Entry.
   A7.3.1. (AFISRA) Complete individual identification block with last name, first name,
   middle initial, any titles (e.g., Jr. or II); follow the name with the individual’s grade in
   parenthesis.
   A7.3.2. (AFISRA) Use one row for each certification or decertification.
   A7.3.3. (AFISRA) For date fields in the AFISRA Form 403, use a two-digit day, three-
   letter month and four-digit year format (e.g., 20 Dec 2011), or as required by electronic form
   (20111220). Mark the date fields in pencil to allow for periodic certification updates.
A7.4. (AFISRA) Certification.
   A7.4.1. (AFISRA) Subject Title. Enter each certification title on the AFISRA Form 403.
   A7.4.2. (AFISRA) Date Certified. Enter the effective date of certification. Note: this date
   may change as periodic certifications checks are required.
   A7.4.3. (AFISRA) Certification Official/Organization.           The Certifying Official (i.e.
   certified instructor) will sign above their typed name, rank, organization and office symbol.
   A7.4.4. (AFISRA) The Certifying Official is the person authorized by governing directives
   to approve or certify an intelligence personnel member for a specific position or event.
A7.5. (AFISRA) Decertification. Decertification of events fall into two categories:
Decertification for Cause (with prejudice) and Discretionary Decertification (without prejudice).
   A7.5.1. (AFISRA) Decertification for Cause. Used for observed substandard performance.
 30                                            AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013


       A7.5.1.1. (AFISRA) This action is normally associated with command-directed
       downgrade, but also applies to commander-directed decertification of evaluators
       (resulting from substandard performance).
       A7.5.1.2. (AFISRA) To document Decertification for Cause, line out the event, date
       and certifying official/organization/location; annotate ―Decertification for Cause under
       Training Requirement/ Subject Title; enter date of decertification under Date Completed;
       enter name, rank, organization, and office symbol and signature of decertifying official
       under Certifying Official/Organization.
   A7.5.2. (AFISRA) Discretionary Decertification. An administrative action not based on
   performance.
       A7.5.2.1. (AFISRA) Such decertification is warranted when loss of currency or
       certification occurs that will not be regained IAW AFI 14-2(MDS)v1; when instructor
       certified events become core mission events; or when a higher certification is obtained
       making the previous entry obsolete.
       A7.5.2.2. (AFISRA) To document Discretionary Decertification: line out the event,
       date and certifying official/organization/location; annotate ―Discretionary
       Decertification under Training Requirement/Subject Title; enter date of decertification
       under Date Completed; enter name, rank, organization and office symbol of the
       decertifying official under Certifying Official/Organization. Note: For decertification
       due to loss of currency with no requirement for re-certification, the effective date of
       decertification will be the date of certification loss.
       A7.5.2.3. (AFISRA) For events that have changed in name only (e.g., Imagery Screener
       to Imagery Viewer) no action is necessary. If desired for clarity: line out the event, date
       and certifying official/organization/location; annotate ―Renamed (new name) under
       Subject Title.
A7.6. (AFISRA) Unusual Circumstances. When unusual circumstances require additional
information for an AFISRA Form 403 entry, use additional lines as necessary or re-accomplish
the AFISRA Form 403.
A7.7. (AFISRA) Units may use a computer-generated AFISRA Form 403 to make new entries
or corrections as long as cumulative hard copy entries are maintained. Computer-generated
forms must mirror AF forms as published on the Air Force e-Publishing web site.
   A7.7.1. (AFISRA) A computer-generated AFISRA Form 403 must be signed either
   digitally or with ink.
   A7.7.2. (AFISRA) The last signature on a computer-generated AFISRA Form 403 certifies:
       A7.7.2.1. (AFISRA) New or rescinded certification attained while assigned/attached to
       unit of certifying official.
       A7.7.2.2. (AFISRA) All cumulative entries were maintained; that they were signed or
       had proper documentation; or were carried forward from a previously signed computer-
       generated AF Form 403.
AFI14-202V1_AFISRASUP_I 17 APRIL 2013                                               31


                      Attachment 8 (Added-AFISRA)
AFISRA FORM 403, CERTIFICATION OF INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL TRAINING
                               EXAMPLE

Table A8.1. AFISRA Form 403, Certification of Intelligence Personnel Training Example.
