Administrative Change to AFI 11-418, Operations Supervision

OPR: ACC/A3TV

Change Attachment 4, Table A4.27. T-6: to read:

 TIME PROCEDURE                                        CONTACT       POCs:
 24    Call HQ AFMC Command                            DSN: 787-
 HOURS Center and state: “THIS IS A                    6314
       CONFERENCE HOTEL
       CALL FOR THE T-6                                Comm: (937)
       AIRCRAFT.”                                      257-6314

10 APRIL 2012
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-418
8TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                         8TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                 Supplement
                                                                                    2 MAY 2012

                                                                              Flying Operations

                                                                OPERATIONS SUPERVISION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 8 OG/OGV                                                             Certified by: 8 OG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Craig S. Leavitt)
Supersedes:   AFI11-418_8FWSUP,                                                          Pages: 9
              24 September 2008


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-418
Operation Supervision, 15 September 2011. It applies to all assigned, or associated units to the
8th Operations Group, 8th Fighter Wing (8 FW), Kunsan Air Base, Korea. The waiver authority
for this supplement is the 8th Operations Group Commander (8 OG/CC). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Below is a summary
of pertinent changes: FCF SOF requirements incorporated. SOF role in Ice FOD procedures
clarified. Experienced SOF criteria added. New SOF upgrade checklist attached. Adjusted SOF
show and OG/Top-3 brief times to accommodate earlier step times. Removed the requirement for
non-CCIP F-16 T.Os at the SOF position. Referenced squadrons as a group to encompass
Theater Security Package operations.
 2                                                           AFI11-418_8FWSUP 2 MAY 2012


2.1.2. (Added) 8 OG assigned or expeditionary fighter squadrons will have at most 7
Supervisors of Flying (SOFs). Additional SOFs require 8 OG/CC approval.
2.2.1.1. (Added) Normally, the squadron Ops Sup/Top 3 will only be filled by the following
individuals: the squadron commander, the squadron operations officer, assistant operations
officer(s), and the senior flight commander.

Table 1, Notes: 1.1 (Added) An FCF requires a SOF. The Operations Supervisor may act as the
SOF from the duty desk if they are SOF qualified and have radio communication capability with
the FCF pilot.


Table 1, Notes: 1.2 (Added) Squadron Operations Supervisors must be present for all squadron
flights into or out of Kunsan AB. This includes flying on weekends or outside of the normal
flying window. For local sorties outside of normal hours, the Operations Supervisor must be in
the squadron from 30 minutes prior to step until engine shutdown. For deployments and cross-
country departures, the Operations Supervisor will be in the squadron from 30 minutes prior to
step until 1 hour after takeoff. The Operations Supervisor may depart the squadron 30 minutes
after takeoff, but must remain available by telephone, pager, or radio until all aircraft have
landed. For re-deployments and cross-country returns, the Operations Supervisor will be in the
squadron from 30 minutes prior to the estimated arrival time until engine shutdown.

4.1.5. (Added) 8 OG/CC determines policies and training programs for squadron Operations
Supervisors. Policies and programs are developed by 8 OG/OGV. The 35 FS and 80 FS execute
Operations Supervisor upgrade programs and document successful completion in upgrading
individual’s training folder. 8 OG/CC approves the squadron Operations Supervisors.
4.3.1.1. (Added) When 8 FW and ROKAF 38 FG are conducting simultaneous operations;
SOFs of both units coordinate on all matters. If there is a conflict, the 8 FW SOF has final
decision authority.
4.3.2.2. (Added) When an alternate is required IAW AFI11-202V3 pilots must RTB using IFR
fuels. This requirement is independent of the field status.
4.3.3.1. (Added) Ice FOD Procedures. If 8 OSS/OSW determines that the potential for Ice
FOD exists, the 8 FW SOF will declare Ice FOD procedures are in effect.
4.3.3.2. (Added) When Ice FOD procedures are in effect, the SOF and Top 3s will coordinate
for the first aircraft of the go to perform an Ice FOD check. The first aircraft will start and run
outside the HAS or flow for five minutes (aircraft will be started in the HAS and taxied out front
if not already outside). The pilot will report status of icing to the SOF and to squadron
operations. If icing is observed, the pilot will shut down. If no icing is observed then the SOF
will direct continued operations, however this does not terminate Ice FOD procedures.
4.3.3.3. (Added) During Ice FOD procedures, the 8 FW SOF is responsible for orchestrating
the flow of aircraft into EOR to ensure compliance with 11-2F-16v3 and Dash-1 cold weather
operations guidance. Objectives are to ensure timely arming of all outbound aircraft, and to
prevent extended delays outside of EOR where an intake observer is not available. The ground
controller in the tower will direct aircraft movement from parking to EOR as determined by the
AFI11-418_8FWSUP 2 MAY 2012                                                                         3


SOF. A total of six aircraft will be allowed to hold in EOR. Once aircraft arrive in EOR, at least
one dedicated individual per two aircraft will be in position to observe intakes.
4.3.3.4. (Added) During Ice FOD procedures squadron Operations Supervisors and
maintenance supervision ensure that aircraft waiting to hot-pit have an area clear of all standing
water, slush, snow, and ice. Ice FOD monitors must be in place. The last step in the ice removal
process is to squeegee the area in front of the aircraft to ensure no standing water.
4.3.3.5. (Added) If visible ice accumulation occurs, the pilot will be notified and engine shut
down procedures will be accomplished. The pilot will inform the 8 FW SOF and squadron
operations that Ice FOD accumulation was observed. The SOF will be responsible for ensuring
that all aircraft on the airdrome with visible ice buildup shut down immediately. Those without
ice accumulation will taxi to park and shut down or launch if in EOR, ready for takeoff, and the
lack of visible inlet icing is confirmed. If required to shut down for inlet icing, write up the icing
incident in the AFTO Form 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document.
4.3.4.1. (Added) Runway 36 is the primary instrument and preferred runway. The active
runway will be changed when the steady state tailwind component exceeds nine knots. The SOF
may delay runway change for safety.
4.3.5.1. (Added) 8 OG/CC is responsible for aircraft recall. The SOF is accountable for recall
execution. The SOF issues instructions through the Control Tower, Radar Approach Control
(RAPCON), 8 FW Command Post (8 FW/CP), Cobra, and Pilsung range. The SOF notifies the
35 FS and 80 FS Operations Supervisors of the recall. Controlling agencies advise the SOF of
contacted aircraft call signs. The SOF must ensure all airborne aircraft have been contacted.
4.3.5.2. (Added) During flying operations, 8 FW/CP notifies the SOF if a general recall has
been started.
4.3.7.1. (Added) If conditions dictate a change of alternates or bingo fuel, the SOF ensures all
airborne flights receive the new information. SOFs follow the same contact procedures in
paragraph 4.3.5.1. (Added), Recall.
4.3.7.2. (Added) SOFs designate a daily primary divert airfield, and monitor all possible divert
airfields in case the primary becomes unsuitable.
4.3.7.3. (Added) To avoid confusion with Osan and Seosan AB, they are referred to by the
SOF (and on ATIS) as “Osan” and “Haemi” respectively.
4.3.7.4. (Added) Under normal circumstances, the SOF chooses from the following (in order
of precedence) when selecting divert/alternate airfields: Osan, Haemi, Gwangju, and Daegu AB.
When the decision to divert has been made, pilots will proceed to the declared divert/alternate
unless SOF approves another location. If circumstances preclude using the airfields listed above,
the following are also acceptable divert/alternate airfields: Yecheon, Cheongju, Suwon, Sacheon,
Gangneung, Jungwon, Wonju, Iwakuni (Japan), Fukuoka (Japan), Tsuiki (Japan), Yokota (Japan)
and Atsugi (Japan). Notify the 8 OG/CC (or designated representative) of the primary
divert/alternate. Inform the 8 OG/CC (or designated representative) anytime the airfield status
and/or divert changes. The following airfields are suitable emergency landing fields, but should
not be selected as primary divert airfields: Gimpo IAP, Incheon IAP, Seoul AB, Pohang, Pusan,
Camp Humphreys (A-551), and Jeju IAP. Gimhae IAP may be considered as a divert/alternate
airfield when the USAF detachment (Defense Contract Management Agency, DSN 787-4415) is
 4                                                            AFI11-418_8FWSUP 2 MAY 2012


conducting flight operations. At all other times, arresting cables will not be available and Gimhae
IAP should be considered as an emergency-only airfield.
4.3.8.1. (Added) The SOF advises the 8 OG/CC or designated representative when prevailing
or forecast visibility is at or below Weather Category C (500’/1.5nm). Weather categories are
IAW 11-202V3_PACAFSUP_I.
4.3.8.2. (Added) If aircraft are diverted, the SOF contacts 8 OG/CC, BWDO, RAPCON, 8
FW/CP, and 8th OSS Airfield Management Operations (8 OSS/OSAM) and informs them of the
aircraft call sign, type, number in the formation, munitions load, divert airfield, estimated fuel
reserve upon arrival at the initial approach fix, and any other information pertinent to the specific
situation. 8 OSS/OSAM passes this information to Incheon Air Route Traffic Control Center and
the Airfield Management Officers at the divert bases. When divert is to a ROKAF base, SOFs
contact BWDO as soon as possible for an immediate weather and airfield status update at the
divert base. 8 OSS/OSAM uses every means available to ensure the Korean base understands the
situation. Aircraft departures following diverts require 8 OG/CC or designated representative
approval prior to launching.
4.3.10.1. (Added) The SOF updates the SOF copy of the flying schedule with all changes and
briefs the follow-on SOF. The SOF inputs takeoff and land times into PEX as time permits. If the
SOF is task saturated and cannot record takeoff and landing times, Base Ops is the back-up. It is
the SOF’s responsibility to notify Base Ops when they are required to input takeoff and land
times in PEX.
4.3.10.2. (Added) SOFs will complete the electronic SOF report including details of in-flight
emergencies, any other unusual occurrences, divert/alternate changes, and equipment/facility
deficiencies with their job control numbers. The closing SOF emails the completed report to 8
FW/SOF Report distribution lists, which includes 8 OG/CC, 8 OG/CD, 8 OG/OGV, 8 FW/SE,
and 8 FW/CP. 8 OG/OGV maintains SOF reports for six months. The SOF Report can be found
on the SOF computer hard drive and also is in Attachment 3 to this instruction.
4.3.10.3. (Added) SOF notifies 8 OG/OGV (782-4797) with any problems and/or malfunctions
applicable to SOF facilities, forms (i.e., FCIFs, publications, etc.) or equipment and logs the
problem in the daily SOF report. Time permitting, the SOF will attempt to resolve the issue and
log any progress in the SOF report. 8 OG/OGV will be responsible for ensuring all issues are
resolved.
4.3.10.4. (Added) IAW the SOF QRC SIPR Operations, the SOF will utilize TASAMS, DCO
Chat, and TBMCS.
4.5.1.1. (Added) 8 FW/CP provides the SOF with a portable FM radio. 8 FW/CP notifies the
SOF of any issues that could affect the use of Osan, Haemi, Gwangju, or Daegu ABs as
alternates. On weekends, 8 FW/CP notifies the SOF (or 8 OG/CC when a SOF is not designated)
of any aircraft emergencies or unusual events pertaining to flying operations.
4.5.2.1. (Added) 8 OSS/OSAM provides the opening SOF with a copy of current Notices To
Airmen (NOTAM), the daily flying schedule, briefs the airdrome status, and calls the SOF with
all pertinent changes.
AFI11-418_8FWSUP 2 MAY 2012                                                                     5


4.5.2.2. (Added) 8 OSS/OSW provides weather slides and briefing to the opening SOF and
keeps the SOF informed of significant changes for Kunsan AB and selected alternates via the hot
line and AMIS.
5.1.1.1. (Added) The SOF normally monitors SOF frequencies local UHF Ch 14 and local
VHF Ch 14 (via headset). The SOF may monitor other frequencies with other emergency aircraft
to provide emergency assistance. Local UHF Ch 12 may be used for a Single Frequency
Approach. Pilots may talk to the Fire Chief on this frequency after landing.
5.1.9. (Added) CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures are contained in the SOF QRC. 8
OG/OGV ensures 8 FW/CP has current CONFERENCE HOTEL information.
6.2.2.1. (Added) SOF tours will normally be planned to be no more than 6 hours in length, but
may be up to 10 hours without an OG/CC waiver, when required. The OG/CC may waive tour
length up to 12 hours.
6.2.3.1. (Added) The closing SOF is scheduled to have a minimum of one hour of additional
duty day remaining beyond the expected end of the tour in order to provide SOF coverage for
diverts, late landings, or other unforeseen events.
6.2.3.2. (Added) The opening SOF begins the tour NLT 1+45 prior to the first scheduled
takeoff or landing of 8 FW aircraft in order to receive a face-to-face weather brief, pickup
NOTAMS from 8 OSS/OSA, and ensure the airfield inspection has been accomplished by 8
OSS/OSA (SOF will not accomplish the actual inspection). The SOF will be in the tower 30
minutes prior to the first engine start or 1+45 prior to the first takeoff/landing, whichever is
earlier. The SOF will brief the OG/CC and Operations Supervisors IAW the opening status no
later than 1+20 prior to first takeoff. The SOF will notify squadron Operations Supervisors if the
airfield is on weather hold prior to the squadron’s first flight’s step to the aircraft.
6.2.3.3. (Added) Before assuming SOF duties, the SOF reviews the most current FCIF, RFI,
and the SOF Read File in PEX and discusses equipment/operational abnormalities with Tower
and RAPCON watch supervisors.
6.3.1.1. (Added) The Kunsan Air Traffic Control Tower is the primary SOF location; the
alternate SOF location is the SOF vehicle outside the RSU. The SOF provides transportation to
tower personnel via the SOF vehicle if the tower vehicle is unavailable. If space is limited, the
SOF will operate from the SOF vehicle outside the RSU. The SOF will carry the portable FM
radio, SOF QRC, T.O. 1F-16CM-1 (manual), T.O. 1F-16CM-1CL-1 (checklist), 8 FW In-Flight
Guide, binoculars, SOF report, and flying schedule (i.e., the SOF briefcase located in the tower).
6.3.2.5. (Added) If the SOF is operating out of an alternate location other in the truck outside
the RSU, the SOF keeps 8 FW/CP and 8 OG/CC advised of location and contact information.
6.3.2.6. (Added) For deployments and cross countries, the SOF is in the duty position until 1
hour after takeoff. For re-deployments, the SOF is in the duty position from 1+45 prior to the
estimated time of arrival until engine shutdown.
6.3.2.7. (Added) During weekend operations, or other operations outside of the normal weekly
flying window that requires a SOF, the SOF will contact 8 FW/CP each morning for a briefing
on flying activities.
6.3.2.8. (Added) At times of reduced flying (defined as 4 or less aircraft), the 8 OG/CC will be
the waiver authority for the requirement to have a SOF in the Tower.
 6                                                         AFI11-418_8FWSUP 2 MAY 2012


6.4.3.1. (Added) The SOF vehicle will be parked in front of the tower and the keys left at the
OPS SUP position in the tower on nights, weekends or when not in use by the SOF.
6.4.6.1. (Added) 8 OG/OGV maintains the SOF Read Files, QRC, AFI 11-418 and 8 FW
supplement, T.O. 1F-16CM-1, T.O. 1F-16CM-1CL, AFI 11-2F-16V3, Ch 8/8 FW Sup 1; 8 FW
In-Flight Guide, AFI 11-202V3, and applicable flight information publications in the tower.
6.5.7. (Added) 8 OG SOFs will be considered experienced when they have been SOF qualified
for 60 days and performed at least 5 SOF tours. Experienced SOFs will be certified to upgrade
SOFs.
6.6.1.1. (Added) Annotate certifications on the pilot qualification roster and SOF upgrade
letter, which is kept in the trainee’s flying training record. 35 FS, 80 FS, and TSP FS/DOTs send
a copy of the letter of Xs to 8 OG/OGV. 8 OG/OGV provides 8 OSS/OSAT with a monthly
updated entry access list.
6.6.4.10. (Added) 8 OG SOF upgrades will consist of two supervised tours, 4 hours per tour.
Upgrades will be conducted by a current and experienced SOF. If the trainee SOF is previously
qualified at Kunsan or a qualified SOF from another base, a single (1) 4 hour opening SOF tour
is required.
6.6.5.8. (Added) The experienced SOF will utilize the checklist in the 8th FW Pilot Training
Syllabus to facilitate the SOF upgrade. It is also attached to this instruction (Attachment 2).
6.7.4. (Added) SOFs log SOF tours on appropriate PEX tracking products. FS DOs are
responsible for ensuring SOF currency IAW AFI 11-418. Fighter squadron training officers
(DOT) will annotate on the Letter of X’s who is a qualified SOF and who is an experienced SOF.
6.9.1.1. (Added) 8 OG/OGV is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for administration
of the 8 FW SOF program.
6.9.2.1.1. (Added) The SOF upgrades will be conducted IAW the 8th FW Pilot Training
Syllabus, and the SOF upgrade checklist shall be maintained as an appendix to that document.
6.9.2.3.1. (Added) SOFs will retain the initial qualification paperwork in their grade books
located in each fighter squadron.




                                            SCOTT L. PLEUS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI11-418_8FWSUP 2 MAY 2012                                                              7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-418, Operations Supervision, 15 Sep 11
T.O. 1F-16CM-1, F-16CM Flight Manual, 1 Jul 11
T.O. 1F-16CM-1CL, F-16CM Flight Crew Checklist, 1 Jul 11
8 FW In-Flight Guide, 1 Nov 08
Adopted Form
AF IMT 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (General Purpose Vehicles)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFORMS—Air Force Operations Resource Management System
AMIS—Advanced Meteorological Information System
ATIS—Automatic Terminal Information Service
BWDO—Battle Watch Duty Officer
CP—Command Post
EOR—End of Runway
FCIF—Flight Crew Information File
FG—Fighter Group
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
HAS—Hardened Aircraft Shelter
IAP—International Airport
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
NOTAM—Notices To Airmen
PEX—Patriot Excalibur
PIREPS—Pilot Reports
QRC—Quick Reaction Checklist
RAPCON—Radar Approach Control
RFI—Read File Index
ROKAF—Republic of Korea Air Force
RSU—Runway Supervisory Unit
RTB—Return to Base
 8                                            AFI11-418_8FWSUP 2 MAY 2012


SODO—Senior Operations Duty Officer
TBMCS—Theater Battle Management Core System
AFI11-418_8FWSUP 2 MAY 2012                  9


                              Attachment 2
                              SOF REPORT

Figure A2.1. SOF Report
