BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-205
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 5 MAY 2010
                                               AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                        Supplement
                                                                              20 MARCH 2013

                                                                                  Intelligence

                                                      GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION AND
                                                                    SERVICES (GI&S

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A2CG                                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/A2C
                                                                         (Mr. Robert Marlin)
                                                                                  Pages: 25
Supersedes:   AFI14-205, 4 May 2004
                                         (AFGSC)
OPR: HQ AFGSC/A2XS                                             Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A2X
                                                                            (Lt Col John Hale)
                                                                                       Pages:8
Supersedes:   AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP, 1
              April 2010


This instruction implements the Geospatial Information & Services (GI&S) subset of Geospatial
Intelligence (GEOINT) as defined in Title 10 U.S. Code 467. In addition, this instruction
implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance
(ISR) Planning Resources and Operations, 2 April 2004. It provides procedures for identifying
functional and area requirements for GI&S as well as the provision and use of GI&S data and
products. This instruction also implements AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve
Component (ARC) Forces, 16 Aug 2006, to ensure provision of GI&S support to all gained Air
reserve Components (ARC) Air National Guard (ANG) and USAF Reserve; Department of
Defense (DoD) Instruction 5000.56, Programming Unique Mapping, Charting and Geodesy
(MC&G) Requirements for Developing Systems, 11 September 1991; DoD Instruction 5030.59,
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) LIMITED DISTRIBUTION Geospatial
Intelligence, 7 Dec 2006; DoD Directive 5105.60, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
(NGA), 29 July 2009; Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3901.01B,
 2                                               AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


Requirements for Geospatial Information & Services, 15 Jul 2004; CJCSI 3900.01C, Position
(Point and Area) Reference Procedures, 30 June 2007. The AFI serves the standardization of
requirements under AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April
2009, and AFI 14-111, Intelligence in Force Modernization, 10 Jan 2005, as applicable to
developing systems requiring GI&S. The term GI&S, formerly known as Mapping, Charting and
Geodesy (MC&G), continues to include orthorectified imagery based geospatial products, [e.g.
Controlled Image Base, (CIB®)], but not imagery intelligence and other intelligence. The Air
Force GI&S discipline is addressed in this instruction. GEOINT and other GEOINT components
are addressed separately. GEOINT will be the subject of a forthcoming AFI. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the     Air     Force     Records       Disposition      Schedule    (RDS)     located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Field
activities must send implementing publications to the higher headquarters functional OPR for
review and coordination before publishing.

(AFGSC) AFI14-205, GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION AND SERVICES (GI&S), is
supplemented as follows: This publication implements AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance Planning, Resources, and Operations, and AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules
and Procedures, and incorporates guidance from Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-205, Geospatial
Information and Services (GI&S). This supplement directs Air Force Global Strike Command
(AFGSC) units on GI&S organization, reporting, and materials production processes; specifies
the required minimum software tools for use by AFGSC units; and delineates training
requirements for AFGSC personnel performing GI&S duties. This supplement does not apply to
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all
records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force. AFGSC units are prohibited from further supplementing AFI14-
205_AFGSCSUP. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed

This AFI incorporates changes resulting from reorganization and implementation of a
capabilities-based A-Staff structure for Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance, HAF/A2 and the tasking of the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                                                                     3


Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA) with the integration of USAF GEOINT capabilities into the
National System for Geospatial Intelligence (NSG), the deactivation of the Air Force Command,
Control, Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance Center (AFC2ISRC), as well as the change
of the ACC Combat Targeting and Intelligence Group (CTIG) to the Air Force Targeting Center
(AFTC). It reflects the organization of a Geospatial Community of Interest (COI). It cross-
references a specific checklist for the proper application and standardization of GI&S
requirements to developing systems. It prescribes a waiver system to ensure use of standard
products data and tools, and procedures to gain approval for substitute products if standard
products are not available. This instruction provides revised and expanded guidance on GI&S
functional requirements analysis, documentation and validation in the system development
process; driven by integration with AFI 14-111, Intelligence in Force Modernization, and recent
changes in intelligence roles, responsibilities and activities in the recently revised AFI 63-101,
Acquisition and Life Cycle Sustainment Management. In overall terms, the revision establishes
closer rapport with targeting and other primary users of GI&S, as well as all end users regardless
of command. This instruction does not provide authoritative guidance on the following because
they are not within AF/A2CG functional purview: DoD Flight Information Publications (FLIP),
Digital Aeronautical Flight Information File (DAFIF), and other materials for which Air Force
Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA) has functional responsibility; or Evasion Charts for which
Joint Personnel Recovery Activity (JPRA) is responsible, and the USAF Installation GI&S
(IGI&S) program, formerly known as GeoBase, for which AF/A7C has policy authority. This
AFI supersedes AFI 14-205, Geospatial Information and Services, (GI&S), 4 May 2004.

(AFGSC) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
Changes to this supplement constitute those resulting from new processes for Department of
Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) account creation and maintenance, which is required
for units to order GI&S materials, and new websites and means of contact for the Defense
Supply Center in Richmond, which provides GI&S materials to those individuals with DoDAAC
accounts. Additionally, re-alignment of AFGSC HQ staff and GI&S Offices of Primary
Responsibility (OPRs), specific direction and processes for bomb wing storage and maintenance
of GI&S files, inclusion and maintenance of War Reserve Stock (WRS) materials for all
AFGSC-supported COCOM OPLANs, and changes to deployment processes for GI&S products
are included. Finally, this supplement includes changes to the means of access to Digital
Aeronautical Flight Information Files (DAFIF) and Electronic Chum (ECHUM) files, which are
necessary for mission planning safety of flight considerations.


Section A—GI&S Responsibilities.                                                                                                       4
       1.      National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA). .................................................                        4
       2.      HQ USAF/A2, D eputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
               Reconnaissance. .....................................................................................................   4
       3.      Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA). ....                                          6
       4.      Air Combat Command (ACC), Air Force Targeting Center (AFTC). ...................                                        6
       5.      HQ Air Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA.) ................................................                          6
       6.      HQ Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC/A2). ...................................................                            6
 4                                                                      AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


        7.     Air Force Components of Combatant Commands, MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs. ....                                                          7

Section B—Identifying Requirements for Geospatial Information.                                                                               12
        8.     GI&S Requirements Flow and Definitions: ...........................................................                           13
        9.     Air Force Geospatial Programs ..............................................................................                  14

Section C—Obtaining Geospatial Information                                                                                                   15
        10.    GI&S Products. ......................................................................................................         15
        11.    Non-NGA GI&S Products. ....................................................................................                   17

Section D—Using Geospatial Information & Services (GI&S)                                                                                     18
        12.    General. ..................................................................................................................   18
        13.    Geopositioning and Accuracies. ............................................................................                   18
        14.    Updating and Disposing of Material. .....................................................................                     19
        15.    GI&S Software Policy. ..........................................................................................              20
        16.    Participating in NGA and Command GI&S Related Reviews. ..............................                                         20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                21


Section A—GI&S Responsibilities.

1. National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA). DoD Directive 5105.60 establishes the
Director, NGA as the DoD GEOINT Manager with authority to provide GEOINT functional
guidance to the NSG. This is further articulated in NSG Directive FM 1100 Roles and
Responsibilities of the Functional Manager of the National System for Geospatial Intelligence
(NSG) and the Establishment of the NSG. More information on NGA is located on their home
pages at: NGA Internet Homepage: http://www.nga.mil/ SIPRNET: http://www.nga.smil.mil/
JWICS: http://www.nga.ic.gov/ and; NGA Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) Basic Doctrine,
Publication 1-0, September 2006.
2. HQ USAF/A2, Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance. AF/A2 is the Air Force GEOINT Functional Manager (FM) and designates the
Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Capabilities Directorate, GEOINT
Capabilities Division, AF/A2CG, as the Air Force GI&S FM. The AF/A2CG GI&S FM validates
all GI&S requirements as identified in this instruction to ensure Air Force coordinated GI&S
requirements are pursued through technical and funding channels when they cannot immediately
be made available by NGA.
     2.1. AF/A2CG. As the Air Force GI&S FM, AF/A2CG is the focal point for Air Force
     geospatial policy planning and provides top level guidance to the Air Force geospatial
     enterprise consisting of AFISRA, the Air Force GEOINT Office (AFGO) and HQ ACC/A2
     geospatial components. AF/A2CG is responsible to organize, train and equip Air Force
     personnel in the GI&S function. AF/A2CG is the primary Air Force interface with NGA, the
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                           5


  Combatant Commands, Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, (USD(I)) and the other
  services on all GI&S matters of policy.
     2.1.1. AF/A2CG maintains overall validation authority for all Air Force GI&S functional
     and CONUS area requirements. AF/A2CG is the focal point for all Air Staff, Major
     Command (MAJCOM), Field Operating Agency (FOA) and Direct Reporting Unit
     (DRU) customers needing routine assistance in any GI&S discipline. As part of
     AF/A2CG, the Targeting Branch is the USAF FM for Air Force targeting and is a major
     focus for geospatial data and activity application. GI&S generally serves as the
     foundation of targeting operations. AFI 14-117, Air Force Targeting, 13 May 2009, lists
     the responsibilities of the Targeting FM.
         2.1.1.1. (Added-AFGSC) [Bomb Wing Only] All Air Force Global Strike
         Command (AFGSC) units should also refer to Air Force Global Strike Command
         Supplement (AFGSCSUP) to AFI 14-117, Air Force Targeting, for any targeting and
         target materials issues.
     2.1.2. AF/A2CG will chair the Air Force Geospatial Community of Interest (COI), to
     facilitate the exchange of information and to increase quality of geospatial processes and
     levels of proficiency. The COI will identify data, create a shared understanding and
     eliminate duplicative data. In addition to the COI, AF/A2CG will establish a Community
     of Practice (COP) web page in the Air Force Knowledge Now (AFKN) to post products,
     general information, minutes and related geospatial information for the widest Air Force
     dissemination. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU and other subordinates are encouraged to produce
     and maintain a COI web site for MAJCOM level portrayal of geospatial information. The
     purpose of this site is to provide information for all command users of GI&S to better
     understand related doctrine, directives, procedures and provide a general background
     concerning the GI&S functional area. A major aspect of these pages will be the many
     links that will permit the user to gather information at a greater depth if so desired. In
     addition, these web pages will provide a link to a number of GI&S requirement areas for
     examination of existing requirements and formulation of new requirements.
     https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-IN-AF-11
  2.2. AF/A2R. The ISR Resources organization represents AF/A2 at the DoD level for the
  development, coordination and implementation of fiscal and information support plans and
  programs. AF/A2C advises AF/A2R concerning plans, programs, resources, support
  initiatives, and technical advancements that affect GI&S.
  2.3. AF/A2D. The Director for ISR Strategy, Integration & Doctrine is responsible for GI&S
  personnel resource utilization and training issues.
  2.4. AF/A2Q. The Director for ISR Innovations & Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Task
  Force is responsible for the Innovation Program which includes use of imagery and mission
  planning data to facilitate selected operations. AF/A2Q shall provide close coordination and
  support to AF/A2CG concerning lessons learned from operational uses of geospatial data in
  crisis situations.
  2.5. AF/A7C. This organization is responsible for GI&S support for the installation and
  facilities mission known as the IGI&S Program. The IGI&S Program is implemented at each
  USAF installation and echelon through a corresponding Geo Integration Office (GIO).
 6                                                 AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


     IGI&S ensures the provision of and access to common, accurate and current geospatial
     information for all Air Force installations, ranges and property. Geospatial services are the
     combination of Information Technology (IT) infrastructure, services, and architectures that
     enable access to geospatial information. AFI 32-10112, Installation Geospatial Information
     and Services, (Installation GI&S), 19 Oct 2007, is the applicable instruction.
3. Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA). Air Force
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency as the Air Force GEOINT Element
(AFGE) is the lead agency for integrating Air Force GEOINT capabilities into the NSG. The
AFGE following AF/A2CG policy guidance will ensure Air Force GEOINT assets are properly
integrated and tailored to fit within the NSG resulting in maximum Air Force mission
effectiveness. The AFGE implements HQ USAF policy on all Air Force GI&S planning,
training, equipping, programming, and budgeting matters.
4. Air Combat Command (ACC), Air Force Targeting Center (AFTC). Assigned to ACC,
the AFTC produces and delivers timely, tailored targeting and geospatial intelligence, combat
identification products, strategic analysis, and unit support enabling the full spectrum of military
operations. It is comprised of three active duty units (15 Intelligence Squadron (IS), 20 IS and 36
IS) with additional Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard forces providing combat
capability. The AFTC conducts the Air Force precise Point Positioning certification and training
program; produces Controlled Imagery Base (CIB) products; and maintains and distributes the
Geospatial-Intelligence Product Library (GPL) for HQ USAF. The AFTC meets operational
requirements by producing tailored intelligence fused from all-source data and made available
on-line or delivered in the most expedient manner to ensure on-time delivery.
5. HQ Air Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA.) As outlined in AFI 11-201, Flight
Information Publication, 31 March 09, the Aeronautical Information Branch (HQ AFFSA/A3IF)
investigates, defines, consolidates, assembles, validates and lists, in order of priority, Air Force
operational requirements for Flight Information Publications (FLIP), Digital Aeronautical Flight
Information File (DAFIF), and related aeronautical information. AFFSA/A3IF is the Air Force
point of contact with NGA on FLIP and DAFIF matters to include nonprocedural discrepancies.
AFFSA/A3IF is also the point of contact to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), National
Aeronautical Charting Office, (NACO) for NACO aeronautical products.
6. HQ Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC/A2). HQ AFMC/A2 and subordinate
organizations analyze weapon system performance requirements, Tactics, Techniques and
Procedures, Concepts of Employment, threat environments and existing and planned GI&S
technology for the purpose of designing and developing the most appropriate GI&S solutions for
weapon systems and Automated Information Systems (AIS), in basic development or undergoing
block or spiral upgrades. These solutions will address, but are not limited to, data requirements,
data storage requirements, training requirements, facilities, and funding requirements. HQ
AFMC/A2O/X, ISR Operations, responsibilities center upon those requirements that relate to
weapon system research, development, modification, test and sustainment operations within the
AFMC management structure. AF Space Command (AFSPC) has oversight and support of space
programs outside of AFMC management. However, because AFMC programs are the biggest
users of GI&S, AFMC will have central management for obtaining GI&S for all AF programs.
     6.1. Assures Air Force Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)
     documents reflect potential GI&S requirements as prescribed by this AFI and CL-1, CJCSI
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                             7


   3312.01A, Joint Military Intelligence Requirements Certification, AFI 14-111, Intelligence
   in Force Modernization, AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Life Cycle Sustainment Management,
   AFI 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements Guidance and Procedures, and
   local command GI&S requirements guidance. The final validation action for all GI&S
   requirements rests with AF/A2CG. AF/A2CG will undertake any policy level coordination as
   may be required with NGA. Non policy level coordination by AFMC/A2O/X with NGA and
   any command NGA Liaison Officer is encouraged.
   6.2. The AFMC/A2O/X GI&S role is to ensure comprehensive analysis and documentation
   of GI&S functional requirements and provision of GI&S support to research, development,
   test and sustainment activities under AFMC management; executed in conformance with AFI
   14-205, CL-1, and command procedures. AFMC/A2O/X is also responsible for managing
   and directing command GI&S system-of-systems analysis to minimize system-specific,
   stove-piped GI&S solutions for the Air Force weapon system portfolio. AFMC/A2O/X will
   manage and direct the development and sustainment of an on-line database to track
   functional GI&S requirements of weapon systems under AFMC management. GI&S
   requirements identified through AFMC processes will be managed by AFMC/A2O/X or their
   subordinate offices and not directly by NGA personnel. AFMC will submit area requirements
   IAW paragraph 8.2 and participate in requirements calls as necessary.
   6.3. The AFMC Intelligence Squadron will maintain a database of GI&S functional
   requirements and shortfalls for all Air Force research, development, test and sustainment
   programs and projects. The database will maintain sufficient information to support
   development and execution of the AF GI&S strategy development; to include research
   proposals, budgeting and planning activities supporting current and future GI&S dependent
   technologies. It will enable users to understand potential operational impacts caused by
   transitioning to future NGA data, format and programs in a changing all-digital GI&S
   environment. This living database will be kept current as new systems enter the preliminary
   planning phases and legacy systems are retired. Any required releasability caveats will be
   maintained and followed.
   6.4. The AFMC intelligence community is periodically involved in Foreign Military Sales
   (FMS) programs. These programs are of high importance to US-Allied cooperation. Because
   each case is based on a wide variety of circumstances, each must be negotiated by NGA
   through AF/A2CG.
       6.4.1. AFMC/A2O/X and/or subordinate AFMC organizations will request release of
       NGA products to FMS programs by memorandum to AF/A2CG, a minimum of 90 days
       prior to need. The memorandum will contain, at a minimum, the following information
       elements: (1) FMS Program name, (2) FMS program contract number, (3) Receiving
       country, (4) NGA products required (series, stock numbers), (5) Intended product usage,
       (6) Date products required, (7) Impact if products are not released, and (8) Date products
       are required. The memorandum will be coordinated with the AFMC NGA liaison prior to
       submission.
7. Air Force Components of Combatant Commands, MAJCOMs, FOAs,
DRUs. Commanders of these organizations will establish a GI&S Point of Contact (POC). The
GI&S POC will consist of personnel trained sufficiently to conduct the assigned responsibilities
of this paragraph. AF/A2CG is endeavoring to increase the understanding of the geospatial
 8                                                 AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


function and the need to further integrate GI&S with the other GEOINT and targeting functions.
Failure to have a basic foundation of GI&S understanding among key personnel can impact
operations and degrade mission effectiveness. The USAF GI&S Smart Book, available on the
Geospatial               Community                   of              Interest            (COI),
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-IN-AF-11 is a supporting
tool to the GI&S function. The GI&S Smart Book contains instructions to obtain Computer
Based Training disks. Completion of this training should be considered as a minimum if other
courses cannot be taken in residence. In addition, AF/A2CG has published AFI 14-205,
Checklist 1, as mandatory for implementation of GI&S requirements. Use of the Smart Book and
AFI 14-205, Checklist 1, will help fill the void of not having experienced GI&S personnel. Each
organization will:
     7.1. If required by parent command, issue supplemental instructions to this instruction within
     six months of its publication. Implementing publications will be forwarded to the higher
     headquarters functional OPR for review and coordination before publishing.
     7.2. Each organization will supply the name of a POC to AF/A2CG, and AFMC/A2O, to
     receive emails for alerts or tasking in reference to GI&S requirements management. This
     POC will be responsible for coordination of responses from the organizations. This POC can
     be additional to the primary GI&S POC according to command needs.
        7.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) The assigned AFGSC GI&S/GEOINT Program Manager will
        act as the GI&S liaison between AFGSC/A2 and subordinate AFGSC units. The
        Program Manager will be responsible for providing assistance to units, as needed, for
        creating GI&S accounts, developing and managing GI&S programs, and requesting
        products.
            7.2.1.1. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC/A2 will establish a GI&S OPR. This OPR will
            have primary responsibility for obtaining GI&S products for the command. The OPR
            will follow the ordering procedures established in Section 10.1.5 of AFI 14-205 and
            GI&S acquisition activity will be coordinated with the 480th Intelligence Wing (IW).
            The 480th IW is responsible for preparing and distributing data packages for Tier 1
            entities, including AFGSC.
     7.3. Ensure GI&S points of contact establish and maintain GI&S distribution accounts and
     submit routine and Automatic Distribution (AD) requests to Defense Logistics Agency, as
     necessary. Manage all life-cycle needs of the Geospatial Product Library-Air Force (GPL-
     AF) to ensure readiness of latest data and products.
        7.3.1. (Added-AFGSC) The AFGSC/A2 GI&S OPR will maintain a Department of
        Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) in order to procure NGA products from the
        Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). The DoDAAC number will be used for all
        requisitions.
        7.3.2. (Added-AFGSC) The AFGSC/A2 GI&S OPR will assist units in establishing
        DoDAAC accounts, requesting products and services from DLA and NGA Customer
        Support Teams, and defining GI&S requirements.
            7.3.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) Units should provide AFGSC/A2 GI&S OPR
            (AFGSC.A2O.workflow@us.af.mil) a courtesy e-mail if requesting additional or
            cancelling existing DoDAAC accounts.
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                        9


     7.3.3. (Added-AFGSC) Each AFGSC organization with a DoDAAC account (JMxxxx)
     will appoint a primary and alternate GI&S custodian as responsible for ensuring
     adherence to provisions set forth in AFI 14-205 and this supplement. The GI&S
     Custodian will:
        7.3.3.1. (Added-AFGSC) Be identified to the AF DoDAAC Service Point through
        registration with DLA Accounts Management and Provisioning System (AMPS)
        (AMPS replaced DLA Form 1832) within 30 days of the establishment of a new
        account or the appointment of a new GI&S Custodian for an existing account.
        Instructions for AMPS submission/registration are available online from the Defense
        Supply Center Richmond web site on the Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router
        Network (NIPRNET) at: http://www.aviation.dla.mil/rmf/ or https://amps.dla.mil
        or http://www.aviation.dla.mil/rmf/AMPS%20Quick%20Ref.pdf. Intelligence
        units are directed to provide a copy of their AMPS registration to headquarters (HQ)
        AFGSC/A2O GEOINT OPR, 245 Davis Ave East, Room 316, Barksdale AFB, LA
        71110 or Defense Switched Network (DSN) 781-9384/0096, Fax 781-8516, or Email
        AFGSC.A2O.workflow@us.af.mil.
        7.3.3.2. (Added-AFGSC) Maintain a continuity folder for their DoDAAC account.
        At a minimum, this folder will include a copy of the current AMPS registration and a
        copy of their Automatic Distribution (AD) listing.
        7.3.3.3. (Added-AFGSC) Maintain and update, as necessary but at least annually,
        DoDAAC addresses and AD listing provided by DLA. DoDAAC account policy and
        management assistance can be obtained from the Defense Supply Center Richmond
        web site on the NIPRNET at: http://www.aviation.dla.mil/rmf/ and on Secret
        Internet       Protocol         Router        Network          (SIPRNET)    at:
        http://www.dla.smil.mil/dscr/maps/. At least annually, units should conduct a
        thorough inventory to ensure the accuracy and currency of all products. AD
        requirements can be adjusted as necessary based upon findings.
           7.3.3.3.1. (Added-AFGSC) If the unit’s AD listing needs changing or is older
           than one year, the unit will use the guidance located on the Defense Supply
           Center Richmond web site to make required changes.
        7.3.3.4. (Added-AFGSC) Order and maintain GI&S products supporting the unit’s
        mission. This includes providing one-time order and distribution support for unit
        organizations requesting support. For example, it is recommended that Civil
        Engineers and Security Forces acquire their own DLA account.
        7.3.3.5. (Added-AFGSC) Develop and review command GI&S Memorandums of
        Agreement (MOAs), Memorandums of Understanding (MOU), and GI&S doctrine
        applicable to AFGSC units and/or organizations.
        7.3.3.6. (Added-AFGSC) Certify and submit command functional requirements in
        accordance with AFI 14-205 and ensure GI&S requirements for new systems or
        techniques are included in the appropriate systems’ documents.
  7.4. As required, prepare GI&S Annexes (Annex M) to Combatant Command Operation
  Plans (OPLANs) and Concept Plans (CONPLANs) according to AFMAN 10-401, Operation
  Plan and Concept Plan Development and Implementation, 1 May 1998, and supported
10                                            AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


  command directives. Ensure dissemination of digital materials via the GPL-AF supersede
  and replace traditional bulk hardcopy materials currently in War Reserve Stock (WRS).
  Remember, hard copy charts from WRS will not have Chart Updating Manual (CHUM)
  updates unless the updates are manually plotted or the chart is created using a system that
  applies the updates.
     7.4.1. Identify, request and maintain on GPL-AF, appropriate GI&S stocks/data to
     support Combatant Command OPLAN, or CONPLAN tasking.
         7.4.1.1. (Added-AFGSC) The unit GI&S Custodian will identify supplies of GI&S
         material to execute missions and War Reserve Stock (WRS) requirements under each
         tasked Operation Plan (OPLAN). Intelligence personnel must work closely with
         operations and plans personnel to determine coverage, quantities, and types of
         material required. In determining coverage requirements, consider OPLAN tasking,
         to include areas of responsibility and intelligence interest. Geospatial Production
         Library – Air Force availability should be considered when determining WRS stocks.
         7.4.1.2. (Added-AFGSC) The unit GI&S Custodian will use the Digital
         Aeronautical Flight Information File (DAFIF) CDs or the NGA SIPRNET website for
         updating and maintaining currency for their GI&S stocks. DAFIF files are located on
         the              NGA                 SIPRNET                website              at:
         http://aero.geoint.nga.smil.mil/products/digitalaero/dafif.cfm.
         7.4.1.3. (Added-AFGSC) [Bomb Wing Only] The unit GI&S Custodian will
         download the current Electronic Chum (ECHUM) on a monthly basis from the NGA
         SIPRNET                                  website                               at:
         http://aero.geoint.nga.smil.mil/products/webchum/hardcopychum.cfm.
         Aeronautical charts depicting low-level flying areas will be updated with vertical
         obstructions listed in the current ECHUM. Note: Unit personnel must also be aware
         and inform aircrews that current CHUM updating does not portray all vertical
         obstructions.
     7.4.2. Conduct War Reserve Stocks (WRS) planning. The criticality of traditional WRS
     planning is decreasing because of increased use of digital data on GPL-AF. However, the
     following still applies to Combatant Commands WRS planning. Where applicable,
     identify WRS requirements for movement in the Time Phased Force Deployment
     Documentation Listing (TPFDDL) and the OPLAN or CONPLAN Logistics Annex. Use
     AFMAN 10-401 when developing and reviewing Annex M to OPLAN, CONPLAN.
     AFMAN 10-401 provides air components preparing plans for an OPLAN with guidance,
     formats and procedures consistent with the Joint Operation Planning and Execution
     System. AFMAN 10-401 also guides MAJCOMs when preparing plans to support Air
     Force unilateral plans. Generic procedures for estimating WRS quantities are available
     from                      the                       Geospatial                   COI:
     https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-IN-AF-11. If GPL-
     AF and reproduction resources exist, reduce WRS quantities to reconciled MAJCOM
     required levels. Quantities should diminish as GPL-AF and reproduction resources
     continue to increase.
         7.4.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) [Bomb Wing Only] Units will keep a WRS supply of
         GI&S products available in addition to their standard AD. The WRS program
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                           11


         ensures sufficient GI&S material is available to support AFGSC operations during
         hostilities. The program positions GI&S material as close to the intended area of use
         as possible. For bomb wings, it ensures GI&S material is stored and available for
         distribution IAW priorities based on theater plan requirements. The program ensures
         augmenting/supporting forces have sufficient GI&S material to sustain operations
         between the time that units exhaust their basic stocks and the time that DLA can
         commence long-term GI&S sustainment operations. WRS supply of GI&S products
         can be stored and maintained physically or electronically.
         7.4.2.2. (Added-AFGSC) HQ AFGSC/A2O will establish WRS policies,
         procedures, and responsibilities for the identification, storage, maintenance, use, and
         dissemination of GI&S WRS material for AFGSC and augmenting supporting forces
         in support of Combatant Commanders’ OPLANs. HQ AFGSC/A2O will also:
            7.4.2.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) Review requirements and specifications for new or
            modified GI&S products and coordinate with other HQ AFGSC staff
            organizations to determine the validity of operational needs, justifications,
            intended uses, requested products and services, and suitability of availability
            and/or alternate materials in the WRS program. HQ AFGSC/A2O will administer
            the development, production, evaluation, and distribution of products to support
            the WRS program through command channels.
            7.4.2.2.2. (Added-AFGSC) Coordinate with the Major Commands (MAJCOMs)
            of augmenting and supporting units to ensure their WRS requirements are
            identified and satisfied.
            7.4.2.2.3. (Added-AFGSC) Monitor storage requirements and the distribution of
            GI&S materials to ensure OPLAN requirements are satisfied.
     7.4.3. (Added-AFGSC) [Bomb Wing Only] During contingency or crisis operations, it
     is recommended that units deploy with a minimum of 15 days of GI&S products
     (physical or electronic). GI&S products can be obtained directly from the Defense
     Supply Center Richmond map facility within 24-48 hours Continental United States
     (CONUS) and 2-5 days Outside the Continental United States (OCONUS). Products
     must be ordered by the unit GI&S account custodian whose name appears on the AMPS.
     Contact AFGSC GI&S/GEOINT Program Manager for help in establishing the account.
     The requirements must include customer DoDAAC number, point of contact (POC),
     commercial telephone (Comm), specific ship-to address, products desired (with NGA
     Reference numbers and National Stock Numbers [NSN]), and quantities of products.
     Contact Defense Supply Center Richmond Product Center 9 Requisition Processing
     Branch (DSCR-JNB) at DSN (312) 695-6500, Comm (804) 279-6500, or Toll Free 1-
     800-826-0342. Fax requirements to DSN (312) 695-6510 or Comm (804) 279-6510.
     Send messages to DSCR RICHMOND VA/DSCR-JNB//.
  7.5. Establish procedures to ensure sufficient GI&S items are available to sustain routine
  operations and ensure adequate re-supply. Issue maps, charts, digital GI&S data and related
  items when required. Maintain accessibility to pertinent NGA instructions, manuals and
  catalogs.
 12                                                AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


   7.6. Actively coordinate with command operations, plans, training, logistics, requirements,
   inspection, and intelligence staffs to ensure doctrine, strategy, tactics, logistics, and Research,
   Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E) efforts adequately address GI&S functional
   requirements.
   7.7. Assist in the origination and fielding of new procedures and techniques to facilitate Air
   Force generated changes such as the GPL-AF development.
   7.8. Ensure GI&S programs are funded as applicable.
   7.9. Ensure data/product reviews are accomplished and responses to all NGA GI&S product
   reviews are routed through the chain of command to AF/A2CG for Air Force position.
   7.10. Participate in annual Air Force GEOINT conferences, periodic special GI&S meetings
   and the Air Force GI&S COI, to address critical GI&S matters of mutual concern.
   7.11. Ensure subordinate units are aware of, and comply with Air Force and Joint Chiefs of
   Staff (JCS) policy regarding use of World Geodetic System (WGS) and other datums as
   prescribed in CL-1, relating to this instruction. All organizations will use the most current
   WGS84 for all GI&S support to operations, unless otherwise directed by the cognizant joint
   combat commander, and will only use NGA validated software for datum transformations.
   This is an item for inspection.
   7.11. (AFGSC) 1 (Added) AFGSC/A2 GI&S OPR will ensure that all subordinate
   commands comply with policy regarding the use of World Geodetic System-84 (WGS-84).
   AFGSC will field and sustain their subordinate units’ Geospatial Product Library (GPL).
   AFGSC will develop and execute MAJCOM-specific GPL tactics, techniques, and
   procedures and ensure subordinate GPL administrators have sufficient training.
   7.12. Provide GI&S support to all gained Air Reserve Components (ARC) [Air National
   Guard (ANG) and USAF Reserve] IAW AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve
   Component (ARC) Forces, 16 August 2006.
      7.12.1. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC/A2 GI&S OPR will provide GI&S support to all
      gained Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Commands (AFRCs).
      7.12.2. (Added-AFGSC) Wing Intelligence section will provide GI&S support to base
      units to include: Weapons and Tactics, Plans and Exercises, and the Weather Squadron;
      other units requesting GI&S support will be accommodated on an as-needed basis as
      demands arise. MOA(s) will be drafted between the requesting unit(s) and the Wing
      Intelligence section stating the extent and parameters of the GI&S support they will
      provide.
          7.12.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) [Bomb Wing Only] Bomb Wing Intelligence section
          will provide GI&S assistance to the assigned Wing Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and
          Escape (SERE) representative by ordering and maintaining appropriate Escape and
          Evasion (E&E) charts and Pointee Talkies.
   7.13. Coordinate GPL-AF installation, maintenance and information requests with HQ
   ACC/A2YS, and AF/A2CG.

Section B—Identifying Requirements for Geospatial Information.
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                               13


8. GI&S Requirements Flow and Definitions: There are three major classes of GI&S
requirements. The NSG Needs List, Area Requirements and Functional Requirements for
developing systems and operational capabilities. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs will identify new
geospatial capability needs in the NSG Needs List. These requirements will be prioritized and
validated by AF/A2CG. Area Requirements are requests for production of standard NGA
products and data over specific geographic areas. Functional Requirements, managed by HQ
AFMC/A2O/X, are for existing, modified and new GI&S information in support of Air Force
research, development, test and sustainment activities under AFMC management. CJCSI
3901.01B and AFMAN 10-401 prescribe GI&S functional and area requirements identification
processes for DoD. AFI 14-111, prescribes the integration of intelligence into the Air Force’s
modernization processes. Air Force CL-1 related to AFI 14-205, and AFMC guidance provides
the means for writing new GI&S requirements or checking the validity of existing requirements.
AF/A2CG maintains validation authority and authority to negotiate policy between Air Force
and NGA.
   8.1. Functional GI&S requirements originate in the system development community as an
   output of AFMC systems engineering-level analysis conducted on combat system
   performance requirements provided by the operational community. These requirements serve
   as the foundation for developing and maintaining the appropriate GI&S materials and support
   to the entire weapon system life cycle, starting with developmental planning through weapon
   system retirement, using relationships identified in Section A. New functional requirements
   are forwarded from the identifying AFMC intelligence office (or AFSPC intelligence office
   for space programs) through AFMC/A2O/X to AF/A2CG. AF/A2CG validates and forwards
   all fully processed functional requirements to NGA for adoption, development and
   production. Some of these requirements and those of the NSG Needs List are coordinated for
   adoption by other services to increase interoperability.
       8.1.1. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC units with intelligence or operational GI&S
       requirements not satisfied by current GI&S products will forward their requirements to
       HQ AFGSC/A2O. Examples include digital or hard copy map products, Digital Terrain
       Elevation Data (DTED) , and Controlled Image Base (CIB®).
   8.2. Area requirements are requests for standard products and data over specific geographic
   areas. AF/A2CG will manage the Air Force area requirements process for CONUS training
   areas including Alaska. COCOMS manage area requirements for operational areas in
   OCONUS.
   8.3. System-level requirements are those GI&S requirements derived from engineering-level
   analysis of combat performance requirements conducted in collaboration with Program
   Offices. They represent the translation of specified operational capabilities into specifications
   for software, hardware, data and all components that comprise the finished system.
   8.4. AFMC/A2O/X, and Program Development Offices coordinate new or modified
   systems’ GI&S data needs to ensure interoperability and compatibility of NGA and other
   GI&S data sources. It is of utmost importance that this be done as early as possible in the
   development cycle.
   8.5. All computer software designed to use GI&S data must use NGA authorized data,
   information, and NGA or AF/A2CG certified formats to the extent possible without
   intervening transformations. The goal is to eliminate need for transformations that can impact
 14                                              AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


   interoperability, and data fidelity or incur unnecessary developmental or operational costs.
   The use of unauthorized proprietary formats is strictly prohibited and an area of concern for
   inspection.
      8.5.1. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC units should have the latest version of FalconView TM
      software installed on their systems for GI&S functions. FalconView TM is not to be used
      for targeting purposes.
      8.5.2. (Added-AFGSC) Unit Intelligence personnel should have access to Personal
      Computer Integrated Imagery and Intelligence (PC-I3) to conduct GI&S functions and
      applications.
   8.6. Feature data in support of Feature Based Operations (FBO) falls under the NGA
   Topographic Feature Data Management (TFDM) program to provide feature data at various
   resolution levels, designed to support specific missions. AF/A2CG will identify feature
   requirements for transmission to NGA ensuring future aeronautical data is available to fulfill
   all Air Force mission needs.
   8.7. Identifying Personnel Training Requirements. NGA’s National Geospatial-Intelligence
   College (NGIC) provides both basic and advanced, specialized GI&S training. Organizations
   at all levels having key GI&S positions will ensure incumbents have or receive the formal
   NGIC training needed to perform assigned responsibilities. The 17th Training Wing,
   Goodfellow AFB, TX, provides broad GI&S training as needed to supplement intelligence
   skills courses.
   8.8. Functional requirements programs will be managed to the maximum extent possible
   using web-based requirements tools. These tools should provide an edit-change capability of
   GI&S requirement categories, and enable review of existing requirements or formulation of
   new requirements. The tools should also have tracking capabilities and require the user to
   have an approved account to access the tool.
9. Air Force Geospatial Programs
   9.1. Geopositioning and Common Geopositioning Services (CGS). AF/A2CG serves as the
   FM for Air Force targeting IAW AFI 14-117. AF/A2DF, Force Management and Readiness
   Division oversees development of USAF intelligence programs IAW NGA certification
   standards for precise point positioning training and certification. AF/A2DF, coordinates with
   AF/A2CG on matters requiring target coordinate mensuration expertise. HQ ACC/A2 acts as
   the lead MAJCOM for matters related to training and certification of personnel performing
   target coordinate mensuration. The Air Force Targeting Center has responsibility under HQ
   ACC/A2. AF/A2CG will work with the MAJCOMS to transition new technologies that
   satisfy operational geopositioning requirements.
   9.2. Geospatial Product Library Air Force (GPL-AF). HQ ACC/A2YS has responsibility for
   management of the GPL-AF. See HQ ACC COI for a detailed program description:
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=AC-IN-00-07. The Air Force
   Targeting Center maintains and disseminates GPL-AF products to Air Force units. The GPL-
   AF is a product server designed to store and disseminate GI&S data for use at all Air Force
   levels. HQ ACC/A2YS develops GPL-AF modernization strategies to meet Air Force data
   storage and data distribution requirements, and ensures all GPL-AF functions are compatible
   with current and future Air Force systems.
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                         15


   9.3. AF/A2CG will provide specific requirements management of Government-Off-the-
   Shelf/Commercial-Off-the-Shelf (GOTS/COTS) software packages being considered for
   standard use by Air Force C4ISR organizations and systems. GIS software packages are the
   primary means to manipulate standard NGA authorized information. AF/A2CG will provide
   Air Force representation to the NGA MCG&I ESG and be the focus of related requirement
   collection for Air Force. NGA Instruction 8400.1R7, 29 Jan 07, covers acquisition of
   information technology products and software validation. The NGA certification ensures
   both COTS and GOTS meet accuracy requirements when used with NGA products, data or
   adopted standards. This certification is the formal acknowledgement of acceptability. AFI
   33-114, Software Management, identifies overall responsibilities for management of COTS
   and GOTS.

Section C—Obtaining Geospatial Information

10. GI&S Products.
   10.1. Data Access. Air Force GPL (GPL-AF) is the main source for NGA standard digital
   GI&S data. GPL-AF’s are deployed to the MAJCOM and squadron level. The master GPL-
   AF contains worldwide geospatial product coverage (maps, charts, elevation data, and
   imagery based geospatial products such as CIB), and is maintained at AFTC, Langley AFB,
   VA. When digital products are not available from GPL-AF, customers can obtain existing
   NGA products for standard and crisis or contingency support using sources or procedures
   listed below.
      10.1.1. The NGA Gateway and Softcopy Distribution facility provides additional means
      for on-line product distribution, and some software tools for manipulation of products
      and data.
      10.1.2. Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), NGA Catalogs of Maps, Charts and Related
      Products provide guidance for ordering standard NGA products available from DLA.
      10.1.3. In areas where standard NGA products are not produced or available through
      normal channels, identify requirements for substitute, non-standard products through the
      supported command’s GI&S chain of command as appropriate.
      10.1.4. Special attention is required regarding distribution caveats. NGA uses a
      "LIMITED DISTRIBUTION" marking to indicate that distribution of certain unclassified
      imagery and geospatial information is limited to DoD and authorized DoD contractors in
      accordance with the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations Supplement. Air Force
      organizations at all levels having responsibilities to produce or disseminate LIMITED
      DISTRIBUTION NGA data, must ensure this data remains in official channels prescribed
      by DODD 5030.59.
      10.1.5. Air Force GI&S Ordering Guidance. When products are not available via the
      GPL, use the latest versions of the following publications or web sites for guidance on
      ordering and stocking GI&S products.
          10.1.5.1. NGA, DLA Catalogs of Maps, Charts and Related Products, all volumes.
          10.1.5.2. AFMAN 10-401, Operation Plan and Concept Plan Development
          Implementation.
16                                             AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


         10.1.5.3. AFI 11-201, Instruction for Flight Information Publications (FLIP).
         10.1.5.4. AFI 11-230, Instrument Procedures.
         10.1.5.5. Defense Logistics Agency Internet Homepage (http://www.dla.mil/).
         10.1.5.6. Defense    Supply        Center      Richmond       Internet     Homepage
         (http://www.dscr.dla.mil/).
         10.1.5.7. NGA Gateway, www.nga.mil (NIPRNet server), osis.nima.mil (SBU/OSIS
         Server), www.nga.smil.mil (SIPRNet Server), www.nga.ic.gov (JWICS Server).
         Intelink-U, https://www.intelink.gov/nga (NIPRNet server).
  10.2. Obtaining Precise Points
     10.2.1. Units having geopositioning software capability and associated Digital Point
     Positioning Data Base (DPPDB) can perform geopositioning IAW para. 2.3.2.1 AFI 14-
     117, 13 May 2009. Identify new DPPDB coverage needs IAW Section B, this AFI.
     DPPDB should be the preferred source for precise point generation. If DPPDB alone
     cannot be used, users employing imagery registration techniques should use source, in the
     following order: National Technical Means, commercial, tactical or other mission
     imagery tied to DPPDB.
         10.2.1.1. (Added-AFGSC) [Bomb Wing Only] Targeting Application Workstation
         (TAWS), Precision Target Workstation (PTW), or Common Geopositioning Services
         (CGS) systems should be used by unit personnel to obtain mensurated coordinates.
         Only properly trained and certified personnel will perform point mensuration
         procedures IAW AFI 14-126, Target Coordinate Mensuration Training,
         Qualification, and Certification.
     10.2.2. In areas where no DPPDB coverage exists, or where point requirements exceed
     local geopositioning capabilities, units can obtain geopositioning support from the AFTC
     or NGA. Information concerning NGA’s program can be found on the SIPRNet at:
     http://sps.stl.nima.smil.mil/products/nimapoints/index.html. Information concerning
     AFTC products can be found on the SIPRNet at: http://ctig.langley.af.smil.mil. Each
     year AF/A2CG tasks the MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs to estimate their 6-month to 1-
     year points requirements and geopositioning priorities. The resultant level-of-effort
     estimates are forwarded to NGA, in a consolidated Air Force requirement. Throughout
     the year, as geopositioning data is needed for individual points, users will send requests
     directly via electronic means to “NGA ST LOUIS AFS MO//PRTC//.” Commercial:
     (314) 676-5764 or DSN: 693-5764. Include: accuracy required in feet/meters for Circular
     Error and Linear Error values, imagery, with a description of the point desired, required
     datum (e.g. World Geodetic System), type of coordinates desired (e.g., geographic or
     Military Grid Reference System (MGRS), IAW CJCSI 3900.01, Position Reference
     Procedures; as well as priority and justification. Coordinate the turn-around time for
     completing routine requests and include information copies to the appropriate higher
     command, and the Air Force NGA Support Team.
     10.2.3. Crisis Support. Quick response support for geopositioning will be submitted
     through the responsible Unified Command to the appropriate NGA Support Team.
     Additionally, the AFTC can provide geopositioning for crisis support. Pre-arrange the
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                             17


      turn-around time in number of hours per point according to mission need and NGA or
      AFTC resource availability.
          10.2.3.1. (Added-AFGSC) Unit GI&S POCs will develop a crisis/contingency plan
          for ordering GI&S products. The crisis ordering plan should be available to
          designated personnel within the unit in the event the primary GI&S POC is
          unavailable during crisis/contingency operations. The designated personnel should be
          listed as alternate GI&S POCs authorized to order GI&S products as necessary.
          10.2.3.2. (Added-AFGSC) [Bomb Wing Only] Bomb units will develop and submit
          GI&S requirements for Bomber Strategic Aircraft Regeneration Team (BSART)
          contingencies to HQ AFGSC/A2.           Bomb units should prepare and submit
          requirements for operations and sortie generation based on timelines established in
          unit-tasked OPLANs, assuming minimal support upon timeline expiration. Bomb
          units must include stand-alone mission support and planning systems equipped with
          necessary software, storage, and printing capabilities when determining and
          submitting BSART requirements.
   10.3. Obtaining Geodetic Survey Support. Send requirements for geodetic survey support to
   AF/A2CG through the responsible MAJCOM, FOA or DRU GI&S POCs. See Geospatial
   COI for instructions concerning the format of the Geodetic Support Worksheet and the guide
   for establishing Geodetic and Geophysical (G&G) accuracy standards for generic surveys:
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-IN-AF-11.
   10.4. GI&S Products for Contractors. Contractors needing standard GI&S product support
   will submit requests through their program’s Primary Contract Officer (PCO). The PCO then
   forwards requests to the appropriate command GI&S office. Compliance with AFI 31-601,
   Industrial Security Program Management, 29 January 05, is required. System Engineering
   Technical Assistance (SETA) contractors, with a non-disclosure statement, are exempt from
   access restrictions pertaining to other contractors. Systems are to use NGA data in standard
   format with no format or data conversions to any proprietary format. Command GI&S offices
   will review and validate contractor requests and forward requisitions to the Defense Supply
   Center Richmond-JN (DSCR-JN).
   10.5. System developers under Air Force jurisdiction must coordinate with the AFMC/A2 or
   their appropriate MAJCOM GI&S office on planned designs, new system development or
   existing system modifications that call for GI&S data to facilitate and ensure interoperability
   and compatibility with NGA databases. All computer software that will use NGA data must
   be directly compatible with the NGA databases and the NGA formats. The goal is to
   eliminate the need for translations or transformations that may impact NGA data fidelity,
   interoperability, accuracy and cost.
11. Non-NGA GI&S Products. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs will make every effort to ensure
only NGA or AF/A2CG authorized information is used. Therefore, only request non-NGA
products or contract production support when AF/A2CG or the appropriate Combatant
Command GI&S office confirms the required support cannot be obtained from NGA.
   11.1. Requesting non-NGA Products. With the exception of United States Geological
   Survey (USGS) and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) products, submit requests for existing
   GI&S products not produced by NGA or specifically addressed in this instruction (e.g.,
 18                                              AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


   native edition maps) to the AF/A2CG or the GI&S point of contact of the Combatant
   Command responsible for the area covered by the products. Specific instructions for ordering
   non-NGA products, NGA Instructions, Manuals, Catalogs and FLIP products, are covered in
   the Geospatial COI: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-IN-
   AF-11.

Section D—Using Geospatial Information & Services (GI&S)

12. General. GI&S serves as the foundation for operations and provides basic interoperability
for systems and forces. GI&S is critical to operations. Basic understanding of key GI&S
fundamentals is necessary to prevent adverse or deadly mission impact through introduction of
errors. The following paragraphs highlight principal GI&S areas where detailed understanding
and application is paramount.
   12.1. Datums, Coordinates and Reference Systems, and World Geodetic System (WGS84).
   An in-depth understanding of datums is critical to modern operations. WGS84 is the standard
   DoD reference system (datum) for all DoD GI&S products and services. Where feasible, Air
   Force organizations will use the most current WGS84 for all activities requiring GI&S data.
   When necessary to convert to or from WGS84 and local or regional datums, Air Force
   organizations will use NGA validated datum transformation software. CJCSI 3900.01C,
   Position (Point and Area) Reference Procedures, 30 Jun 07, requires selection of a standard
   datum, as prescribed by the Combatant Commander, in areas where operation on WGS84 is
   not possible. In addition to NGA references below, see Appendix 1 of the USAF GI&S
   Smart Book for the required critical understanding of Datums, Coordinate Systems and
   product accuracy. The USAF Smart Book is available on the Geospatial COI:
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-IN-AF-11.
   12.2. Reference Systems. Coordinate reference systems are the means of communicating
   locations. It is critical that all joint/combined participants communicate in the same terms.
   Defense Mapping Agency Technical Manual 8358.1, Datums, Ellipsoids, Grids, and Grid
   Reference Systems, gives current authoritative guidance for the use and portrayal of grids and
   grid reference systems information as applicable to maps and charts. See:
   http://www.nga.mil/GandG/.
   12.3. Vertical Datums. With reference to Height Above Ellipsoid (HAE) and Mean Sea
   Level (MSL), understand your requirement prior to submission and ensure mensuration
   needs according to weapon or Automated Information System (AIS) requirements. Ensure
   conversion of dissimilar vertical datum as necessary.
   12.4. Transformations. GEOTRANS or NGA certified transformation algorithms will be
   used for all transformations related to the three paragraphs above. Errors are induced each
   time a transformation is made, but use of the NGA approved software will limit the error.
   Transformation      software    information     is   on-line   in   NGA      G&G      pages
   http://www.nga.mil/GandG/.
13. Geopositioning and Accuracies. Geopositioning is critical to the employment of Precision
Guided Munitions (PGM). Paragraph 9.1 describes the means and methods used to obtain
precise points. NGA’s DPPDB is currently the only product available to users capable of
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                             19


providing accuracies adequate for coordinate seeking weapons. All Air Force users must use
NGA validated software for targeting, unless AF/A2CG authorizes otherwise.
   13.1. Coordinates for Targeting and Related Precise Points. Maps, charts and related GI&S
   data and imagery derived products such as Controlled Image Base (CIB®) are unsuitable for
   coordinate extraction for precision targeting purposes. Digital Point Positioning Database
   (DPPDB), IAW AFI 14-117, 13 May, 2009, is the key to generation of all target coordinates
   and related precise points for navigation and offset aimpoints. If you do not have DPPDB,
   NGA or AFTC support can be requested through organizational channels.
   13.1. (AFGSC) 1 (Added) If no properly trained personnel are assigned at the unit level to
   conduct point mensuration, units should request assistance from the 608th Air Operations
   Center (AOC).
   13.2. Photocopied or reproduced digitized maps and charts. Producing map copies may
   introduce distortions and errors to the original product. Although making copies may be the
   most expeditious method for preparing strip charts and mission packages, Air Force
   discourages using these copies to derive coordinates or measure distances. Mission Planning
   System (MPS) and Commercial Joint Mapping Tool Kit (CJMTK), negates “Strip Chart”
   printing distortion concerns because mission planning software and CJMTK route
   calculations are performed internal to the software; not on potentially distorted paper copies.
   13.3. Many commercially produced maps and charts are copyrighted, as are many of the
   foreign produced maps and charts available through NGA. Users of these products should be
   aware of any potential copyright infringements.
14. Updating and Disposing of Material. Use the following documents to update aeronautical
charts and FLIP before using them. Users are responsible for annotating the corrections to NGA
publications or products prior to use.
   14.1. NGA Electronic Chart Updating Manual (ECHUM) contains a list of published
   aeronautical charts by series with a list of known corrections. ECHUM is available on all the
   Aeronautical web sites:
https://aero.geointel.nga.mil/products/webchum/index.cfm           (NIPRNet)
http://aero.geoint.nga.smil.mil/products/webchum/index.cfm         (SIPRNet)
http://aero.geoint.nga.ic.gov/products/webchum/               (JWICS)

       14.1.1. Report changes to FLIP as directed in AFI 11-201 and in FLIP, General
       Planning. Process changes qualifying as Notice to Airman (NOTAM) material according
       to AFI 11-230, Instrument Procedures. Consult AFFSA/A3IF for guidance.
   14.2. Processing Obsolete, Superseded and Excess GI&S Stocks. Dispose of classified maps,
   charts and related materials as specified in AFI 31-401, Information Security Program
   Management, 1 Nov 05. Dispose of unclassified maps and charts as instructed in the
   applicable        NGA            Catalog        or        from          DLA           at:
   http://www.dscr.dla.mil/PC9/G_info/Destruction.htm.
   14.3. Units with surplus current GI&S stocks should contact Defense Supply Center
   Richmond-JN, for disposition instructions.
 20                                              AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


15. GI&S Software Policy. Users who wish to use GI&S software other than that certified by
NGA must contact AF/A2CG. NGA works to assure that testing for certification will be applied
to any software exploiting NGA products. This gives assurance software adheres to the standards
and accuracy requirements, (See Para 9.3).
16. Participating in NGA and Command GI&S Related Reviews. AF/A2CG tasks
MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs to participate in periodic NGA product and prototype reviews. In
addition, HQ AFMC/A2 organizations monitor developing systems under incremental
development techniques, and periodically asks Air Force organizations to evaluate standard and
prototype GI&S products and systems requiring GI&S. This activity will be in coordination with
AF/A2CG. The purpose is to find out: if existing products still meet user needs; to identify any
necessary changes; to determine if requirements still exist; or to determine if new products meet
the needs for which they are designed. HQ AFMC/A2X also selects random user groups to test
functional aspects of systems under development. HQ AFMC/A2X acts as the technical agent for
development activity and consolidates Air Force positions. Air Force component commands
tasked by Combatant Commands should also respond through AFMC/A2X so inputs can be
reflected in consolidated Air Force positions for AF/A2CG approval.




                                            DAVID A. DEPTULA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance,
                                            and Reconnaissance

                                            (AFGSC)

                                            JOE D. MCDONALD, Col, USAF
                                            Director, Intelligence, Surveillance and
                                            Reconnaissance
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                            21


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
 NOTE: When multiple computer links to single references are given, they are listed in the order
of: NIPRNet; SIPRNet; and JWICS.
Title 10 U.S. Code 467
DoD Instruction 5000.56, Programming Unique Mapping, Charting and Geodesy (MC&G)
Requirements for Developing Systems, 11 September 1991.
DoD Instruction 5030.59, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) LIMITED
DISTRIBUTION Imagery or Geospatial Information and Data, 7 Dec 2006.
DoD Directive 5105.60, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), 29 July 2009.
MIL-STD-2408, Mapping, Charting & Geodesy, Glossary of Feature and Attribute Definitions,
31 March 2004.
MIL-STD-600001, Mapping Charting and Geodesy Accuracy, 31 March 2004.
Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3505.01A, target Coordinate Mensuration
Certification and Program Accreditation, 11 March 2009.
Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3901.01B, Requirements for Geospatial
Information & Services, 15 July 2004, ( current as of) 22 Aug 2007.
Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3900.01C, Position (Point and Area)
Reference Procedures, 8 July 08.
Joint Pub 2-03, Geospatial Intelligence Support to Joint Operations, 22 March 2007.
NGA GEOINT Basic Doctrine, Publication 1.0, September 2006
NGA Reference Materials for Military Support.
http://www.nga.mil/mil/cda/article/0,2311,3104_116913_117196,00.html
NGA Catalog of Maps, Charts and Related Products, Parts 1-7.
http://www.geoint.nga.ic.gov/publications/catalog.html
National Geospatial-Intelligence College Catalog and Course Descriptions.
http://college.nga.ic.gov/htbin/Td/dbma&/db.cgi?db=Td&uid=default&view_search=1&cat
reg=on
NGA Instruction 8660.10, Procedures for Request, Release, Handling and Distribution of NGA
MC&G Digital Products.
http://policy.nga.smil.mil/DR_Main/policyGuidance.cfm#DCIDS
NGA Geodesy for the Layman.
http://164.214.2.59/GandG/pubs.html
http://sps.stl.ngaa.smil.mil/products.gandg/index.html
 22                                             AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


http://www.geoint.nga.ic.gov/products/gandg/publications/geolay/toc.html
NGA Datums, Ellipsoids, Grids and Grid Reference Systems
http://www.nga.mil/GandG/
http://sps.stl.ngaa.smil.mil/products.gandg/index.html
NGA Instruction 8400.1R7, NGA Instruction for Acquiring Information Technology Products,
29 Jan 2007.
(Added-AFGSC) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
(Added-AFGSC) AFI 14-126, Target Coordinate Mensuration Training, Qualification and
Certification, 16 November 2009.
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources and
Operations, 2 April 2004.
AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces, 16 August 2006.
AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development, 31 July 2006
AFI 11-201, Flight Information Publications, 31 March 2009.
AFI 11-230, Instrument Procedures, 6 April 2006.
AFI 14-105, Unit Intelligence Mission and Responsibilities, 3 June 2002.
AFI 14-111, Intelligence in Force Modernization, 10 January 2005.
AFI 14-117, Air Force Targeting, 13 May 2009.
AFI 14-201, Intelligence Production and Applications, 1 December 2002.
AFI 14-205, CL-1, Geospatial Information and Services (GI&S) Checklist, 28 March 2008.
AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development, 31 July 2006.
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005.
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 June 2005.
AFI 32-10112, Installation Geospatial Information and Services (Installation GI&S), 19 October
2007
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
(Added-AFGSC) AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007.
AFMAN 10-401V2, Planning formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998.
Air Force/A2CG GI&S Smart Book, January 2006
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-IN-AF-11
(Added-AFGSC) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-AFGSC) Comm—Commercial Telephone
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                     23


(Added-AFGSC) AD—Automatic Distribution
(Added-AFGSC) AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
(Added-AFGSC) AFGSCSUP—Air Force Global Strike Command Supplement
(Added-AFGSC) AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFKN—Air Force Knowledge Now
(Added-AFGSC) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
(Added-AFGSC) AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(Added-AFGSC) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AIS—Automated Information System
(Added-AFGSC) AMPS—Accounts Management and Provisioning System
(Added-AFGSC) ANG—Air National Guard
(Added-AFGSC) AOC—Air Operations Center
(Added-AFGSC) ARC—Air Reserve Components
(Added-AFGSC) BSART—Bomber Strategic Aircraft Regeneration Team
CIB®—Controlled Image Base
CGS—Common Geopositioning Services
(Added-AFGSC) CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
COI—Community of Interest
(Added-AFGSC) CONUS—Continental United States
DAFIF—Digital Aeronautical Flight Information File
DI—Director of Intelligence
(Added-AFGSC) DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
(Added-AFGSC) DoD—Department of Defense
(Added-AFGSC) DoDAAC—Department of Defense Activity Address Code
DPPDB—Digital Point Positioning Data Base
(Added-AFGSC) DSCR—JNB — Defense Supply Center Richmond Product Center 9
Requisition Processing Branch
ECHUM—Electronic Chart Updating Manual
FLIP—Flight Information Publication
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
GIO—Geo Integration Office
GI&S—Geospatial Information & Services
 24                                          AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013


(Added-AFGSC) GPL—Geospatial Product Library
GPL-AF—Geospatial Product Library- Air Force
HAE—Height Above Ellipsoid
(Added-AFGSC) HQ—Headquarters
(Added-AFGSC) IAW—In Accordance With
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance
IT—Information Technology
(Added-AFGSC) IW—Intelligence Wing
JMPS—Joint Mission Planning System
(Added-AFGSC) MAJCOM—Major Command
(Added-AFGSC) MC&G—Mapping, Charting and Geodesy
(Added-AFGSC) MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
(Added-AFGSC) MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MSL—Mean Sea Level
(Added-AFGSC) NGA—National Geospatial Intelligence Agency
(Added-AFGSC) NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NSG—National System for Geospatial Intelligence
(Added-AFGSC) NSN—National Stock Number
(Added-AFGSC) OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
(Added-AFGSC) OPLAN—Operation Plan
(Added-AFGSC) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCO—Primary Contract Officer
PFPS—Portable Flight Planning System
PGM—Precision Guided Munitions
(Added-AFGSC) POC—Point of Contact
(Added-AFGSC) PTW—Precision Target Workstation
(Added-AFGSC) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
(Added-AFGSC) SERE—Survival Evasion Resistance Escape
(Added-AFGSC) SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
(Added-AFGSC) TARA—Targeting Accuracy Requirements Allocation
(Added-AFGSC) TAWS—Targeting Application Workstation
TPFDL—Time Phased Force Deployment Listing
AFI14-205_AFGSCSUP_I 20 MARCH 2013                                                        25


WGS—World Geodetic System
WRS—War Reserve Stock

Terms
Geopositioning—Also known as precise positioning, point mensuration, geolocation.
Geospatial Information & Services—Covers all aspects of Air Force geospatial (formerly
known as Mapping, Charting and Geodesy). It excludes imagery intelligence, FLIP, DAFIF and
related aeronautical information, Joint Personnel Recovery Activity, and Air Target Materials
based programs.
Geospatial Intelligence—The exploitation and analysis of imagery, imagery intelligence and
geospatial information to describe, assess, and visually depict physical features and
geographically referenced activities on the Earth.
Addresses
HQ AF/A2CG
Targeting and GEOINT Division, Room 180
110 Luke Ave, Bldg 5681
Bolling AFB DC 20032-6400
202-767-7412, DSN 297

Defense Supply Center, Richmond-JN
8000 Jefferson Davis Highway
Richmond VA 23297-6545

National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
AF NST, Office of Military Support
12310 Sunrise Valley Drive
Reston VA 20191-3449
703-264-3003
