BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2U-2,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   VOLUME 2

                                                                         13 NOVEMBER 2012
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 21 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                        Intelligence

                                                    U-2 UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                             CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                  Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                       (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                          Pages: 21


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in U-2units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting U-2operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered functionally
as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all supplements must be
coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval.
Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-
0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. In
order for units to have time to prepare for compliance, this publication becomes effective 60 days
after the publication date.
 2                                                                                 AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                               3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Procedures. .............................................................................................................     3
       1.3.   Evaluation Instructions. .........................................................................................            3
       1.4.   Additional Training. ...............................................................................................           4
       1.5.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ..................................................................................                 4

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            5
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    5
Table 2.1.    Intelligence Evaluations. ........................................................................................             5
       2.2.   Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation. .....................................................                           6
       2.3.   Specialized Qualification Evaluations. ..................................................................                      8

Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                                9
       3.1.   General Evaluation Standards. ...............................................................................                  9
       3.2.   Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                        9
Table 3.1.    Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                        9
       3.3.   Specialized Training Evaluation Criteria. ..............................................................                      14
Table 3.2.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria. ..................................                                14
Table 3.3.    Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                      17
Table 3.4.    Emergency War Order Support Evaluation Criteria. .............................................                                17

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              19
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                     3



                                           Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and periodic
evaluations. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and this publication.
   1.1.1. Objective. The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to perform
   required duties safely and effectively, IAW applicable instructions and directives.
   1.1.2. Waivers.    ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver
   correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and
   guidance.
1.2. Procedures.
   1.2.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   successfully completed (verified by applicable AF Forms 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet) all
   duty position required Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized Training (ST)
   requirements outlined in AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 1, U-2 Unit Intelligence Training. (T-2)
   1.2.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria in Chapter 3 to conduct all intelligence evaluations.
   To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will be thoroughly familiar with the
   prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   1.2.3. Prior to beginning an evaluation, the IE will brief the examinee on the conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria of the evaluation. The examinee will
   accomplish required planning IAW the task being evaluated. (T-3)
   1.2.4. Conduct evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Document evaluations
   IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 7. Evaluations should be accomplished in a realistic
   training environment in conjunction with local events (e.g., actual deployment briefing, post-
   mission debrief) to the maximum extent possible. When it is impossible to conduct an
   evaluation in a realistic environment, evaluations may be conducted via an alternate method
   (e.g., simulated, staged, or by verbal examination) in order to complete the evaluation.
   Document the reasons and type of alternate method used in the comments section of the AF
   Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. (T-2)
   1.2.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee‘s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-3)
1.3. Evaluation Instructions. Standards and performance parameters are in AFI 14-202,
Volume 2, and this publication. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the evaluation criteria provided in this volume and
assign an appropriate evaluation grade for the area. Use the general area/sub-area grades in AFI
14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades,
the IEs will determine the overall qualification level (also found in AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Chapter 5). (T-3)
 4                                                       AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


     1.3.1. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, to assist in grading the individual areas during the
     evaluation. The form used by the evaluator will be a blank AF Form 4381, not the one
     completed on the individual during Mission Qualification Training (MQT)/Specialized
     Training (ST). The gradesheet elements specific to U-2 intelligence tasks are found in
     attachments 3 and 4 of AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 1. (T-3)
     1.3.2. IE judgment must be exercised when the wording for general evaluated areas is
     subjective and when specific situations are not covered. (T-3)
1.4. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training as
necessary. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-
3)
1.5. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall qualification level 3 (“Q-3”)
will be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on a mission
qualification evaluation (INIT MSN or MSN), they will not perform mission duties unsupervised
until remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on a specialized
evaluation, they will not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are accomplished, but
they can perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-2)
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                           5


                                        Chapter 2

                            EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. The intelligence evaluation must include the areas listed in this chapter as
depicted in Table 2.1, Intelligence Evaluations. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
 SUBJECT                                         INIT    MSN     EIT      IE      EWO
                                                 MSN
 Knowledge Evaluation
 U-2 Platform and Sensors Academics              R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) and the   R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Intelligence Process Academics
 Threat Knowledge                                R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems            R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Personnel Recovery (PR)                         R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Force Protection Intelligence (FPI)             R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Air Force Distributed Common Ground Station     R       R       ---      ---     ---
 (AF DCGS)
 Performance Evaluations
 Threat Briefings                                R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Situation Displays                              R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Manual Order of Battle (OB)                     R       ---     ---      ---     ---
 Automated OB                                    R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Initial Situation Briefing                      R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Situation Briefing                              R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Changeover Briefing                             R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Deployment Briefing                             R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Air Tasking Order (ATO)/Reconnaissance,         R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Surveillance and Target Acquisition (RSTA)
 Annex/Intelligence, Surveillance and
 Reconnaissance (ISR) Target Deck/Airspace
 Control Order (ACO)/Special Instructions
 (SPINS) and Other Tasking Documents
 Intellgience Support to Mission Planning        R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Mission Package Construction                    R       R       --       ---     ---
 Mission Briefing                                R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Step Briefing                                   R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Mission Tracking                                R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Debriefing                                      R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Intelligence Reports                            R       R       ---      ---     ---
 Specialized Task Evaluations
 Emergency War Order (EWO) Support               ---     ---     ---      ---     R
 Knowledge Evaluation
 6                                                         AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


 EWO Support Ability                                 ---      ---      ---       ---      R
 Instructional Ability                               ---      ---      R         ---      ---
 Evaluator Ability                                   ---      ---      ---       R        ---

 Gradesheet elements for each area are included in AFI14-2U-2, Volume 1. Passing
 criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.

 R = Required area of evaluation
 INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
 MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
 EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
 IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
 EWO = Emergency War Order Support (conducted in conjunction with MSN eval)
2.2. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
     2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
     and periodic mission qualification evaluations to test the examinee‘s understanding of U-2
     Platform and Sensors, basic radar theory, infrared theory, AOC and intelligence process,
     threat knowledge, friendly/neutral weapons systems, PR, and force protection intelligence
     (FPI). Examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit‘s master question file (MQF)
     for mission qualification evaluation subject areas. The examinations will be recorded on the
     AF Form 4350. Knowledge examinations may also be required during specialized
     qualification evaluations. Research, analysis and dissemination (RAD) and intelligence
     preparation of the operational environment (IPOE) involves knowledge intelligence
     personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the performance task evaluations and
     will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable performance task. (T-2)
     2.2.2. Performance Task Evaluation. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation
     materials based off of current intelligence, unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR)
     scenarios. Units must apply operational risk management principles to evaluations
     conducted during exercises or deployments. The following guidelines are provided to assist
     in constructing evaluation materials: (T-2)
        2.2.2.1. Situation displays. The situation for which the display is being built should
        contain enough data for the examinee to make decisions on the best medium to use for
        the creating the display. Include a large variety of items from AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 3
        that will challenge the examinee to conduct research and analysis to determine the
        relevance of the data to the situation. The number of items to be plotted should be of
        sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that the time taken is
        beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. The exercise will include both
        geographic coordinates and Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) coordinates.
        Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates between geographic coordinates
        (DD/MM/SS) and MGRS (NNAAAXXXXXX); and also from geographic coordinates to
        decimal minutes (DD/MM.mm). The scenario may include erroneous information to
        mirror the fog of war by including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats
        for the particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to
        identify errors and question the validity of information. The examinee should use MIL-
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 7


     STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual/US Marine
     Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics.
        2.2.2.1.1. Manual Order of Battle. The number of OB items in the plotting exercise
        will be of sufficient volume to have a variety of threats to plot to ensure correct
        symbology is used. The examinee must be able to identify critical elements of the
        table of organization and equipment for the OB being used.
        2.2.2.1.2. Automated Order of Battle. Examinee should be provided with a variety of
        OB sources from which to pull data. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and
        save threat files, insert accurate data, update and purge data to ensure quality control
        of the displayed data and question the information’s accuracy for a particular AOR.
     2.2.2.2. Intelligence Briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information
     provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports, and imagery. Other
     sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may also be used. Evaluated
     briefings include: threat briefings, initial situation briefing, deployment briefing,
     situation briefing, changeover briefings, deployment briefing, mission briefing, and step
     briefing.
     2.2.2.3. ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target Deck/ACO/SPINS and other tasking orders.
     Scenario, actual contingency or exercise materials will be used for this purpose. Provide
     enough information that the examinee’s unit is not the sole unit tasked on the ATO,
     RSTA Annex and ISR Target Deck. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the
     examinee’s proficiency in identifying and breaking out the elements of ATO/RSTA
     Annex/ISR Target Deck/ACO/SPINS to include unit tasking, air space control, PR,
     intelligence information and tracking data. As applicable, personnel should be evaluated
     on other types of tasking requests they may face in particular theaters.
     2.2.2.4. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning.                  Scenario or actual
     contingency/exercise materials will be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the
     examinee’s proficiency in planning, coordinating and conducting the entire mission
     planning process. Provide enough information to evaluate the examinee‘s ability to
     analyze the tactical problem/scenario, threat considerations, terrain, and weather,
     route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as appropriate. Evaluate proficiency in
     identify and plotting unit tasking. Specific pieces of information should be purposefully
     omitted to evaluate the examinee’s ability to define intelligence gaps and submit requests
     for information. Information for the situation briefing should be assembled from
     information provided by the evaluator; message traffic, and intelligence reports.
     2.2.2.5. Mission Package Construction.      Scenario or actual contingency/exercise
     materials will be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s
     proficiency in obtaining necessary mission materials including geospatial information
     and services to build mission materials. Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing mission
     planning software to construct mission packages. Evaluate ability to assist in building
     different fly-away kits.
     2.2.2.6. Mission Tracking. Use scenario, exercise or actual contingency to allow
     examinee to flight-follow missions in execution. Ensure opportunity exists to evaluate
     examinee’s proficiency to keep abreast of ongoing missions and upcoming debriefs.
 8                                                         AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


        Examine debrief forms to see that information has been filled in to maximum extent prior
        to engine shut down. Present simulated situation where aircraft is diverted. Ensure
        systems are used, if available to aid examinee in monitoring progress of tasked missions.
        2.2.2.7. Debriefing.      Conduct pilot debriefings following actual flying missions
        whenever possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with pilots to
        identify a particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity to
        represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR
        tasking. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to control the debriefing, ask amplifying
        questions and recognize irrelevant information.
        2.2.2.8. Intelligence Reports. Construct mission reports (MISREP)s or other applicable
        intelligence reports (INTREP)s using information provided in pilot debriefings and
        historical mission data. Complete reports IAW theater intelligence reporting directives.
2.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluations.
     2.3.1. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will
     consist of a performance task evaluation and will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2.
     Upon completion of profile EIT 1 and one or all of the remaining profiles outlined in AFI 14-
     2U-2, Volume 1, the EIT trainer will also be evaluated on their ability to present training in
     each applicable profile. Evaluators will give the examinee at least 4 hours’ notice of the
     subject matter or briefing topic for the evaluation. (T-3)
        2.3.1.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
        training in more than one individual EIT event at a time. The individual must complete
        the specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing
        element by an IE. Document the evaluation in the on-line documentation system. The
        individual must maintain currency and be reevaluated periodically for the subject matter
        according to AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 1. (T-2)
        2.3.1.2. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
        evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated. (T-3)
     2.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
     Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified to be IEs upon completion of the IE specialized
     training profiles, successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the senior intelligence officer
     (SIO). IEs will be evaluated using criteria in Chapter 3. Subsequent evaluations may be
     conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation. (T-3)
     2.3.3. EWO Support Ability Evaluation. EWO Support Ability Evaluations will be
     conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified to provide EWO
     support upon completion of the EWO support specialized training profiles, successful EWO
     evaluation and endorsement by the SIO. EWO support will be evaluated using criteria in
     Chapter 3. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
     evaluation. (T-3)
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                     9


                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Evaluation Standards. The evaluation criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: Mission Qualification and Specialized Evaluation Criteria. Use all sections of criteria
applicable to the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to
tasks associated with the duty positions or work centers in which personnel maintain mission
qualifications.

Table 3.1. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q      Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on MQF.
 Q-     Q- is not applicable for knowledge evaluations
 U      Fails to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 THREAT BRIEFING
 Q      Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
        Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Effective
        use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Tailored threat briefing to the
        capabilities of the U-2 airframe, avionics and countertactics. Correct classification
        and security markings on all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
 Q-     Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
        omissions, recovered when prompted. Some comparisons of threat to U-2, but not
        many. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow,
        somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
 U      Threat was not tailored to U-2 capabilities. Major gaps in information, unable to
        recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct
        basic research. Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of U-2
        mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
 SITUATION DISPLAYS (Includes MANUAL and AUTOMATED OB)
 Q     Correctly determined the proper medium, including type and scale, for creating the
       best situation display. Researched and analyzed data for accuracy, inconsistencies,
       and relevance to the situation. Used manual and automated processes to accurately
       plot all threats/items within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates. Consistently used
       correct symbology IAW MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US
       Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-
       12A, Operational Terms and Graphics. Correctly extracted geographic coordinates
       and MGRSs. Plotted to appropriate level of detail with respect to unit requirements.
       Successfully downloaded, printed, exported and displayed data. Able to manipulate
       data, display appropriate threat rings and perform terrain masking analysis.
       Demonstrated ability to convert various coordinate formats. Accurately maintained
       situation display to unit specifications, including classification and currency. Correct
       classification and security markings on all products produced.
 Q-    Did not select the absolute best medium for creating the situation display. Did not
10                                                     AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


       fully research and analyze data resulting in some minor irrelevant items to be
       included. Plotted 95% of the data within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates, the
       remaining 5% within 1nm. Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little
       prompting. Needed little assistance with coordinate conversions.
U      Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors
       or inconsistencies in data. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision
       or intervention. Incorrect classification.
INITIAL SITUATION BRIEFING
Q       Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
        Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well- tailored analysis
        relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures.
        Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Demonstrated ability to
        identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
        understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability
        to discriminate irrelevant information. Understood and provided detailed
        information tailored to the audience. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
        limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly.
        Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-      Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
        Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
        redundant.
U       Failed to use checklist. Content poorly organized, not tailored appropriately.
        Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
        conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed significant
        information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
        understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information
        may have. Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
        classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q       Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
        Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well tailored analysis
        relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures.
        Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Demonstrated ability to
        identify gaps in that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of
        research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to discriminate
        irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of
        unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identified significant information and
        rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Fielded questions correctly. Correct
        classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-      Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
        Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
        redundant.
U       Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Content not tailored. Confusing.
        Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic
        research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed significant information or
        failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor understanding of
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                              11


      capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have.
      Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q     Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas. Demonstrated
      clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass to next shift. Showed
      ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
      identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to the audience.
      Correctly annotated event log, identified significant events. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
      prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.,
      relocation, attacks) vs. poor planning.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist
      usage. Deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even
      with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next shift. Missed significant
      information or failed to disseminate information. Poor understanding of
      capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
      mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q     Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist and
      followed local procedures. Tailored, relevant content. Easily understood by
      audience. Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience.
      Identified key points including synopsis of military and political situation generating
      the deployment, and enemy activity and force disposition in AOR and along
      deployment route. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had
      potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and
      sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated
      understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis.
      Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products produced.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key
      areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
      Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor
      understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information
      may have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target Deck/ACO/SPINS AND OTHER TASKING DOCUMENTS
Q     Demonstrated ability to access the correct ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target
      Deck/ACO/SPINS and any changes. Correctly extracted mission tasking, airspace
      control measures and other information relevant to unit or tasking. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
      mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have jeopardized
12                                                     AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


       mission planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention.
       Incorrect classification.
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO MISSION PLANNING
Q      Effective use of checklist. Used appropriate research and analysis techniques in
       reviewing the ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target Deck/ACO/SPINS or other tasking
       documents, unit IPOE, target area acquisition, threat considerations, tactics, terrain,
       and weather, target area imagery, route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as
       appropriate. Correctly identified and plotted unit tasking. Recognized information
       gaps and submitted requests for information through appropriate channels. Made
       appropriate selection and effective use of planning materials and resources. Situation
       briefing was effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
       Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items. Correct classification and
       security markings on all products produced.
Q-     Required some assistance, but no impact on mission planning functions. Briefing
       could be better prepared or organized. Some difficulty with use of mission materials.
       Minor omission of intelligence information required for mission; however nothing
       that was critical to mission planning.
U      Failed to use checklist. Poor understanding of the requirements or lack of adequate
       mission materials delayed mission planning timeline. Major omissions of
       information critical to the planning cycle. Organization or lack of preparation
       seriously impacted understanding of the briefing. Incorrect classification.
MISSION PACKAGE CONSTRUCTION
Q      Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Demonstrated clear
       understanding and proper use of mission planning materials. Chose scales and views
       appropriate for mission. Knew proper channels for requesting information or
       materials. Accurate portrayal of target/operating area threats and hazards as well as
       ingress and egress factors to consider. Tailored mission materials to the type of
       mission being planned. Provided all mission materials in correct quantities and of
       sufficient detail. Materials neat and well organized. Considered all factors that
       could impact successful mission accomplishment. Provided thorough analysis of
       terrain, threats, route, track area and/or target area. Correct classification and
       security markings on all products produced.
Q-     Errors or minor omissions in mission materials which would not preclude mission
       accomplishment. Minor problems in organizing mission materials and identifying
       and ordering requirements. Corrected when prompted.
U      Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Major omissions or errors which
       would have impacted mission. Poor understanding of mission requirements or
       sources for mission materials. Chose incorrect scales or views for mission materials.
       Incorrectly plotted target or threats. Did not know how to request information or
       target materials. Did not provide analysis of threats, route, combat air patrol (CAP)
       or target area. Incorrect classification.
MISSION BRIEFING
Q      Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Briefing effectively
       organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence. Effective use of visual
       aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items:
       takeoff, ingress, target area, egress, divert airfields, and appropriate PR
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                13


       considerations. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had
       potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and
       sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information.
       Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when
       conducting analysis. Correctly identified significant events and issued threat update
       codes. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
       Fielded questions correctly.
Q-     Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
       omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission. Needs
       improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
       redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U      Failed to use checklist. Very confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information,
       unable to recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
       conduct basic research. Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding
       of U-2 mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
STEP BRIEFING
Q      Well organized and concise; presented relevant facts in timely fashion and IAW local
       requirements. Appropriate for the particular mission. Identified, analyzed and
       highlighted changes and updates since mission briefing. Correct classification.
Q-     Made updates with prompting-not proactive. Omissions would not have affected
       mission effectiveness.
U      Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated
       lack of understanding of U-2 mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
MISSION TRACKING
Q      Used all resources (systems, operations, command post, onboard datalink) to track
       progress of missions. Well organized to receive during various stages. All relevant
       mission information pre-filled on debrief forms. Aware of all cancelled or diverted
       missions. Made provisions for debrief at diverted location via personnel or other
       electronic means. All personnel had access to mission tracking and could quickly
       interpret information to derive mission status.
Q-     Did not utilized resources well. Made updates to tracking mechanism with
       prompting, not proactive. All personnel could not quickly derive mission status.
       Debrief forms not pre-filled with mission information.
U      No mechanism for effectively updating status of missions. Most personnel not
       capable of interpreting or updating mission status. Unaware of cancelled missions.
       Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated
       lack of understanding of U-2 mission capabilities. No plans for contacting divert
       locations for mission status and reporting information.
DEBRIEFING
Q      Thoroughly prepared and was able to extract pertinent mission results in timely
       manner. Assembled and brought requisite materials for use to the debriefing.
       Quickly identified perishable information and ensured prompt dissemination as
       applicable. Controlled the debrief, asked amplifying questions, and recognized
       irrelevant information. Collected all significant intelligence with sufficient detail to
       accomplish reporting requirements IAW checklists and theater directives. Identified
       significant events. Correct classification and security markings on all products
 14                                                     AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


        produced.
 Q-     Debrief took too long. Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some
        amplifying questions that would have enhanced detail of information gathered. Slow
        in dealing with time-sensitive information.
 U      Failed to use checklist. Not prepared, didn’t have materials for debrief. Disjointed
        flow. Failed to identify perishable information. Completely missed a debrief. Lost
        control of the debrief. Not enough detail to accomplish reporting requirements.
        Missed significant events. Incorrect classification.
 INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
 Q      Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
        available and included an initial level of tactical analysis with minimal to no
        extraneous information. Properly formatted. Met reporting timelines. Produced
        report IAW checklists and theater directives. Correctly identified significant events.
        Correct classification and security markings on all products produced. Appropriate
        knowledge of US Message Text Format (USMTF), if required.
 Q-     Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
        extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting,
        but pertinent information was included. Working knowledge of USMTF, but
        required some assistance, if applicable.
 U      Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Report was not in format
        required by theater intelligence reporting directive. Failed to use checklist.
        Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills complicated meaning of information
        or omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g., not sent to the correct
        users through appropriate channels). No knowledge of USMTF, if applicable.
        Incorrect classification.
3.3. Specialized Training Evaluation Criteria. The following grading criteria apply to duty
positions in which personnel maintain specialized skills.

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY - GENERAL
 Q     Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
       timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives. Effectively fielded and
       accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated subject matter
       knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference
       materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
 Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures,
       requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
       of instruction. Did not adversely affect training.
 U     Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
       training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training.
       Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in
       certain areas seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect
       classification.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – THREAT SYSTEMS
 Q     Determined appropriate threat training requirements. Used Air Force Tactics
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                            15


      Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary reference for
      training. Tailored threat training to the unit’s mission design series (MDS), mission
      specific requirements and appropriate audience (e.g., pilots, security forces).
      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 3.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
      of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary
      reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 3. Lack
      of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or
      security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – COLLECTION AND REPORTING
Q     Determined appropriate collection and reporting training requirements. Included
      pilot originated reports (in-flight report (INFLTREP), etc.), intelligence-generated
      reports (MISREP, INTREP, etc.) and essential elements of information (EEIs).
      Included AF DCGS orientation. Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively.
      Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all applicable
      items from AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 3 and the appropriate theater reporting directive.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or reporting directives. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use appropriate theater reporting directive as the
      primary reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2U-2 Volume
      3. Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not
      plan training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training.
      Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, or reporting directives. Lack of
      knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness.
      Incorrect classification and/or security markings.
16                                                   AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – PERSONNEL RECOVERY
Q     Determined appropriate PR training requirements. Coordinated with tactics, aircrew
      flight equipment (AFE) and survival, evasion, resistance and escape (SERE)
      personnel. Provided academic instruction on PR operational support processes.
      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 3.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or coordination process. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not coordinate with tactics, AFE and SERE personnel.
      Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 3. Lack of subject matter
      knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security
      markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – FORCE PROTECTION INTELLIGENCE
Q     Determined appropriate FPI training requirements. Included intelligence principles
      and procedures for FPI; summary of hostile forces in AOR and other hot spot areas;
      examples of hostile forces’ tactics and weapons employment; FPI resources;
      Terrorist Threat Levels; and unit FPI considerations. Demonstrated ability to instruct
      effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all
      applicable items from AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 3. Demonstrated subject matter
      knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved
      answers to questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or FPI resources. Minor problems in communicating or organization of
      instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 3. Lack
      of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security
      markings.
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                              17


Table 3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria.
 INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR PROFICIENCY
 Q      Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and
        made timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Displayed thorough knowledge
        of evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation documentation preparation.
        Completed appropriate evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and
        recorded performance. Comments were clear and pertinent. Correct classification
        and security markings on all products produced.
 Q-     Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures,
        requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
        of evaluation. Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in
        evaluation records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
 U      Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
        plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
        evaluation process. Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or threats.
        Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from evaluator effectiveness.
        Did not complete required forms or records. Comments were invalid, unclear, or did
        not accurately document performance. Incorrect classification.

Table 3.4. Emergency War Order Support Evaluation Criteria.
 EWO SUPPORT KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q     Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on MQF.
 Q-    Q- is not applicable for knowledge evaluations.
 U     Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 EWO SUPPORT ABILITY
 Q     Effectively used checklist or followed local procedures. Demonstrated clear
       understanding and proper use of EWO mission planning materials. Chose
       appropriate materials for mission and utilized appropriate mission planning software,
       if applicable. Knew proper channels for requesting information or materials.
       Provided all EWO mission materials in correct quantities and of sufficient detail.
       Materials neat and well organized. Considered all factors that could impact
       successful mission accomplishment. Provided thorough analysis with regard to
       threats, and/or route. Correct classification and security markings on all products
       produced.
 Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit EWO procedures,
       requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
       of instruction. Did not adversely affect mission.
 U     Failed to use checklist or follow local procedures. Major omissions or errors which
       would have impacted mission. Poor understanding of EWO mission requirements or
       sources for mission materials. Chose incorrect scales or views for target. Incorrectly
       plotted target or threats. Did not know how to request information or target
       materials. Could not utilize appropriate mission planning software when applicable.
       Did not provide analysis with regard to threats or route. Incorrect classification.
18               AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012




     Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
     Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance
     and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                          19


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 1, U-2 Intelligence Training, 13 November 2012
AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 3, U-2 Intelligence Procedures, 13 November 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3.1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
AFTTP 3.1.U-2, Tactical Employment—U-2, 17 May 2013 (S)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AF DCGS—Air Force Distributed Common Ground Station
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
 20                                                 AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012


ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Qualified
BQ—Basic Qualification
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapon
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EWO—Emergency War Order
FM—Field Manual
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IIQC—Initial Intelligence Qualification Course
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
IR—Infrared
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
AFI14-2U-2V2 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                             21


MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RQ—Requalify
RSTA Annex—Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition Annex
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
USMTF—US Message Traffic Format

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC level.
