BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-102
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              30 AUGUST 2011

                                                                              Flying Operations

                                                FLYING HOUR PROGRAM MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3O-AT                                                         Certified by: AF/A3O-A
                                                                     (Col Jeffrey R. McDaniels)
Supersedes:   AFI11-102, 29 March 2002                                                Pages: 19


This instruction implements AFPD 11-1, Flying Hour Program, and establishes the Air Force
Single Flying Hour Model. It describes the methodology used to determine the number of
MAJCOM flying hours that make up the Air Force Flying Hour Program (FHP). Send
comments and suggested improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation
for      Change       of       Publication,     through       channels       to    AF/A3O-AT,
afa3oat.workflow@pentagon.af.mil. Major Commands (MAJCOMs) may supplement this
instruction. Supplements will not be less restrictive than the basic publication. MAJCOMs will
coordinate supplements to this instruction with AF/A3O-AT before publication and will forward
one copy to AF/A3O-AT after publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with FAMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision adds new paragraphs 2.7, 2.7.1, 2.7.2, and 2.7.3, providing guidance on Adjusting
Programmed Aircrew Flying Training Requirements for Cost of Business (COB) Sorties;
ineffective training, reoccurring non-training sorties, and/or sorties needed to support unit
training requirements.
 2                                                                AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011



                                           Chapter 1

               INTRODUCTION, COMPLIANCE, AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Introduction and Background. The Air Force Flying Hour Program is a requirements-
based, peacetime program consisting of the flying hours necessary to train aircrews to safely
operate aircraft while sustaining them in numbers sufficient to execute the core tasked mission.
The Air Force Single Flying Hour Model (AFSFHM) provides the methodology and processes
that MAJCOMs will use to build flying hour programs. This model determines the number of
flying hours needed to attain and maintain combat readiness for all aircrew, test weapons and
tactics, and satisfy collateral requirements. The Joint Mission Essential Task List, the Air Force
task lists, and MDS-specific volumes of the AFI 11-2 series are the foundational requirements
that link aircrew training to tasks required to support Combatant Commanders. The centrality of
the flying hour program to readiness and combat capability cannot be overemphasized. It must
be defendable and auditable. To that end, it must be standard across the Total Air Force,
connected to readiness indicators, based on the train-to-task concept, easily understood, and most
importantly, based upon the requirements to train and experience aircrew to perform required Air
Force missions.
     1.1.1. The intent of this instruction is to provide a common methodology and structure for
     determining flying hour requirements while acknowledging unique MAJCOM requirements.
     The depiction of the model and the requirements of this instruction capture the necessary
     differences in the sortie-based, event-based and throughput-based flying hour programs of
     the combat, mobility, and formal training forces.
1.2. Applicability and Compliance. Active Duty, Air Force Reserve Command and Air
National Guard will use the AFSFHM described in this instruction with the following
exceptions:
     1.2.1. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
     (RDT&E). AFMC does not use the AFSFHM described in this instruction or build a flying
     hour program purely dedicated to training. Due to the unique nature of the AFMC mission,
     its flying hour program is tied to funding for executing its actual mission activities (e.g.
     missions required for test and evaluation, test support and/or depot operations.)
     1.2.2. Air Education Training Command (AETC) and Formal Training Units (FTU). AETC
     and FTUs do not use the AFSFHM described in this instruction for building a formal training
     program. Flying hours for formal training programs are driven principally by throughput and
     content with an element of force sustainment and other support requirements factored in.
     1.2.3. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC).
     1.2.4. Civil Air Patrol (CAP).
1.3. Responsibilities. AF/A3O-AT is the office of primary responsibility for the AFSFHM and
is the approval authority for suggested changes. Active duty MAJCOM, AFRC and ANG
Directors of Operations are responsible for MAJCOM models.
     1.3.1. The lead command establishes the training requirements basis for all mission design
     series (MDS) aircraft in its inventory. User commands must use the same flying hour
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                                                                     3


  computations. Lead commands will inform user commands of any training/calculation
  changes. See AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management, for
  further information. Exception: AFMC will establish training, Stan/Eval and general
  operations procedures to govern procedures unique to flight test operations. See AFPD 11-2,
  Aircraft Rules and Procedures.
  1.3.2. MAJCOM flying hour program managers will maintain supporting documentation
  (preferably electronic file) for each budget year’s programmed flying hours. This
  documentation will include variable input factors used in the flying hour calculation process
  (e.g. refly rates, Cost of Business adjustment factor). Maintain this documentation for three
  years after the budget year execution.
 4                                                                AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011


                                            Chapter 2

              THE AIR FORCE SINGLE FLYING HOUR MODEL (AFSFHM)

2.1. Core Components of the AFSFHM. The AFSFHM is composed of five core components:
Force Structure, Aircrew Data, Requirements, Calculation, and Summary (Figure 2.1). For
operational flying units, the relationship of these components expresses the mathematical
formula: force structure determines the number of Aircrew Position Indicator (API) 1 pilots;
pilots multiplied by requirements determine the number of required flying hours. For formal
training units, the mathematical formula consists of the average daily student load multiplied by
the average number of flying hours per student per day, multiplied by the number of training
days. This result determines the number of required student flying hours and, in turn, the
required force structure. MAJCOMs may add other functions to the model as long as its core
structure remains intact. The AFSFHM is not applicable to AFMC. Refer to AFI 11-2 FTV1,
Flight Test Aircrew Training, for AFMC process and procedures governing initial qualification,
upgrade and/or currency/continuation training covering AFMC intent associated with the model.
Note: Send any suggested changes to the AFSFHM to AF/A3O-AT. See Attachment 8 for
example.

Figure 2.1. The Air Force Single Flying Hour Model.




2.2. Force Structure. This component is the input site for Primary Aircraft Inventory (PAI)
and crew ratio, and determines the required number of API-1 pilots. At MAJCOM discretion,
this data may be portrayed by fleet or by unit. For pilot production, no input is required because
force structure is a function of the student load. See Attachment 3 for example.
2.3. Aircrew Data. This component is the input site for the types and number of aircrew that
require training. It includes calculations that result in the number of aircrew members by
specialty (e.g., pilots, combat systems officers, boom operators) that require flying training. The
crew position that drives the greatest number of flying hours is the total requirement. The
number of API-1 aircrew members is derived normally from crew ratio and PAI in the force
structure component. The number of attached (API-6 and API-8) aircrew members is determined
by manpower standards and MAJCOM guidance. For pilot production, this data is derived from
production goals and average daily student load. See Attachment 4 for example.
     2.3.1. Position and category of aircrew members and other pertinent aircrew data include but
     are not limited to:
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                                                                        5


       2.3.1.1. API-1 Line Pilots.
       2.3.1.2. API-2 Line Combat Systems Officer.
       2.3.1.3. API-6 and API-8 staff and supervisory positions below (6) and above (8) wing
       level    (document specific positions and source of API-6 and API-8 authorizations
       included in FHP development).
       2.3.1.4. Experience mix: IAW AFI 11-412, Aircrew Management.
       2.3.1.5. Instructors.
       2.3.1.6. In-unit Requalifications.
       2.3.1.7. Number of projected upgrades.
       2.3.1.8. Number of aircrew requiring special qualifications.
       2.3.1.9. Production goals.
       2.3.1.10. Average daily student load.
       2.3.1.11. Number and experience mix of instructors.
2.4. Requirements. This is the input site for the type, number, and/or duration of annual
aircrew flying training requirements by aircrew position and category as well as operational
mission requirements derived from appropriate tasking documents. Requirements include those
events associated with Undergraduate Pilot Training (UPT), initial and mission qualification
training, continuation training, upgrade, requalification, and special capability training
events/sorties that aircrew must accomplish during the training cycle. Requirements may also
include missions performed in support of operational users. Requirement sources include AFI
11-2 MDS, MAJCOM Ready Aircrew Program (RAP) messages, as well as MAJCOM and
Numbered Air Force (NAF) instructions and OPLANs. See Attachment 5 for example.
   2.4.1. Because of mission and training differences, training requirement computations
   should     remain sortie-based for Combat Air Forces (CAF) aircraft (including Combat
   Search and Rescue helicopters) and event-based for helicopters and Mobility Air Forces
   (MAF) aircraft. In cases when an MDS is operated by multiple MAJCOMs (e.g., F-16Cs
   operated by ACC, PACAF and USAFE), the lead commands methodology takes precedence.
   User commands will forward any proposed deviation from lead command methodology to
   the lead command and AF/A3O-AT with supporting justification.
   2.4.2. Examples of requirements include:
       2.4.2.1. RAP Sorties (those sorties required to achieve and maintain basic mission
       capable and/or combat mission ready status) and non-RAP sorties (those sorties that build
       basic pilot skills such as instrument, advanced handling, navigation, etc.).
       2.4.2.2. Mission Qualification Training.
       2.4.2.3. Special Capability Requirements.
       2.4.2.4. Operational Missions.
       2.4.2.5. Force support sorties/hours (ferry, functional check flight, weather ship, control
       ship, etc.)
 6                                                                  AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011


        2.4.2.6. Aging rate required for aircrew to achieve required crew qualifications.
        2.4.2.7. Number of training events.
        2.4.2.8. In-unit requalification training.
        2.4.2.9. Syllabus hours associated with undergraduate and graduate flying training.
        2.4.2.10. Refly rate, scheduling effectiveness/efficiency – see Attachment 9.
        2.4.2.11. Number of training days.
        2.4.2.12. Flying Hour Factor (FHF, the average number of flying hours per student per
        day) x refly rate.
2.5. Flying Hour Computations. Flying hour computations must include an experiencing
(aging) calculation. Although the terms are different for fighter versus multi-crew aircraft,
copilots and wingmen must accumulate hours permitting them to upgrade at a minimal rate to
support planned absorption and crew qualification requirements to maintain a unit’s capability to
fulfill its assigned missions. This calculation will ensure that flying hour programs identify the
required hours to upgrade at a prescribed rate and ensure a standardized requirements
computation for all aircraft. (Note: Experiencing (aging) calculations may not be required by
AFRC and ANG. Experiencing (aging) calculations are not applicable to AFMC.)
2.6. Calculation. Flying hour requirements are based on the number of aircrew members that
need to be trained and their annual flying training requirements. (Note: Flying hour requirement
calculations are not applicable to AFMC; refer to AFI 11-2 FTV1.) The following basic formula
applies (See Attachment 6 for example):
     2.6.1. For operational flying units: Hours = number aircrews by category x requirements x
     duration.
     2.6.2. For pilot production units: Hours = FHF x refly x class load x number of training
     days. (Note: Instructor pilot continuation training requirements are determined in the same
     manner as operational pilots.)
     2.6.3. Within this area the individual formulas are listed that calculate the hours necessary to
     meet each training requirement. In general, each requirement will be represented by its own
     formula that yields flying hours specific to that requirement. Examples of operational
     training formulas include:
        2.6.3.1. Combat Mission Ready hours (separated for experienced and inexperienced
        pilots).
        2.6.3.2. Basic Mission Capable hours (separated for experienced and inexperienced
        pilots).
        2.6.3.3. Navigation Training/Instrument/Advanced Handling Characteristics hours.
        2.6.3.4. Hours required to satisfy additional special missions/capabilities specifically
        tasked to the unit, such as Combat Search and Rescue, AGM-88, AGM-130, etc.
        2.6.3.5. Hours necessary to maintain Instructor Pilot/Supervisor qualification.
        2.6.3.6. Hours necessary to conduct Mission Qualification Training.
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                                                                          7


       2.6.3.7. Cost of Business (Hours required to replace hours utilized in the program for
       ineffective training sorties, reoccurring non-training sorties, or sorties needed to support
       unit training.)
       2.6.3.8. Hours associated with take-off (initial and non-initial), landings, cell formations,
       air refueling (receiver and tanker).
       2.6.3.9. Overseas requirements.
       2.6.3.10. Aging or upgrade requirements: IAW AFI 11-412, Aircrew Management.
   2.6.4. Examples for Formal Training formulas include:
       2.6.4.1. For each MDS, calculations producing the number of training days by month
       and class, number of students by month and class.
       2.6.4.2. Lastly, a position summarized by MDS indicating total student, instructor pilot
       continuation training, and collateral flying hours.
2.7. Adjusting Programmed Aircrew Flying Training Requirements. Flying hour training
requirements defined in AFI 11-2MDS support the individual pilot training needs. However,
those requirements do not address the additional sorties needed to supplement the program for 1)
ineffective training sorties, 2) reoccurring non-training sorties, and/or 3) sorties needed to
support unit training requirements. Program adjustments for these issues are referred to as ―Cost
of Business‖ (COB) adjustments. The COB adjustment process identifies sorties related to the
above three categories and then quantifies, on a percentage basis, the sorties that did not achieve
required aircrew training. This historical factor becomes the auditable COB adjustment for
future flying hour programming. For the purposes of this AFI, ―required RAP training‖
constitutes sorties/events identified in the MAJCOM RAP tasking message for which the
required volume has not been accomplished. Red Air is considered required volume up to the
maximum allowed by the RAP tasking message. Sorties that can count as Commander (CC)
Directed also are considered required training until the maximum ―CC directed‖ option sorties
have been accomplished (most impact to BMC pilots).
   2.7.1. COB Responsibilities.
       2.7.1.1. AF/A3O-AT is the office of primary responsibility for oversight of the COB
       adjustment process and is the approval authority for MAJCOM supplements and
       suggested changes.
       2.7.1.2. MAJCOMs will oversee their units’ COB inputs and ensure the application of
       the collected data as a flying hour programming adjustment.
       2.7.1.3. Units are responsible for documentation and validation of the COB data.
   2.7.2. COB Tracking. Standardized missions symbols will be developed by AF/A3O-AT
   for      utilization in tracking COB. The intent is to identify COB factors to use as an
   adjustment       within the flying hour programming process. The source for tracking will be
   the mission symbol based on the following:
       2.7.2.1. Attrition sortie; any sortie or mission that did not execute the original intent of
       the mission as scheduled due to unforeseen reasons. See Attachment 9 for example.
8                                                                 AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011


       2.7.2.2. Force Sustainment; any sortie or mission in support of unit training or currency.
       See Attachment 9 for example.
       2.7.2.3. Force Support; any sortie or mission not scheduled to support RAP or CT
       training. See Attachment 9 for example.
    2.7.3. Formula. Using auditable historical data, the COB factor will be added to the
    requirements based flying hour program to account for additional sorties needed for attrition,
    unit support, and non-training sorties. See Attachment 9 for example.




                                             HERBERT J. CARLISLE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                                                9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management, 8 Mar 07
AFPD 11-1, Flying Hour Program, 10 Aug 04
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 Jan 05
AFI 11-2FTV1, Flight Test Aircrew Training, 18 Apr 07
AFI 11-412, Aircrew Management, 10 Dec 09
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSFHM—Air Force Single Flying Hour Model
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
API—Aircrew Position Indicator
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ASD—Average Sortie Duration
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
CAF—Combat Air Forces
COB—Cost of Business
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CT—Continuation Training
FHF—Flying Hour Factor
FHP—Flying Hour Program
HCM—Hours per Crew per Month
HS—Home Station
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
 10                                                 AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011


MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PAI—Primary Aircraft Inventory
RAP—Ready Aircrew Program
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
SCM—Sorties per Crew per Month
USAFE—US Air Forces in Europe
UTE—Utilization Rate
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                             11


                                   Attachment 2
                      SAMPLE CAF FLYING HOUR MODEL

Figure A2.1. Sample CAF Fllying Hour Model.
 12                                               AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011


                                   Attachment 3
                       SAMPLE MAF FORCE STRUCTURE

Figure A3.1. Sample MAF Force Structure.
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                          13


                                  Attachment 4
                        SAMPLE MAF AIRCREW DATA

Figure A4.1. Sample MAF Aircrew Data.
 14                                              AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011


                                  Attachment 5
                        SAMPLE MAF REQUIREMENTS

Figure A5.1. Sample MAF Requirements.
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                           15


                                   Attachment 6
                          SAMPLE MAF CALCULATION

Figure A6.1. Sample MAF Calculation.
16                                                AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011


                                   Attachment 7
                          SAMPLE MAF SUMMARY

Figure A7.1. Sample MAF Summary.
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                                         17


                                    Attachment 8
          AIR FORCE SINGLE FLYING HOUR MODEL: F-16C EXAMPLE

Figure A8.1. Air Force Single Flying Hour Model F-16C Example.
 18                                                              AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachment 9
                           COST OF BUSINESS ADJUSTMENT

A9.1. Attrition sortie. The following are examples of Attrition Sorties:

Table A9.1. Attrition Sortie.
Maintenance                     Original intent of mission not accomplished due to
                                aircraft malfunction (does not include ground aborts)
Weather                         Original intent of mission not accomplished due to
                                weather (does not include weather cancellation)
Air Traffic Control (ATC)       Original intent of mission not accomplished due to air
                                traffic control issues
Airspace                        Original intent of mission not accomplished due to
                                lack/loss airspace
Operations                      Original intent of mission not accomplished due to
                                operations (i.e. aircraft recalled due to incident)
Support                         Original intent of the mission is not accomplished due
                                to lack of support aircraft (i.e. tanker no-show on A/R
                                mission; one aircraft aborts on 2V2)
A9.2. Force Sustainment. The following are examples of Force Sustainment Sorties:

Table A9.2. Force Sustainment.
Vol 1 Support                      Sortie/mission launched in support of training
                                   requirements (e.g. Red Air)
Look Back                          Sortie/mission is scheduled solely to meet lookback
Individual Upgrade Training        Any sortie that requires a grade sheet (i.e. FLUG,
                                   IP, EP)

Upgrade Support                    Sortie/mission generated to support individual
                                   upgrade
Remedial Training                  Any individual upgrade training mission that is
                                   reflown; the sortie is a result of a Q2 or Q3
CC Directed                        Commander directed sortie/mission launched at
                                   the discretion of the chain of command as allowed
                                   for in the RAP tasking message
CC Directed Support                Sortie/mission launched in support of Commander
                                   directed sortie
Regain Currency
A9.3. Force Support. The following are examples of Force Support Sorties:

Table A9.3. Force Support.
Functional Check Flight (FCF)
Ferry flight                                  Flying aircraft to depot, AMARG, etc.
AFI11-102 30 AUGUST 2011                                                                19


Non-Contingency deployment                   Sorties to and from Red Flag, Airlift
                                             Rodeo, etc.; deployments for
                                             contingency operations are not included
Air Show/Demonstration                       Sortie/missions flown to and from an air
                                             show/demo/flyby to include sorties or
                                             missions flown at the event
Orientation/Incentive                        Sorties to support orientation ride or
                                             incentive flight
Airborne Spare                               Sortie/mission generated as an airborne
                                             spare for non-contingency deployments
Contingency (Operation Noble Eagle)          Sortie/mission flown in support of
                                             Operation Noble Eagle
A9.4. The formula to calculate COB factor is as follows:

Figure A9.1. Formula to Calculate COB.
