BY ORDER OF THE                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2EC-130H,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 1

                                                                        28 NOVEMBER 2012
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 6 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                EC-130H UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 44


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in EC-130H units. This
publication applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG)
intelligence personnel supporting EC-130H operations. The National Guard Bureau will be
considered functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented,
but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior
to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                             AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                  4
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   4
       1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................    4
       1.3.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
       1.4.   Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................                7
       1.5.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            7
       1.6.   Intelligence EC-130H Familiarization Program. ...................................................                              7
       1.7.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING (IQT)                                                                                               8
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     9
       3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
       3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                              9

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING (CT)                                                                                                        18
       4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   18
       4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           18
       4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                19
Table 4.1.    EC-130H Operations Intelligence Ready Intelligence Program Currency
              Requirements. ........................................................................................................        19
Table 4.2.    EC-130H CCATT Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements. ............                                                  20
       4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     20
       4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       20

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING (ST)                                                                                                         21
       5.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................           21
       5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        21
Table 5.1.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................                                   23
       5.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................                          23
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                3


Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION   25

Attachment 2—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                           29

Attachment 3—EC-130H MQT GRADESHEETS                             30

Attachment 4—SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEETS                    42

Attachment 5—EC-130H MQT, ST AND RIP REQUIREMENTS                43
 4                                                      AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012



                                            Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
     1.1.1. Scope. This volume outlines the basic guidance for training EC-130H unit
     intelligence personnel. With the complementary references cited, this volume prescribes
     procedures to attain and maintain the qualifications and currencies to support EC-130H unit
     operations. These training requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented by
     additional unit-level written guidance. Unit-level written guidance may expand these basic
     procedures, but in no case will it be less restrictive.
     1.1.2. References. The primary references for EC-130H unit intelligence training are AFI
     14-2EC-130H Volume 2, EC-130H Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2EC-130H
     Volume 3, EC-130H Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and
     Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics; AFTTP
     3-1.EC-130H, Tactical Employment – EC-130H; and this publication. Training will be
     current with the latest editions. These references can be supplemented with other classified
     and unclassified authoritative publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence
     Center products, Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc. as long as
     the source is appropriately referenced.
1.2. Waivers. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if
such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.3. Responsibilities.
     1.3.1. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202 Volume 1,
     ACC/A2 will:
        1.3.1.1. Coordinate with user MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
        requirements for EC-130H intelligence personnel training.
        1.3.1.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
        training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
        (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST). Senior Intelligence
        Officers (SIO) are authorized to modify the baseline training materials to meet unit needs.
            1.3.1.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop/maintain and provide a
            course training standard, syllabus, and curriculum for IQT for EC-130H intelligence
            through formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202 Volume 1.
            1.3.1.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide,
            baseline Threat Capabilities Briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral
            forces electronic warfare, aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAMs), surface-to-air missiles
            (SAMs), anti-aircraft artillery (AAA), ground forces and associated equipment, naval
            and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations and employment techniques.
            1.3.1.2.3. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide,
            softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer-generated graphics and digital
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                           5


         audiovisual Visual Recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide
         adversary, neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of
         battle as well as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and
         camouflage, concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
     1.3.1.3. Engage in crosstalk between unit SIOs and user MAJCOM/A2 training
     organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
     lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training
     tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying to MAJCOM/A2 changes in
     requirements and potential training opportunities. Foster unit-level 'best practices'
     exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
     1.3.1.4. Assist ACC subordinate units in developing training programs.
     1.3.1.5. Assist user MAJCOMs with EC-130H units in providing support to unit training
     programs. User MAJCOM/A2s may submit requests for training program support to
     ACC/A2.
  1.3.2. All MAJCOMs with EC-130H units will:
     1.3.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
     requirements for intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials.
     1.3.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs based
     on this AFI and MAJCOM supplement.
  1.3.3. The Unit SIO will:
     1.3.3.1. Develop and execute programs to meet minimum training requirements for
     intelligence personnel. Provide guidance to flying squadron intelligence sections
     regarding execution of training. (T-2)
     1.3.3.2. Appoint in writing an Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
     (IPTPM) to oversee and document orientation training, IQT, MQT, CT, ST and other
     required training by unit personnel. Where assigned, the AF Intelligence Weapons
     Instructor Course graduate will provide input into the training programs. (T-3)
     1.3.3.3. Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train. All
     intelligence personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.
     Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with
     a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions. (T-3)
     1.3.3.4. Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
     1.3.3.5. Monitor currencies and requirements for all intelligence personnel. Assigned
     Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) will be trained and equipped to command
     standards for the positions against which they are aligned and/or will assume. (T-3)
     1.3.3.6. Ensure personnel accomplish ancillary training IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force
     Training Program. Consult with the local unit training manager and Unit Deployment
     Manager for ancillary training requirements specific to the unit and base. (T-2)
6                                                       AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


       1.3.3.7. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and
       current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or
       perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current. (T-2)
       1.3.3.8. Identify and report training shortfalls that have a negative impact on operations
       to the MAJCOM/A2 (courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable). See
       Attachment 2 for an example report. (T-3)
       1.3.3.9. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
       lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training
       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify to MAJCOM/A2 changes in requirements and
       potential training opportunities. Participate in unit-level “best practices” exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
    1.3.4. The IPTPM will:
       1.3.4.1. Develop intelligence personnel training programs with written guidance
       detailing how programs will be conducted. Design training programs to achieve the
       highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and resource availability.
       Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, unit mission and
       capabilities. (T-2)
       1.3.4.2. Use lead MAJCOM-developed training materials to assist in the development
       and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. (T-3)
       1.3.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include
       delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
       1.3.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports as required by local procedures for
       tracking overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.3.4.5. Provide individuals a digital copy of their qualification training and evaluation
       records when they change station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing
       current qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
    1.3.5. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.3.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
       1.3.5.2. Assist the IPTPM in developing and executing unit intelligence qualification
       training and other required training programs. (T-3)
       1.3.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel
       and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
       achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this publication have been met.
       (T-3)
    1.3.6. Intelligence personnel will:
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                                  7


       1.3.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       publication and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.3.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in MQT or CT. (T-2)
       1.3.6.3. Hand-carry or electronically deliver a digital copy of qualification training and
       evaluation records when changing station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in
       assessing qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
1.4. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is a venue intended to
facilitate achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. While the SIO
is ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training; professional
development, including intelligence-specific and mission-specific training is the responsibility of
the trainee and supervisor. Training received during internal training may be achieved via skills
practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics or as otherwise
devised by the IPTPM. The internal intelligence training plan will include all training
requirements identified to be accomplished for all intelligence personnel during the training
cycle. (T-2)
1.5. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks
and achieve CMR status. CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST
qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be
conducted in conjunction with skill level upgrade training. For detailed explanation of IQT,
MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202 Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this AFI.
1.6. Intelligence EC-130H Familiarization Program. The SIO, in conjunction with the
Operations Group Commander, will develop an Intelligence EC-130H Familiarization Program
IAW governing MAJCOM directives. The Familiarization Program will be designed to provide
intelligence personnel training on all phases of mission planning and EC-130H airframe
capabilities and limitations.
   1.6.1. The Intelligence EC-130H Familiarization Program is a training program, not an
   orientation or incentive program. Intelligence personnel who participate in the program
   should complete specific desired learning objectives (DLO) during each event.
   1.6.2. The SIO will develop Intelligence EC-130H Familiarization Program written guidance
   outlining procedures to manage the program as well as DLOs to be achieved during program
   events.
1.7. Documentation. All intelligence training must be documented. Units will document
completion of specific training items in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding
online documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                       AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


                                             Chapter 2

                        INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING (IQT)

2.1. General. This chapter outlines IQT for EC-130H unit intelligence personnel. IQT for
intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training (i.e., the Air Force Specialty Code
awarding courses) and concludes with successful completion of the Intelligence Initial
Qualification Course (IIQC). The EC-130H IIQC is designed to meet the IQT requirements for
personnel assigned to support the EC-130H weapon system. Personnel successfully completing
the EC-130H IIQC and subsequent evaluation as described in AFI 14-202 Volume 1 are to be
considered Basic Qualified (BQ).
2.2. IQT Requirements.
     2.2.1. IQT will be conducted at the unit using the EC-130H IIQC syllabus and training
     courseware provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2)
     2.2.2. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the EC-130H IIQC syllabus.
     Failure to complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to
     MAJCOM/A2 with person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated
     completion date. (T-2)
     2.2.3. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the EC-130H IIQC training standard.
     In-unit IQT will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on the individual’s
     proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-2)
     2.2.4. Evaluation and certification will be annotated in the documentation system of record.
     (T-2)
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                           9


                                         Chapter 3

                         MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT qualifies intelligence personnel in their assigned duty positions supporting
EC-130H missions/operations. Guidance in this chapter is provided to assist SIOs in developing
and executing their MQT program for all individuals. MQT execution will take into account the
assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented
performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. MQT can be accomplished
through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or other training
opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Applicable portions of MQT will be used
to create a requalification program for personnel who are non-CMR (N-CMR) or BMC (N-
BMC) status. (T-2)
   3.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT;
   however, in situations determined by the SIO, intelligence personnel may begin MQT before
   completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make this option more practical. Member
   must complete IQT and attain BQ status before fully completing MQT and being awarded
   BMC/CMR. MQT will be completed within the time specified below. (T-3)
   3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
   ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the
   completion of IQT, if IQT was conducted in-unit. Timelines for completion of MQT for
   each MAJCOM and reporting requirements are specified in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
       3.1.2.1. For Active Duty units, MQT will be completed within 120 days.          Notify
       MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
       3.1.2.2. For AFRC units and IMAs, MQT will be completed within 120 days with
       seasoning days. If no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 365
       calendar days, or the execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and
       Annual Training, whichever is earlier. Notify MAJCOM Intelligence IMA Program
       Manager, ACC/A2 and AFRC/A2 if training exceeds 365 calendar days. (T-2)
   3.1.3. The AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, will be used to document the trainee’s
   progression through each individual training item. Specific EC-130H MQT Intelligence
   gradesheet templates are located in Attachment 3. (T-2)
   3.1.4. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT, a successful Initial
   Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, AFI 14-2EC-
   130H, Volume 2, and SIO endorsement. Refer to AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 2 for a more
   detailed explanation of evaluations.
3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Develop blocks of instruction covering
areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-developed
training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures and will
ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The MQT
program for EC-130H intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to, the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position (Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs). (T-2)
10                                                   AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


  3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to unit
  missions for all areas listed below except 3.2.1.1.1, by successfully completing a closed book
  test from the unit master question file (MQF) (85 percent minimum to pass). Successfully
  complete a timed VR test via a visual presentation system (85 percent minimum to pass). (T-
  2)
     3.2.1.1. Operations Intelligence MQT Knowledge Areas.
         3.2.1.1.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination (RAD) and Intelligence Preparation
         of the Operational Environment (IPOE).
             3.2.1.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
             intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and Operations Plan
             (OPLAN)/Concept of Operations Plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks:
             Demonstrate knowledge of unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources.
             Demonstrate knowledge of the strengths and weaknesses of specific types of
             intelligence in the context of the EC-130H weapons system and the unit mission.
             Demonstrate knowledge of other intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
             (ISR) assets that may be operating within the area of responsibility (AOR).
             Demonstrate knowledge of Intelligence Community analysis centers and
             intelligence producers useful for intelligence applications at the unit level.
             Demonstrate ability to use combat intelligence information systems and software
             to request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence holdings are
             insufficient. Demonstrate ability to use message traffic in US Message Text
             Format (USMTF) or OPLAN/CONPLAN-specified formats, to request
             intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence holdings are insufficient
             and combat intelligence information systems are unavailable.
             3.2.1.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern
             what intelligence applies to the unit mission, (i.e. what is useful to unit aircrews,
             mission planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not
             useful). Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of intelligence needed by EC-
             130H aircrew members and mission planners for combat operations. Demonstrate
             knowledge of general intelligence requirements of the wing commander,
             operations group commander and other functional areas supported by wing
             intelligence. Be able to describe the relationship of prioritized intelligence
             requirements established in the unit’s OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking to the unit
             mission.
             3.2.1.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Show knowledge of unit-
             level resources, points of dissemination and methods of dissemination to aircrews,
             mission planners, operations group and wing leadership and other end-users of
             intelligence as determined by the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
             Specific tasks:      Demonstrate knowledge of unit computers, web-based,
             audiovisual and manual information display and dissemination. Demonstrate
             knowledge of professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure
             video teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination
             systems used by the unit. Demonstrate knowledge of aircrew, mission planner
             and squadron and wing leadership information resources and ways to securely
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                         11


           integrate updated intelligence into the information flow. Demonstrate knowledge
           of record message traffic reporting as required for unit operations by
           OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, as applicable. Demonstrate knowledge of methods
           to identify currency and expiration of intelligence provided to end users.
           Demonstrate knowledge of the fundamentals of information security classification
           marking and controls and knowledge of sources of authoritative guidance.
           Demonstrate knowledge of rules, procedures and restrictions for secure transfer of
           intelligence from various levels of classified intelligence and information
           networks.
           3.2.1.1.1.4. IPOE. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and
           concepts; understand the analytical methodology employed in IPOE.
           Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE products and producers based on unit mission
           and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the ability to identify/extract relevant
           intelligence for EC-130H operations. Specific tasks: Be able to describe the eight
           elements of the first step of the IPOE process (define the operational
           environment) as it pertains to the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
           Be able to describe the four elements of the second step of the IPOE process
           (describe the impact of the operational environment) based on unit mission and
           OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Be able to describe the four elements of the third
           step of the IPOE process (evaluating the adversary) based on unit mission and
           OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Be able to describe the six elements of the fourth
           step of the IPOE process (determining adversary courses of action) based on unit
           mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
        3.2.1.1.2. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable
        enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of electronic
        warfare, air threats, AAMs, SAMs, AAA, directed energy weapons (DEW), ground
        forces and associated equipment, naval surface-to-air, electronic warfare and
        asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations and employment techniques of
        adversary/threat forces, based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
        Demonstrate detailed understanding of AOR threats, specifically related to EC-130H
        capabilities and limitations.
        3.2.1.1.3. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate
        knowledge of applicable friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems the unit may
        expect to encounter during employment. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of
        electronic warfare, aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, AAA, DEW ground forces and associated
        equipment, naval and asymmetric capabilities, limitations and employment
        techniques of friendly and neutral forces that may be encountered in the operational
        environment, based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
        3.2.1.1.4. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate an understanding of
        PR training which prepares aircrew members for the possibility of survival, evasion,
        captivity, escape and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
        knowledge of theater specific techniques, Isolated Personnel Report (ISOPREP)
        requirements and evasion plan of action (EPA) requirements. Demonstrate an
        understanding of the role intelligence personnel play in PR operational support to
        include aircrew preparation and products (e.g. EPA, evasion chart, Pointee Talkee,
12                                                   AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


         blood chit, etc.). Demonstrate knowledge of environmental, operations and combat
         search and rescue (CSAR) information contained in unit special instructions (SPINS)
         that will drive intelligence requirements during PR operations.
         3.2.1.1.5. Force Protection (FP) Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate
         understanding of principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission.
         Specific tasks: Summarize irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-
         tasked area(s) of responsibility and other Hot Spot areas. Give examples of hostile
         forces tactics and weapons employment. Identify intelligence FP resources. Describe
         terrorist threat levels. Understand unit FP considerations: state facts about base
         specific and regional threats.
     3.2.1.2. COMPASS CALL Analysis and Targeting Team (CCATT) MQT Knowledge
     Area.
         3.2.1.2.1. CCATT Research Methods and Databases. Objective: Demonstrate
         understanding of the various intelligence information sources available for CCATT
         research. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of how to effectively access
         sources providing particular benefit to COMPASS CALL operations (e.g.
         WRANGLER; Command and Control Warfare Targeting Analysis and Identification
         Guide (CTAIG); Military Electronic Parametrics and Engineering Database;
         Combined Explosive Exploitation Cell (CEXC).
  3.2.2. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
  IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Operations Intelligence MQT Task Areas.
         3.2.2.1.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in researching
         specific threat systems and tailoring the information to the EC-130H airframe and
         countertactics. Specific Tasks: Successfully research, compile and develop an
         accurate, concise briefing with focus on the threat relevant to the EC-130H mission
         and capabilities. Present a threat briefing for the selected weapons system.
         3.2.2.1.2. Requests for Information (RFI). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
         ability to develop an RFI to forward to an outside organization. Specific Tasks:
         Research local sources to determine RFI requirement. Provide clear and concise
         questions for inclusion in the RFI. Develop realistic latest time intelligence of value,
         product type desired, dissemination method as well as additional items IAW local
         checklists. Track and review RFI status.
         3.2.2.1.3. Situation displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing,
         posting, updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without
         automated intelligence system support IAW standards established by the SIO and
         based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Select the
         proper medium to use for constructing a situation display. Identify the proper
         components to be included on a situation display IAW AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3.
         Research, analyze and plot situation display elements using correct symbology (MIL-
         STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual /US
         Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational
         Terms and Graphics).
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                              13


           3.2.2.1.3.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
           in updating and maintaining OB on situation displays without automated
           intelligence system support IAW OB standards established by the SIO and based
           on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Research,
           analyze and plot OB using correct symbology. Extract military grid reference
           system (MGRS) and geographic coordinates. Identify critical elements of the
           table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations.
           Demonstrate understanding of OB production sources for the AOR.
           3.2.2.1.3.2. Automated OB. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing
           intelligence support systems to download, update, purge and control quality of
           automated OB used on situation displays. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to
           verify accuracy of computer generated symbology. Identify critical elements of
           the table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations.
           Demonstrate understanding of OB production sources for the AOR. Exploit
           intelligence software applications to post and maintain OB and convert MGRS
           coordinates and geographic coordinates.
        3.2.2.1.4. Initial Situation Briefing.       Objective:    Demonstrate proficiency in
        preparing and presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing to the
        commander and staff. Specific tasks: Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis.
        Identify and present significant events leading to the crisis; adversary, neutral,
        friendly and/or US political decisions or diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s
        operational environment, the mission of the deploying unit; relevant enemy/adversary
        air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity; most
        dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary course of action (COA); relevant FPI for
        the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by security
        forces (SF) or Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI); relevant
        intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Demonstrate
        proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
        display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver initial situation
        briefing IAW standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
        3.2.2.1.5. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
        presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing. Specific tasks: Extract
        relevant updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and
        analysis. Identify and present changes in the operational environment since the last
        update. Present any enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions
        or diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission,
        or the deployed unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and
        irregular force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely
        enemy/adversary COA for the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours (e.g., next shift, next day
        and through the Air Tasking Order (ATO) cycle); relevant intelligence gaps and any
        assessments of likely answers to the gaps; and relevant FPI for local area (e.g.,
        terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI.
        Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
        information display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver the
14                                               AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


     situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit mission and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.1.6. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing
     and conducting a changeover briefing. Specific tasks: Organize, prioritize and
     present key information at shift changeover IAW standards established by the SIO,
     based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Demonstrate proficiency in
     using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Provide incoming personnel with a
     summary of events to prepare them for their shift. Deliver changeover briefing IAW
     local timelines, format, security and content requirements.
     3.2.2.1.7. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing
     and presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing. Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate understanding of unit tasking (e.g., warning order, execution order)
     and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces tasking, as applicable. Research, and
     focus intelligence to the unit’s tasked mission, roles and combat profiles. Include:
     synopsis of political-military situation generating the deployment; relevant
     enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
     activity along deployment route; relevant FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism,
     sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; relevant intelligence
     gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps; most dangerous and most
     likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment; possible en route hazards
     to flight, bailout or alternate landing sites (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas);
     reporting instructions and essential elements of information (EEI); and additional
     items as dictated by the local situation. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer,
     web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as
     applied by the unit. Deliver deployment briefing IAW standards established by the
     SIO, based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of
     the deploying commander.
     3.2.2.1.8. ATO/Air Control Order (ACO)/SPINS/Reconnaissance, Surveillance and
     Targeting Acquisition (RSTA) Annex and other tasking documents. Objective:
     Demonstrate proficiency in identifying, downloading and breaking out the applicable
     elements of the ATO/ACO/SPINS/RSTA Annex. Specific tasks: Locate and obtain
     correct ATO/ACO/SPINS and RSTA Annex. Identify and extract unit tasking,
     supported missions, airspace control, orbits, refueling areas, ISR tasking, and PR
     information, from tasking orders/messages.                 Demonstrate breakout of
     ATO/ACO/SPINS with both manual and automated techniques and tools IAW
     prescribed local timelines and format requirements. As applicable, identify other
     types of tasking requests the unit may face in particular theaters.
     3.2.2.1.9. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate
     proficiency in supporting mission planning by accomplishing appropriate intelligence
     tasks. Specific tasks: Review the tactical problem/scenario. Analyze the
     ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout, unit IPOE threat considerations (e.g., integrated air
     defense system (IADS), air, SAMs, air defense artillery (ADA)/AAA, tactics, terrain,
     and weather, as appropriate). Demonstrate proficiency in providing route and track
     recommendations; describe mission package contents. Demonstrate proficiency in
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                          15


        performing route analysis, briefing route planners and aiding in mission package
        construction. Describe the EC-130H mission planning process. Demonstrate
        proficiency in conducting an IADS threat study. Demonstrate proficiency in
        coordinating with operations on bullseye locations, callsigns (package and ISR
        supporting aircraft), and inter-plane frequencies between ISR assets for threat
        notification, situational awareness and/or jamming refinement. Coordinate with
        operations to recommend/approve mission route and track based on threats and
        terrain analysis. Derive specified and implied intelligence requirements from tasking
        documents; research applicable intelligence; define gaps; submit collection
        requirements and/or RFIs as appropriate. Perform intelligence duties in support of an
        operational mission planning exercise. Deliver initial mission planning briefing, as
        applicable, IAW prescribed local timelines, format, security considerations and
        content requirements.
        3.2.2.1.10. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
        presenting an intelligence step briefing. Specific tasks: Construct and deliver a
        briefing that provides aircrew members with critical last-minute changes in the threat
        that affect their missions. Brief new threats (air, air defense, ground, etc.), new
        tactics, PR data changes, latest threat update code, and any other changes impacting
        the mission. Include target changes (name, location, significance). Demonstrate
        proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
        display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver step briefing IAW
        standards established by the SIO, based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
        tasking.
        3.2.2.1.11. Mission Tracking.      Objective:    Demonstrate proficiency in local
        procedures for monitoring mission execution and communicating with other agencies
        and coordination centers. Specific tasks: Effectively monitor and use communication
        systems including collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of
        ongoing missions. React as necessary to support the mission. Enter communications
        in locally developed mission tracking log. Ensure all missions are debriefed and
        reported upon. Make provisions for diverted missions.
        3.2.2.1.12. Mission Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning,
        coordinating and conducting a post-mission debriefing. Specific tasks: Extract
        relevant mission intelligence from flight deck and mission crew. Identify time-
        sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently per local/theater
        guidance. Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements.
        Demonstrate ability to identify key points and develop intelligence by asking
        amplifying questions. Consult appropriate post flight products. Demonstrate ability
        to control the flow and pace of the interview, as needed to ensure thorough and
        accurate information collection without wasting time. Demonstrate proficiency in
        using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
        debriefing tools as applied by the unit.
        3.2.2.1.13. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing
        and transmitting accurate mission reports (MISREP) and other applicable intelligence
        reports (i.e. Intelligence Summary (INTSUM), Intelligence Reports (INTREP) as
        required by local directives. Show knowledge of aircrew-originated reports (In-flight
16                                                AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


        Report (INFLTREP) or other formats). Specific tasks: Generate intelligence reports
        using computer and/or manual information systems applied by the unit. Validate
        accuracy and completeness IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit
        mission and applicable reporting directives. Demonstrate proficiency in using
        automated and/or manual intelligence dissemination tools and techniques as applied
        by the unit. Demonstrate proficiency in drafting, validating and transmitting
        appropriate USMTF intelligence messages when applicable reporting directives do
        not exist.
     3.3.2.2. CCATT MQT Task Areas.
        3.3.2.2.1. CCATT Request for Information Response. Event Objective: The trainee
        will conduct research and analysis to satisfactorily respond to an RFI that cannot be
        satisfied with local resources. Specific Tasks: Research multiple sources and compile
        a thorough response to satisfy an RFI. Disseminate IAW local procedures.
        3.3.2.2.2. CCATT Intelligence Reporting.          Event Objective:       Demonstrate
        proficiency in developing and disseminating CCATT post-mission reports (PMR)
        based on mission debriefings as required by local directives. Specific Tasks: The
        trainee will generate, review, validate and disseminate PMR IAW local procedures
        and timelines using computer and/or manual information systems. Validate accuracy
        and completeness IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit mission and
        applicable reporting directives. Demonstrate proficiency in using automated and/or
        manual intelligence dissemination tools and techniques as applied by the unit.
        3.3.2.2.3. Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) Reporting Analysis.           Objective:
        Demonstrate comprehension of the various types of reports utilized by CCATT and
        the type of information contained in each report. Specific Tasks: Demonstrate how
        to extrapolate intelligence relevant to EC-130H mission planning from various
        SIGINT reports.
        3.3.2.2.4. Signals of Interest (SOI). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in the
        development of SOIs and their application to the COMPASS CALL mission.
        Specific Tasks: Develop an SOI worksheet through the utilization of SIGINT reports,
        databases and Command, Control and Communications (C3) functional and
        geographical diagrams for use in the COMPASS CALL Mission Planning Cell
        (MPC).
        3.3.2.2.5. C3 Diagrams. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in C3 nodal analysis to
        generate comprehensive baseline C3 diagrams for EC-130H mission planning
        through the use of multiple SIGINT sources. Specific Tasks: Develop two diagrams:
        1. C3 functional diagram and 2. Geographical diagram dependent upon inputs from
        the MPC. Both diagrams should be accurate, coherent depictions of communications
        links and nodes. Demonstrate knowledge by explaining communications methods,
        information passed, equipment and its vulnerability to COMPASS CALL’s non-
        kinetic effect.
        3.3.2.2.6. C3 Target Nomination List (TNL). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
        identifying relevant targeting data derived from various sources. Specific Tasks:
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                           17


        Generate a C3 TNL based on research from multiple sources including the SOI list
        that can be used to support COMPASS CALL mission planning.
        3.3.2.2.7. C3 Analysis Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in presenting
        the results of C3 nodal analysis and target recommendations. Specific Tasks:
        Develop and present a C3 analysis briefing covering functional and geographical
        nodal diagrams and analysis capturing relevant targets to be considered by the
        COMPASS CALL MPC.
        3.3.2.2.8. CCATT Mission Crew Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
        planning, coordinating and conducting a post-mission debriefing. Specific tasks:
        Extract mission intelligence from mission crew. Identify time-sensitive information
        and disseminate per local/theater guidance. Identify critical items in the mission logs
        to draft an accurate post mission report. Demonstrate ability to control the flow and
        pace of the interview to ensure thorough, efficient and accurate information collection
        Demonstrate proficiency in using automated and/or manual information
        display/debriefing tools as applied by the unit.
 18                                                    AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


                                           Chapter 4

                             CONTINUATION TRAINING (CT)

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence task
and knowledge training items. These training topics ensure familiarization with local unit
intelligence functions, EC-130H capabilities and threat system capabilities. The second aspect of
CT is the Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which consists of specific mission-related training
required to accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This guidance is
intended to provide a baseline and may be modified by the SIO based on unit requirements.
IPTPMs may use lead MAJCOM-provided training materials or other resources as needed to
provide the most effective and efficient education and training. CT should reinforce MQT tasks
to facilitate RIP requirements. Completion of CT tasks will be annotated on the AF Form 1098,
Special Task Certifications and Recurring Training, using the approved online training
documentation system. At a minimum, the following topics will be covered during CT: (T-2)
   4.2.1. EC-130H Operations and Capabilities – to include avionics, tactics, mission types and
   capabilities and limitations.
   4.2.2. Threat Knowledge – to include AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and armaments, SAMs,
   AAA, naval and ground threat system capabilities and limitations with respect to EC-130H
   operations.
   4.2.3. Visual Recognition Training – to include identification features of enemy/adversary,
   friendly or neutral weapon systems.
   4.2.4. Automated Intelligence Systems – to include OB maintenance, mission planning,
   imagery retrieval, and reporting software applications.
   4.2.5. Situation Displays – updates to unit procedures for manual plotting, automated OB
   update procedures, unit checklists/standards for OB maintenance.
   4.2.6. Briefing – to include preparing and conducting initial situation, deployment, situation,
   MPC initial situation, mission, step and changeover briefings.
   4.2.7. Mission Planning – to include tasking order/SPINS breakout, mission planning
   software applications and route/combat air patrol (CAP) analysis, geospatial information and
   services familiarization to determine product requirements (quantity, chart type, appropriate
   scale), acquisition, receipt, storage and maintenance for mission package construction.
   4.2.8. Debriefing – to include theater-specific requirements, techniques and applicable
   follow on questions.
   4.2.9. Reporting – to include theater intelligence reporting directives, software applications
   and transmitting.
   4.2.10. Personnel Recovery – to include theater specific techniques, academics, ISOPREP
   requirements, and EPA requirements.
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                               19


   4.2.11. Force Protection Intelligence– to include intelligence principles and procedures for
   force protection; summary of hostile forces in AOR and other Hot Spot areas; examples of
   hostile forces tactics and weapons employment; intelligence force protection resources;
   terrorist threat levels and unit force protection considerations.
   4.2.12. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment – to include the steps and
   elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.13. SIGINT databases – to include databases used for mission planning, targeting and
   analysis.
   4.2.14. Basic knowledge examinations will be compiled from the lead MAJCOM-
   maintained EC-130H MQF, as a minimum. The IPTPM will augment the MQF with specific
   questions relevant to the unit’s mission.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to
accomplish the unit’s tasked missions. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, RIP tasks
should be conducted in conjunction with day-to-day missions as much as possible. (T-2)
   4.3.1. The standard task requirements listed in Table 4.1, EC-130H Ops Intel Ready
   Intelligence Program Currency Requirements and Table 4.2, CCATT Ready Intelligence
   Program Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirements for CMR
   and BMC personnel. Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s
   CMR or BMC currency. Any additional training requirements will be determined by the
   SIO. (T-2)
   4.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks and successfully
   accomplish periodic MSNs in accordance with AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and AFI 14-2EC-
   130H, Volume 2 to maintain currency and qualification. If an intelligence specialist loses
   currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform that task unsupervised until
   currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for documenting RIP task completion. (T-
   2)

Table 4.1. EC-130H Operations Intelligence Ready Intelligence Program Currency
Requirements.
                     SUBJECT                       Frequency to             Frequency to
 Requests for Information                               Annually                 Annually
 Situation Displays                                   Semi-annually              Annually
 Manual Order of Battle (OB)                          Semi-annually              Annually
 Automated OB                                         Semi-annually              Annually
 Initial Situation Briefing                           Semi-annually              Annually
 Situation Briefing                                   Semi-annually              Annually
 Changeover Briefing                                  Semi-annually              Annually
 Deployment Briefing                                  Semi-annually              Annually
 ATO/ ACO/SPINS/RSTA Annex                            Semi-annually              Annually
 Intelligence Support to MPC                            Annually                 Annually
 Mission Briefing                                     Semi-annually              Annually
 20                                                  AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


 Step Briefing                                       Semi-annually             Annually
 Mission Tracking                                    Semi-annually             Annually
 Mission Debriefing                                  Semi-annually             Annually
 Intelligence Reports                                Semi-annually             Annually

Table 4.2. EC-130H CCATT Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
                   SUBJECT                        Frequency to           Frequency to
 Research Methods and Databases                      Semi-annually            Annually
 CCATT Request for Information Response                Annually               Annually
 CCATT Intelligence Reporting                        Semi-annually            Annually
 SIGINT Reporting Analysis                             Annually               Annually
 C3 Diagrams                                           Annually               Annually
 SOIs                                                  Annually               Annually
 C3 Target Nomination List (TNL)                       Annually               Annually
 C3 Analysis Briefing                                  Annually               Annually
 CCATT Mission Crew Debriefing                       Semi-annually            Annually
4.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC (as applicable). The SIO will direct the member who
fails to demonstrate proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Regression and the steps taken
to correct the situation will be documented in a memorandum for record in the individual's
qualification training and evaluation record. CMR/BMC intelligence personnel regressed to N-
CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved recertification program to return them to
CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during the re-certification program will be
credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                               21


                                            Chapter 5

                               SPECIALIZED TRAINING (ST)

5.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST. These ST programs are intended to provide SIOs the minimum specialized
training programs for individuals without previous qualifications and may be tailored for
intelligence personnel with current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented
performance or formal training. Unless governed by a formal syllabus, these programs will
consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios. The IPTPM will ensure ST is recorded on
AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for templates) and documented in the on-line documentation
system of record. Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST requirements outlined below. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. EIT trainers must be qualified in profile EIT 1 and in one or all of the remaining
profiles listed below. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised external
intelligence training. (T-2)
   5.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected for EIT trainer:
       5.2.1.1. Be qualified and current (CMR or BMC).
       5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO to perform in one or more of the profiles listed in
       5.2.2.
       5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1.
       5.2.1.4. Successfully complete a subject specific closed book test from the MQF
       question bank (85 percent minimum to pass). (Does not apply to EIT 1 or EIT 7)
   5.2.2. EIT Trainer Profiles.
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
       instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks:
       Demonstrate ability to modify training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of
       delivering training using visual, auditory and physical application. Demonstrate one-on-
       one, small group and large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify
       trainee achievement.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 - Threats and Countermeasures. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing threat training requirements for air, SAM, ADA/AAA, electronic warfare
       (EW), and DEW threats (to include minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2EC-130H,
       Volume 3). Specific tasks: Prepare and deliver an instructional session for threats based
       on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.3. EIT 3 - Collection and Reporting (C&R). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing C&R training requirements. Specific tasks: Be familiar with the
       requirements and security concerns regarding intelligence-generated reports. Develop
       training that develops unit ability to use aircrew-originated reports (INFLTREP or other
       formats) and intelligence-generated reports (INTREP, MISREP, INTSUM, etc.).
22                                                  AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


     5.2.2.4. EIT 4 – Visual Recognition (VR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of visual
     cues of enemy/adversary, friendly or neutral equipment including air, ground and naval
     systems. Demonstrate proficiency in establishing VR training requirements. Specific
     tasks: Develop and present a VR training session based on unit mission and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Successfully complete a VR test (85 percent minimum to
     pass).
     5.2.2.5. EIT 5 - Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
     developing instructional material in coordination with tactics, aircrew flight equipment,
     and survival, evasion, resistance, escape (SERE) personnel. Specific tasks: Provide
     academic instruction on PR operational support processes as required. Where possible,
     PR EIT trainers should be graduates of SV-80A Survival Training. Units with an
     assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1) may omit this block if intelligence personnel do not
     provide PR related training.
     5.2.2.6. EIT 6 - FPI. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of FPI, FP related threats, and
     proficiency in establishing FP threat training requirements (to include minimum
     standards cited in AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 3). Specific tasks: Prepare and deliver an
     instructional session for FP threats based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
     tasking.
     5.2.2.7. EIT 7 –CCATT Introduction– Objectives: Demonstrate proficiency in
     instructing the overall CCATT mission throughout all phases of EC-130H mission
     planning. The trainer will introduce the basics of CCATT support to mission planning
     through target selection, post-mission analysis, and interpreting SIGINT to aircrews.
     Specific tasks: The trainee will develop and present a CCATT overview briefing.
     Briefing will include CCATT roles and responsibilities, processes and products, data
     sources, and overall Mission Planning Cell expectations.
     5.2.2.8. EIT 8 – Intelligence Community (IC) Overview – Objectives: Demonstrate
     proficiency in preparing and presenting a briefing on the organization and framework of
     the national intelligence community as it relates to EC-130H operations. Specific tasks:
     Develop and present a briefing covering the intelligence community including
     organizations, their structure in the overall IC framework, intelligence responsibilities
     and output products utilized by the EC-130H community.
 5.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
 Volume 2, as supplemented, and AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as
 EIT trainers upon successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer qualification
 evaluation (INIT EIT) and endorsement from the SIO.
 5.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 5.1, External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and
 Currencies defines currency requirements required to maintain current EIT trainer status.
 EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-
 2EC-130H, Volume 2. If a trainer loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not
 perform training unsupervised until currency is regained. Trainers who are non-current must
 satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by another current and qualified EIT
 trainer in the same training event.
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                                 23


Table 5.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
 Event                 Specialized Training                 Currency Requirement
 Threat Training       Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2             Instruct one threat training event per
                       specific tasks.                      three-month period (Quarterly)
                       Pass MQF test (threat specific)
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation
 C&R Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 and         Instruct one C&R training event per
                       specific tasks                       12-month period (Annually)
                       Pass MQF test (C&R specific)
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation
 VR Training           Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 and         Instruct one VR training event per
                       specific tasks.                      six-month period
                       Pass VR test                         (Semi-annually)
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation
 PR Training           Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 and         Instruct one PR training event per
                       specific tasks                       12-month period (Annually)
                       Pass MQF test (PR specific)
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation
 FPI Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 and         Instruct one FPI training event per
                       specific tasks                       12-month period (Annually)
                       Pass MQF test (FPI specific)
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation
 CCATT                 Complete EIT 1 and EIT 7 and         Instruct one CCAT training event
 Introduction          specific tasks.                      per 12 month period
                       Pass MQF test (CCATT specific)       (Annually)
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation
 IC Overview           Complete EIT 1 and EIT 8 and         Instruct one IC training event per
                       specific tasks                       12-month period (Annually)
                       Pass test (IC specific)
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation
5.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to IE within the unit. Only
qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to grade standardization
and evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel identified by the SIO for progression to IE must:
       5.3.1.1. Be qualified and current (CMR or BMC).
       5.3.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-
       2EC-130H, Volume 2.
       5.3.1.3. Meet task certifier requirements as outlined by AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
       Program.
   5.3.2. Be designated by the SIO to perform in the IE profiles listed below.
       5.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Observe a mission evaluation. Specific
       tasks:    Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
24                                                AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


     preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
     evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Observation. Objective: Observe an EIT trainer evaluation.
     Specific tasks: Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
     preparation for an INIT EIT Trainer or EIT Trainer evaluation. Identify scenarios for
     intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.3.2.3. IE 3 - IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in successfully
     conducting an evaluation. Specific tasks: Under observation, conduct an evaluation and
     provide a thorough debrief and critique. Demonstrate knowledge of evaluation criteria,
     grading procedures and proficiency in evaluation form preparation. Perform the
     evaluation with the trainer as the examinee in a simulated evaluation.
  5.3.3. IE Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
  14-2EC-130H, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized training is
  completed. The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after completing
  training, successful completion of the initial IE evaluation and endorsement from the SIO.
  (T-2)
  5.3.4. IE Currency. IEs must conduct both an MSN and EIT evaluation annually to remain
  current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE evaluations IAW AFI 14-2EC-
  130H, Volume 2. (T-2)




                                         Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance,
                                         and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                         25


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 11-2EC-130H, Volume 1, EC-130H Aircrew Training, 30 September 2011
AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 2, EC-130H Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria,
28 November 2012
AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 3, EC-130H Unit Intelligence Procedures, 28 November 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2208, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.EC-130H, Tactical Employment-EC-130H, 17 December 2010 (S)
JP 3-50, Personnel Recovery, 5 January 2007
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A2—Directorate of Intelligence
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—–Air Defense Artillery
 26                                                AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BQ—Basic Qualification
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
C&R—Collection and Reporting
C3—Command, Control and Communications
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CCATT—COMPASS CALL Analysis and Targeting Team
CEXC—Combined Explosive Exploitation Cell
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CONPLAN—Concept of Operations Plan
COA—Course of Action
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
CTAIG—- Command and Control Warfare Targeting Analysis and Identification Guide
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
DLO—Desired Learning Objective
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer/Training
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EW—Electronic Warfare
FP—Force Protection
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
IADS—Integrated Air Defense System
IAW—In Accordance With
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                         27


IC—Intelligence Community
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operating Environment
IPTPM—Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MPC—Mission Planning Cell
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
NAF—Numbered Air Force
N- BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N- CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMR—Post Mission Report
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Targeting Acquisition
 28                                                AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SF—Security Forces
SIGINT—Signals Intelligence
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SOI—Signals of Interest
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T2—Tier 2
T3—Tier 3
TNL—Target Nomination List
USAF—United States Air Force
USMTF—US Message Text Format
VR—Visual Recognition

Terms
Tier 2 (T2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC level.
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                    29


                                    Attachment 2
                         TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

Figure A2.1. Example Training Shortfall Report.
 30                                                 AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


                                        Attachment 3
                             EC-130H MQT GRADESHEETS

A3.1. EC-130H MQT Gradesheets. The MQT gradesheet templates in this attachment will be
used to complete the AF Forms 4381 that Intelligence Qualification Trainers will use to record
completion of MQT. MQT Gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training and
evaluation record. Intelligence Evaluators may use the MQT gradesheets to assist in the
completion of the AF Form 4350 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume
2. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of evaluations.

Table A3.1. EC-130H Operations Intelligence Academics Gradesheet.
1. AOR THREATS
   1.1. AIR THREATS
   1.2. SAM THREATS
   1.3. AAA THREATS
   1.4. EW THREATS
   1.3. NAVAL SURFACE THREATS
   1.6. GROUND SURFACE THREATS
   1.7. DIRECTED ENERGY THREATS
   1.8. FRIENDLY AND NEUTRAL WEAPONS SYSTEMS
2. RESEARCH, ANALYSIS &DISSEMINATION (RAD) / INTEL PREP OF OPERATIONAL
ENVIRONMENT (IPOE)
   2.1. RESEARCH METHODS & RESOURCES
   2.2. ID INFO GAPS W/MISSION IMPACT; SUBMIT RFIs
   2.3. LOCAL PROCEDURES
      2.3.1. MSG TRAFFIC LOG TRACKING IPOE PRINCIPLES
   2.4. ANALYSIS
      2.4.1. ID SIG EVENTS; CULLED IRRELEVANT
      2.4.2. APPLIED SYSTEM KNOWLEDGE
      2.4.3. IPOE
   2.5. DISSEMINATION
      2.5.1. AUDIENCE
      2.5.2. METHODS
   2.6. IPOE
3. PERSONNEL RECOVERY
4. FORCE PROTECTION INTELLIGENCE
   4.1. BASE SPECIFIC & REGIONAL THREATS
5. TIMELINESS AND ACCURACY
6. STANDARDS ADHERENCE
7. SECURITY

Table A3.2. EC-130H Requests for Information Grade Sheet Elements.
1. RESEARCHED LOCAL RESOURCES TO DETERMINE THE NEED FOR AND RFI
2. RFI KEY ELEMENTS
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                     31


   2.1. GENERATED CLEAR AND CONCISE RFI QUESTIONS
   2.2. DEVELOPED REALISTIC LATEST TIME INTELLIGENCE OF VALUE
   2.3. INDENTIFIED BEST PRODUCT TYPE DESIRED
   2.4. REQUESTED BEST DISSEMINATION METHOD AVAILABLE
3. TRACKED AND PERIODICALLY REVIEWED RFI STATUS
4. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
5. FOLLOWED SECURITY GUIDELINES

Table A3.3. EC-130H CCATT Academics Gradesheet.
1. CCATT RESEARCH METHODS AND DATABASES
   1.1. INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION SOURCES
      1.1.1. WRANGLER
      1.1.2. C2 WARFARE TARGETING ANALYSIS & ID GUIDE (CTAIG)
      1.1.3. MILITARY ELECTRONIC PARAMETRICS & ENGINEERING DATABASE
(MEPED)
      1.1.4. COMBINED EXPLOSIVE EXPLOITATION CELL (CEXC)

Table A3.4. EC-130H Threat Briefing Gradesheet.
1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
   1.3. SPECIFIC SOURCES IDENTIFIED
2. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
3. DELIVERY
4. APPROPRIATE LEVEL OF DETAIL
5. APPLICABILITY TO AUDIENCE
6. EFFECTIVE USE OF VISUAL AIDS
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
   7.1. PRIMARY THREAT COUNTRY
   7.2. EW/GCI RADAR COVERAGE
   7.3. AIRCRAFT
   7.4. SURFACE-TO-AIR
   7.5. COUNTERTACTICS
8. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
9. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

Table A3.5. EC-130H Manual OB Gradesheet.
1. PLOTTING
   1.1. GEOCOORDS
   1.2. MGRS (UTM)
   1.3. COORDINATE CONVERSION
   1.4. DETAIL
   1.3. APPROPRIATE SCALE SELECTED FOR TASK
2. SYMBOLOGY
 32                                           AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


   2.1. AIR ORDER OF BATTLE
   2.2. DEFENSIVE MISSILE OB
   2.3. GROUND ORDER OF BATTLE
   2.4. NAVAL ORDER OF BATTLE
   2.5. ELECTRONIC ORDER OF BATTLE
   2.6. AEROSPACE CONTROL ORDER
   2.7. TARGETS
   2.8. MISCELLANEOUS OTHER SYMBOLS
3. ANALYSIS OF OB
   3.1. PURGE CRITERIA
   3.2. POSTING CRITERIA
4. COMPUTE DISTANCE, DIRECTION, AZIMUTH
5. ROUTE/CAP MARKINGS
6. DISPLAY MARKINGS
   6.1. CURRENT AS OF TIMES
   6.2. LEGENDS
   6.3. CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS
7. SECURITY

Table A3.6. EC-130H Automated Order of Battle Gradesheet.
1. PLOTTING/DOWNLOADING OB
   1.1. GEOCOORDS
   1.2. MGRS
   1.3. PERFORM COORDINATE CONVERSION
   1.4. DETAIL
   1.3. APPROPRIATE SCALE
2. SYMBOLOGY
   2.1. AIR ORDER OF BATTLE
   2.2. DEFENSIVE MISSILE OB
   2.3. GROUND ORDER OF BATTLE
   2.4. NAVAL ORDER OF BATTLE
   2.5. ELECTRONIC ORDER OF BATTLE
   2.6. AEROSPACE CONTROL ORDER
   2.7. MISCELLANEOUS OTHER SYMBOLS
3. RECURRING ANALYSIS OF OB
   3.1. FIND & IDENTIFY PURGE CRITERIA
   3.2. FIND & IDENTIFY POSTING CRITERIA
   3.3. AUTOMATED OB TERRAIN ANALYSIS
4. DISPLAY MARKINGS
   4.1. CURRENT AS OF TIMES
   4.2. CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS
   4.3. MAJOR CHANGES FROM LAST UPDATE
5. THREAT/DRAWING/ROUTE FILES
    5.1. CREATION
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                      33


   5.2. MAINTENANCE
   5.3. IMPORT FILES
6. PRINT MAP W/ PROPER CLASSIFICATION
7. EXPORT THREAT FILES
8. SECURITY/CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.7. EC-130H Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet.
1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
2. DELIVERY
3. APPLICABILITY TO AUDIENCE
4. EFFECTIVE USE OF VISUAL AIDS
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
6. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
7. SIGNIFICANT POL/MIL DEVELOPMENTS-MAJOR EVENTS LEADING TO CRISIS
8. ANY NATIONAL DECISIONS, IF KNOWN
9. CURRENT ENEMY FORCE DISPOSITION (AIR, AIR DEFENSE, GROUND, NAVAL,
ETC.)
10. ANTICIPATED ENEMY REACTION
11. OBSERVED ENEMY TACTICS OR EMPLOYMENT STRATEGIES
12. INDICATIONS OF IMPENDING ENEMY ATTACK
13. POTENTIAL ENEMY COURSES OF ACTION
14. CURRENT SITUATION AT DEPLOYED LOCATION
15. LOCAL AREA SITUATION (TERRORISM, SABOTAGE, SUBVERSION THREATS,
ETC.)
16. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
17. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.8. EC-130H Situation Briefing Gradesheet.
1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
2. DELIVERY
3. APPLICABILITY TO AUDIENCE
4. EFFECTIVE USE OF VISUAL AIDS
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
6. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
7. SIGNIFICANT POL/MIL DEVELOPMENTS
8. CURRENT ENEMY FORCE DISPOSITION (AIR, AIR DEFENSE, GROUND, NAVAL,
ETC.)
9. OBSERVED ENEMY TACTICS OR EMPLOYMENT STRATEGIES
10. RESULTS OF AIRCREW DEBRIEFINGS
11. INDICATIONS OF IMPENDING ENEMY ATTACK
 34                                             AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


12. CURRENT LOCAL AREA SITUATION (TERRORISM, SABOTAGE, SUBVERSION
THREATS, ETC.)
13. CURRENT SITUATION AT DEPLOYMENT BASE/LOCATION
14. ANTICIPATED ENEMY REACTIONS/INDICATIONS OF IMPENDING ENEMY
ATTACK
15. POTENTIAL ENEMY COURSES OF ACTION
16. ADDITIONAL ITEMS AS NEEDED
17. ADHERENCE TO UNIT PROCEDURES
18. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.9. EC-130H Changeover Briefing Gradesheet.
1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
2. SITUATION UPDATE
3. ADDRESSED RELEVANT AREAS
   3.1. ISSUES REQUIRING IMMEDIATE ATTENTION
   3.2. WORK CENTER STATUS
   3.3. WOC/SQUADRON BRIEFING TIMES
   3.4. REVIEW PREVIOUS BRIEFING MATERIAL
   3.5. REVIEW INCOMING/OUTGOING MSGS
   3.6. REVIEW SIGNIFICANT EVENTS LOG/TUC
   3.7. RFI/PRODUCTION REQUIREMENT STATUS
   3.8. REVIEW SIGACTS/BSDs/SPINS/WATCHCON-DEFCON
   3.9. SYSTEMS STATUS (Mission networks/phone/applications/printers)
   3.10. PROCEDURAL CHANGES
   3.11. THINGS THAT NEED TO BE DONE
      3.11.1. PLOTTING
      3.11.2. BRIEFINGS
   3.12. PERSONNEL STATUS/SCHEDULES
   3.13. EQUIPMENT STATUS
   3.14. MESSAGES DUE OUT
   3.15. LOCAL THREATS/FP UPDATES
   3.16. LOCATION OF ITEMS FOR EVACUATION
   3.17. VEHICLE KEYS LOC. (IF APPLICABLE)
   3.18. REVIEW EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
   3.19. LOCATION OF ALTERNATES
   3.20. COMBINATION/CIPHER LOCK CHANGES
4. DELIVERY
   4.1. UNDERSTANDABLE/CLEAR/COHERENT
   4.2. WITHIN ESTABLISHED TIMELINES
5. ADHERENCE TO UNIT PROCEDURES
6. SECURITY

Table A3.10. EC-130H Deployment Briefing Gradesheet.
1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                              35


   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
   1.3. SPECIFIC SOURCES IDENTIFIED
2. ADHERENCE TO UNIT PROCEDURES
3. APPLICABILITY TO AUDIENCE
4. DELIVERY
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
6. EFFECTIVE VISUAL AIDS
7. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
8. SUMMARY OF POLITICAL/MILITARY EVENTS
9. ENEMY ACTIVITY/FORCE DISPOSITION
10. ENEMY TACTICS/EMPLOYMENT STRATEGIES*
11. POTENTIAL/ANTICIPATED ENEMY REACTIONS
12. POSSIBLE ENROUTE FLIGHT HAZARDS (See Route Threat Analysis Gradesheet) *
13. BAILOUT/PERSONNEL RECOVERY ISSUES*
   13.1. GENEVA CONVENTION STATUS
   13.2. EMERGENCY DESTRUCT OF CLASS.
   13.3. RECOMMENDED EVASIVE ACTIONS
   13.4. THEATER RECOVERY
   13.5. EVASION PLAN OF ACTION (EPA)
   13.6. SANITIZATION REMINDER
   13.7. ISOPREP REVIEW
14. KNOWN THREATS NEAR BEDDOWN LOCATION
15. REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS AND EEIS*
16. OPSEC/COMSEC REMINDER
17. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
18. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

* ITEMS NOT REQUIRED FOR NON-AIRCREW BRIEF

Table A3.11. EC-130H ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents
Gradesheet Elements.
1. ACCESSED CORRECT ATO/RSTA ANNEX/ACO/SPINS
2. IDENTIFIED/EXTRACTED SPECIFIC INFORMATION
   2.1. ATO/MISSION TASKING INFO
   2.2. APPLICABLE SPINS INFO
   2.3. APPLICABLE RSTA ANNEX INFO
   2.4. APPLICABLE ISR TASKINGS (COMPLEMENTARY PLATFORMS)
   2.5. SUPPORTED MISSIONS
   2.6. REFUELING AREA
   2.7. ORBITS
   2.8. AIR SPACE CONTROL INFO
   2.9. PERSONNEL RECOVERY INFO
3. COLLECTION PRIORITIES
 36                                             AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


4.   SUMMARIZED KEY ELEMENTS/THREAT CONSIDERATIONS FOR MPT
5.   AUTOMATED ATO/ACO BREAKOUT TECHNIQUES (TASKVIEW)
6.   MANUAL BREAKOUT TECHNIQUES
7.   SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
8.   ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

Table A3.12. EC-130H Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
1. ORGANIZATION/BRIEFING PREPARATION
   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
2. USE OF AUTOMATED SYSTEMS
3. MISSION TASKING/RELEVANT FACTORS
4. SITUATION UPDATES
5. ORBIT RECOMMENDATIONS
6. TRACK RECOMMENDATIONS
7. THREAT/TERRAIN ANALYSIS
   7.1. FORCE PROTECTION
   7.2. DIVERT/ALTERNATE LOCATION THREATS
8. MISSION MATERIALS
9. REQUEST FOR INFO/INTEL PRODUCTS
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
11. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
12. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

Table A3.13. EC-130H Mission Briefing Gradesheet.
1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
2. DELIVERY
3. APPROPRIATE LEVEL OF DETAIL
4. EFFECTIVE USE OF VIS AIDS
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
6. COVERED APPLICABLE AREAS
7. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
8. GENERAL BATTLE SITUATION
9. ENEMY FORCE LOCATIONS
10. ENROUTE THREATS
   10.1. INGRESS
   10.2. REFUELING TRACK
   10.3. EGRESS
   10.4. ALTERNATE/DIVERT LOCATIONS
11. LOCAL AREA SITUATION
12. PERSONNEL RECOVERY DATA
   12.1. DARS
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                 37


  12.2. RECOVERY AND AUTHENTICATION
  12.3. EPA DEVELOPMENT & REVIEW
  12.4. SANITATION REMINDER
  12.5. E&E KIT
  12.6. ISOPREP REVIEW
13. EEIs
14. INFLIGHT REPORTING REQ’S
15. THREAT UPDATE CODE
16. DEBRIEFING LOCATION
17. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
18. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

Table A3.14. EC-130H Step Briefing Gradesheet.
1. BRIEFING PREPARATION/ORGANIZATION
   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
2. MISSION IMPACT/CHANGES
3. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
4. TARGET CHANGES/UPDATES
5. SURVIVOR INFO (CSAR MISSIONS)
6. NEW THREATS
7. EPA CHANGES
8. LATEST THREAT UPDATE CODE
9. OPEN RFIs (MISSION RELATED)
10. DELIVERY
11. RELEVANCE/APPLICABILITY
12. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
13. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

Table A3.15. EC-130H Mission Tracking Gradesheet.
1. PREPARATION
   1.1. ACCESSED CORRECT FRAG
   1.2. CORRECTLY ANNOTATED LOG
   1.3. MISSION TASKING/ROUTE KNOWLEDGE
   1.4. ABILITY TO MAINTAIN SA OF THREATS AND AIRBORNE EC-130Hs
2. AWARE OF MISSION STATUS
   2.1. USED AVAILABLE SYSTEMS
   2.2. USED AVAILABLE WORK CENTERS
   2.3. PRE FILLED DEBRIEF WORKSHEETS
   2.4. DEBRIEFED ALL MISSIONS
   2.5. MADE PROVISION FOR DIVERTED MISSIONS
3. ADHERENCE TO LOCAL AREA PROCEDURES
   3.1. MISSION TRACKING
   3.2. POTENTIAL EMERGENCY/AD HOC CONTINGENCIES
 38                                                  AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


   3.3. LOGGING COMMUNICATIONS
4. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
5. SECURITY

Table A3.16. EC-130H Mission Debrief Gradesheet.
1. DEBRIEFING PREPARATION
    1.1. DEBRIEF WORKSHEET (Prep MISREP/PMR shell)
    1.2. VISUAL AIDS (Falcon View/Google Earth/Analyst Notebook)
2. TIME CRITICAL INTELLIGENCE SITREPs, Ceasebuzzer, SAFIRE, base attacks
    2.1. NEW THREAT, ADVERSARY TACTICS
3. ADHERENCE TO UNIT PROCEDURES (COMPASS CALL Intel Checklist)
4. FLIGHT DECK DEBRIEF (Ensure aircrew products are complete prior to dismissal)
   4.1. OBSERVED THREATS TO EC-130H
   4.2. EVENTS AT TAKEOFF/LANDING
   4.3. LASER INCIDENTS
5. MISSION CREW DEBRIEF (Ensure all questions are answered products are complete prior
to dismissal)
   5.1. Jam On/Off times and target information
   5.2. Cross-cue/Tippers
   5.3. Ceasebuzzer events
   5.4. Alibis
6. TIME MANAGEMENT
   6.1. Ops Intel directs debrief and extracts all required data IOT meet applicable deadlines
7. DEBRIEF ACCURACY
8. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.17. EC-130H Intelligence Reports Gradesheet.
1. REPORT PREPARATION
   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
2. REPORT FORMAT
   2.1. REPORT SHELL PREPARATION
3. CORRECT CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS
4. CONTENT
   4.1. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS/DATA REPORTED
   4.2. APPROPRIATE FOR AUDIENCE
   4.3. LOGICAL FLOW
   4.4. READABILITY
   4.5. CORRECT SPELLING/GRAMMAR
   4.6. HISTORICAL MISSION DATA
5. ADHERENCE TO AOR STANDARDS
6. QUALITY CHECK
7. RELEASE PROCEDURES
   7.1. MET RELEASE DEADLINES
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                          39


8. TIME MANAGEMENT
9. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.18. EC-130H CCATT Intelligence Reporting Gradesheet.
1. REPORT PREPARATION
   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS
   1.3. VALIDATION
2. REPORT FORMAT
    2.1. REPORT SHELL PREPARATION
3. CORRECT CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS
4. CONTENT
   4.1. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS/DATA REPORTED
   4.2. APPROPRIATE FOR AUDIENCE
   4.3. LOGICAL FLOW
   4.4 ACCURACY/COMPLETENESS
   4.5. READABILITY
   4.6. CORRECT SPELLING/GRAMMAR
   4.7. HISTORICAL MISSION DATA
5. ADHERENCE TO AOR STANDARDS
6. QUALITY CHECK
7. RELEASE/DISSEMINATION PROCEDURES
   7.1. MET RELEASE DEADLINES
8. TIME MANAGEMENT
9. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.19. EC-130H CCATT Request for Information Response Gradesheet.
1. RESEARCH
   1.1. EFFECTIVE INTELLIGENCE SEARCH STRATEGY (Specific resources used, not
Intelink as primary research tool)
2. ANALYSIS
   2.1. DETERMINE OPTIMAL SOURCE IF CONFLICTING INFO WAS FOUND,
   2.2. PROVIDED CLEAR/CONCISE RESPONSE THAT ADEQUATELY ANSWERS RFI
3. CORRECT & ACCURATE INTELLIGENCE PROVIDED
4. TIMELINESS
   4.1. RFI ANSWERED IN TIMELINE PROVIDED BY REQUESTOR IF REASONABLE
   4.2. UTILIZED MOST CURRENT AVAILABLE INFO TO SATISFY RFI
5. LOCAL & THEATER PROCEDURES ADHERENCE
   5.1. CORRECTLY FORMATTED IN METHOD REQUESTED
   5.2. DELIVERY METHOD
6. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.20. EC-130H SIGINT Reporting Analysis Gradesheet.
1. REPORT ANALYSIS
 40                                             AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


   1.1. RESEARCH
   1.2. ANALYSIS/COMPREHENSION
   1.3. SPECIFIC SOURCES IDENTIFIED
2. USE OF AUTOMATED SYSTEMS
3. MISSION PLANNING
   3.1. EXTRAPOLATE RELEVANT INTELLIGENCE TO EC-130H
4. ADHERENCE TO AOR STANDARDS
5. QUALITY CHECK
6. RELEASE/DISSEMINATION PROCEDURES
   6.1. MET RELEASE DEADLINES
7. TIME MANAGEMENT
8. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.21. EC-130H Signals of Interest (SOIs) Gradesheet.
1. GUIDANCE FROM MPC FOLLOWED (Priority of signal, etc…)
2. PROPERLY MANIPULATION OF EXCEL OR APPLICATION USED
3. FINAL PRODUCT
   3.1. ACCURACY
   3.2. REPRESENTED PRIORITIES FROM MPC
   3.3. PROPER DISSEMINATION TO REQUESTOR
   3.4. PROPER LEVEL OF DETAIL FOR MANIPULATION INTO A TNL
4. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.22. EC-130H C3 Diagrams Gradesheet.
1. DIAGRAM & PRODUCTS SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
2. BRIEFER KNOWLEDGE
   2.1. EFFECTIVE EXPLANATION OF CRITICALITY
   2.2. ADEQUATE TARGET COUNTRY C4I KNOWLEDGE
3. CRITICAL LINKS & NODES
   3.1 MCC
   3.2 CTAIG
   3.3. MPC
   3.4. OTHERS
4. DIAGRAM DEPICTION
   4.1 PRIMARY MEANS OF COMM
   4.2 SECONDARY
   4.3 TERTIARY
   4.4 TYPE OF INFO PASSED
   4.5 DEMONSTRATE LINK & NODE VULNERABILITY TO COMPASS CALL EFFECTS
5. PARAMETRIC DATA AVAILABILITY
6. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.23. EC-130H C3 Target Nomination List (TNL) Gradesheet.
1. TNL PRODUCTION
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                              41


   1.1. MPC TNL PRIORITIES FOLLOWED
   1.2. PROPER RESOURCES USED W/SOLID RESEARCH PLAN
   1.3. ISOLATED TARGETS USING EXCEL 2FV (or other application)
   1.4. IDENTIFIED CALL TARGETS/ELIMINATED FODDER
   1.3. ACCURACY
2. JRFL CROSS-CHECK
3. MPC GUIDELINES FOLLOWED
4. PRODUCTION WITHIN PRESCRIBED TIMELINES
5. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.24. EC-130H C3 Analysis Briefing Gradesheet.
1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
   1.1. SOLID RESEARCH PLAN (identify appropriate sources)
   1.2. SUBJECT MATTER UNDERSTANDING
   1.3. DEMONSTRATE ADDITIONAL ANALYSIS
2. DELIVERY
   2.1. CLEAR & UNDERSTANDABLE
   2.2. GOOD RATE OF SPEED & VOLUME
   2.3. SUBJECT MATTER UNDERSTANDING
   2.4. IDENTIFY INTELLIGENCE GAPS
3. ANALYSIS
   3.1. IDENTIFIED LIKELY ENEMY COAs IN RESPONSE TO CCALL EFFECTS
   3.2. BOTTOMLINE ANALYSIS PROVIDED
   3.1. KEY TOPICS COVERED (i.e., C3 structure, equip used, info passed)
4. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION

Table A3.25. EC-130H CCATT Mission Crew Debrief Gradesheet.
1. DEBRIEFING PREPARATION
    1.1. DEBRIEF WORKSHEET (Prep MISREP/PMR shell)
    1.2. VISUAL AIDS (Falcon View/Google Earth/Analyst Notebook)
2. TIME CRITICAL INTELLIGENCE SITREPs, Ceasebuzzer, SAFIRE, base attacks
    2.1. NEW THREAT, ADVERSARY TACTICS
3. ADHERENCE TO UNIT PROCEDURES (COMPASS CALL Intel Checklist)
4. MISSION CREW DEBRIEF (Ensure all logs are complete, accurate & readable: Jx log,
ANO/Linguist Log)
   4.1. OUTSIDE COORDINATION/CROSS-CUE (If applicable, ensure all details are
recorded by MCC)
5. TIME MANAGEMENT
   5.1. CCATT directed debrief and extracted all required data IOT meet applicable deadlines
6. DEBRIEF ACCURACY
7. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION
 42                                                    AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


                                          Attachment 4
                        SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEETS

A4.1. EC-130H Specialized Training (ST) Gradesheets. The ST gradesheet templates in this
attachment will be used to complete the AF Forms 4381 that Intelligence Qualification Trainers
will use to record completion of ST. ST Gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training
and evaluation record. Intelligence Evaluators may use the gradesheets to assist in the
completion of the AF Form 4350 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume
2. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of evaluations.

Table A4.1. EC-130H EIT Trainer Concepts and Methods ST Gradesheet.
1.   PREPARATION
2.   DECISION MAKING
3.   OBJECTIVES
4.   COMMUNICATION SKILLS
5.   KNOWLEDGE
6.   ORGANIZATION
7.   DOCUMENTATION
8.   SECURITY

Table A4.2. EC-130H EIT Trainer Academics ST Gradesheet.
1.   AIR THREATS
2.   SAM THREATS
3.   AAA THREATS
4.   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
4.   COLLECTION & REPORTING
5.   VISUAL RECOGNITION
6.   PERSONNEL RECOVERY
7.   FORCE PROTECTION INTELLIGENCE
8.   CCATT INTRODUCTION
9.   INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY OVERVIEW

Table A4.3. EC-130H Intelligence Evaluator ST Gradesheet.
1.   PREPARATION
2.   DECISION MAKING
3.   OBJECTIVES
4.   COMMUNICATION SKILLS
5.   KNOWLEDGE
6.   ORGANIZATION
7.   DOCUMENTATION
AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012                                                      43


                                      Attachment 5
                    EC-130H MQT, ST AND RIP REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Table A5 1 Consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be used
by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements.
 Requirement                                          MQT         ST          RIP
 RAD and IPOE                                         X
 Threat Knowledge                                     X
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                 X
 PR                                                   X
 FPI                                                  X
 Threat Briefings                                     X
 RFI                                                  X                       X
 Situation Displays                                   X                       X
 Manual OB                                            X                       X
 Automated OB                                         X                       X
 Initial Situation Brief                              X                       X
 Situation Briefing                                   X                       X
 Changeover Briefing                                  X                       X
 Deployment Briefing                                  X                       X
 ATO/ACO/SPINS/RSTA Annex                             X                       X
 Intelligence Support to MPC                          X                       X
 Mission Briefing                                     X                       X
 Step Briefing                                        X                       X
 Mission Tracking                                     X                       X
 Flight Deck Debriefing                               X                       X
 Intelligence Reports                                 X                       X
 CCATT Research Methods and databases                 X                       X
 CCATT Request for Information Response               X                       X
 CCATT Intelligence Reporting                         X                       X
 SIGINT Reporting Analysis                            X                       X
 Signals of Interest (SOIs)                           X                       X
 C3 Diagrams                                          X                       X
 C3 Target Nomination List (TNL)                      X                       X
 C3 Analysis Briefing                                 X                       X
 CCATT Mission Crew Debriefing                        X                       X
 EIT 1 – EIT Concepts and Methods                                 X
 EIT 2 – EIT 5 Threat Training                                    X
 EIT 6 – C&R                                                      X
44                                         AFI14-2EC-130HV1 28 November 2012


EIT 7 – VR                                              X
EIT 8 – PR                                              X
EIT 9 – FPI                                             X
EIT 10 – CCATT Introduction                             X
EIT 11 – Intelligence Community Overview                X
IE 1 – IE MSN Observation                               X
IE 2 – IE EIT Observation                               X
IE 3 – IE Proficiency                                   X
