BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           25 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                                   Certified Current, 28 February 2012
                                                                                        Operations

                                                   AIR FORCE CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL,
                                                  RADIOLOGICAL, AND NUCLEAR (CBRN)
                                                                     SURVIVABILITY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A5XP                                                               Certified by: AF/A5X
                                                                           (Maj Gen Kip L. Self)
                                                                                        Pages: 14


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-26, Counter-Chemical,
Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Operations and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI)
3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability Policy
(Incorporating Change 1). This Air Force Instruction (AFI) establishes the guidelines and
procedures for defining, developing, documenting, validating and implementing CBRN
Survivability for CBRN mission-critical systems. It applies to all Air Force personnel who
develop, manage or operate CBRN mission-critical systems including Air Force Reserve
Command and Air National Guard units, except where noted otherwise. This Instruction applies
to all Air Force CBRN mission-critical systems regardless of Acquisition Category (ACAT),
classification, collateral, compartmented and special access programs. Adherence is mandatory,
except when statutory requirements, Department of Defense (DoD) or Joint Staff directives
override. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. CBRN Survivability
   1.1. Vision. The intent of this Instruction is to facilitate the CBRN survivability of CBRN
   mission-critical systems needed by the combatant commanders. CBRN survivability policies
   implemented in the National Security Strategy, National Defense Strategy, National Military
2                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010


    Strategy, planning guidance outlined in the Quadrennial Defense Review, Strategic Planning
    Guidance, Joint Programming Guidance, Transformation Planning Guidance, and the family
    of Joint Operations Concepts lay the foundation for the Air Force‘s needed capabilities.
    Capabilities are employed to achieve desired effects in support of these strategies. The Lead
    Command/Sponsor of an Air Force system implements the required CBRN survivability
    capabilities for Air Force systems using established Air Force requirements, budgeting and
    programming processes. Lead Command is used in this Instruction as described in AFPD
    10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapons Systems paragraph 1
    and AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management paragraph 2. Sponsor is used in this
    Instruction as described in AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development
    paragraph 2.1 and AFI 10-601 Attachment 1.
       1.1.1. The Air Force will accomplish CBRN survivability of Air Force CBRN mission-
       critical systems through materiel measures or remediation of vulnerabilities through
       tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) throughout the system‘s life cycle, and by
       regularly assessing whether the systems are CBRN survivable.
       1.1.2. The Lead Command/Sponsor must ensure nuclear systems, nuclear command and
       control (NC2) systems, and associated facilities and equipment are hardened against
       CBRN attacks and have a continuing nuclear hardness maintenance and hardness
       surveillance (HM/HS) program.
       1.1.3. If a non-NC2 system requires hardening to survive against chemical, biological,
       radiological or nuclear threats, implement an HM/HS program in accordance with (IAW)
       AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management.
    1.2. Mission-critical System Definition. Per DoDI 3150.09, mission-critical systems are
    defined as ―A system whose operational effectiveness and operational suitability are essential
    to successful mission completion or to aggregate residual combat capability. If this system
    fails, the mission likely will not be completed. Such a system can be an auxiliary or
    supporting system, as well as a primary mission system.‖ Mission-critical systems are
    determined by the Lead Command/Sponsor and are subject to review and approval by the
    Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans & Requirements (AF/A3/5). An ACAT I level
    weapon system is the typical example of a mission-critical system; however, ACAT level is
    not the determining factor for meeting the mission-critical definition. The Air Force must
    consider the mission, environment and capabilities of a system to determine if it is ―  mission-
    critical.‖ For example, a tactical aircraft is likely a mission-critical system because of its use
    to perform the primary missions assigned to the organization employing it. Additionally, a
    weapon (i.e., missile or bomb) carried by the aircraft may be a mission-critical system if it is
    determined by the sponsor that the aircraft cannot perform its mission without the weapon.
    1.3. CBRN Mission-critical Definition. Per DoDI 3150.09, CBRN mission-critical systems
    are a subset of mission-critical systems with operational concepts requiring employment and
    survivability in a chemical, biological, and radiological (CBR) environment and/or nuclear
    environment. The Lead Command/Sponsor applies this definition to the assessed mission
    environments in which the system must perform and thereby determines if a system is CBRN
    mission-critical. As in the case of mission-critical systems, this determination is subject to
    review and approval by the AF/A3/5.
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010                                                 3


   1.4. CBRN Survivability Definition. DoDI 3150.09 defines CBRN Survivability as the
   capability of a system to avoid, withstand, or operate during and/or after exposure to a CBR
   environment (and relevant decontamination) or a nuclear environment, without losing the
   ability to accomplish the assigned mission. CBRN survivability is divided into CBR
   survivability, which is concerned with CBR contamination including fallout, and nuclear
   survivability, which covers nuclear weapon effects, including blast, electromagnetic pulse
   (EMP) and other radiation and shockwave effects.
   1.5. Purpose. This Instruction establishes responsibilities and processes for identifying
   CBRN mission-critical systems, ensuring their survivability in a CBR contaminated and/or
   nuclear environment, and compliance with reporting requirements.
2. Roles and Responsibilities
   2.1. Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US) oversees the acquisition of CBRN mission-
   critical space systems, ensuring the compliance with CBRN survivability requirements post
   Milestone B and at Milestone C.
       2.1.1. Assists the Chief of the Strategic Plans and Policy Division (AF/A5XP) in
       collecting data on CBRN mission-critical systems in support of the annual report required
       by DoDI 3150.09 IAW Attachment 2 of this Instruction.
   2.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ) oversees the acquisition of
   CBRN mission-critical non-space systems, ensuring the compliance with CBRN survivability
   requirements post Milestone B and at Milestone C.
       2.2.1. Assists AF/A5XP in collecting data on CBRN mission-critical systems in support
       of the annual report required by DoDI 3150.09 IAW Attachment 2 of this Instruction.
   2.3. Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans & Requirements (AF/A3/5).
       2.3.1. Director of Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A5R) will:
          2.3.1.1. Oversee operational CBRN survivability requirements integration in the Air
          Force operational capability requirements process.
          2.3.1.2. Provide data to AF/A5XP on CBRN mission-critical systems in support of
          the annual report required by DoDI 3150.09 IAW Attachment 2 of this Instruction.
       2.3.2. Director of Operational Planning, Policy & Strategy (AF/A5X) will represent the
       Air Force to the DoD CBRN Survivability Oversight Group.
          2.3.2.1. Chief of the Capability Based Planning Division (AF/A5X-C) will identify
          and prioritize CBRN survivability capability gaps/shortfalls through the capabilities-
          based planning process.
          2.3.2.2. Chief of the Strategic Plans and Policy Division (AF/A5XP) will:
              2.3.2.2.1. Integrate and coordinate Air Force CBRN survivability efforts as
              described in this AFI.
              2.3.2.2.2. Provide an annual report to the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense
              for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense (ATSD(NCB)) and the Chairman
              of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, detailing Air Force CBRN survivable mission-critical
              systems. This report will be turned in by 31 Dec each year.
4                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010


    2.4. Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations & Mission Support (AF/A4/7) will:
       2.4.1. IAW AFI 10-601 ensure Air Force CBRN Defense Systems concerns are
       addressed in all Joint Requirements Office (JRO) capabilities-based requirements
       documents and provide a copy of approved JRO capabilities-based requirements
       documents to AF/A5R.
       2.4.2. Provide data to AF/A5XP on CBRN mission-critical systems in support of the
       annual report required by DoDI 3150.09 IAW Attachment 2 of this Instruction.
    2.5. Director of Air Force Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned (AF/A9)
    will maintain a capability to model, simulate, and assess the operational impact of CBRN-
    type attacks within the context of strategic- and theater-level force on force studies and
    analyses, given partnerships with the appropriate agencies provide sufficient subject matter
    expertise, engineering, and mission-level data characterizing system-specific CBRN effects.
    2.6. Assistant Chief of Staff Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration (AF/A10) will
    validate operational survivability requirements for CBRN mission-critical systems managed
    under the Nuclear Deterrent Operations Panel that are hardened, or require hardening for
    nuclear survivability.
    2.7. Director of Air Force Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) will oversee the testing and
    evaluation of system survivability IAW AFI 63-101.
    2.8. Lead Command/Sponsor will:
       2.8.1. In collaboration with the system‘s MAJCOM Functional Area Manager (FAM),
       develop and conduct CBRN survivability analyses to identify mission-critical and CBRN
       mission-critical systems to support Air Force and Joint requirements and include CBRN
       mission-critical designation and justification in capabilities documents.
           2.8.1.1. Determine the threat and operating environment for their mission-critical
           systems in accordance with established DoD procedures, and using the national
           guidance and strategies identified in paragraph 1.1.
           2.8.1.2. Address all aspects of system CBRN survivability requirements specified in
           the program‗s Joint Capabilities Integration and Development Systems (JCIDS)
           capability documents per AFI 10-601 and AFI 63-101. Describe the concept of
           operations for the desired capability likely to be employed in the CBR and/or nuclear
           environment and plan for CBRN survivability validation and verification.
               2.8.1.2.1. Provide an assessment of the system‗s CBRN survivability in the
               anticipated battlefield environment to support milestone and in-process reviews
               (IPR). For any shortfalls in meeting survivability requirements identified during
               milestone and IPRs, provide a plan for meeting the requirements as well as any
               associated risk analysis and mitigation plan.
               2.8.1.2.2. Conduct a review to assess the impact to the system‘s CBRN
               survivability during capability document updates.
           2.8.1.3. Provide explicit CBRN survivability parameters for inclusion in required
           modification documents per AFI 63-131.
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010                                                5


        2.8.1.4. In coordination with the Chief of the Requirements and Programs Division
        (AF/A10R), ensure any changes to requirements, including a decision to lessen NC2
        survivability requirements in a JCIDS document, be approved IAW DoDI 3150.09,
        CJCSI 3170.01G, and AFI 10-601.
     2.8.2. Assist AF/A5X-C in identifying and prioritizing CBRN survivability capability
     gaps/shortfalls through the capabilities-based planning process.
     2.8.3. Identify the architecture and Modeling and Simulation required for the mission-
     critical system's acquisition, operations, test, training, and sustainment.
     2.8.4. Regularly (every 5 years) assess the vulnerability of legacy CBRN mission-critical
     systems through system testing, according to applicable DoD Standards. For legacy
     CBRN mission-critical systems assessed as vulnerable, ensure appropriate actions are
     taken that include, but are not limited to: identification of lessons learned, development
     of TTPs to mitigate risks, identification of materiel limitations, and development of
     schedules and funding plans, as appropriate.
     2.8.5. In cooperation with AF/A9 and the Air Force Agency for Modeling and
     Simulations, ensure models, simulations, doctrine and training to support Air Force
     CBRN survivability guidance are reflected in force-on-force simulations.
     2.8.6. Identify CBRN mission-critical systems that require nuclear hardening for CBRN
     survivability.
     2.8.7. Ensure an HM/HS program is established and maintained for CBRN mission-
     critical systems that are hardened for CBRN survivability IAW DoDI 3150.09 and AFI
     63-101.
     2.8.8. Address CBRN survivability at each milestone for all CBRN mission-critical
     systems under development, as a part of a DoD Acquisition Program.
     2.8.9. Review CBRN survivability on an annual basis per DoDI 3150.09 and implement
     required changes IAW AFI 63-131.
     2.8.10. Provide data to AF/A5XP on CBRN mission-critical systems in support of the
     annual report required by DoDI 3150.09 IAW Attachment 2 of this Instruction.
  2.9. Operating Command will:
     2.9.1. Provide a focal point to facilitate command-wide review of CBRN mission-critical
     system capabilities-based requirements documents to provide CBRN survivability data to
     the Lead Command/Sponsor. Collaborate with the CBRN mission-critical system‘s
     MAJCOM FAM.
     2.9.2. Develop and conduct CBRN survivability analyses according to established
     procedures to support Air Force and Joint requirements.
     2.9.3. Ensure an HM/HS program is established and maintained for CBRN mission-
     critical systems that are hardened for CBRN survivability IAW DoDI 3150.09 and AFI
     63-101.
  2.10. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will:
6                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010


       2.10.1. Establish and maintain Air Force CBRN survivability standards IAW Air Force
       CounterCBRN (C-CBRN) Council guidance.
           2.10.1.1. CBRN survivability standards should be developed jointly and with
           Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) assistance if possible.
       2.10.2. Support the lead MAJCOMs‘ vulnerability assessments of legacy CBRN
       mission-critical systems.
       2.10.3. System and joint program offices will support the Lead Command/Sponsor in
       assessing the vulnerability of legacy CBRN mission-critical systems through system
       testing.
       2.10.4. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) will support program offices with legacy
       systems testing, and provide, as required, scientific and technological support to the
       development and implementation of risk mitigation TTPs. This support includes, but is
       not limited to scientific research, technology demonstration, and, related modeling,
       simulation, and analysis.
    2.11. Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) will plan, conduct, and
    report Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) for ACAT I, II, Office of the Secretary of
    Defense Oversight, of CBRN programs in accordance with AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based
    Test and Evaluation. Any involvement by AFOTEC in CBRN programs other than those
    listed above will only be at the direction of the AFOTEC/CC following a request from the
    MAJCOM. If OT&E is required, the report will evaluate the system's effectiveness,
    suitability, and mission capability, to include CBRN survivability.
    2.12. C-CBRN Council Policy Working Group (PWG) will:
       2.12.1. Review Air Force CBRN Survivability policy goals and evaluate progress made
       in achieving those goals.
       2.12.2. Consider the feasibility of proposed concepts and review ongoing CBRN
       survivability projects.
       2.12.3. Ensure CBRN survivability receives proper emphasis during the development of
       Air Force planning and acquisition guidance.
       2.12.4. Monitor CBRN survivability testing programs and facilities.
       2.12.5. Ensure coordination and prevent duplication between the Major Commands, and
       HQ USAF.
       2.12.6. Ease the exchange of information among participants.
       2.12.7. Refer PWG recommendations for action to the Air Force C-CBRN Council.
3. Procedures.
    3.1. The CBRN Survivability Process.        Figure 3.1 depicts the process flow and
    corresponding responsible commands.
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010                                                  7


Figure 3.1. CBRN Survivability Process




   3.2. The Lead Command/Sponsor determines mission-critical systems based on guidance in
   paragraph 1.2.
   3.3. The Lead Command/Sponsor conducts a risk assessment to determine the threat and
   operating environments for their mission-critical systems using the national guidance and
   strategies identified in paragraph 1.1 and determines whether or not the mission-critical
   system must operate in a CBRN environment – classifying the system as CBRN mission-
   critical.
   3.4. The Lead Command/Sponsor conducts a Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel,
   Leadership and Education, Personnel and Facilities (DOTMLPF) analysis to determine if a
   materiel or non-materiel solution is required to enable the CBRN mission-critical system to
   perform to the necessary standard.
   3.5. The Lead Command/Sponsor complies with the process in AFI 10-601 or AFI 63-131
   (as depicted in Figure 3.2) to obtain the necessary capabilities for the CBRN mission-critical
   system to meet the known CBRN survivability standard.
8                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010


Figure 3.2. CBRN Survivability Implementation Process




    3.6. The Air Force C-CBRN Council will review recommendations from the PWG and
    provide guidance to Lead Command/Sponsors concerning mitigation plans.
    3.7. The Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) shall assess compliance with CBRN
    survivability requirements at each acquisition milestone review following Capability
    Development Document (CDD) approval. The assessment is based on the approved
    acquisition strategy and acquisition program baseline, derived from the CDD and Capability
    Production Document. ATSD(NCB) will provide advice to the MDA concerning CBRN
    survivability requirements for ACAT 1 programs.
    3.8. Materiel developers will work with the test and evaluation community to develop test
    and evaluation master plans that realistically address the requirement to test and evaluate,
    model, or assess CBRN survivability requirements. Materiel developers shall ensure CBRN
    survivability test data are provided to sponsors, and Defense Technical Information Center,
    for subsequent inclusion in the CBRN materiel effects databases.




                                            PHILIP M. BREEDLOVE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010                                                 9


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Section 1053 of Public Law 108-375, Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2005, October 28, 2004
National Security Presidential Directive No. 51 and No. 20, National Security Presidential
Directive 5I / Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20, May 4, 2007
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Standardization Agreement 4145, Nuclear Survivability
Criteria for Armed Forces Materiel and Installations - AEP-14, January 29, 1991
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Standardization Agreement 4521, Nuclear, Biological,
Chemical (NBC) Defense Factors in the Design, Testing and Acceptance of Military Equipment -
AEP-7, May 9, 1997
DoD 8910.1-M, DoD Procedures for Management of Information Requirements, June 30, 1998
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3020.40, Defense Critical Infrastructure (DCIP)
Program, August 19, 2005
DoDD 3150.06, U.S. Nuclear Command and Control System Support Staff, August 25, 2006
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003
DoDD 5134.08, Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological
Defense Programs (ATSD(NCB)), January 14, 2009
DoDD 5134.01, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
(USD(AT&L), December 9, 2005 (Incorporating Change 1, April 1, 2008)
DoDD S-5210.81, United States Nuclear Weapons Command and Control, Safety, and Security
(U), August 8, 2005
DoDI 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability
Policy, August 17, 2009 (Incorporating Change 1, August 17, 2009)
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, December 8, 2008
National Security Space Acquisition Policy Interim Guidance for DoD Space System
Acquisition Process, March 23, 2009
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities
Integration and Development System, 1 March 2009
CJCSI 3222.01A, CJCS Requirements for High Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse Protection of
Nuclear C3 Nodes and Systems (U), 1 February 2007
CJCSI 6810.01A, Critical Nuclear Command and Control (NC2) Equipment and Facilities (U),
1 February 2007
CJCS Manual 3170.01G, Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development
System, 1 March 2009
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
10                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010


AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March
2007
AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Operations, 26 January
2007
AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development, 31 July 2006
AFI 11-299, Nuclear Airlift Operations, 19 March 2008
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 63-103, Joint Air Force-National Nuclear Security Administration (AF-NNSA) Nuclear
Weapons Life Cycle Management, 24 September 2008
AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, 6 November 2009
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation (Incorporating Change 2), 20 March 2009
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT— Acquisition Category
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFOTEC—- Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRL—- Air Force Research Laboratory
ATSD(NCB)—- Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological
Defense
CBR— Chemical, Biological, and Radiological
CBRN— Chemical, Biological, Radiological, & Nuclear
CBRN— Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear
CDD— Capability Development Document
CJCSI— Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
DoD— Department of Defense
DoDD— Department of Defense Directive
DoDI— Department of Defense Instruction
DOTMLPF—- Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education,
Personnel and Facilities
DTRA— Defense Threat Reduction Agency
EMP— Electromagnetic Pulse
FAM— Functional Area Manager
HM/HS— Hardness Maintenance & Hardness Surveillance
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010                                                  11


IAW— In Accordance With
IPR— In-Process Review
JCIDS—- Joint Capabilities Integration and Development Systems
JRO— Joint Requirements Office
MAJCOM— Major Command
MDA— Milestone Decision Authority
NC2— Nuclear Command & Control
OT&E— Operational Test and Evaluation
PWG— C-CBRN Council Policy Working Group
TTP— Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures

Terms
CBR Environment— The environment created by chemical, biological, or radiological
contamination.
CBRN Mission-Critical— That subset of mission-critical systems with operational concepts
requiring employment and survivability in a CBR environment or a nuclear environment.
CBRN Survivability— DoDI 3150.09 defines CBRN Survivability as the capability of a system
to avoid, withstand, or operate during and/or after exposure to a CBR environment (and relevant
decontamination) or a nuclear environment, without losing the ability to accomplish the assigned
mission. CBRN survivability is divided into CBR survivability, which is concerned with CBR
contamination including fallout, and nuclear survivability, which covers nuclear weapon effects,
including blast, EMP and other radiation and shockwave effects.
Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP)— The electromagnetic radiation from a nuclear explosion
caused by Compton-recoil electrons and photoelectrons from photons scattered in the materials
of the nuclear device or in a surrounding medium. The resulting electric and magnetic fields
may couple with electrical/electronic systems to produce damaging current and voltage surges.
Lead Command— A MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency (FOA) or Direct Reporting Unit
(DRU) that advocates for a system during the system‘s life cycle.
Mission-Critical System— A system whose operational effectiveness and operational suitability
are essential to successful mission completion or to aggregate residual combat capability. If this
system fails, the mission likely will not be completed. Such a system can be an auxiliary or
supporting system, as well as a primary mission system.
NC2 System— The combination of facilities, equipment, communications, procedures, and
personnel essential for planning, directing, and controlling nuclear weapons, weapons systems,
and associated operations.
Nuclear Environment— The environment created by nuclear weapon effects (air blast, thermal
radiation, nuclear radiation, fallout, and EMP).
Nuclear Hardening— The employment of any design or manufacturing technique or
component applied to an item/system that allows it to avoid failure or destruction, resist
12                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010


malfunction (temporary or permanent) and/or prevent degraded performance induced by nuclear
weapon effects. Such systems are considered to be nuclear hardened.
Nuclear Survivability— The capability of a system to withstand exposure to a nuclear
environment without interruption to its designated mission throughout its life-cycle. Nuclear
survivability may be accomplished by hardening, redundancy, mitigation techniques (including
operational techniques), or a combination thereof.
Operating Command—- Those commands operating a system, subsystem, or item of
equipment.
Sponsor— The organization responsible for documentation, periodic reporting, and funding
actions necessary to support needed capabilities (e.g. MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, etc.).
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                                           13


                                                                 Attachment 2
                                   CBRN SURVIVABILITY REPORT FORMAT.

Section 1 – Required Information for All Mission-Critical Systems
Mission           CBRN                 CBRN                 Hardened for       HM/HS Plan        EMP               Notes
Critical          Mission              Mission              Nuclear            (Y/N)             Survivable
System Name       Critical (Y/N)       Critical             Survivability                        (Y/N)
                                       Legacy (Y/N)         (Y/N)




Section 2 – Required Information for CBRN Mission-Critical Systems in Development
CBRN        Review      Capabilities      Acquisition       Schedules       Performance     MDA CBRN          Actions         Lessons
Mission     Date        Document          Milestone         and             Against         Survivability     Taken to        Learned
Critical                Approval          Decision          Funding         CBRN            Guidance          Comply with     and
System                                                      Plans           Survivability                     MDA CBRN        Notes
Name                                                        Attached        Requirements                      Survivability
                                                            (Y/N)




Section 3 – Required Information for Legacy CBRN Mission-Critical Systems
CBRN Mission         Review Date          CBRN                   Actions Taken       Schedules and      Lessons Learned
Critical System                           Survivability          To Mitigate         Funding Plans      and Notes
Name                                      Vulnerabilities        Vulnerabilities     Attached (Y/N)
                                          Assessed




CATEGORY DESCRIPTIONS

Mission-critical system name – Self Explanatory

Line Item Number (LIN) – Procurement line item number associated to the mission-critical
system.

Hardened for nuclear survivability – A system is considered to be nuclear hardened if it
includes the employment of any design or manufacturing technique or component that allows it
to avoid failure or destruction, resist malfunction (temporary or permanent) and/or prevent
degraded performance induced by nuclear weapon effects. Identify if the mission-critical system
is hardened for nuclear survivability.

Hardened for HM/HS – The system is considered to be hardened for HM/HS if the CBRN
survivability is reviewed on an annual basis per DoDI 3150.09 and required changes are
implemented IAW AFI 63-101.

Notes – Text/narrative describing system's employment and/or notes clarifying hardening.
Specify if the system requires employment and survivability in a CBR environment, a nuclear
environment or both. Also, specify if the system is hardened to EMP standards.
14                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION10-2607 25 FEBRUARY 2010


Review date – The date (MMDDYYYY) the CBRN mission-critical system and/or CBRN
mission-critical Legacy system was last reviewed.

Capabilities document approval – A CBRN Mission-Critical system that transitions by
capabilities document approval. If transition approval is not by capabilities document (i.e.,
Acquisition Milestone Decision), then enter "None".

Acquisition Milestone Decision – The CBRN Mission-Critical system milestone as defined by
DoDI 5000.2. If transition approval is not by acquisition milestone decision (i.e., Capabilities
Document approval) then enter "None".

Schedules and Funding Plans Attached (Y/N) – Enter whether system schedules and funding
plans have been provided.

Performance Against CBRN Survivability Requirements – Text/narrative identifying the
status of the CBRN Mission-Critical system's performance against its CBRN survivability
requirements.

MDA CBRN Survivability Guidance – Text/narrative identifying Milestone Decision
Authority (MDA) guidance for the CBRN Mission-Critical system.

Actions Taken To Comply With MDA CBRN Survivability Guidance -- Text/narrative
describing the actions taken to comply with MDA CBRN survivability guidance for the CBRN
Mission-Critical system.

CBRN Survivability Vulnerabilities Assessed – Text/narrative describing the vulnerability
assessment of the CBRN Mission-Critical Legacy system.

Actions Taken To Mitigate Vulnerabilities – Text/narrative describing actions taken to
mitigate the assessed vulnerabilities of the CBRN Mission-Critical Legacy system.

Lessons Learned and Notes – Text/narrative describing lessons learned pertaining to CBRN
survivability and/or additional clarifying information (i.e., notes).
