BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION16-402
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                      AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                          Supplement

                                                                        7 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                         Operations Support

                                                AEROSPACE VEHICLE PROGRAMMING
                                                       ASSIGNMENT DISTRIBUTION,
                                                   ACCOUNTING, AND TERMINATION

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the E-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/DOOR                                              Certified by: HQ AFMC/DOO
Supersedes: AFI16-402/AFMCS 1, 27                                    (Col Patrick S. Charters)
            July 1998                                                                 Pages: 8


AFI 16-402, 1 December 2009, is supplemented as follows:

This supplement implements AFPD 16-4, Accounting for Units, Installations, and Aerospace
Vehicles and AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming Assignment, Distribution,
Accounting, and Termination. It expands on the guidance provided in AFI 16-402 and applies to
all AFMC units. This supplement does not apply to US Air Force Reserve and National Guard
units or members. If supplemented, send a copy to HQ AFMC/DOO, 4225 Logistics Ave. Suite
2, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5714.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This supplement
supersedes AFI 16-402/AFMCS 1, and provides guidance to AFMC units on aircraft inventory
management, reports, and format. It changes the format for requesting aerospace vehicles. It
establishes requirements and format for memorandum of agreements (MOA) governing the loan
of aerospace vehicles.
2.1.1.1. (Added) AFMC units identify RDT&E requirements according to AFI 99-101,
Developmental Test and Evaluation, and AFI 99-109, Test Resource Planning.
 2                                                AFI16-402_AFMCSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


2.1.1.2. (Added) AFMC units request aerial targets and tactical missiles needed for RDT&E
according to AFI 99-108, Programming and Reporting Missile and Target Expenditures, and
AFI 99-101.
Add under 3.5.1 as a bullet. AFMC Primary Development/Test Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
(PDAI) aircraft are assigned only to test centers except in special cases approved by HQ
AFMC/DO.
4.2.1.1. (Added) HQ AFMC/DO must approve the long term or permanent assignment transfer
of aircraft between AFMC and other MAJCOMS/services/government agencies. Send requests
to HQ AFMC/DO using the format in attachment 5(Added) of this supplement. Requests should
arrive at HQ AFMC at least 90 days prior to the need date and must be signed by the center
commander (test wing commanders may sign requests for replacement of assigned aircraft that
were destroyed or are uneconomical to repair).
4.2.1.2. (Added) HQ AFMC/DO must approve the loan (“possession only” transfer) of AFMC
aircraft to other MAJCOMs/military services/government agencies.
4.2.1.3. (Added) The following governs the borrowing of non-AFMC aircraft by AFMC
organizations for purposes other than depot level maintenance/modification. These loans should
result in the AFMC unit accepting possession of the aircraft and are called "possession only"
transfers:
4.2.1.3.1. (Added) Test wing commanders (TW/CC), squadron and joint test force (JTF)
commanders (for those units not under a test wing), and system program office (SPO) directors
working in conjunction with a responsible test organization (RTO) may arrange for and approve
a possession only transfer of USAF aircraft into an AFMC or contractor flight test unit provided:
4.2.1.3.1.1. (Added) The aircraft is not assigned to ACC.
4.2.1.3.1.2. (Added) The owning organization is willing to loan the aircraft and no coordination
between either MAJCOM's headquarters or formal agreement between the units is required.
4.2.1.3.1.3. (Added) The aircraft transfer will be done according to AFI 21-103, Equipment
Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting.
4.2.1.3.1.4. (Added) Mishap accountability/investigation responsibility will be handled strictly
according to AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
4.2.1.3.1.5. (Added) HQ AFMC/DOO is notified prior to the transfer of the details regarding the
aircraft loan.
4.2.1.3.2. (Added) In situations that do not meet the above criteria, send requests to HQ
AFMC/DOO using the format in attachment 5(Added) of this supplement. One request may
cover situations where multiple aircraft are transferred or when a number of aircraft are loaned to
support an ongoing program over a period of time. Requests should arrive at HQ AFMC at least
30 days prior to the need date and must be signed by the TW/CC, squadron/JTF commander (for
those units not under a test wing), or SPO director. Requests from SPOs must be coordinated
with the commander of the RTO. Prior coordination with the loaning organization is
recommended.
4.2.1.3.3. (Added) SPOs may arrange for the use of non-AFMC aircraft by contractors
supporting approved airshows, aircraft demonstrations, and orientation flights. Comply with AFI
AFI16-402_AFMCSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                              3


11-209, Air Force Participation in Aerial Events and AFI 64-103, Leasing USAF Aircraft and
Related Equipment to Nongovernment Organizations.
4.2.3.1. (Added) A possession-only transfer of an aircraft to AFMC to support a test often
requires a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the gaining and losing flying units, HQ
AFMC, and the other command’s headquarters. One MOA may cover situations where multiple
aircraft are transferred or when a number of aircraft are loaned to support an ongoing program
over a period of time. The content of the MOA will vary based on purpose of the loan, MDS, and
requirements of the other command. Final approval level is usually determined by the loaning
command but all require signature by the AFMC TW/CC, squadron/JTF Commander (for those
units without TW/CCs), SPO director (if applicable), and HQ AFMC. Attachment 6(Added)
contains MOA format and content guidelines. The AFMC gaining flight test unit or program
office prepares the MOA and:
4.2.3.1.1. (Added) Coordinates the MOA with involved agencies at the RTO (e.g., stan/eval,
finance, maintenance, safety, etc.).
4.2.3.1.2. (Added) Submits the unit commander signed MOA to HQ AFMC/DOO for
headquarters (e.g., stan/eval, finance, maintenance, safety, etc.) coordination and approval.
4.2.3.1.3. (Added) Will have an approved MOA prior to operating the loaned aircraft.
5.2.1. HQ AFMC/LGMM-AVDO maintains accountability on AFMC Form 1026, Aircraft
Accountability Record, for all Air Force aircraft.
5.3.1. HQ AFMC/LGMM is the AFMC command AVDO and will issue AFMC aircraft
assignment and transfer instructions and maintain assignment records.
5.3.2. (Added) Field units will notify HQ AFMC/DOO and HQ AFMC/LGMM when:
5.3.2.1. (Added) An assigned aerospace vehicle is excess to their requirements. Report the
following information:
5.3.2.1.2. (Added) MDS, serial number, and location.
5.3.2.1.3. (Added) Brief description of vehicle general condition, to include cumulative airframe
hours.
5.3.2.1.4. (Added) Special modifications incorporated.
5.3.2.1.5. (Added) Special nonstandard equipment installed.
5.3.2.1.6. (Added) Estimated cost to return vehicle to standard configuration.
5.3.2.1.7. (Added) A complete listing of all time compliance technical orders and maintenance
actions necessary to return the aerospace vehicle to standard operational configuration.
5.3.2.1.8. (Added) Estimated date excess vehicle will be available for transfer.
 4                                              AFI16-402_AFMCSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011



5.3.2.1.9. (Added) Recommended disposition including any requirement for inviolate storage.
5.3.2.2. (Added) An aircraft assignment directive transfer date will take longer than 30 days to
comply with or when the transfer will not be in compliance with the assignment instruction.
6. Forms Prescribed: AFMC Form 1026.




                                       WILBERT D. PEARSON, JR. Brigadier General, USAF
                                       Director of Operations
AFI16-402_AFMCSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                               5


                                    Attachment 5 (Added)
                   REQUEST FORMAT FOR AEROSPACE VEHICLES

A5.1. (Added) Short Term Loans (Possession Transfer.) Requests to borrow other
MAJCOM/military service/government agency aircraft for short periods (usually 9 months or
less) should contain as a minimum the following information:
   A5.1.1. (Added) Responsible Test Organization: State what AFMC squadron will fly the
   aircraft.
   A5.1.2. (Added) Aircraft MDS: Also include the number required and tail number (if a
   specific aircraft is required).
   A5.1.3. (Added) Desired transfer date: Include duration of requirement.
   A5.1.4. (Added) Purpose:
       A5.1.4.1. (Added) Description of requirement and how the aircraft will be used;
       recommended possession purpose code (EI, EH or EB).
       A5.1.4.2. (Added) Test Program Title, Program Office, Program Element Code, and
       any PMD or other programmatic authorizations that state the requirement.
       A5.1.4.3. (Added) Flying hour requirement by quarter.
   A5.1.5. (Added) AFMC Resources: Explain why AFMC aircraft cannot be used to support
   the test.
   A5.1.6. (Added) Modifications: Explain any modifications that will be made to the aircraft
   and provide a statement that the aircraft will be returned to original condition prior to the
   agreed upon return date.
   A5.1.7. (Added) Support Requirements:
       A5.1.7.1. (Added) Explain who will maintain the aircraft.
NOTE 1: If other MAJCOM maintenance personnel will be used in a TDY capacity, agreements
for this support will have to be arranged at the unit level prior to finalizing the aircraft loan
approval.
NOTE 2: Additional AFMC maintenance manpower authorizations are not provided for loaned
aircraft.
       A5.1.7.2. (Added) Describe any other support requirements.
   A5.1.8. (Added) Recommended Source and Preliminary Contacts: Provide recommended
   source for the aircraft and describe any preliminary coordination and points of contact.
NOTE: Requests have a better chance of approval at the other MAJCOM headquarters if it is
stated one of their units is willing to loan the aircraft.
   A5.1.9. (Added) Action Officer: Name, grade, organization, and telephone/E-mail
   information.
A5.2. (Added) Permanent Transfer (Assignment Transfer): For requests to permanently
transfer aircraft to AFMC, include the information listed above and data needed to prepare a
 6                                               AFI16-402_AFMCSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


Program Change Request (PCR) as listed in AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air
Force Programs. This includes but is not limited to manpower and cost offset information
through the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP). Maintenance manpower and funding are the
key elements in obtaining HQ USAF approval of an aircraft transfer PCR. The losing command
rarely provides these resources which results in the need for AFMC offsets (e.g., retiring another
aircraft).
     A5.2.1. (Added) For requests to permanently transfer an AFMC aircraft to another
     organization explain in clear text the justification for the transfer.
NOTE: This reflects information needed to process a typical aircraft transfer request.
Requirements for multiple aircraft or for combat aircraft in short supply may require additional
justification/documentation.
AFI16-402_AFMCSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011                                                                7


                                    Attachment 6 (Added)
                  MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT INFORMATION

A6.1. (Added) The following illustrates the format and content of a typical aircraft loan MOA.
It should be modified to reflect local requirements and to include only relevant information. The
MOA must provide approval authorities with information on who is in charge of the flight test,
who possesses the aircraft, who operates the aircraft, who maintains the aircraft, and who will be
accountable for any mishaps. Obtain appropriate unit level functional coordination (e.g.,
stan/eval, finance, maintenance, safety, etc.) before forwarding an MOA to headquarters.
   A6.1.1. (Added) Sample heading:
                         MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (MOA)
                                      BETWEEN
                        AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND (AFMC)
                                         AND
                              AIR XXX COMMAND (AXC)
                                     REGARDING
                         THE USE OF C-130J/99-0123 TO SUPPORT
                            THE ZZZ FLIGHT TEST PROGRAM
A6.2. (Added) Paragraph heading examples:
   A6.2.1. (Added) Purpose: Describe purpose of the aircraft loan, the program being
   supported, and any supporting program directive information.
   A6.2.2. (Added) Background: Provide any pertinent information as desired.
   A6.2.3. (Added) Aircraft Possession/Configuration: The preferred method is to state that
   aircraft transfers will be done according to AFI 21-103. Fully explain any situation that is not
   adequately covered by AFI 21-103 (e.g., AFMC possesses another MAJCOM’s aircraft
   located at that command’s base for the purpose of ground test). The possessing command is
   usually the one providing the flying hours. Describe required aircraft modifications and
   configuration control issues.
   A6.2.4. (Added) Safety/Mishaps: See AFIs 21-103 and 91-204 as supplemented. Contact
   the unit flight safety office for advice on preparing this section of the MOA. It must be clear
   who has responsibility for aircraft mishaps and safety investigations. Mishap accountability
   is normally assigned based on what MAJCOM’s flying hours are being used or, when no
   flying time is credited, to the command possessing the aircraft. It is preferred that the MOA
   use normal AFI 21-103 criteria in assigning mishap accountability but, if the situation
   warrants, accountability may be based on the “pilot-in-command’s” MAJCOM. In this case,
   Air Force Safety Center concurrence is required. For situations where another command may
   have investigation responsibility, state: “AFMC will have at least one representative on any
   safety investigation board involving . . .”
   A6.2.5. (Added) Aircrew Composition/Flight Management: Explain required crew
   complement and instructor requirements. If crewmembers are from different MAJCOMs,
   clearly state whose operating rules will govern the flight test (avoid statements such as “the
8                                               AFI16-402_AFMCSUP 7 DECEMBER 2011


    more restrictive operating instructions will be used”). The MAJCOM and qualification of the
    aircraft commander (pilot-in-command) must be identified for all portions of the mission.
    A6.2.6. (Added) Aircraft Maintenance Support: If the possessing unit needs additional
    help in maintaining the loaned aircraft, describe the source, number, and specialties of the
    technicians and the length of time they are required to provide support. Loaned aircraft do
    not justify manpower authorizations so required outside support is usually provided by TDY
    personnel.
    A6.2.7. (Added) Responsibilities: State the responsibilities of the MAJCOMs and
    subordinate flying units.
    A6.2.8. (Added) Other Information: Attempt to limit nonessential information. If
    possible, use other means to explain financial transactions, support equipment requirements,
    etc.
    A6.2.9. (Added) Points Of Contact: List the key POCs, their phone numbers, and E-mail
    addresses.
    A6.2.10. (Added) Administrative: State the effective date and termination provisions of
    the MOA.
    A6.2.11. (Added) Approval Authorities/Signature Blocks: The recommended approval
    authorities are HQ AFMC/DO and appropriate 2-letter director at the other MAJCOM (the
    approval level may be changed in certain situations but all aircraft loan MOAs require HQ
    AFMC review). Limit other signatories to the commanders (or equivalent) of the involved
    flying units and, if a program office plays a direct role in the aircraft loan process, the
    program director.
