BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-601
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                       18 FEBRUARY 2011
                                              Incorporating Through Change 2, 6 AUGUST 2014

                                                                            Operations Support

                                                          IMPLEMENTATION OF, AND
                                                   COMPLIANCE WITH, INTERNATIONAL
                                                                ARMS CONTROL AND
                                                    NONPROLIFERATION AGREEMENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A5XP                                                             Certified by: AF/A5X
                                                               (Maj Gen Richard T. Devereaux)
Supersedes:   AFI 16-601, 7 June 2004                                                 Pages: 22


This Instruction implements AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation
Agreements and the DOD Foreign Clearance Program. It gives the directive requirements for
implementing and complying with arms control and nonproliferation agreements. It applies to all
organizations involved in the acquisition, operation, and support of weapon systems or items that
are affected by arms control and related agreements. Additional related publications include AFI
16-603, Education and Training Requirements for Implementation of, and Compliance with,
Arms Control Agreements, AFI 51-402, Weapons Review, and AFPD 36-28, Awards and
Decorations Programs. This Instruction is consistent with AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear
Enterprise, and incorporates guidance to ensure related Instructions remain consistent with
AFPD 13-5 and Air Force priorities for the Nuclear Enterprise. It also implements AFI 33-360
Communications and Information’s tier marking requirements. This instruction applies to the Air
Force Active as well as the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) Units. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-
tiered compliance items. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
 2                                                                                        AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFI 16-601 by adding the Waiver Authority Statement and Tier
waiver guidance from AFI 33-360 in the opening paragraph and by adding tier waiver authority
markings for each requirement mandated for compliance at the Wing level in accordance with
AFI 33-360. It also revises language regarding risks associated with assignment of non-treaty
compliance responsibilities to treaty compliance officers (TCOs), updates the treaties and
agreements listed within Attachment 2, and clarifies the requirements, processes, and timelines
associated with notifications for the Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe.

        1.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................    2
        2.     Treaty negotiations support and policy formulation: .............................................                          4
        3.     Treaty implementation: ..........................................................................................          4
        4.     Treaty compliance: ................................................................................................        5
        5.     Education and training: ..........................................................................................         7
        6.     Overall budgeting and managing manpower: ........................................................                          8
        7.     Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................      11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           12

Attachment 2—ARMS CONTROL TABLES                                                                                                         15


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans & Requirements (AF/A3/5) is
     the Air Force central authority for arms control agreements.
     1.2. The Strategic Plans and Policy Division (AF/A5XP) is the Treaty Implementation
     Manager for all aspects of the Air Force arms control process, and:
        1.2.1. Manages negotiations support; policy and guidance formulation; implementation;
        compliance; education; training; manpower allocation; and program budgeting and
        execution.
        1.2.2. Informs and advises senior Air Force leadership on arms control issues.
        1.2.3. Answers congressional requests about treaty impacts on Air Force operations.
        1.2.4. Assists the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
        Logistics, USD(AT&L), the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
        (Acquisition), SAF/AQ, and the Deputy Under Secretary for Space Programs, SAF/SP,
        with their arms control-related acquisition responsibilities.
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    3


     1.2.5. Supports Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Department of Energy, Office of the
     Secretary of Defense (OSD), and Air Force organizations in the research, development,
     test and evaluation (RDT&E) of new arms control and verification technologies.
     1.2.6. Represents the Air Force at all treaty-related forums, including Joint Staff,
     USD(AT&L), and other policy meetings whenever they are formed.
     1.2.7. Coordinates with AF/A10 on treaty matters, implementation and compliance
     measures that affect the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, and ensures related Instructions
     remain consistent with the guidance contained in this Instruction and AFPD 13-5.
  1.3. Major commands (MAJCOMs), relevant Numbered Air Forces (NAFs) and equivalent
  units, Air Force District of Washington (AFDW), and the Air National Guard (ANG) will:
     1.3.1. Establish a Treaty Office or point of contact to deal specifically with
     treaties/agreements applicable to their command. The office provides a link among
     subordinate wings and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), the MAJCOM, and the
     Headquarters Air Force. MAJCOM responsibilities include implementation, compliance,
     policy guidance, training, and resource management. Their arms control duties and
     responsibilities are derived, in part, from AFPD 16-6.
     1.3.2. Identify any arms control requests, issues, or concerns to AF/A5XP in order to
     coordinate expedient resolution, including those involving other DOD components or
     government agencies.
  1.4. SAF/AQ will:
     1.4.1. Ensure Program Managers provide the relevant documents for their programs and
     activities at program review milestones throughout their life cycle to AF/A5XP for
     review of compliance with existing arms control agreements.
     1.4.2. Request AF/A5XP guidance when any arms control compliance concerns arise
     with programs under their purview.
     1.4.3. Complete compliance certification reports as requested by AF/A5XP.
  1.5. The Office of the General Counsel (SAF/GC) is responsible, within the Department of
  the Air Force, for legal interpretation of international arms control and nonproliferation
  agreements. SAF/GC shall provide advice and assistance for negotiation of, implementation
  of, and compliance with, international arms control and nonproliferation agreements.
  1.6. Waiver Authority. When complying with official policy, guidance, and/or procedures,
  the unit may request a waiver. The fundamental aim of a waiver must be to enhance mission
  effectiveness at all levels, while preserving resources and safeguarding health and welfare.
  When a commander approves a waiver, the commander is communicating to subordinates
  and superiors that the commander accepts the risk created by non-compliance. Each
  requirement mandated for compliance at the Wing level found within this Instruction is
  tiered, signifying the appropriate waiver authority to the requirement (e.g. T-0, T-1, T-2, or
  T-3). See AFI 33-360 paragraph 1.9 for waiver process and a detail description of the
  standardized waiver authority levels.
 4                                                            AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


2. Treaty negotiations support and policy formulation:
     2.1. AF/A5XP is the primary focal point for Air Force inputs to the Joint Staff for U.S.
     government negotiations of new or modified treaties and international agreements.
     2.2. AF/A5XP will maintain awareness of concepts and proposals from governmental,
     international, and non-governmental organizations for new treaties and international
     agreements. As necessary, it will research these initiatives and develop positions on them.
     AF/A5XP will organize and host meetings/conferences to better communicate the initiatives
     and their impact on Air Force operations and resources. Other Air Force organizations will
     participate as necessary as functional subject-matter experts.
3. Treaty implementation:
     3.1. AF/A5XP will prepare for the implementation of treaties about to enter into force while
     also managing the implementation process for treaties currently in force.
        3.1.1. Treaties and agreements entering into force:
            3.1.1.1. The Air Force must be prepared for treaty implementation prior to entry into
            force. This process can start with the creation of a DOD Implementation Working
            Group (IWG) or may begin earlier if AF/A5XP understands the provisions of the
            treaty entering into force sufficiently to allow planning and implementation to begin.
            3.1.1.2. AF/A5XP will provide guidance and taskings to affected Air Force
            organizations to ensure they are ready for implementation of the treaty entering into
            force. It may establish an Air Force working group of affected organizations to ensure
            key guidance can be developed efficiently and important tasks can be identified and
            completed in time to meet implementation deadlines. Initial guidance may be in the
            form of a policy/guidance memorandum or other interim publication, but will
            eventually be formalized in Air Force guidance (Air Force Instructions, Air Force
            Manuals, etc.).
            3.1.1.3. AF/A5XP will provide information to appropriate organizations and support
            testimony on the status of Air Force preparations for implementation and compliance
            as required.
        3.1.2. Treaties in force:
            3.1.2.1. Implementation responsibilities will continue to be carried out based on the
            provisions of the treaty, any implementing legislation, and guidance from OSD and
            the Joint Staff. AF/A5XP will ensure Air Force implementation of treaties is
            consistent with the general procedures and guidance issued by the USD(AT&L) and
            with coordinated military guidance provided by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
            Staff. AF/A5XP will represent the Air Force on DOD IWGs established for each
            treaty.
            3.1.2.2. AF/A5XP will provide guidance on the interpretation and implementation of
            arms control and nonproliferation treaties and agreements. Where appropriate,
            AF/A5XP guidance will be published as an Air Force Instruction or Air Force
            Manual.
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      5


          3.1.2.3. Processes and procedures must be put into place to ensure the treaty
          provisions are implemented.
              3.1.2.3.1. For treaty provisions requiring system elimination or reductions, or
              which impact operations, AF/A5XP will work with the appropriate MAJCOM
              and Headquarters Air Force organizations to ensure all provisions are carried out.
              AF/A5XP will seek to do so in a way that minimizes impact on those
              organizations while adhering to U.S. treaty obligations.
              3.1.2.3.2. For those treaties requiring the gathering and reporting of data,
              AF/A5XP will ensure the creation, continuity, and effective implementation of
              reporting systems. AF/A5XP will manage Air Force reporting nodes at designated
              organizations for those treaties requiring data reporting.
              3.1.2.3.3. For treaties with restrictions on Air Force research, development, test
              or acquisition of certain capabilities, AF/A5XP will work with the appropriate
              Headquarters Air Force (HAF) office and/or Program Manager to ensure treaty
              provisions are implemented while mitigating impact on Air Force acquisition
              programs.
              3.1.2.3.4. For treaties that affect the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, AF/A5XP will
              work with AF/A10 to integrate strategic nuclear, non-strategic nuclear, and
              conventional forces into operational strategies, organizational concepts, and plans,
              and to ensure related Air Force Instructions are consistent with AFPD 13-5 and all
              applicable Arms Control Treaties and Agreements.
   3.2. MAJCOMs direct overall arms control implementation for their command and maintain
   oversight on arms control implementation requirements at the wing level. MAJCOM Treaty
   Offices:
      3.2.1. Provide implementation guidance for their subordinate units developed from
      higher headquarters guidance and coordinated with AF/A5XP.
      3.2.2. Review and coordinate on higher headquarters Directives and Instructions and
      participate in the review and coordination of arms control implementation policy
      guidance.
      3.2.3. Maintain oversight of their subordinate units’ implementation of OSD and higher
      headquarters policies to ensure adherence with arms control treaties and agreements, thus
      ensuring consistent application of policy across MAJCOMs and at the NAF/Center and
      Wing level.
4. Treaty compliance:
   4.1. Compliance entails ensuring Air Force activities and systems continue to adhere to
   treaty provisions once a treaty has entered into force.
   4.2. AF/A5XP: Provides policy interpretation and guidance on Air Force compliance with
   arms control agreements. It will ensure Air Force compliance is consistent with the general
   procedures and guidance issued by the USD(AT&L) and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
   Staff.
   4.3. Acquisition of new systems or modifications of existing systems:
6                                                             AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


       4.3.1. AF/A5XP will review requirement documents, through the Information and
       Resource Support System (IRSS) established by AF/A5R, to monitor that systems are
       treaty compliant. If AF/A5XP determines that a requirement has an arms control concern,
       it will coordinate with AF/A5R to address the matter.
       4.3.2. For Air Force acquisition programs, AF/A5XP will review program
       documentation for treaty compliance. It is the responsibility of each program manager to
       ensure their program is reviewed for arms control compliance. Prior to a milestone
       review, the program manager will deliver the program’s Life Cycle Management Plan
       (LCMP) or Acquisition Strategy to AF/A5XP or AF/A5XP-designated organization,
       allowing sufficient time to conduct an arms control compliance review. Once the review
       is complete, either a certificate of review will be provided or AF/A5XP will work with
       the program, through the appropriate channels, to address any treaty compliance
       concerns. During the milestone review, legal personnel (SAF/GC for programs reviewed
       at the HAF level and JA for those reviewed at those centers) will certify that a review for
       arms control compliance was conducted and the program manager possesses the
       AF/A5XP certificate of review. This requirement is in addition to the legal review
       performed by AF/JAO for the acquisition of new or modified systems, in accordance with
       AFI 51-402.
    4.4. AF/A5XP reviews force structure planning with the Director of Programs (AF/A8P) and
    the Director of Strategic Planning (AF/A8X) to ensure arms control treaty compliance while
    maintaining flexibility in force structure employment.
    4.5. All Air Force organizations will: Refer arms control-related questions or issues (from
    planned activity to on-site inspection discrepancies) to the relevant MAJCOM Treaty Office,
    AF/A5XP, or SAF/AAZ as appropriate. The referring organization will seek review from
    AF/A5XP before testing, deploying, or accomplishing programs or activities with the
    potential for raising compliance issues. When there is doubt whether a review is
    necessary, it shall be sought. (T-1)
       4.5.1. Organizations shall provide background information on why they have determined
       there might be a compliance matter. They will provide information on what the activity
       or program is, any time constraints they face on resolving the compliance issue, contact
       information for a subject-matter expert (SME) who can further describe the activity or
       program, and any documentation that will aid in determining compliance. (T-1)
       4.5.2. If AF/A5XP cannot determine whether the program or activity is compliant, or a
       review is requested by OSD, AF/A5XP will facilitate the resolution of compliance issues
       with the appropriate DOD Compliance Review Group (CRG). AF/A5XP will represent
       the Air Force, as required, at the CRG.
    4.6. MAJCOMs: Direct overall arms control compliance for their command and maintain
    oversight on subordinate units and DRUs fulfilling arms control implementation and
    compliance requirements. MAJCOM Treaty Offices:
       4.6.1. Provide compliance guidance for their subordinate units developed from higher
       headquarters guidance and coordinated with AF/A5XP.
       4.6.2. Review and coordinate on higher headquarters Directives and Instructions.
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                   7


      4.6.3. Participate in the review and coordination of arms control compliance policy
      guidance and may be tasked as SMEs on appropriate CRGs.
      4.6.4. Maintain oversight of subordinate units’ compliance with OSD and higher
      headquarters policies to ensure adherence with arms control treaties and agreements, thus
      ensuring consistent application of policy across MAJCOMs and at the NAF/Center and
      Wing level.
   4.7. Compliance reporting. Upon direction from USD(AT&L), AF/A5XP will submit
   compliance reports. AF/A5XP will request applicable organizations to review their activities
   and provide the requested information to AF/A5XP within 45 calendar days of receiving the
   request. AF/A5XP will then review, consolidate and provide the compliance reports to
   USD(AT&L).
   4.8. MAJCOM baseline compliance reporting to headquarters and Wing
   Implementation and compliance plans. Each MAJCOM will prepare and forward to
   AF/A5XP baseline information associated with their compliance responsibilities for those
   agreements listed in Attachment 2 that affect the MAJCOM, and for future treaties as
   directed by AF/A5XP.
      4.8.1. This baseline information must include:
          4.8.1.1. An office of primary responsibility and point of contact.
          4.8.1.2. A summary of organizational assets and activities covered by the subject
          agreement.
          4.8.1.3. A detailed listing of specific agreement provisions and the methods for
          carrying out the provisions.
          4.8.1.4. An explanation of how the MAJCOM carries out reporting requirements.
      4.8.2. Wings will develop treaty implementation and compliance plans, as directed by
      their parent MAJCOM, that implement higher headquarters and MAJCOM guidance on
      arms control and nonproliferation treaties and agreements. The development and
      execution of these plans must ensure the Wing’s full implementation of, and subsequent
      compliance with, all treaties and agreements that have entered into force. Wings may
      request a waiver from their MAJCOM exempting them from developing an
      implementation and compliance plan for a particular treaty or agreement if they conclude
      it does not apply to their facilities, equipment, or operations. (T-2) MAJCOMs will
      coordinate their response to these Wing exemption requests with AF/A5XP. (T-1)
5. Education and training:
   5.1. AF/A5XP is responsible for overall education and training of activities related to arms
   control obligations within the Air Force.
   5.2. Each MAJCOM Treaty Office will, in concert with AF/A5XP, educate and train those
   personnel directly involved with arms control activities and raise awareness of arms control
   throughout the command.
   5.3. AFI 16-603 provides further details for arms control education and training
   requirements and activities.
 8                                                            AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


6. Overall budgeting and managing manpower:
     6.1. Funding:
        6.1.1. AF/A5XP manages overall Air Force arms control funding, designates a USAF
        Arms Control Program Element Monitor (PEM), and tracks Air Force arms control
        funding execution. AF/A5XP submits requirements to SAF/FM with arms control
        guidance for carrying out its arms control-related financial management responsibilities.
        It provides resource information on arms control implementation and compliance to
        USD(AT&L), the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), the Under Secretary of
        Defense for Policy, and as required, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and
        Readiness.
        6.1.2. AF/A5XP provides arms control inputs to AF/A8 to determine future force
        structure requirements and ensures they are captured in the President’s budget submission
        to Congress. Resource actions that involve the implementation of and compliance with
        international arms control and nonproliferation agreements shall be structured to clearly
        identify/distinguish any funds uniquely used for these purposes.
        6.1.3. AF/A5XP budgets and allocates MAJCOM funding to execute directed arms
        control activities. Funding provided for international arms control and nonproliferation
        agreements implementation and compliance activities at the MAJCOM level can only be
        re-programmed with the consent of AF/A5XP and in accordance with existing laws and
        regulations.
           6.1.3.1. MAJCOM Treaty Offices function as resource managers, monitoring arms
           control funding and manpower. Successful execution requires close coordination
           between MAJCOM Treaty Offices, Wing Treaty Offices, offices utilizing O&M
           funds under PEC 35145F, and appropriate financial management counterparts.
           Budgeting and manpower requirements differ from base to base and MAJCOM to
           MAJCOM. Effective resource management is necessary to ensure sufficient funding
           and proper program execution.
           6.1.3.2. MAJCOM Treaty Offices work closely with the Program Element Monitor
           (PEM) for their Air Force Arms Control Program Element.
           6.1.3.3. Resource managers are responsible for managing resources and budgeting
           funds for MAJCOM arms control activities and ensuring MAJCOM Wing
           requirements are included in budget submissions. The MAJCOM Treaty Office and
           FM work with the field units to build an annual Execution Plan.
           6.1.3.4. Wing treaty personnel provide their requirements to the MAJCOM Treaty
           Offices, which consolidate these requirements and submit them to AF/A5XP.
           MAJCOM Treaty Offices must ensure that all subordinate Wing requirements are
           identified and defended, as necessary. (T-2)
        6.1.4. SAF/AQ will monitor the funding allocated through the arms control program
        element for treaty-driven requirements in Air Force acquisition programs.
     6.2. Manpower:
        6.2.1. AF/A5XP is responsible for authorizing arms control manpower billets, ensuring
        authorizations match logistical requirements, and working with MAJCOM Treaty Offices
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     9


     on the location of those authorizations to match treaty requirements. Any adjustments to
     MAJCOM manpower programming in relation to international arms control and
     nonproliferation agreements must be coordinated through AF/A5XP. AF/A5XP provides
     arms control inputs to AF/A1 to determine future manpower requirements, and ensures
     they are captured in the President’s budget submission to Congress.
     6.2.2. MAJCOMs, relevant NAFs and equivalent units, AFDW, and ANG will each
     establish a Treaty Office or point of contact to deal specifically with each applicable
     treaty and agreement.
        6.2.2.1. MAJCOM Treaty Offices are responsible for monitoring manpower
        authorizations, identifying and defending manpower requirements, and
        recommending changes to the Commanders’ staff variance outlined in Air Force
        Manpower Standard (AFMS) 10A0.
        6.2.2.2. Wings, MAJCOMs, and organizations with arms control billet authorizations
        are centrally managed by AF/A5XP. These billets are not under the control of
        MAJCOM planners. Moving or reclassifying a billet requires coordination and
        concurrence from AF/A5XP. MAJCOM planners must ensure they have the
        appropriate billet authorizations assigned to support MAJCOM headquarters and
        subordinate Wing/Unit arms control requirements.
     6.2.3. MAJCOMs will, with A5XP assistance, establish a treaty compliance point of
     contact at the Wing-level or equivalent (where they are the host command). Where a
     dedicated arms control manpower billet is authorized, the assigned individual will be full-
     time. He/she will have an additional duty alternate assigned to assist in the treaty
     compliance officer (TCO) duties. If a dedicated billet is not authorized, but the Wing still
     has arms control implementation and compliance obligations, the arms control duties will
     be managed by two additional duty TCOs (one primary and one alternate). (T-1) In
     situations where the number of Wings with significant treaty compliance responsibilities
     exceeds the number of funded TCO billets, MAJCOMs can consider creating a
     regionalized concept where TCOs are established at host Wings as Operating Locations
     of the MAJCOM and are assigned to support multiple Wings and Geographical Separated
     Units (GSUs). While at home station, these regional TCOs should still function as
     members of the Commander’s special staff of their respective host Wing (see paragraph
     6.2.3.1 below).
        6.2.3.1. Full-time Wing-level treaty compliance personnel (paid for by PEC 35145F),
        as per AFMS 10A0, shall be on the Wing Commander’s special staff, unless the
        MAJCOM and Wing have reached agreement for other arrangements. Part-time
        Wing-level treaty compliance personnel, as per AFMS 10A0, shall be on the Wing
        Commander’s special staff and not a functional staff office (e.g. Mission Support
        Group), unless the MAJCOM and Wing have reached agreement for other
        arrangements. (T-2)
        6.2.3.2. Wing-level treaty compliance personnel are a scarce manning resource.
        Frequently they have no, or minimally trained, backup. Full-time treaty compliance
        personnel must not be assigned additional duties. Commanders may assign additional
        duties to part-time personnel, but these duties must not interrupt the TCOs primary
        responsibility – to ensure the Wing can accomplish all treaty compliance
10                                                          AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


        requirements. If a TCO reports to someone other than the Wing Commander, then the
        TCO may not be assigned additional duties without coordination with and
        concurrence from the TCO’s supervising organization. (T-1)
        6.2.3.3. Local escorts supporting inspection activities will report to the Wing-level
        treaty compliance personnel and be relieved of all other assigned responsibilities
        while performing escort duties associated with arms control inspection
        activities/events. Wings should have qualified medical support available throughout
        the activity. (T-1)
     6.2.4. AF/A5XP conducts the Air Force Treaty Compliance Officer recognition program.
     The program is established by the Chief, International Treaties and Agreements Branch
     (AF/A5XPI) and recognizes outstanding contributions to Air Force treaty compliance and
     implementation. To be eligible to receive this award, the individual must be a U.S.
     government civilian or military member responsible for Air Force arms control treaty
     implementation and compliance at the HAF, MAJCOM, NAF and equivalent units,
     Wing, or DRU level. AF/A5XPI is the awarding authority. The award consists of a
     certificate and an AF/A5XPI memento. The certificate and memento will be awarded on
     an annual basis in conjunction with a significant treaty-related event such as a training
     course, exercise, or workshop.
     6.2.5. Mandatory Advance Notification of Changes to USAF Organizations within the
     USEUCOM area of responsibility (AoR). The United States government is obligated to
     provide our treaty partner nations with advance notification of certain permanent
     organizational changes for units located in the USEUCOM AoR. For USAF units, these
     notifications are initiated by HQ USAFE and are routed through HQ USEUCOM and the
     Joint Staff before being released by the Department of State. The State Department
     release date must be at least 42 days before the actual change effective date. In order to
     meet this Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) time line, the following
     procedures must be followed for all proposed USAF change actions occurring in the
     USEUCOM AoR (See Attachment 2, Table A2.1).
        6.2.5.1. AF/A1, MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs, etc. will ensure that all proposed
        organizational change actions (e.g. Organizational Change Requests (OCRs),
        Program Action Directives (PADs), etc.) are coordinated with AF/A5XP in order to
        determine if such actions will require advance treaty notification.
        6.2.5.2. If AF/A5XP determines that an advance notification is required, the
        following actions will be accomplished and timelines adhered to:
            6.2.5.2.1. Not later than 90 days prior to the desired effective date of the change
            action, the initiating MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, etc. (hereafter referred to as “the
            initiating organization”) will contact HQ USAFE/A1 and HQ USAFE/A8PA and
            notify them of the desired change.
            6.2.5.2.2. Not later than 75 days prior to the desired effective date, the initiating
            organization will provide HQ USAFE/A8PA with all the required information in
            order to be able to draft and submit the required treaty notification.
            6.2.5.2.3. Not later than 70 days prior to the desired effective date, HQ
            USAFE/A8PA will draft the treaty notification and submit it to USEUCOM for
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                   11


             coordination. HQ USAFE A8PA will notify the initiating organization as soon as
             the treaty notification has been submitted for coordination.
             6.2.5.2.4. Immediately (but not later than five days) following the release of the
             of the official treaty notification by the Department of State, HQ USAFE/A8PA
             will notify the initiating organization of the treaty notification release date and
             confirm or change the proposed effective date for the change action. The
             effective date for the change action cannot occur until at least 42 days after the
             Department of State has released the treaty notification.

7. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           JOHNNY A. WEIDA, Maj Gen, USAF
                                           Asst DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
 12                                                       AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, 9 January
2001
AFMS 10A0, Wing Commander’s Support Staff, 15 November 2005
AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and the DOD
Foreign Clearance Program, 29 December 2010
AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFI 16-603, Education and Training Requirements for Implementation of, and Compliance with,
Arms Control Agreements, 12 May 2007
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 51-402, Weapons Review, 13 May 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMS—Air Force Manpower Standard
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
AoR—Area of Responsibility
APL—Antipersonnel landmines
BW—Biological Weapon
BWC—Biological Weapons Convention
CCW—Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons
CCM—Convention on Cluster Munitions
CFE—Conventional Armed Forces in Europe
CRG—Compliance Review Group
CSBM—Confidence and Security Builiding Measure
CTBT—Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                 13


CW—Chemical Weapon
CWC—Chemical Weapons Convention
DOD—Department of Defense
DOE—Department of Energy
DOS—Department of State
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ENMOD—Environmental Modification
FSU—Former Soviet Union
GLCM—Ground-Launched Cruise Missile
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HB—Heavy Bomber
IAEA—International Atomic Energy Agency
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
INF—Intermediate Nuclear Forces
IRSS—Information and Resource Support System
IWG—Implementation Working Group
KT—Kiloton
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
LTBT—Limited Test Ban Treaty
MAJCOM—Major Command
MT—Megaton
MTCR—Missile Technology Control Regime
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NPT—Non-Proliferation Treaty
NST—New START Treaty
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSCE—Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PLNS—Pre- and Post-Launch Notification System
PNET—Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty
 14                                                    AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


RDT&E—Research, Development, Testing, and Evaluation
RV—Re-entry Vehicle
SLV—Space Launch Vehicle
SLBM—Submarine-Launched Ballistic Missile
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SORT—Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty
START—Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty
TTBT—Threshold Test Ban Treaty
UK—United Kingdom
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USD(AT&L)—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
USEUCOM—United States European Command
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                           15


                                       Attachment 2
                                ARMS CONTROL TABLES

Table A2.1. Procedures/Timelines for Advance Notification of Organizational Changes in
the USEUCOM AoR
EVENT                     ORIGIN           TO              SUSPENSE
Coordination on all       AF/A1,           AF/A5XP         As early as possible
proposed permanent        MAJCOMs, FOAs                    during the
changes in USAF           and DRUs, etc.                   coordination stage of
organizations in the                                       the proposed change
USEUCOM AoR
Communication of all      MAJCOMs, FOAs    USAFE/A1 and    NLT 90 days prior
proposed                  and DRUs, etc.   USAFE/A8PA      to desired change
organizational                                             effective date
changes that require
advanced treaty
notification
Provision of all          MAJCOMs, FOAs    USAFE/A8PA      NLT 75 days prior
required information      and DRUs, etc.                   to desired change
for the draft treaty                                       effective date
notification
Submission of the         USAFE/A8PA       USEUCOM         NLT 70 days prior
draft treaty                                               to desired change
notification for                                           effective date
coordination
Communication of          USAFE/A8PA       MAJCOMs,        Immediately (but
the release date of the                    FOAs and        NLT five days)
treaty notification by                     DRUs, etc.      following the treaty
the Department of                                          notification release
State                                                      date
 16                                                            AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011




Table A2.2. Summary of Arms Control and Nonproliferation Treaties and Agreements
Applicable to the Air Force

The below list of treaties and agreements is provided for information purposes only and is
not intended to be comprehensive.
TREATY/AGREEMENT                DESCRIPTION                    AF FACILITIES,
                                                               PROGRAMS,
                                                               PLATFORMS AFFECTED
New START Treaty (NST) U.S.-Russian Federation                 All ICBMs, ICBM
                                (RF) treaty requires each      launchers, and HBs
                                side to reach the following    equipped for nuclear
                                central limits for strategic   armaments are subject to
                                offensive nuclear arms by      the treaty. In addition, all
                                February 2018, or, if          facilities where these are
                                applicable, to remain below based, stored, maintained,
                                these numbers: 700             converted/eliminated, and
                                deployed ICBMs, SLBMs,         tested are subject to
                                and heavy bombers (HBs);       inspection. Production
                                800 deployed and non-          facilities are declared under
                                deployed ICBM launchers,       NST, but are not subject to
                                SLBM launchers, and HBs, inspection.
                                and; 1550 warheads on
                                deployed ICBMs and
                                SLBMs and warheads
                                counted for HBs – by the
                                terms of the treaty, one
                                warhead per HB (regardless
                                of loading).
Ballistic Missile Launch        Requires notification of       Impacts ICBM and certain
Notification Agreement          launches of ICBMs and          SLV launches.
                                SLBMs by the U.S. or RF
                                no less than 24 hours in
                                advance. Information
                                includes planned date of
                                launch, launch area, and
                                area of impact.
Agreement on Measures to U.S. and RF agree to                  Provide advance
Reduce the Risk of              immediately notify the         notification of missile
Outbreak of Nuclear War         other in event of accident or launches in direction of RF.
                                incident resulting in nuclear
                                detonation, and detection of
                                unidentified objects by, or
                                interference of, early
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                 17


                            warning systems. Parties
                            also agree to advance
                            notification of planned
                            missile launches travelling
                            beyond national territory
                            and in direction of other
                            party.
Major Strategic Exercise    Requires U.S. and RF to         Impacts HB exercises.
Notification Agreement      annually provide
                            notification of one major
                            strategic exercise which
                            includes the participation of
                            HB. Notification must be
                            made at least 14 days in
                            advance. Requirements of
                            the 1990 agreement are
                            incorporated into New
                            START Protocol (Part 4,
                            Section III, #5).
Intermediate-Range and      Requires permanent              Eliminated BGM-109G
Shorter-Range Nuclear       elimination of all U.S. and     (GLCM). Requires
Forces (INF) Treaty         RF ground-launched              notification of some
                            intermediate-range (1,000 -     research and development
                            5,500 km) and shorter-range     launches that meet specified
                            (500 - 1,000 km) ballistic      criteria.
                            missiles and cruise missiles.
Limited Test Ban Treaty     Prohibits nuclear explosions    N/A
(LTBT)                      in the atmosphere, outer
                            space, or underwater.
Threshold Test Ban Treaty   Prohibits U.S. or RF from       Inspections at Nevada
(TTBT)                      underground testing of          National Security Site (with
                            nuclear weapons with a          DOE).
                            yield greater than 150 KT.
Peaceful Nuclear            Prohibits any nuclear           N/A
Explosions Treaty (PNET)    explosion by the U.S. or RF
                            exceeding a yield of 150
                            KT, any group explosion
                            exceeding a yield of 150
                            KT that will not permit the
                            identification and
                            determination of the yield
                            of each individual explosion
                            in the group, or any group
                            explosion with an aggregate
                            yield of more than 1.5 MT.
Nuclear Non-Proliferation   Recognizes five nuclear         See “NPT Safeguards
 18                                                          AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


Treaty (NPT)               weapon states (U.S., RF,          Agreement” and “NPT
                           UK, France, China); all           Additional Protocol” below.
                           other States Parties are non-
                           nuclear weapon states.
                           Obligates nuclear weapon
                           states not to transfer nuclear
                           weapons to non-nuclear
                           weapon states or to assist
                           these states in
                           manufacturing or otherwise
                           acquiring nuclear weapons.
                           All state parties to the treaty
                           agree, however, to take
                           steps to ensure that all NPT
                           non-nuclear weapon states
                           can utilize “nuclear energy
                           for peaceful purposes.”
                           Non-nuclear weapon states
                           also agree to accept
                           safeguards to prevent the
                           diversion of nuclear
                           materials for illegal nuclear
                           weapon programs.
NPT Safeguards Agreement   Agreement negotiated with         The U.S. is a nuclear
                           the IAEA permitting the           weapon state under the
                           international agency to           NPT. The U.S.-IAEA
                           verify a state’s declared         safeguards agreement
                           types, quantities, and            includes a “national security
                           locations of nuclear              exclusion” – all U.S.
                           material.                         military sites, to include all
                                                             Air Force sites, are not
                                                             subject to safeguards.
NPT Additional Protocol    The Additional Protocol,          As with IAEA safeguards,
                           developed following the           the Additional Protocol
                           discovery of Iraq’s illicit       includes a “national security
                           nuclear weapons program           exclusion” for all U.S.
                           after the first Gulf War,         military sites. Air Force
                           represents a follow-on            sites are not subject to
                           agreement to a state’s            IAEA inspection. U.S.
                           safeguards agreement. It          civilian nuclear sites,
                           grants the IAEA inspection        however, are subject to
                           rights to investigate             inspection. As such, there
                           potential discrepancies,          is a risk that inspections
                           undeclared stockpiles,            may occur at (1) sites that
                           and/or covert efforts to          are near USAF facilities or
                           develop nuclear weapons.          (2) sites where the USAF
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                              19


                             The U.S. signed an          has active programs or other
                             Additional Protocol with    equities. MAJCOMs are
                             the IAEA to demonstrate its responsible for conducting
                             commitment to the NPT and   Security Vulnerability
                             its support of the increasedAssessments for any
                             transparency provided for   applicable AF facilities or
                             by the agreement.           programs.
Biological Weapons           Multilateral convention     Facilities, if visitation
Convention (BWC)             prohibiting development,    protocols are developed and
                             stockpiling, acquisition, orimplemented. Provide
                             retaining of: (1) microbial information on USAF
                             or other biological agents or
                                                         biological defense programs
                             toxins that have no         for annual Confidence
                             justification for           Building Measures
                             prophylactic, protective or submission to the UN.
                             other peaceful purposes     Provide response to annual
                             and, (2) weapons,           Congressional Treaty
                             equipment, or means to      Chemical and Biological
                             deliver such agents or      Weapons Compliance
                             toxins for hostile purposes Review Group data call for
                             or in armed conflict.       chemical and biological
                                                         defense programs and
                                                         research.
BW Trilateral Agreement   U.S./UK/RF joint statement Facility inspections of sites
                          designed to alleviate          identified in United Nations
                          U.S./UK concerns on Soviet BWC confidence-building
                          Union/RF noncompliance         declarations.
                          with the BWC.
Chemical Weapons          Multilateral convention        Air Force facilities are not
Convention (CWC)          banning the production,        subject to routine
                          development, possession,       inspections, except in cases
                          transfer, and use of           where recovered weapons
                          chemical weapons by the        are being temporarily stored
                          signatories. Parties must      awaiting destruction.
                          also destroy all chemical      All Air Force facilities are
                          stockpiles and CW              subject to a potential
                          production facilities.         challenge inspection.
Conventional Armed Forces Reduces conventional           Numerical limits on
in Europe (CFE) Treaty    forces of 30 NATO and          Europe-located combat
                          former Warsaw Pact             aircraft and accounting for
                          countries to eliminate the     combat support helicopters.
                          capability to launch a         USAFE bases, units and
                          surprise attack and to         equipment are subject to
                          initiate large-scale offensive inspections by
                          action in Europe. Restricts representatives from other
                          the amount of military         participating States.
 20                                                    AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


                        equipment a group of states’
                        parties could concentrate in
                        designated sections of
                        Europe. Includes a detailed
                        verification regime.
CFE 1A Agreement        Agreement on reductions in     Numerical limits on
                        manpower levels in Europe.     military manpower in
                        Numerical limits on            Europe.
                        military manpower in
                        Europe.
Vienna Document 2011    Politically-binding            USAFE must track assets,
(VDoc 11)               Confidence and Security        such as combat aircraft and
                        Building Measure (CSBM)        helicopters, and provide
                        among participating States     reports consistent with
                        of the Organization for        required information
                        Security and Cooperation in    exchanges. Certain USAFE
                        Europe (OSCE). Limits the      bases are subject to
                        number and scope of large-     inspections and evaluations
                        scale military activities.     by representatives from
                        Requires military              other participating States.
                        information exchange and
                        prior notification of
                        exercises.
Convention on Certain   Convention consisting of a     U.S. is party to the
Conventional Weapons    series of five (5) Protocols   Convention and the five
(CCW)                   addressing non-detectable      existing Protocols. USAF
                        fragment weapons;              APLs comply with CCW
                        landmines/booby traps and      requirements and are
                        other devices; incendiary      equipped with self-destruct
                        weapons; blinding lasers;      and self-deactivation
                        and explosive remnants of      mechanisms. DoD policy is
                        war.                           that U.S. will not develop
                                                       lasers expressly intended
                                                       for blinding. Lasers that are
                                                       part of USAF systems
                                                       comply with the CCW
                                                       Protocol on blinding laser
                                                       weapons.
Open Skies Treaty       Agreement between NATO         Provide dedicated
                        and former Warsaw Pact         observation aircraft and
                        countries to conduct and       equip them with treaty-
                        submit to aerial observation   specified sensors. Support
                        flights over their territory   aircraft operations during
                        on the basis of annual         active Open Skies mission
                        quotas meant to provide for    overflights of foreign states
                        equitable coverage and         parties. Provide logistical
AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     21


                              increased transparency of        support for missions flown
                              military activities.             by foreign states parties
                                                               over the U.S. Provide
                                                               media processing
                                                               capability.
Outer Space Treaty            Prohibits signatories from       U.S. shares data collected
                              placing nuclear or other         by USAF satellites with
                              weapons of mass                  relevance to the safety of
                              destruction in outer space       foreign astronauts.
                              and limits use of the Moon
                              and other celestial bodies to
                              peaceful purposes.
                              Signatories cannot make
                              any claims of sovereignty
                              over the Moon or any other
                              celestial object.
Convention on Registration    States notify the United         Notification of launches of
of Objects Launched into      Nations of objects launched      USAF satellites into space.
Outer Space                   into space. Information
                              provided within the
                              notification includes: the
                              name of the launching
                              State; the object designator;
                              the date and territory of the
                              launch; basic orbital
                              parameters; and the general
                              function of the object.
                              Information is made
                              publicly available through
                              UN-maintained online
                              index.
Convention on International   State parties accept liability   Pending review of claim,
Liability for Damage          should an object they            United States would likely
Caused by Space Objects       launch into space fall out of    accept liability for relevant
                              orbit and cause damage “on       damages caused should an
                              the surface of the Earth or      USAF satellite fall out of
                              to aircraft in flight.”          orbit and cause damage.
                              Exceptions exist where
                              “gross negligence” is found
                              on behalf of a party
                              claiming damages.
Environmental                 Prohibits use of                 N/A
Modification (ENMOD)          environmental modification
Convention                    techniques having
                              widespread, long-lasting or
                              severe effects as the means
 22                                                           AFI16-601 18 FEBRUARY 2011


                             of destruction, damage, or
                             injury to any other party, for
                             military purposes.
Missile Technology Control   Provides export policy           Sale of USAF missiles and
Regime (MTCR)                guidelines meant to limit        unmanned delivery systems
                             the spread of missiles and       captured under treaty are
                             unmanned delivery systems        restricted.
                             capable of carrying at least
                             a 500 kilogram payload
                             traveling at least 300
                             kilometers.
Hague Code of Conduct        State parties to politically     AF is responsible for
Against Ballistic Missile    binding agreement agree to       notification of applicable
Proliferation                “exchange pre-launch             DoD space launches as well
                             notifications on their           as ICBM launches. The AF
                             Ballistic Missile and Space      also contributes to the
                             Launch Vehicle launches          annual report sent to other
                             and test flights.”               participating states.
