BY THE ORDER OF                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-208
THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          10 MARCH 2007

                                                                 Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                         PERSONNEL RECOVERY COORDINATION
                                                               CELL OPERATING PROCEDURES



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A3C                                                             Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O
                                                                              (Brig Gen Robert C. Kane)
Supersedes AFI 13-208, 1 January 1996                                                         Pages: 18

This instruction implements AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, Airfield, and Range Management,
and the concepts found in AFDD 2-1.6, Personnel Recovery Operations. It governs the coordination of
active and reserve component forces committed to the operation of Personnel Recovery Coordination
Cells (PRCC) during contingency or combat operations. It establishes guidance for command, communi-
cation, control, and coordination of Air Force forces to accomplish personnel recovery (PR). This instruc-
tion applies to all Air Force major commands, AF Reserves, Air National Guard, and numbered air forces
involved in establishing PRCCs and the Air Force component element of the Joint Personnel Recovery
Center (JPRC) when the Air Component Commander is given responsibility for joint PR, the Air National
Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). While a PRCC may be established as an
independent entity, information in this instruction focuses on operations of a PRCC established as an inte-
gral part of an Air Component Commander's Air and Space Operations Center (AOC), Joint Air and
Space Operations Center (JAOC), or Combined Air and Space Operations Center (CAOC). The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publica-
tion does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Send comments and suggested improvements to this
publication on AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to Headquar-
ters Air Combat Command (HQ ACC/A3C) 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101, Langley AFB, VA, 23665. This
instruction is affected by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will con-
vert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
2                                                                    AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
changing the name of the publication from Rescue Coordination Center Combat Search and Rescue Oper-
ating Procedures to Personnel Recovery Coordination Cell Operating Procedures (title page); changing
terminology from Rescue Coordination Center (RCC) to Personnel Recovery Coordination Cell (PRCC)
(throughout); changing terminology from Joint Search and Rescue Center (JSRC) to Joint Personnel
Recovery Center (JPRC) (throughout); recommending theater air component personnel recovery (PR)
command and control (C2) staff (paragraph 4.1.); identifying PRCC augmenting personnel (paragraph
4.2.); outlining PRCC training requirements (paragraph 5. and Table 1.)
AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007                                                                               3


1. General.
   1.1. Personnel Recovery (PR). “The sum of military, diplomatic, and civil efforts to effect the
   recovery and return of Military, DOD civilians, and DOD contractor personnel who are isolated or
   missing while participating in a US government-sanctioned military activity or missions in an uncer-
   tain or hostile environment, or as determined by the Secretary of Defense.” (CJCSI 3270.01A)
   1.2. Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR). CSAR is the primary USAF recovery method utilized to
   conduct component and joint PR taskings.
   1.3. Personnel Recovery Coordination Cell (PRCC). The PRCC is the primary command and con-
   trol (C2) agency responsible for the execution of PR operations for the Commander Air Force Forces
   (COMAFFOR) within the assigned area of responsibility.
   1.4. Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC). When the COMAFFOR is designated the Joint
   Force Air Component Commander (JFACC) by the joint force commander, and is the supported com-
   mander for joint PR, the Air Force PRCC may form the nucleus for the JPRC while continuing to per-
   form duties as the theater air component PRCC.
   1.5. Supplements. Major commands (MAJCOM), groups, or units may supplement this document in
   order to provide specific guidance to their aligned units. The parent MAJCOM PR C2 functional man-
   ager must approve all supplements prior to publication. Forward published and approved supplements
   to the parent MAJCOM within 30 days of publication. ANG units will forward supplements for
   approval through ANG/C4B. AFRC units will forward supplements for approval through AFRC/
   DOC.

2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. HQ ACC/A3C. HQ ACC/A3C will be responsible for developing and publishing this instruc-
   tion, formal changes and interim message changes to this instruction, and incorporating recommended
   changes to this document as required.
   2.2. Theater COMAFFOR. The theater COMAFFOR will establish PRCC Operations. Each theater
   COMAFFOR will have an assigned core PR C2 element. This element is responsible for ensuring all
   preparations for conducting PR C2 operations in their area of responsibility (AOR) are current. This
   may include but is not limited to developing the PR annex of theater air component war plans, devel-
   oping an initial PR section of the Air Tasking Order (ATO) Special Instructions (SPINS), ensuring
   PRCC augmentation forces are identified in theater air component war plans and time phased force
   deployment data, training and certification of assigned PR C2 personnel, ensuring the theater Air and
   Space Operations Center (AOC) is properly configured to support PRCC operations, coordinating
   personnel and equipment requirements for establishing a JPRC, and other duties as assigned by the
   COMAFFOR. The assigned theater PR C2 personnel form the core of the PRCC and, with appropriate
   augmentation, provide the COMAFFOR a robust capability to conduct C2 of PR across the full range
   of military operations.
   2.3. PRCC.
       2.3.1. The PRCC initially assumes the duties of PR mission coordinator, initiates PR planning,
       and reports any incident to the JPRC. As the PR mission coordinator, the PRCC tasks and coordi-
       nates mission requirements with subordinate PR capable units, provides mission information, and
4                                                                        AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007


       ensures taskings are clearly understood. If mission execution requires assets outside the opera-
       tional control of the COMAFFOR, the PRCC coordinates all requests through the JPRC.
       2.3.2. PR Communications Plan. Communications between the PRCC and theater PR forces are
       critical to the efficient execution and accomplishment of any PR operation. The PRCC will ensure
       a thorough PR communications plan is coordinated, established and published in the theater ATO
       for the execution of PR operations. PR communications procedures are typically delineated in the-
       ater PR Concept of Operations.
       2.3.3. Operating Checklists. In-depth procedural checklists play a critical role in executing PR
       operations. The PRCC will maintain and keep current checklists outlining positional PRCC
       actions for all known contingencies. Thorough and concise checklists must lead controllers
       through an orderly sequence from initiation to completion. As a minimum, maintain checklists
       that address initial PRCC set up, PRCC daily operations and procedures, PR mission decision
       matrix (including risk assessment), incident and mission opening and closing, and PR operations
       in a hostile or permissive environment, as applicable.
       2.3.4. Documentation of PR Events. The PRCC will maintain a file on each isolated person until
       recovery has been completed or confirmation of death has been verified, and pass files on success-
       ful recoveries and/or closed incidents to the theater JPRC. Thus, the PRCC must develop proce-
       dures to document daily activities and specific PR incidents. Several of the AOC baseline systems
       and collaborative tools allow for electronic record keeping of PR mission information. The fol-
       lowing forms are available digitally on the AFDOP WWW site at http://afpubs.hq.af.mil and
       may be used at the discretion of the PRCC to assist in PR event documentation:
           2.3.4.1. AF Form 3959, RCC ELT/EPIRB Incident Log. This form allows for documenta-
           tion of emergency locator transmitter (ELT) or emergency position-indicating radio beacon
           (EPIRB) incidents.
           2.3.4.2. AF Form 3960, Controller’s Log. This form allows the PRCC to maintain a chrono-
           logical record of daily activities, or activities for a specific incident.
           2.3.4.3. AF Form 3961, RCC Aircraft Incident Log. This form allows for documentation of
           aviation-related incidents.
           2.3.4.4. AF Form 3962, RCC Non-Aircraft Incident Log. This form allows for documenta-
           tion of non-aviation-related incidents.
       2.3.5. Aircraft Wreckage Locator. The PRCC will maintain a database of known crash locations
       within their AOR. To the furthest extent possible, the PRCC ascertains from available resources
       the approximate location of the site. This record provides information that could possibly prevent
       the misidentification of crash sites during other PR missions. The database should include, as a
       minimum: the known location (geographic reference or coordinates), type of aircraft, date of
       crash, the incident or mission number assigned, and any amplifying remarks.
    2.4. JPRC. The JPRC plans, coordinates, and recommends tasking of components to support joint
    PR missions, coordinates PR procedures published in the SPINS, reviews theater plans, and coordi-
    nates joint training and exercises. Since PR is inherently joint and transcends component functional
    responsibilities and organizational boundaries, the JPRC should be staffed appropriately by each com-
    ponent to coordinate joint PR requirements. Though staffed suitably by each component, the primary
    responsibilities of JPRC personnel are to coordinate PR operations between component PRCCs, pre-
AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007                                                                                5


   vent duplication of PR efforts, and facilitate the efficient exchange of information. PR support is
   based on real-time operations and requires extensive coordination with other joint air assets and sup-
   port functions. The JPRC should be fully integrated into the JFACC JAOC or Combined Forces Air
   Component Commander (CFACC) CAOC. Theater air component PR C2 personnel should establish
   requirements with the Combatant Command for JPRC staffing from other components, ensure addi-
   tional workstations are available in the JPRC for component personnel, and ensure component person-
   nel are trained and prepared to assume their duties prior to the start of any operations.

3. Requirements.
   3.1. Facility Requirements. When planning for and establishing PRCC operations consider the fol-
   lowing items:
      3.1.1. Location and Manning. The PRCC should be located within the AOC to optimize integra-
      tion with the AOC divisions, and be manned with personnel specifically trained to coordinate PR
      operations.
      3.1.2. Workspace. Sufficient workspace must be available to accommodate a deployed staff of up
      to 10 personnel per shift for continuous 24-hour operations of a PRCC and up to 15 personnel per
      shift for a JPRC. However, space limitations may require establishing the PRCC in a facility close
      to but separate from the AOC. If the PRCC is established in a separate facility, give appropriate
      consideration to the space required for office and communications equipment and connectivity to
      appropriate individuals or functions within the AOC. Regardless of PRCC location, certain PRCC
      personnel are typically integrated in the Combat Operations Division and Combat Plans Division
      of the AOC.
      3.1.3. Auxiliary Power. If the PRCC is established in a facility separate from the AOC an auxil-
      iary power source is required for critical mission equipment to prevent mission degradation in the
      event normal power is lost. At locations where PRCC personnel might operate the emergency
      power equipment, training and a written operating instruction or checklist will be provided.
      3.1.4. Environmental Conditions. Ensure sufficient air cooling and heating is available at the
      deployed location to maintain satisfactory temperature ranges for efficient radio and computer
      operation.
      3.1.5. Establishing a PRCC Without an AOC Infrastructure. Operations may occur when the
      establishment of a PRCC is required without the support or infrastructure of an AOC. This may
      occur during small-scale contingencies, military operations other than war, non-combatant evacu-
      ation operations, natural disasters, or other times at the discretion of the Combatant Commander.
      Theater air component PR C2 staff personnel should make every effort to prepare for this by
      developing a plan for independent PRCC operations that includes means for securing all support
      requirements.
   3.2. System Requirements.
      3.2.1. Equipment and Application Requirements. Since the theater air component PRCC is an
      integral part of the AOC weapon system, all equipment necessary to operate the PRCC is con-
      tained in the AOC baseline. The assigned theater PR C2 staff is responsible for ensuring specific
      equipment and applications required for normal functioning of the PRCC are identified and allo-
      cated.
6                                                                        AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007


       3.2.2. Standard Systems. Commonality of equipment and systems between theater air component
       PRCCs and the JPRC is essential. This will reduce training requirements for augmenting person-
       nel that may be required to deploy to the different theaters and enhance standardization of pro-
       cesses.
       3.2.3. Computer Workstations. The recommended workstation configuration is a single, win-
       dows-based operating system with dual monitors. Each workstation should be configured to
       access both SIPRNET and NIPRNET central processing units using a common monitor, keyboard,
       and mouse through a keyboard-video-mouse sharing device.
       3.2.4. Workstation Applications. Applications identified in the AOC baseline that are relevant to
       PR operations should be loaded on each PRCC workstation. These applications may include but
       are not limited to theater battle management core system (TBMCS), AOC Portal, command and
       control-personal computer (C2PC), FALCON VIEW, joint automated deep operations coordina-
       tion system (JADOCS), information work station (IWS) (or other collaborative tool), combat sur-
       vivor evader locator (CSEL) workstation, and personnel recovery mission software (PRMS). The
       preferred method for receiving CSEL information is through the use of the personnel recovery
       applications tool kit that allows UNIX-based information to be displayed on a windows-based sys-
       tem. The standard suite of Microsoft Office applications should also be available on each worksta-
       tion.
       3.2.5. Search and Rescue Satellite-Aided Tracking (SARSAT). The PRCC should have connectiv-
       ity to commercial SARSAT alerts. This can be accomplished by contacting the United States Mis-
       sion Control Center (USMCC) at 301-457-5434/5433/5678/5428.
       3.2.6. Situational Awareness Tools. The PRCC should have access to the common operational
       picture (COP) and other situational awareness tools, such as blue force tracker (BFT) if BFT is
       being used. The COP provides a near real-time picture of air and ground tracks; along with BFT
       these can be useful tools to assist the PRCC in maintaining situational awareness of ongoing mis-
       sions.
       3.2.7. Future Applications. The PRCC should incorporate new application technologies relevant
       to PR operations as they are approved in the AOC baseline. Examples of these future technologies
       may be web-enabled execution management capability (WEEMC) and global personnel recovery
       system (GPRS). WEEMC is a web-enabled software application that provides an integrated set of
       tools for fire support coordination data management and analysis, along with mission planning,
       coordination, and execution. WEEMC is organized as a series of data managers including: map;
       fire mission coordination; suppression of enemy air defense planner; artillery locations; aircraft
       interdiction nominations; time-sensitive target nominations; close air support mission coordina-
       tion; airspace control request; aviation routes; CSAR and airspace control points, all of which
       enables WEEMC to provide horizontal and vertical coordination between echelons. The CSAR
       manager is used to provide coordination across the functional elements engaged in planning and
       conducting CSAR operations. The manager provides tools for assembling and maintaining survi-
       vor information as well as identifying assets for recovery operations.
    3.3. Communications Requirements. PR events are normally short-notice and rapidly evolving
    dynamic situations that depend on rapid and reliable communications with all primary and secondary
    PR agencies for prompt receipt of distress information, alerting assisting agencies, launching PR
    forces, and directing or coordinating subsequent PR operations. Joint and component command, con-
AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007                                                                                 7


   trol, communications, computers and intelligence (C4I) planning should include potential PR require-
   ments and inter-service and functional component C4I interoperability as it relates to communicating
   from air-to-air, air-to-surface, or surface-to-surface. The PRCC should maintain a close liaison with
   local communication representatives to obtain assistance, to evaluate communications needs and sup-
   port, and to ensure effective and adequate service. The theater of operations should provide communi-
   cations capabilities or make them accessible.
       3.3.1. Voice Communications. Each workstation should be equipped with a STU, STE, voice over
       internet protocol, or any other common secure-voice communication system used in the AOC.
       Automatic access to theater-wide telecommunications, including Defense Switched Network,
       Defense Red Switch Network, and international dialing, must be available in order for the PRCC
       or JPRC to coordinate with the Combatant Command and other components for PR.
       3.3.2. Radio Communications. The PRCC as well as the PR Duty Officer (PRDO) require the
       ability to communicate directly with air component forces involved in a PR mission. The PRCC
       radio communications systems must be compatible with the forces’ communications systems,
       securable, and include beyond line of sight capabilities. Theater PR C2 staff should coordinate PR
       frequency requirements and authorizations, to include dedicated PR SATCOM Nets, during the
       operational planning phase.

4. Staffing.
   4.1. Core Theater PR C2 Staff. The dedicated theater air component PR C2 staff provides the
   COMAFFOR with PR subject matter expertise and prepares to conduct operations to recover air com-
   ponent and other personnel as directed. This staff forms the core of the theater air component PRCC
   and when augmented and properly equipped, gives the COMAFFOR a full-spectrum capability for C2
   of air component PR operations.
       4.1.1. Recommended Theater Air Component PR C2 Staff. The complexity of the PR mission
       dictates expertise in a number of specialized functional areas and requires dedicated and properly
       trained personnel to prepare the theater air component to conduct operations across a gamut of
       missions from a major theater war to natural disaster recovery. The following positions should be
       incorporated in the dedicated theater air component PR C2 Staff. The wartime mission descrip-
       tions for each position are included here. Peacetime duties should focus on training, exercising,
       planning, and preparation to conduct operations during hostilities and other operations.
           4.1.1.1. PRCC Director/Deputy Director. The COMAFFOR directs Air Force PR operations
           through the PRCC Director. The PRCC Director is responsible for the day-to-day operations
           of the PRCC and is responsible to the Combat Operations Division Chief. If the COMAFFOR
           is designated the JFACC and responsible for joint PR operations, the PRCC Director will nor-
           mally be designated the JPRC Director. Additionally, that person will still be responsible for
           Air Force PRCC operations. Recommended rank is O-5. Recommended AFSCs are 11H3E,
           11R3D, 12R3E, 13D3A. Alternate AFSCs, provided the individual has rescue experience, are
           11S3A/E/F and 12S3G.
           4.1.1.2. PR Combat Plans Officer. Responsible to the PRCC Director and the Chief of Combat
           Plans with duties in the Combat Plans Division. Typically works in the Master Air Attack Plan
           cell while providing expertise to all other elements of the Combat Plans Division. Applies
           operational art to develop detailed execution plans for PR operations. The end result is publi-
8                                                                  AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007


    cation and dissemination of a daily ATO. Based on joint force commander (JFC) objectives
    and apportionment, the Air Operations Directive, forces made available for JFACC tasking,
    and the operational environment; these execution plans and each daily ATO apply specific
    CSAR capabilities and assets to accomplish JFACC tasks in fulfillment of the JFC mission.
    Packages and inputs the missions, to include all tanker, electronic warfare, and other support,
    into the appropriate theater battle management system applications for the creation of the daily
    ATO and Airspace Control Order messages for dissemination to units. Compiles SPINS inputs
    from the PRCC and reviews for accuracy, completeness, and potential conflicts. Resolves
    potential conflicts among the team chiefs. Plans, coordinates, and tasks CSAR air refueling
    assets available for JFACC tasking. Works with the C2 Planning Team to develop detailed exe-
    cution plans and the data link architecture to provide C2 of PR forces. Recommended rank is
    O-3. Recommended AFSCs are 11H3E, 11R3D, 12R3E.
    4.1.1.3. Personnel Recovery Plans Officer (PRPO). Responsible to the PRCC Director. Con-
    ducts PR operations planning to include development, coordination and modification of the
    AFFOR PR Plan; develops and coordinates the AFFOR Reintegration Plans; coordinates
    non-conventional assisted recovery requirements to include the development of pre-deter-
    mined recovery areas and associated tactics, techniques, and procedures with Special Opera-
    tions Component; implements and monitors component Reintegration Plans; develops Daily
    Summary of MIA/POW status; develops and coordinates theater PR SPINS with recovery
    team tactics, techniques and procedures; plans and advises utilization of pararescue recovery
    teams (9PJ series Unit Type Codes (UTCs)); plans and advises utilization of survival, evasion,
    resistance, escape (SERE) specialists during preparation and debrief/reintegration of isolated
    personnel; coordinates medical evaluation and treatment and transportation of isolated person-
    nel with the air evacuation system; provides subject matter expertise (SME) to the COMAF-
    FOR regarding capabilities of the Guardian Angel Weapon System. (Combat Rescue Officer
    (CRO)/pararescueman (PJ)/SERE) Recommended rank is O-3. Recommended AFSC is
    13D3A.
    4.1.1.4. SERE Program Manager. Responsible to the PR Plans Officer. Responsible to the
    CSAR Watch Officer when providing SME support during active missions. Develops SERE
    joint TTP. Supports operational tasking for theater and JFCs. Functions as in-theater SERE
    and PR subject matter expert. Manages development and coordination of SERE and PR oper-
    ational support programs, to include SERE debriefing during Reintegration operations. Man-
    ages SERE programs including isolated personnel reports, evasion plans of action, blood chits,
    evasion charts, and PR aids. Augments JPRC and PRCC as SERE and PR SME. Assists in
    developing PR policies and special instructions. Recommended rank is E-7. Recommended
    AFSC is 1T071.
    4.1.1.5. Theater PR Controller. Responsible to the PR Watch Officer. Ensures that various
    functions of PR operations are performed and accountability functions are properly executed
    and sustained for JFACC-assigned forces that become isolated. Maintains execution checklists
    for isolated PR, operates C4I equipment, prepares required PR support requests and situation
    reports, and obtains and forwards isolated personnel data to other component organizations
    and the joint force supporting PR organization, when required. Experience as a controller at a
    civil Rescue Coordination Center (RCC) may be beneficial. Recommended rank is E-6. Rec-
    ommended AFSC is 1C3X1.
AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007                                                                               9


  4.2. Augmenting PR C2 Personnel. Although each theater air component may obtain augmentation
  from within their assigned forces, Air Combat Command maintains the capability to augment theater
  air component PRCCs with trained and experienced personnel through four dependent UTCs avail-
  able in the Joint Operation Planning and Execution System. These UTCs (7FVRQ, 7FVSR, PFSFX,
  and PFSF0) provide manpower only and can be tailored to meet specific augmentation requirements
  to include an Air Force component sub-PRCC. The following paragraphs provide position descrip-
  tions and amplifying remarks for augmenting personnel.
     4.2.1. PR Duty Officer - The PR Duty Officer (PRDO) is responsible to the PRCC Director, Chief
     of Combat Operations, and Senior Operations Duty Officer, as appropriate, for the management of
     all PR assets assigned or made available. The PRDO monitors CSAR packages from departure
     through recovery. The PRDO must know the details of each package in which CSAR forces par-
     ticipate, such as ordnance, primary target, secondary target, assigned pre-strike and post-strike
     tanker, orbit, off-load, and mission results. They also pass on critical information to/from CSAR
     forces to include, significant battle damage, unexpected changes, diverting aircraft, and airfield
     status. The PRDO should be collocated with the Offensive Operations section of the Combat
     Operations Division in the AOC. It is strongly recommended that the PRDO be an aircrew mem-
     ber highly experienced in their primary AFSC; weapons school graduates desired.
     4.2.2. PR Intelligence Officer – Responsible to the PRCC Director. Provides command-level
     combat intelligence support for the PRCC/JPRC. Functions as rescue intelligence liaison between
     staff and other command elements. Extracts, collects, and collates appropriate real-time all-source
     intelligence from the AOC to support combat intelligence requirements in the PRCC. Provides
     support to rescue missions at decision-maker level. Prepares mission viability assessments, threat
     system analysis and trend analysis. Advises the PRCC Director on rescue-related force protection
     issues
     4.2.3. PR Watch Officer – Responsible to the PRCC Director or Deputy. Manages all aspects of
     the shift. Assigns incidents/missions to controllers. Assigns incident and mission numbers. Devel-
     ops controller checklists, as required. Identifies and assigns PR mission coordinator for each mis-
     sion. Monitors status of recovery assets. Advises Director/Deputy of unusual incidents or support
     requirements. Makes recommendations on closure/suspension of missions. Prepares and conducts
     shift changeover briefings. Completes briefing slides for daily standup. Personnel selected for
     deployment as Watch Officers should have a minimum of two years experience in their primary
     AFSC or mission design series.
     4.2.4. SERE Specialist - Responsible to the SERE Program Manager. Responsible to the PR
     Watch Officer when providing SME support during missions. Develops SERE joint tactics, tech-
     niques, and procedures (TTP). Supports operational tasking for theater and Joint Forces Com-
     manders. Functions as PRCC/JPRC SERE and PR SME on subjects including isolated personnel
     reports, evasion plans of action, blood chits, evasion charts, and PR aids. Assists in developing
     theater PR policies and special instructions.
     4.2.5. Life Support Specialist – Responsible to the PRCC Director. Plans, directs, organizes, and
     evaluates aircrew life support operational aspects of PR. Identifies and documents equipment and
     personnel training discrepancies and recommends corrective action. Evaluates data involving
     equipment development and modification. Resolves life support equipment problems. PRCC/
     JPRC SME for all aspects of U.S. aircrew survival radio systems.
10                                                                           AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007


        4.2.6. PR Intelligence NCO – Responsible to the PR Intelligence Officer. Extracts, collects, and
        collates appropriate real-time all-source intelligence from the AOC to support combat intelligence
        requirements in the PRCC. Provides support to PR missions at decision-maker level. Prepares
        mission viability assessments, threat system analysis, and trend analysis as required.
        4.2.7. Information Manager – Responsible to the PR Watch Officer. Performs workgroup admin-
        istration duties. Helps conduct information analysis to determine proper information flow. Oper-
        ates office equipment. Operates records staging area and records information management system
        database. Conducts records management surveys. Establishes and maintains office records.
        Defines format and publishes local forms, web pages, administrative publications, and correspon-
        dence. Performs and assists in planning and programming functions such as wartime and contin-
        gency needs, resource management, and preparing support agreements. Processes, controls, and
        delivers administrative communications and mail. Prepares and monitors accountable communi-
        cation control records. Performs quality assurance duties.
        4.2.8. Public Affairs - Although not augmented by PA, the PRCC will work with the Strategic
        Communication Combat Information Cell in the AOC.

5. Training.
     5.1. General. Command and control of Air Force assets participating in PR missions has become
     increasingly complex. Add to this the joint PR operations increasingly performed by mixed compo-
     nent resources and we quickly outstrip the old notion that a "pick-up team" with no formal training or
     experience can accomplish C2 of PR missions. The advent of the AOC weapon system with its inte-
     grated systems approach to C2 requires those personnel we entrust to accomplish the PR C2 mission
     be adequately trained and exercised. During combat operations, PRCC personnel may staff either a
     PRCC or JPRC. For this reason, all PRCC personnel require thorough training in operations, plans,
     coordination and responsibilities at both command levels. When possible, enhance all PR training by
     individual participation in command and joint exercises. Whenever possible, planners should include
     PR C2 participation in exercises. When tasked by operation plan or contingency operations, com-
     manders should assign only the most capable personnel to the PRCC/JPRC. During combat opera-
     tions, on-the-job training is an option of last resort in today's fast paced environment since it requires
     diverting knowledgeable personnel from their primary duties. This section prescribes recommended
     training responsibilities and requirements for PRCC personnel. Refer to AFI 13-1 AOC, Volume 1 for
     training and certification program requirements.
     5.2. Formal Training. In accordance with AFI 13-1 AOC Volume 1, attendance at the Air and Space
     Operations Center Initial Qualification Training (IQT) course is mandatory for certain personnel
     assigned to the AOC weapon system. This includes those personnel assigned to a theater air compo-
     nent PR C2 staff/PRCC. To the maximum extent possible, attendance should be in conjunction with
     PCS to the assignment. Table 1. shows mandatory (M) and recommended (R) training for each posi-
     tion discussed in paragraph 4.1.1. and the PRCC augmenting UTCs.
        5.2.1. Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) Initial Qualification Training Personnel Recovery
        Course (AOCIQTPR). Trains personnel, O-5 and below, assigned to an AN/USQ-163 AOC
        weapon system or augmenting PRCC how to perform PR duties in a JAOC. Personnel receive
        education and training on joint and Service doctrine; JAOC organization and processes; PRCC
        and JPRC organization and procedures; TBMCS applications and other associated AOC PR C2
        systems tools. Training consists of academic lectures, seminars, computer application labs, practi-
AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007                                                                                11


     cal exercises and a comprehensive end-of-course exercise simulating a JAOC environment. This
     course is conducted by the 505th Training Squadron at Hurlburt Field, FL. Air Force students sub-
     mit nominations to ACC/A-3C.
     5.2.2. Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) Initial Qualification Training ISR Officers Course
     (AOCIQTISR). Trains personnel, O-5 and below, assigned to an AN/USQ-163 AOC weapon sys-
     tem or augmenting manpower forces unit how to perform Intelligence Surveillance and Recon-
     naissance duties in a JAOC. Personnel receive education and training on joint and Service
     doctrine; JAOC organization and processes; predictive battlespace awareness; ISR division inte-
     gration, coordination and execution; and TBMCS ISR applications and other associated AOC C2
     systems tools. Training consists of academic lectures, seminars, computer application labs, practi-
     cal exercises and a comprehensive end-of-course exercise simulating a JAOC environment. This
     course is conducted by the 505th Training Squadron at Hurlburt Field, FL.
     5.2.3. Air and Space Operations Center Familiarization Course. Familiarizes personnel, O-5 and
     below, on the C2 of air and space power at the operational level of war. The course covers the
     basic fundamentals of joint and Service doctrine and organization for combat, Theater Air Ground
     System, JAOC organization, processes and systems, and the ATO cycle. This course is conducted
     by the 505th Training Squadron at Hurlburt Field, FL.
     5.2.4. Joint Search and Rescue Coordinator's Course (JSRCC). JSRCC is a course in the Joint
     Personnel Recovery education continuum which focuses on CSAR coordination within the larger
     framework of PR. Specifically, the course concentrates on coordination that takes place internally
     within the PRCC and/or JPRC and externally with all the various units, offices, assets, and agen-
     cies that assist in and/or conduct CSAR operations. Additionally, the course will provide introduc-
     tory education on the collaborative tools that assist in external coordination and information
     management. The objective of this course is for each student to comprehend the operational
     requirements, procedures, and techniques of JPRC/PRCC personnel in prosecuting the CSAR
     mission. The JSRCC target audiences are those personnel tasked to perform as watch supervisors,
     controllers, or fill other coordinator/support positions in a JPRC/PRCC. Those personnel in higher
     levels of responsibility (directors and deputy directors) will still benefit from the course signifi-
     cantly but will not gain the depth and breadth of education necessary to optimally fulfill their
     responsibilities. This course is conducted by the USAF Special Operations School at Hurlburt
     Field, FL.
     5.2.5. PR 102, Fundamentals of Personnel Recovery. PR 102 familiarizes Department of Defense
     personnel (E4-O6 or civilian equivalent) on PR policies, concepts, roles, responsibilities, planning
     and execution. PR 102 is a distributed learning course developed by the Joint Personnel Recovery
     Agency (JPRA). Completion of this course is a prerequisite for many of the other courses listed in
     this section and is recommended for all personnel involved in the combat search and rescue or PR
     missions. This course is available online at the following address: https://www.jkddc.net/portal/
     index.html.
     5.2.6. PR 210, Joint PR Coordinators Course. PR 210 prepares the student to coordinate a combat
     PR mission during execution. Students participate in practical exercises, a command-post exercise
     (CPX), and successfully complete an end-of-course written test. Upon completion, the student will
     be able to apply essential Joint PR mission management procedures and techniques to successfully
     manage a PR incident.
12                                                                       AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007


     5.2.7. PR 220, Intelligence Support to Personnel Recovery. PR 220 provides joint-level intelli-
     gence-specific PR training to Intelligence personnel assigned to a Rescue/Special Operations unit,
     service, component PRCC, JPRC, or national PR desk, with the objective of producing Intelli-
     gence professionals capable of providing accurate and timely intelligence support for the PR mis-
     sion. The course requires a top secret/sensitive compartmented information security clearance. PR
     220 is taught at the personnel recovery education training center (PRETC) in Fredericksburg, VA.
     There are no prerequisites for this course.
     5.2.8. PR 240, PR Debriefer’s Course. This three-day course is designed to prepare Combatant
     Command, JTF, Component, Service, and MAJCOM personnel in the grades of E-4 to O-5 whose
     duties include performing reintegration debriefings. Course includes training in the reintegration
     process, administrative and legal processing, debriefing skills, and includes a practical evaluation.
     Course is taught via mobile training team (MTT). There are no prerequisites for this course.
     5.2.9. PR 241, Reintegration Team Chief Responsibilities. PR 241 is designed to certify Field
     Grade Officers or Civilian Equivalents to perform duties as Reintegration Team Members, Team
     Chiefs/Deputies at the Debriefing Team Chief and Yellow Ribbon Team Chief (mandatory O-6)
     levels. Upon completion, students should have an understanding of the tasks and policy/legal
     requirements involved in planning and executing reintegration operations. These duties will range
     from managing a debriefing team to arranging base level support for debriefing teams and return-
     ees. Students should also be able to assist in casualty assistance efforts (including family support)
     and public affairs guidance development. Course is taught via MTT. PR 241 can be conducted
     right after PR 240.
     5.2.10. PR 301, PR Program Management. This course is designed to prepare combatant com-
     mand, JTF, component, service, and MAJCOM personnel (E-6 to O-6) responsible for the devel-
     opment and management of their command’s PR program. Course focuses on preparation and
     planning concerns and activities, culminating in a 3-day command post exercise. PR 301 is for
     personnel assigned to, or being assigned to, duties to oversee and manage the PR program for their
     command. PR 301 is highly recommended for JPRC and component PRCC Director/Deputy
     Directors. PR 301 is not a JPRC/PRCC controller’s course. PR 301 is a 2-week in-resident course
     offered at the PRETC in Fredericksburg, VA. Prerequisites for PR 301 are a current secret security
     clearance and completion of any of the following: PR 101, PR 102, PR 103, PR 110, PR 120, PR
     202, PR 210 or JSRCC.
AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007                                                                                                         13


Table 1. Mandatory (M) & Recommended (R) Training for PRCC/JPRC Personnel.




                                       PR-102


                                                  PR-210

                                                           PR-220

                                                                    PR-240

                                                                             PR-241

                                                                                      PR-301

                                                                                                 JSRCC

                                                                                                         AOC FAM

                                                                                                                    AOCIQTPR

                                                                                                                               AOCIQTISR
PRCC Director                         M                                               M                            M
PRCC Deputy                           M                                               M                            M
PR Duty Officer                       M                                                                            M
(PRDO)
PR Combat Plans Officer               M                                                                            M
Personnel Recovery Plans Officer      M                                      M        M                            M
(PRPO)
PR Intelligence Officer / NCO         M         M1,2       M                                   M1,2                            M
PR Watch Officer                      M         M1,2                                           M1,2      M         R1
SERE Program Manager                  M         M1,2                M                 M        M1,2      M         R1
(PRCC/JPRC assigned)
SERE Specialist                       M         M1,2                M                          M1,2      M
(PRCC/JPRC assigned)
Theater PR Controller                 M         M1,2                                           M1,2      M         R1
Life Support Specialist               M         M1,2                                           M1,2      M
PRCC Information Manager              M         M1,2                                           M1,2      M


NOTES:
          1. Attendance at AOC Familiarization course and JSRCC/PR 210 not required if individual
             attends AOCIQTPR.
          2. Attendance at EITHER PR 210 or JSRCC will satisfy this requirement.
      5.2.11. Formal Training Waivers.
          5.2.11.1. Waivers for the AOC IQT formal training courses identified in Table 1. for perma-
          nently assigned AOC personnel will be in accordance with procedures outlined in AFI 13-1
          AOC Volume 1.
          5.2.11.2. ACC/A3C is the waiver authority for formal training requirements for PRCC aug-
          menting personnel and the non-AOC IQT courses listed in Table 1.
   5.3. Mission Qualification Training (MQT). The courses listed in paragraph 5.2. are considered
   IQT type courses and as such, are generic in nature. MQT provides personnel working in a PRCC/
   JPRC with the specific training needed to operate in the position they are assigned in the PRCC/JPRC
14                                                                           AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007


     and in the specific theater of operations they are assigned or deployed to. Theater air component ded-
     icated PR C2 staffs will develop MQT plans for both assigned and augmenting personnel. See AFI
     13-1 AOC, Volume 1 for requirements for permanently assigned personnel.
     5.4. Continuation Training (CT). CT ensures individuals remain qualified on all critical peacetime/
     wartime knowledge, skills, new or upgraded systems, and tasks. Those personnel permanently
     assigned to a theater air component PRCC/JPRC complete CT IAW AFI 13-1 AOC, Volume 1.
     5.5. Augmentee Training. Augmentees may be temporarily assigned to a unit to support PRCC/
     JPRC operations. Training for augmentees will include unit specific training (i.e., unit mission, orga-
     nization, critical functions, and theater support requirements) and duty position training on the task
     assigned to the augmentee to include the related equipment/systems. The host unit (the unit in which
     the individual is augmenting) will provide or coordinate unit specific training. Unqualified augment-
     ees should not be assigned to support PRCC/JPRC operations. If the host unit determines the augmen-
     tee is not qualified, the host unit will coordinate training either en route or at the host unit location.
     Unless determined to be task qualified through a unit-developed evaluation/assessment process, aug-
     mentees will not perform the assigned task/duties unless supervised. This certification process may
     consist of the team chief determining if an individual is certified to work the position without supervi-
     sion. The unit training manager will establish and maintain a unit specific training program for aug-
     mentees. The unit commander will review and approve the augmentee-training program annually.
        5.5.1. MQT for Augmentees. MQT training plans for those personnel augmenting operational
        PRCCs/JPRCs will model those of permanently assigned personnel to the greatest extent possible
        within the time constraints allowed by short deployment cycles. Training of personnel deployed to
        a PRCC/JPRC for exercise support should be considered during exercise planning development
        by adding training days to the front of the exercise to provide augmentees a minimal level of train-
        ing on unique theater systems and processes.
        5.5.2. CT for Augmentees. Theater air component dedicated PR C2 staffs determine CT require-
        ments for personnel augmenting an operational PRCC/JPRC for periods of more than 30 days. CT
        is not required for those personnel providing augmentation for exercises or for operational deploy-
        ments of less than 30 continuous days.
     5.6. Exercise Requirements. Permanently assigned AOC PRCC personnel will follow exercise par-
     ticipation in accordance with CT policy outlined in AFI 13-1 AOC Volume 1. All personnel augment-
     ing a theater air component PRCC/JPRC should participate in one exercise per year in which C2 of PR
     forces is integrated into the exercise. Actual real-world PRCC/JPRC positional tasking satisfies
     annual exercise participation requirement.
     5.7. Training Documentation. Document training as prescribed in AFI 13-1 AOC, Volume 1.
     5.8. Training Projections. Develop annual training projections to identify formal training require-
     ments outlined in Table 1. Provide this information to ACC/A3TOP not later than 31 July for the fol-
     lowing fiscal year.
        5.8.1. AOC-Related Courses. Refer to the 505th Training Squadron's Internet site at https://
        505ccw.hurlburt.af.mil/505trg/505trs for schedules of all AOC-related training courses. ACC/
        A-3C solicits and coordinates all student nominations for AOC training courses for all Air Force
        personnel permanently assigned to or augmenting theater air component PRCCs or theater JPRCs.
AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007                                                                          15


     5.8.2. Joint Search and Rescue Coordinator's Course. Refer to the Joint Special Operations Uni-
     versity (JSOU)/USAF Special Operations School (USAFSOS) Internet site at https://www.hurl-
     burt.af.mil/milonly/tenantunits/jsou for schedules and registration requirements for the JSRCC.
     5.8.3. PR-XXX Courses. Refer to the JPRA Internet site at http://www.jpra.jfcom.mil for infor-
     mation about courses labeled PR-XXX and student nomination procedures.
  5.9. Forms Adopted.
     5.9.1. AF Form 3959, RCC ELT/EPIRB Incident Log, 1 Jan 1996.
     5.9.2. AF Form 3960, Controller’s Log, 1 Jan 1996.
     5.9.3. AF Form 3961, RCC Aircraft Incident Log, 1 Jan 1996.
     5.9.4. AF Form 3962, RCC Non-Aircraft Incident Log, 1 Jan 1996.



                                           CARROL H. CHANDLER, Lt General, USAF
                                           DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
16                                                                   AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 2-1.6, Personnel Recovery Operations, 1 Jun 2005
AFPD 10-30, Personnel Recovery, 26 Dec 2006
AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, Airfield, and Range Management, 7 Jan 1994
AFI 13-1AOCV1, Ground Environment Training-Air and Space Operations Center, 1 Aug 2005
AFI 13-1AOCV3, Operational Procedures - Air and Space Operations Center, 1 Aug 2005
AFOTTP 2-1.2, Air and Space Power Functions and Tactics (S), 27 Mar 2006
AFOTTP 2-3.2, Air and Space Operations Center, 13 Dec 2004
CJCSI 3270.01A, Personnel Recovery Within the Department of Defense (S), 1 Jul 2003
DODD 2310.2, Personnel Recovery, 22 Dec 2000
DODI 2310.3, Personnel Recovery Response Cell (PRRC) Procedures, 6 Jun 1997
DODI 2310.4, Repatriation of Prisoners of War (POW), Hostages, Peacetime Government Detainees and
Other Missing or Isolated Personnel, 21 Nov 2000
DODI 2310.5, Accounting for Missing Persons, 31 Jan 2000
DODI 2310.6, Non-Conventional Assisted Recovery in the Department of Defense, 13 Oct 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFOR—Air Force forces
AFSC—United States Air Force specialty code
ACC—Air Combat Command
AOC—Air and Space operations center
AOR—area of responsibility
ATO—air tasking order
C2—command and control
C2PC—command and control-personal computer
C4I—command, control, communications, computers and intelligence
CFACC—combined forces air component commander
COMAFFOR—commander, Air Force forces
CPD—combat plans division
CPX—command post exercise
AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007                                      17


CRO—combat rescue officer
CSAR—combat search and rescue
CSEL—combat survivor evader locator
CT—continuation training
ELT—emergency locator transmitter
EPIRB—emergency position-indicating radio beacon
ISR—intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
IQT—initial qualification training
JADOCS—joint automated deep operations coordination system
JAOC—joint air operations center
JFACC—joint force air component commander
JFC—joint force commander
JPRA—Joint Personnel Recovery Agency
JSOU—Joint Special Operations University
JPRC—joint personnel recovery center
JSRCC—joint search and rescue coordinator’s course
JTF—joint task force
MAJCOM—major command
MIA—missing in action
MQT—mission qualification training
MTT—mobile training team
NCO—noncommissioned officer
NIPRNET—non-secure internet protocol router network
PJ—pararescue jumper
POW—prisoner of war
PR—personnel recovery
PRCC—personnel recovery coordination cell
PRDO—personnel recovery duty officer
PRETC—personnel recovery education training center
PRMS—personnel recovery mission software
PRPO—personnel recovery plans officer
RCC—rescue coordination center
18                                                          AFI13-208 10 MARCH 2007


SARSAT—search and rescue satellite-aided tracking
SATCOM—satellite communications
SERE—survival, evasion, resistance, escape
SIPRNET—SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network
SME—subject matter expert/expertise
SPINS—special instructions
STE—secure telephone equipment
STU—secure telephone unit
TBMCS—theater battle management core system
TTP—tactics, techniques, and procedures
USAFSOS—United States Air Force Special Operations School
USMCC—United States Mission Control Center
UTC—unit type code
WEEMC—web enabled execution management capability
