BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 15-135,
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                       VOLUME 3

                                                                                                                              13 JULY 2010

                                                                                                                                        Weather

                                                                                    SPECIAL OPERATIONS WEATHER
                                                                                               TEAM OPERATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A3W                                                                               Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O-W
                                                                                                            (SES Fred P. Lewis)
                                                                                                                      Pages: 17


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 15-1, Atmospheric and Space
Environmental Support for Special Operations Weather Team (SOWT) operations. It provides
guidance for Air Force personnel in the performance of duties in the 1W0X2 and 15WXC Air
Force Specialties (AFSs). This publication will work in conjunction with Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 15-135, Volume 1, Special Operations Weather Training, and AFI 15-135, Volume 2,
Special Operations Weather Standardization and Evaluation. It applies to all active duty and
Air National Guard SOWT personnel. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all
supplements must be routed to AF/A3O-W, 1490 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-
1490 for certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through
MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of a name of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the USAF or the Department of Defense.



Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                        3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................     3
       1.2.   Scope. .....................................................................................................................    3
2                                                                                                AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010


     1.3.    Operator Responsibilities. ......................................................................................              3
     1.4.    Deployment of SOWT. ..........................................................................................                 3
     1.5.    Deviations. .............................................................................................................      3
     1.6.    Waivers. .................................................................................................................     3
     1.7.    Key Words Explained. ...........................................................................................               3

Chapter 2—SOWT MISSIONS/OPERATIONS                                                                                                          4
     2.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................    4
     2.2.    Environmental Reconnaissance (ER) and Austere Weather (AW) Operations. ....                                                    4

Chapter 3—INTEGRATION INTO OPERATIONS AND INTELLIGENCE PROCESSES                                                                            9
     3.1.    Introduction. ...........................................................................................................      9
     3.2.    Integration of Environmental Factors into Joint Operational Planning Processes.                                                9
     3.3.    Mission Analysis. ...................................................................................................          9
     3.4.    Course of Action (COA) Development. ................................................................                          10
     3.5.    COA Analysis and Wargaming. ............................................................................                      11
     3.6.    COA Comparison and Approval. ...........................................................................                      11
     3.7.    Plan or Order Development. ..................................................................................                 11
     3.8.    Mission Execution. ................................................................................................           11
     3.9.    Running Environmental Estimate. .........................................................................                     11
     3.10.   Mission Execution Forecast (MEF). ......................................................................                      12
     3.11.   Common Operating Picture (COP). .......................................................................                       12
     3.12.   Mission Watch. ......................................................................................................         12
     3.13.   Mission Debriefs. ...................................................................................................         12

Chapter 4—PLANNING ENVIRONMENTAL RECONNAISSANCE OPERATIONS                                                                                 13
     4.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................   13
     4.2.    Command and Control (C2) of SOWT. .................................................................                           13
     4.3.    Commander’s CCIRs. ............................................................................................               13
     4.4.    Development and Staffing of Environmental Reconnaissance Plans. ...................                                           14
     4.5.    Mission Execution. ................................................................................................           14
     4.6.    Forms Adopted: .....................................................................................................          15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             16
AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010                                                                      3



                                          Chapter 1

                                      INTRODUCTION

1.1. General. This instruction establishes policy for Special Operations Weather Team (SOWT)
operations. It serves as a capstone document for SOWT Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
(TTPs) as described in AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3, Guardian Angel. The policies outlined in this
instruction facilitate the employment of SOWT operators to effectively and efficiently
accomplish their missions.
1.2. Scope. This volume outlines policy applicable to the operations of Special Operations
Weathermen and Special Operations Weather Team Officers. For the purpose of this instruction,
the term “SOWT” will apply to both enlisted (1W0X2) and officer (15WXC) AFSs, unless
otherwise specified.
1.3. Operator Responsibilities. This volume, in conjunction with AFMAN 15-128, Air and
Space Weather Operations – Roles and Responsibilities, AFMAN 15-129, Air and Space
Weather Operations, Processes, and Procedures, establishes policy for SOWT under most
circumstances but is not a substitute for sound judgment which must be exercised to ensure safe
and effective mission accomplishment.
1.4. Deployment of SOWT. Individuals deploying to fill a SOWT requirement must deploy
combat mission ready for the duty position they are tasked to support for that deployment. Refer
to AFI 15-135, Volume 1, Special Operations Weather Team Training, for training program
requirements.
1.5. Deviations. Deviations from this policy require specific approval of the MAJCOM unless
an urgent requirement or extenuating circumstance dictates otherwise. In this case, the ranking
member will take the appropriate action necessary to safely accomplish the mission. Such cases
should be reported via After Action Report (AAR) or Lesson Learned (LL) in order to affect
future operations, if deviation was warranted.
1.6. Waivers. Unless otherwise specified, HQ AF/A3O-W is the waiver authority for this
instruction. Requested waivers to the basic guidance of this instruction are forwarded through
applicable operations channels to HQ AF/A3O-W.
1.7. Key Words Explained.
   1.7.1. "Will" and "shall" indicate a mandatory requirement.
   1.7.2. "Should" indicates a preferred, but not mandatory, method of accomplishment.
   1.7.3. "May" indicates an acceptable or suggested means of accomplishment.
   1.7.4. "NOTE" indicates operating procedures, techniques, etc., considered essential to
   emphasize.
   1.7.5. “CAUTION” indicates operating procedures, techniques, etc., which could result in
   damage to equipment or that are operationally sensitive which could result in political or
   legal ramifications if not carefully followed.
   1.7.6. “WARNING” indicates operating procedures, techniques, etc., which could result in
   personal injury or loss of life if not carefully followed.
 4                                                                  AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010


                                            Chapter 2

                               SOWT MISSIONS/OPERATIONS

2.1. General. SOWT operations and missions apply Air Force Weather’s core processes of,
collection, analysis, prediction, tailoring, and integration to enable Special Operations Forces
(SOF) commanders to characterize the battle space environment and exploit environmental
information to achieve the desired effects in the battle space. Unless otherwise specified in this
document, SOWT will comply with all other AFIs, AFMANs and other Air Force Weather
policy guidance and directives for conducting weather operations.
2.2. Environmental Reconnaissance (ER) and Austere Weather (AW) Operations. ER and
AW are multi-component, outside-the-wire SOWT missions to collect, analyze, predict, tailor,
and integrate critical hydrographic, geological, and meteorological information from critical
points in the battlespace to enhance commanders’ ability to make sound and time-sensitive
operational decisions.
     2.2.1. Environmental Reconnaissance (ER): JP 3-05, Doctrine for Joint Special
     Operations, defines ER as operations conducted to collect and report critical hydrographic,
     geological, and meteorological information, and is a subset of Special Reconnaissance (SR).
     ER is a multi-faceted mission undertaken to collect on all aspects of the environment in a
     given area. SOWT may be the supported or an enabling force during the execution of the
     following missions:
        2.2.1.1. Tactical Weather Observations. Tactical weather observations are a key
        enabler for all SOF aviation and ground missions/operations.
            2.2.1.1.1. SOWT provide tactical weather observations (surface and upper air) where
            commander's critical information requirements (CCIR) gaps in environmental
            information have been identified during the Joint Operational Planning Process
            (JOPP) to provide immediate situational awareness to commanders, Command and
            Control (C2) elements, and operators. SOWT determine areas along routes and on or
            near targets most likely to experience environmental conditions that adversely impact
            air and ground mission profiles. Based on operational considerations, SOWT
            determine best locations for primary, alternate, and tertiary observation points (OPs).
            SOWT should conduct tactical weather observing along flight routes, and at Forward
            Area Re-arm Refuel Points (FARRPs), Helicopter Landing Zones (HLZs), Areas of
            Interest (AOIs), and other operationally significant points.
            2.2.1.1.2. SOWT provide real-time, on-target environmental reporting to enable close
            air support (CAS), terminal guidance, medical evacuation (MEDEVAC), airfield
            seizure and other operations. SOWT collect and disseminate environmental
            information ranging from complete weather observations, special weather
            observations, terrain, riverine, surf-zone and avalanche assessments. The first priority
            for disseminating complete weather observations in support of CCIR is to relay
            instantaneous environmental data directly to air and ground assets involved in
            ongoing operations. The second priority is to relay to SOF C2 and staff elements
            engaged in JOPP. SOWT will disseminate the observations to meteorological and
            oceanographic (METOC) centers supporting theatre operations and the Air Force
AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010                                                                      5


        Weather Agency (AFWA). Special weather observations should include only those
        elements critical to support dynamic retasking of assets. The first priority for
        disseminating special weather observations is directly to forces operating weapon
        systems (air and ground) on the objective. SOWT will disseminate special weather
        observations to SOF C2 elements when operationally feasible.
     2.2.1.2. Terrain and Route Reports (TERREP/RTEREP). SOWT conduct
     environmental summaries/assessments of a general area, specific location, or route during
     combat reconnaissance patrols or other missions. TERREP/RTEREPs are primarily
     designed to capture a “snapshot” of terrain characteristics most likely to have critical
     interactions with weather to produce environmental conditions that adversely impact
     ground mission profiles. TERREP/RTEREPs enable ground maneuver and provide
     general geological intelligence to planners, SERE specialists, terrain analysts, etc.
     SOWT will record data on an AFSOC Form 86. Dissemination of TERREP/RTEREPs
     will be to AFWA, METOC centers supporting theatre operations, and SOF C2. The first
     priority for dissemination of TERREP/RTEREPs in support of CCIR is to SOF C2 and
     staff elements engaged in JOPP. TERREP/RTEREPs may be disseminated to other
     government and non-government agencies to allow for use in humanitarian, nation-
     building, or other activities.
     2.2.1.3. Avalanche Assessments. SOWT conduct avalanche assessments of avalanche-
     prone areas during combat reconnaissance patrols or other missions. Avalanche
     assessments are primarily designed to identify high-risk areas to enable ground maneuver
     and to provide snow depth analysis, snow-water-equivalent, and other measurements
     used to predict impacts to watersheds and flood potential. The first priority for
     dissemination of avalanche assessments in support of CCIR is to SOF C2 and staff
     elements engaged in JOPP. Avalanche assessments and snow measurements should be
     disseminated to AFWA, METOC centers supporting theatre operations and inter-theatre
     intelligence agencies, and may be disseminated to other government and non-government
     agencies to allow avoidance of avalanche and flood prone areas.
     2.2.1.4. Riverine Assessments. SOWT conduct river assessments within and along
     river systems during combat reconnaissance patrols, small boat operations, or other
     missions. Riverine assessments are primarily designed to identify fording/bridging points,
     potential or actual flood areas, and natural and manmade features to enable combat
     ground maneuver and to predict and mitigate the impacts of flooding. Assessments
     measure critical operational information such as riverbank slope, bank classification, soil
     types, bottom profile, current, depth and other operational information as directed.
     SOWT will record data on an AFSOC Form 85. Dissemination of Riverine assessments
     will be to AFWA, METOC centers supporting theatre operations, and SOF C2. The first
     priority for dissemination of Riverine assessments in support of CCIR is to SOF C2 and
     staff elements engaged in JOPP. Riverine assessments may be disseminated to other
     government and non-government agencies to enable avoidance of avalanche and flood
     prone areas.
     2.2.1.5. Oceanographic, Surf, and Littoral Assessments. SOWT conduct
     oceanographic, surf, and littoral assessments during small boat, scout swimmer, scuba,
     and other missions. Oceanographic, surf, and littoral assessments are primarily designed
     to identify beach-landing points to enable over-the-beach maneuver. Assessments
6                                                                 AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010


       measure critical information such as beach slope, total usable beach length, cover,
       concealment, camouflage, beach bottom profiles, surf conditions, and entrance/exit
       points. The first priority for dissemination of oceanographic, surf, and littoral
       assessments in support of CCIR is to SOF C2 and staff elements engaged in JOPP.
       Oceanographic, surf, and littoral assessments should be disseminated to METOC centers
       supporting theatre operations and inter-theatre intelligence agencies and may be
       disseminated to other government and non-government agencies to allow for use in
       humanitarian, nation-building, or other activities.
    2.2.2. Austere Weather (AW) Operations: AW operations are defined as SOWT missions
    that are not part of ER. These missions are unique to SOWT units and are focused on
    nontraditional methods of collecting/utilizing METOC data.
       2.2.2.1. Nowcasting. SOWT provide on-the-objective nowcasts to predict the onset of
       critical weather elements, integrate those predictions into the commander’s decision-
       cycle, and mitigate significant environmental impacts during ongoing operations.
       Nowcasting is a short-range weather forecast covering a very specific geographic area
       and based on a complete weather observation. The focus of the nowcast is on the combat
       critical weather threshold sensitivities for air and ground mission profiles of the forces
       operating in the objective area. SOWT will use knowledge of local effects to nowcast
       unforecasted, critical weather elements not captured by other mission execution forecast
       processes (MEFP), i.e. individual showers, thunderstorms, ceilings and visibility. The
       first priority for disseminating nowcasts is directly to forces operating weapon systems on
       the objective. SOWT will disseminate nowcasts to SOF C2 elements when operationally
       feasible.
       2.2.2.2. Weather Networks/Sensor Emplacement. SOWT emplace sensors to provide
       real-time environmental conditions from data-sparse/data-void areas to support the
       overall theatre sensing strategy or to meet operational or tactical requirements. Weather
       networks and sensors are important solutions to answering environmental CCIR’s and
       mitigating environmental chokepoints identified in the JOPP.                Environmental
       chokepoints are those points, routes, and areas of interest, which may be significantly
       vulnerable to environmental impacts. Weather networks are comprised of strictly
       SOWT, a combination of human and automated, remote sensors, or strictly sensors. The
       placement location is often part of the theatre sensing strategy and should be discussed
       with lead weather functionals. Sensors are emplaced in locations deemed too hostile or
       sensitive for manned observations, when conditions do not warrant a SOWT, or when
       availability of SOWT operators is limited. Follow-on missions to service emplaced
       sensors should be considered based on tactical feasibility, duration of emplacement, and
       operational limits of the sensors. WARNING: Sensors that show indications of enemy
       compromise will be destroyed in place or abandoned.
       2.2.2.3. Establishing SOF and Indigenous Weather Networks. SOWT establish SOF
       and indigenous limited-observation, weather networks to provide a more adequate
       weather data coverage. SOWT will first assess the overall METOC capabilities of the
       SOF and indigenous forces and be able to organize, train, equip, advise, and assist SOF
       and indigenous forces to build meteorological capacity/infrastructure. SOWT will help
       secure indigenous weather observing sites, expand the observation networks across the
       country, and increase the frequency of observations disseminated. SOWT should
AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010                                                                       7


     possess/demonstrate language proficiency and be proficient in traditional and non-
     traditional instruction techniques to conduct this mission. Dissemination will be to SOF
     C2 and forces operating weapon systems within the representative area of the limited-
     observation. Dissemination may be to METOC centers supporting theatre operations and
     inter-theatre intelligence agencies. CAUTION: Limited observations are collected by
     non-weather personnel and will be assessed by qualified SOWT for accuracy before any
     dissemination, will identify the SOWT conducting quality control, and will be identified
     as data originating from a non-weather source.
     2.2.2.4. Weather Site Surveys. SOWT conduct weather site surveys of existing airfield
     services, of airfields without services, and of assault landing zones to determine the level
     of existing weather operations or the requirement for weather capabilities. SOWT will be
     familiar with World Meteorological Organization (WMO) reporting methods, foreign
     meteorological systems, and be able to assess foreign data collection, assessment,
     prediction, and dissemination services for adequacy, accuracy, and utility to SOF and
     SOF enabled operations. SOWT will survey and report existing airfield weather services
     not currently identified within the WMO reporting network. SOWT will record data on
     an AFSOC Form 84. Dissemination of weather site surveys will be to AFWA,
     AMC/A3W, METOC centers supporting theatre operations, and SOF C2. Dissemination
     may be to other government and non-government agencies to allow for use in
     humanitarian, nation building, or other activities. CAUTION: The collection of
     information regarding the capabilities of a foreign nation is sensitive. SOWT will ensure
     weather site surveys of existing capabilities are conducted with the permission of
     appropriate national authorities and are strictly limited to weather services.
     2.2.2.5. National Meteorological Service Assessments. SOWT conduct national
     meteorological services assessments as input to theatre capability assessments and to
     determine suitability for foreign internal defense (FID), counter-insurgency (COIN), or
     other SOF-enabled national scale operations. SOWT assess a nation's meteorological
     infrastructure strictly based on the nation's capability to provide operationally and
     tactically relevant and accurate weather information in support of SOF missions and
     mission profiles. National meteorological services assessments are an important part of
     the METOC operations support plan, which is itself part of the overall theatre operations
     plan (OPLAN) or operations order (OPORD) per Joint Publication 3-59, Meteorological
     and Oceanographic (METOC) Operations. The requirement for an assessment will be
     determined by the theatre’s lead weather functionals, normally the responsible theatre
     Combatant Commander’s Senior METOC Officer (SMO) and Joint METOC Officer
     (JMO).      SOWT evaluate the level of technical sophistication of the nation’s
     meteorological service, the level of competence of the nation’s meteorologists, and
     locations of meteorological and oceanographic offices to determine the level of reporting
     reliability. SOWT will be familiar with World Meteorological Organization (WMO)
     reporting methods, foreign meteorological systems, and be able to assess foreign data
     collection, assessment, prediction, and dissemination services for adequacy, accuracy,
     and utility to operations. Dissemination of national meteorological services assessments
     will be to theatre C2 and lead weather functionals, AFWA, and METOC centers
     supporting theatre operations. Dissemination may be to other government and non-
     government agencies to allow for use in humanitarian, nation building, or other activities.
8                                                              AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010


    CAUTION: The collection of information regarding the capabilities of a foreign nation
    is sensitive. SOWT will ensure national meteorological services assessments are
    conducted with the permission of appropriate national authorities and are strictly limited
    to meteorological services.
    2.2.2.6. Aerial Weather Reconnaissance. SOWT conduct aerial weather
    reconnaissance to assess weather enroute, within refueling orbits/routes, on objectives, or
    any location where other collection methods are inadequate to meet mission requirements
    or operational considerations preclude other forms of collection. Aerial weather
    reconnaissance provides highly accurate, real-time on-target mission watch and is useful
    in determining terrain influences, local weather effects, and determining slant range
    visibility. Aerial weather reconnaissance provides a limited capability to collect and
    assess other environmental conditions (i.e. snow coverage, river stage, and surf
    conditions) in support of ground or water operations. There is no set format for aerial
    weather reconnaissance reports. They should consist of single or multiple elements
    critical to the operations or may be a simple brevity code word indicating
    favorable/unfavorable conditions at that location or time. SOWT will disseminate aerial
    weather reconnaissance reports directly to forces operating weapon systems on the
    objective.
    2.2.2.7. Operate Small Unmanned Aerial Systems (SUAS) and Remotely Piloted
    Aircraft (RPA). SOWT operate SUAS and leverage RPA to obtain and assess and
    verify critical environmental intelligence from forward areas where other collection
    methods are inadequate to meet mission requirements or operational considerations
    preclude other forms of collection. SOWT are capable of operating organic SUAS to
    collect environmental intelligence, as well as interpreting still and full-motion imagery
    from non-organic RPA to assess weather enroute, within refueling orbits/routes, on
    objectives, or any location where other collection methods are inadequate to meet
    mission requirements or operational considerations preclude other forms of collection.
    SUAS and RPA provide a limited capability to collect and assess other environmental
    conditions in support of ground or water operations. There is no set format for SUAS
    reports. They should consist of only those elements critical to the operations or may be a
    simple brevity code word indicating favorable/unfavorable conditions at that location or
    time. SOWT will disseminate SUAS reports directly to forces operating weapon systems
    on the objective. SOWT may disseminate SUAS reports to SOF C2 elements when
    operationally feasible. SOWT will disseminate RPA reports to SOF C2 and should
    disseminate RPA reports to forces operating weapon systems on the objective.
AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010                                                                           9


                                            Chapter 3

       INTEGRATION INTO OPERATIONS AND INTELLIGENCE PROCESSES

3.1. Introduction. SOWT will synthesize the outputs of collection, analysis, prediction, and
tailoring and integrate them into operations and intelligence processes to enable commanders and
their staffs to characterize the environment, and anticipate and exploit environmental
information. SOWT will execute these core processes in the context of accuracy, relevancy,
timeliness, and consistency to gain environmental situational awareness, achieve information
superiority, fully exploit the asymmetrical environmental advantage necessary to apply and
maximize combat power at critical points in space and time and execute the desired effects on
the battlefield.
   3.1.1. SOWT will be engaged throughout the JOPP and Joint Intelligence Preparation of the
   Operational Environment (JIPOE). JIPOE includes all elements necessary to address the
   factors of mission, enemy, terrain and weather, troops and support available, time available,
   and civil considerations (METT-TC), as outlined in JP 2-01.3, Joint Intelligence Preparation
   of The Operational Environment. Terrain and weather are natural conditions that profoundly
   influence operations and favor those better prepared to operate in the environment.
   3.1.2. SOWT will possess knowledge of critical thresholds of air and ground weapon
   systems, mission profiles and tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs), will identify any
   unique thresholds for non-organic, foreign, non-standard, or specialized assets and weapon
   systems, and will identify and document sensitivities for adversary weapon systems, TTPs
   and capabilities to highlight opportunities to exploit environmental effects on the enemy.
3.2. Integration of Environmental Factors into Joint Operational Planning
Processes. SOWT will be active participants in operational planning meetings established in the
commanders and staff’s battle rhythm, will use these meetings to maintain operational situational
awareness, to provide environmental information/intelligence (e.g TERREP) during CONOP
development to assist mission planning, to remain appraised of significant changes in operations
(i.e. changes in timing, weapon systems, targets, objectives, etc.), and will provide environmental
impacts based on critical thresholds of air and ground mission profiles under consideration in
planning. These meetings include but are not limited to synchronization, joint fires, ROC drills,
joint planning group, and future plans fusion cell.
3.3. Mission Analysis. SOWT will develop a running, staff estimate of the environment and
impacts to mission profiles (routes, flight levels, targets, tactics, and timing) under consideration
in JOPP.
   3.3.1. SOWT will develop their staff estimate in context of and in parallel to JPIOE to
   enable commanders and their staffs to visualize the full extent of the operational environment
   (enemy, weather, and terrain) and to support the commander’s situational understanding of
   the environment and influence decision making.
   3.3.2. SOWT will provide command and staff updates when predicted conditions will either
   improve or deteriorate and cross critical weather threshold sensitivities for weapon systems
   considered in planning and will answer all environmentally related requests for information
   (RFIs) generated by commanders, their staffs, or combat elements.
 10                                                               AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010


   3.3.3. SOWT will pay close attention to critical thresholds for “minimum force” weapon
   systems and capabilities due to their importance to the operation and will continue to update
   their staff estimate throughout JOPP based on changes to the environment, weather
   conditions, and the dynamic nature of the battlefield.
   3.3.4. SOWT will tailor operational climatology for long range planning (several weeks to a
   year) and predictive products (numerical models, regional forecasts, etc.) from METOC
   Centers for crisis action planning (less than 10 days) for specific times and locations
   considered in the planning process to determine environmental effects.
   3.3.5. SOWT will identify points, routes, and areas of interest which may be specifically
   vulnerable to environmental impacts (environmental choke points). Environmental choke
   points include but are not limited to: a rotary wing flight route across a mountain pass, river
   levels for a combat reconnaissance patrol making a river-crossing, or snowpack conditions
   for a dismounted SOF team traversing an avalanche-prone area.
   3.3.6. SOWT will articulate and ensure commanders and their staffs understand those choke
   points and critical environmental impacts and appropriately influence commanders and their
   staffs to establish environmental CCIRs. SOWT may make recommendations for the
   execution of ER. Commanders may then direct SOWT to conduct environmental
   reconnaissance operations, to collect against those CCIR, in context of the overall mission
   and their intent.
   3.3.7. SOWT will be actively engaged with staff intelligence officers to ensure their
   estimates support the intelligence staff’s three common tasks of analyze, disseminate, and
   assess and the functions that constitute the intelligence process: plan, prepare, collect,
   process, and produce. SOWT estimates to the staff intelligence officers (A/S/J-2) will
   include environmental assessments of impacts on enemy capabilities, weapon systems and
   mission profiles for possible/potential enemy COAs.
   3.3.8. SOWT will complement intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) in the
   development of battlespace awareness. Environmental estimates provided to the A/S/J-2
   should also include assessments of environmental impacts on various ISR collection
   platforms to shape the ISR Collection Plan to optimize available ISR assets to answer CCIR.
3.4. Course of Action (COA) Development. SOWT will use operationally relevant
environmental estimates, based on critical weather thresholds to: assess feasibility of missions,
anticipate effectiveness of platforms, weapon systems, and munitions, identify opportunities to
exploit environmental conditions for operational advantage, and determine optimal or favorable
weather windows of opportunity for conducting operations.
   3.4.1. SOWT will articulate the need for austere weather and/or environmental
   reconnaissance operations to facilitate the overall operation. If adequate environmental
   information does not exist to accurately characterize and predict environmental conditions at
   critical chokepoints, SOWT capabilities should be employed to collect information and fill
   data gaps.
   3.4.2. SOWT will develop a concept of operation (CONOP) to collect information as part of
   the COA development process in response to environmental CCIRs. These CONOPS will be
   presented to commanders and operations staff during COA development to ensure the proper
   inclusion of SOWT requirements and operations into the overall plan.
AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010                                                                       11


3.5. COA Analysis and Wargaming. SOWT will use operationally relevant environmental
estimates, based on critical weather thresholds, in the analysis and wargaming of each tentative
COA.
   3.5.1. SOWT will participate in COA analysis to identify advantages and disadvantages of
   each COA based on their environmental estimate to include environmental impacts on the
   adversary’s weapon systems and mission profiles in comparison to friendly capabilities.
   3.5.2. SOWT will participate in COA wargaming to answer questions about environmental
   impacts to each COA, to inject ideas and insights about mission execution in the environment
   that otherwise might not have occurred, to re-highlight environmental impacts that are
   critically important to the overall success of the operation, and to inject environmental
   impacts on adversary capabilities and possible enemy responses to environmental influences.
3.6. COA Comparison and Approval. The commander may identify the environmental
estimate as an important criteria or governing factor when comparing COAs. The SOWT
environmental estimate is then used in COA comparison to influence the recommended COA
and selection rationale.
   3.6.1. SOWT will participate with the commander and his staff to objectively evaluate
   COAs against a set of criteria to identify the COA with the best probability of success. This
   is documented in a decision matrix using governing factors to assess the effectiveness of each
   COA. SOWT will integrate environmental impacts in the development of the decision matrix
   to ensure environmental impacts are recorded in the war gaming results.
   3.6.2. SOWT will use the environmental estimate to identify actions to overcome
   disadvantages, make final tests for feasibility, mitigate risk to an acceptable level, and
   provide the most flexibility in weighing the relative merits of each COA.
3.7. Plan or Order Development. SOWT will assist in the expansion of the approved COA
into a detailed joint operation plan or OPORD by first developing an executable CONOPS and
will finalize and integrate any required environmental reconnaissance CONOPs.
3.8. Mission Execution. SOWT will use a running environmental estimate, mission execution
forecasts, the common operating picture (COP), and mission watch to maintain and deliver
environmental situational awareness and decision making products to commanders, staff, and
weapon system operators during mission execution.
3.9. Running Environmental Estimate. SOWT will provide running environmental estimates
that are based on new information and adjustments in the battle space as the operation proceeds.
The running environmental estimate consists of updates to the operational impacts/effects across
the spectrum of mission profiles that SOWT provide throughout the Joint Operational Planning
Process. SOWT provide these updates based on their assessment of changes to the current and
predicted state of the environment across the spectrum of combat critical environmental
threshold sensitivities for SOF air and ground mission profiles. The running estimate serves as a
staff technique to continuously support the commander’s visualization and decision making, as
well as the staff’s assessment tool during planning and execution. Running estimates emphasize
continuously updating the facts of the estimate, projections of future environmental conditions of
the battlespace, and the conclusions and recommendations. The running estimate is a product of
the entire battle staff.
 12                                                                AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010


3.10. Mission Execution Forecast (MEF). Just prior to execution and as required by supported
units, SOWT will produce a MEF that provides leadership, staff, and weapon system operators
with a clear synopsis of the predicted environment and anticipated impacts to the operation.
With the exception of flight weather briefings, unit requirements will dictate its format,
frequency, and contents.
   3.10.1. SOWT will tailor the MEF to provide decision-quality environmental information for
   an operation and will ensure the MEF addresses the critical thresholds of mission and support
   assets employed (CAS, MEDEVAC, etc).
   3.10.2. SOWT will continuously update, amend, and disseminate MEFs as they evaluate the
   impact of new facts and information from the battle space. This would include providing
   immediate updates to the battle-staff and weapon system operators during emergency
   planning (troops-in-contact, MEDEVAC, etc).
3.11. Common Operating Picture (COP). SOWT should integrate their respective inputs to
the COP. Current military doctrine emphasizes the COP as the primary tool that provides the
current situation and, when merged with the running estimates, facilitates the commander’s
situational understanding of the operational environment. The COP, combined with the
environmental running estimate, is predictive and enhances the staff’s ability to collect, process,
store, and display information.
3.12. Mission Watch. SOWT will conduct mission watch to monitor operations and
environmental conditions based on critical thresholds. SOWT will update C2 elements, air and
ground mission commanders, and staff should environmental conditions occur, or be predicted to
occur, that differ from MEFs or environmental estimates.
3.13. Mission Debriefs. SOWT will have established mission debrief procedures, attend post-
mission debriefs as mission and operational demands allow, and solicit feedback on
environmental impacts to the operation as well as adequacy and accuracy of environmental
products. SOWT will employ other debrief methods whenever direct feedback cannot be
obtained. SOWT will use this information to evaluate MEFs, environmental estimates, and other
products, applying metrics to verify forecast accuracy, validate quality and applicability of
mission-tailored forecast products, and improve forecast processes, in order to optimize
environmental information tailoring for future operations. SOWT will also leverage this
information to conduct forecast reviews and to develop forecast rules of thumb.
AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010                                                                     13


                                          Chapter 4

         PLANNING ENVIRONMENTAL RECONNAISSANCE OPERATIONS

4.1. General. Effective and efficient planning of environmental reconnaissance (ER) operations
ensures that SOWT capabilities are synchronized in support of the commander’s objectives and,
when required, in accordance with the theatre sensing strategy. The key to effective integration
of ER operations is thorough and continuous participation in the JOPP. SOWT will identify
mission critical environmental data voids during the JOPP, develop ER plans to meet CCIR
within those voids, and staff plans for commander’s approval. A data void may be as simple as
high-fidelity, real-time ceiling observations to enable CASEVAC for a combat reconnaissance
patrol (CRP) or as complicated as a multi-point environmental network over an entire operation
area for multiple platform requirements.
4.2. Command and Control (C2) of SOWT. C2 of assigned or attached SOWT will be by a
properly designated commander.
   4.2.1. Commonly SOWT are assigned to a Joint SOF headquarters (HQ) to positions on a
   joint manning document. In this example, the Joint HQ commander has C2, OPCON, and
   TACON of assigned SOWT. SOWT are also commonly attached to SOF HQs below the
   Joint HQ level, in non-joint billets, and fall under OPCON of an AFSOF commander with
   tactical control (TACON) delegated by orders, to the unit of attachment. Similarly, SOWT
   attached to operational teams operating forward of HQ elements fall under OPCON of an
   AFSOF command element with TACON delegated to their respective operational team.
   4.2.2. SOWT will understand the difference between the operational chain of command and
   staff functional oversight. The operational chain of command makes operational and
   employment decisions for the SOWT assigned under the commander. Final decision
   authority for employment rests with the commander. Staff functionals ensure that SOWT
   operations enable the commander’s decision making and make recommendations on the
   employment of SOWT personnel to the commander.
4.3. Commander’s CCIRs. CCIRs are elements of information, to include the environment,
required by commanders that directly affect decision-making and dictate the successful
execution of military operations. Commanders decide what information is critical based on
experience, the mission, higher commander’s intent, and the staff’s input.
   4.3.1. During mission analysis, SOWT determine whether sufficient data exists to mitigate
   and exploit environmental conditions or if a requirement for environmental reconnaissance
   exists. SOWT support the recommendation of environmental CCIR through an in-depth
   knowledge of unit operations and a thorough analysis of predicted environmental impacts
   and environmental sensing capabilities.
   4.3.2. SOWT will identify critical thresholds for “minimum force” weapon systems and
   capabilities and environmental choke points, where weather can have the greatest impact on
   the operation, as likely CCIR candidates.
   4.3.3. SOWT will conduct austere weather operations or environmental reconnaissance to
   collect critical environmental intelligence to satisfy environmental CCIRs.
 14                                                              AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010


4.4. Development and Staffing of Environmental Reconnaissance Plans. Requirements for
ER operations can be identified and staffed at any level within the theatre SOF C2 architecture.
   4.4.1. SOWT will develop ER COAs for proposed or approved environmental CCIR that
   describes:
       4.4.1.1. Which of the core SOWT mission sets will be conducted.
       4.4.1.2. Why the mission is required (purpose).
       4.4.1.3. Who will execute the mission.
       4.4.1.4. When the mission will begin.
       4.4.1.5. Where the mission will occur.
       4.4.1.6. How the mission will occur.
   4.4.2. SOWT will staff COAs through the appropriate operations (A/S/J-3) and operations-
   plans (A/S/J-35) staff officers for approval. Once an ER COA is approved, SOWT will
   coordinate with the same staff officers to develop CONOPs for the execution of ER
   operations. CONOPs will be staffed through various levels of the theatre C2 architecture
   depending on the risk and sensitivity of the overall operation. SOWT attached to an
   operational team may develop ER COAs which do not require higher HQ staffing. In such
   cases, the team leader will approve an ER COA and execute the mission without formal
   staffing.
   4.4.3. SOWT will develop and staff CONOPs that clearly and concisely express what the ER
   mission will accomplish and how it will be done using available resources. Once CONOPs
   are approved, the appropriate A/S/J-3 will issue a Fragmentary Order (FRAGO) that task
   subordinate units to answer CCIR through the execution of ER operations.
   4.4.4. SOWT may determine ER requirements at the operational team level [Operations
   Detachment Alpha (ODA), Marine Special Operations Team (MSOT), MSOT, SEAL Team,
   coalition SOF team, etc.] as a supplement to an existing CONOP in support of their team’s
   mission. During team mission CONOP development, SOWT should determine requirements
   for ER to mitigate the impact of the environment during the operation. SOWT will
   coordinate with their operational team leadership to be included in the CONOP’s task
   organization (TASKORG). In addition, the SOWT will include his designated purpose.
   Upon approval of the CONOP and subsequent TASKORG, SOWT conduct ER operations to
   collect environmental intelligence that aids their operational team in accomplishing their
   mission.
4.5. Mission Execution. SOWT will conduct ER for CONOPs approved by a properly
designated commander, tasked through FRAGO when appropriate, in accordance with
established AF TTPs and unit SOPs.
AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010                                                      15


4.6. Forms Adopted: AFSOC Form 84, Weather Facility Site Survey; AFSOC Form 85,
Tactical Riverine Assessment; AFSOC Form 86, TERREP; and AFSOC Form 87, AFSOC
Flight Weather Briefing.




                                    PHILIP M. BREEDLOVE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                    DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
 16                                                             AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
JP 2-01.3, Joint Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment, 24 May 2000
JP 3-05, Doctrine for Joint Special Operations, 17 April 1998
AFPD 15-1, Atmospheric and Space Environmental Support, 8 January 2001
AFI 15-135 Vol 1, Special Operations Weather Team Training,
AFI 15-135 Vol 2, Special Operations Weather Team Standardization and Evaluation
AFI 15-128, Air and Space Weather Operations – Roles and Responsibilities, 26 July 2004
AFTTP 3.1, Guardian Angel, 1 July 2006
AFTTP 3.3, Guardian Angel, 1 July 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR— After Action Report
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSs— Air Force Specialties
AFWA— Air Force Weather Agency
AOI’s— Areas of Interest
AW— Austere Weather
C2— Command and Control
CCIR— Commander's critical information requirements
COA— Course of Action
COIN— counter-insurgency
CONOP— concept of operation
COP— Common Operating Picture
ER— Environmental Reconnaissance
FARRP— Forward Area Re-arm Refuel Points
FID— foreign internal defense
FRAGO— Fragmentary Order
HLZ— Helicopter Landing Zone
AFI15-135V3 13 JULY 2010                                                        17


HQ— Headquarters
ISR— intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
JIPOE— Joint Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
JOPP— Joint Operational Planning Process
LL— Lesson Learned
MAJCOM— Major Command
MEF— Mission Execution Forecast
MEFP— Mission Execution Forecast Processes
METOC— Meteorological and Oceanographic
METT—TC - Mission, Enemy, Troops, Terrain and weather, Time available, and Civilian
considerations
MSOT— Marine Special Operations Team
ODA— Operations Detachment Alpha
OP’s— Observation points
OPLAN— Operations Plan
OPORD— Operations Order
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
RFI— Request for Information
RPA— Remotely Piloted Aircraft
RTEREP— Route Report
SOF— Special Operations Forces
SOWT— Special Operations Weather Team
SR— Special Reconnaissance
SUAS— Small unmanned aerial systems
TACON— Tactical Control
TERREP— Tactical Environmental Reconnaissance Report
TTPs— Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
WMO— World Meteorological Organization
