BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2C-5,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 2

                                                                         21 FEBRUARY 2013
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 23 JULY 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                  C-5 UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                           CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AMC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
Supersedes:   AFI 14-2C-5V2, 21 October                                                 Pages: 16
              2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in C-5 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting C-5 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                          AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.
AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013                                                                  3



                                          Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial (INIT) and
periodic mission evaluations (MSN). All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of
AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and this publication. The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the
ability to perform required duties safely and effectively.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy AMC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and
responses. AMC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver requests if such
correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.3. Procedures.
   1.3.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   completed all Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized Training (ST)
   requirements, as outlined AFI 14-2C-5, Volume 1, C-5 Unit Intelligence Training.
   Additionally, the examinee must have on file a satisfactory gradesheet (see Attachment 4 of
   AFI 14-2C-5, Volume 1, for gradesheet elements) from an intelligence qualification trainer
   for each area listed in Table 2.1. The gradesheets will be filed in the individual’s
   qualification training record. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, to
   assist in grading the individual areas during the evaluation. Upon completion of the AF
   Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, the IE may destroy the AF Form 4381.
   (T-2)
   1.3.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for conducting all
   intelligence mission qualification and specialized training evaluations. To ensure standard
   and objective evaluations, IEs will be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation
   criteria. (T-2)
   1.3.3. Prior to commencing, the IE will brief the examinee on the evaluation conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria. The examinee will accomplish required
   planning IAW the duty position being evaluated. The examinee will provide IEs with a copy
   of necessary data or materials. (T-2)
   1.3.4. Evaluations should take place in conjunction with in-garrison events to the maximum
   extent possible. Evaluations during exercises or deployments are not prohibited; however,
   units should apply operational risk management principles to the scheduling of the
   evaluation. (Real world contingencies may provide a unique opportunity to conduct an
   evaluation; however, factors beyond the control of the examinee and IE may preclude its
   successful completion.) When evaluation in a realistic environment is not possible,
   examinations may be conducted via an alternate method (i.e., simulated, staged, or by verbal
   examination) in order to complete the evaluation. Document the reasons and type of
   alternate method used in the Comments section of the AF Form 4350. (T-2)
   1.3.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-2)
 4                                                              AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013


1.4. Grading Instructions. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the standards provided in this volume and assign an
appropriate grade for the area. Derive the overall grade from the area grades based on a
composite for the observed events and tasks IAW this publication. Grading will be conducted in
the following manner: (T-2)
     1.4.1. IEs will use the grading criteria in this volume to determine individual area grades. IE
     judgment must be exercised when the wording for general graded areas is subjective and
     when specific situations are not covered.
     1.4.2. If the examinee receives an unqualified area grade in any area identified as critical, an
     overall qualification level of Q-3 will be assigned for the evaluation.
     1.4.3. IEs will be expected to use their personal experience and knowledge in the assessment
     of examinee performance and determination of the overall grade.
     1.4.4. General Criteria. The following grading criteria will be used to grade individual
     items:
        1.4.4.1. Q. Qualified. Performance is correct. Quickly recognizes and corrects errors.
        1.4.4.2. Q-. Qualified with discrepancies. Performance is safe, but indicates limited
        proficiency. Makes errors of omission or commission.
        1.4.4.3. U.   Unqualified.    Performance is unsafe or indicates lack of knowledge or
        ability.
1.5. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training as
necessary. Document additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-2)
1.6. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall unqualified grade (Q-3) will
be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a mission
evaluation, he/she may not perform mission duties or specialized duties unsupervised until
remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a specialized evaluation,
he/she may not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are accomplished, but he/she
may perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-3)
1.7. Documentation. Units will document intelligence evaluations on AF Form 4350 and in
coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013                                                                   5


                                           Chapter 2

                             EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. Evaluation requirements are listed in Table 2.1. All required areas must be
included in the intelligence evaluation. If the IE determines the required area cannot be
adequately evaluated in a realistic environment (or by an alternate method), an additional
evaluation will be necessary to complete the requirements. (T-2)
2.2. Evaluation Cycle. Periodic evaluations will be conducted on a 20-month cycle.
Evaluations expire on the last day of the 19th month following the month in which the task phase
was successfully completed. The individual will enter the eligibility window 14 months after the
INIT MSN/MSN evaluation (6-month period prior to expiration date). Extensions may be
granted by the Chief of Wing Intelligence IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2.
2.3. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
   2.3.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
   and periodic mission qualification evaluations to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in C-5
   weapons systems, threat knowledge, visual recognition (VR), personnel recovery (PR), and
   intelligence integration in force protection (FP) academics. For mission qualification
   evaluations (initial and periodic), examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit’s
   Master Question File (MQF) that covers: C-5 weapons systems, threats, PR and intelligence
   integration in FP academics. Examinees will take a separate VR test. Both examinations
   will be recorded on the AF Form 4350. Knowledge examinations may also be required
   during specialized qualification evaluations. Reference Table 2.1 for required knowledge
   examinations. (T-2)
   2.3.2. Task Evaluation. Units will assemble evaluation materials using current intelligence,
   unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR) scenarios that incorporate all appropriate
   evaluation requirements from Table 2.1. Research, Analysis and Dissemination (RAD)
   involves skills intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the
   evaluation and will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable graded area as indicated on
   individual gradesheets. The following guidelines are provided to assist in constructing
   evaluation materials: (T-2)
       2.3.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). The number of coordinates in the OB plotting
       exercise should be of sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that
       the time taken is beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. Examinee should have
       a variety of threats/items to plot to ensure correct symbology is used. The exercise will
       include both geographic coordinates (geocoords) and Military Grid Reference System
       (MGRS) coordinates. The scenario may include erroneous information to mirror the fog
       of war by including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats for that
       particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to identify errors
       and question the validity of information. The examinee may use MIL STD 2525C,
       Common Warfighting Symbology, and US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps
       Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, for
       reference. When using a scenario developed by the examinee, OB coordinates listed on
       the Mission Evaluation Worksheet will be evaluated by the IE for accuracy.
 6                                                            AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013


       2.3.2.2. Automated OB. Examinee should be provided with a variety of OB sources
       from which to pull data. When using an examinee-developed scenario, evaluate the
       examinee’s ability to develop and save threat files, insert accurate data, load, update, and
       purge data to ensure quality control of the displayed data and question the information’s
       accuracy for a particular AOR. Ensure the opportunity exists for the examinee to be
       evaluated on his or her ability to manipulate OB displays and print using the intelligence
       support systems available. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates
       between geocoords and MGRS and DD/MM/SS to DD/MM.mm.
       2.3.2.3. Intelligence Briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information
       provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports (INTREPs), imagery, and
       other sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may be used to fulfill this
       requirement. Evaluated briefings include: pre-deployment briefing and pre-mission
       briefing.
       2.3.2.4. Global Decision Support System II (GDSS II), Air Tasking Order (ATO),
       Airspace Control Order (ACO), and Special Instructions (SPINS). Scenario, actual
       contingency or exercise materials may be used for this purpose. Provide enough
       information that the examinee’s unit is not the sole unit tasked in GDSS II/ATO. Ensure
       the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in identifying and breaking
       out applicable information from GDSS II/ATO/ACO/SPINS to include unit tasking, air
       space control, and Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) information.
       2.3.2.5. Intelligence Integration in Mission Planning. Actual contingency planning or
       exercise materials and imagery may be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate
       the examinee’s proficiency in planning, coordinating, and conducting the entire mission
       planning process.
       2.3.2.6. Debriefing. Aircrew debriefings should be conducted with aircrew whenever
       possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with aircrew to identify
       a particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity to
       represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR
       tasking. Grade the examinee’s ability to control the debriefing, ask amplifying questions
       and recognize irrelevant information.
       2.3.2.7. Intelligence Reports. Mission reports (MISREPs) and INTREPs should be
       constructed using information provided in the aircrew debriefing. MISREPs and
       INTREPs should be completed IAW MAJCOM/theater intelligence reporting directives.
2.4. External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation (EIT). EIT evaluations will consist of a
knowledge examination and a task evaluation conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Only
qualified EITs may conduct unsupervised intelligence training for aircrew, security forces (SF)
or any other organization outside the Intelligence Flight. Upon completion of EIT training
profiles, the EIT will demonstrate knowledge of the information presented by successfully
completing a test based on the questions from the Master Question File (MQF) (85 percent
minimum to pass). The EIT also will be evaluated on his or her ability to present training in each
applicable sub-category (threat knowledge, VR, collection & reporting, PR, Force Protection
(FP) Intelligence Training). Evaluators will give the examinee no less than four hours notice of
the subject matter or briefing topic for the evaluation.
AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013                                                                   7


   2.4.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
   training in one or more individual EIT events at a time. The individual must complete the
   specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing element by
   an IE. The individual must maintain currency for the subject matter and must be reevaluated
   periodically. (T-2)
   2.4.2. Subsequent EIT evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
   evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated.
   2.4.3. An EIT receiving a grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area
   must not perform EIT duties until additional training is complete. This restriction is placed
   in the Comments section and “yes” is marked in Restrictions on the AF Form 4350. An EIT
   receiving an area grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area will result in
   an overall Q-3 for the EIT evaluation. (T-2)
   2.4.4. All EITs will be graded using the criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
2.5. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified as IEs upon completion of the IE specialized training
profiles, successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the Chief of Wing Intelligence. IEs will
be graded using criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
   2.5.1. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation.
   2.5.2. An IE receiving a grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area must
   not perform IE duties until additional training is complete. This restriction is placed in the
   Comments section and “yes” is marked in Restrictions on the AF Form 4350. An IE
   receiving an area grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area will result in
   an overall Q-3 for the IE evaluation. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
     R = Required area of evaluation
     INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
     MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
     EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
     IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
 AREA TITLE                                 MQT or ST          INIT        MSN   EIT      IE
                                            Gradesheet         MSN
                                            Requirement
 Knowledge Evaluation                                          R           R
 (MQF Test)
 C-5 Weapons Systems Academics              Yes
 AOR Threat Academics                       Yes
 VR                                         Yes                R           R
 PR Academics                               Yes
 Intelligence Integration in FP             Yes
 RAD                                        Yes
 Manual OB                                  Yes                R
 Automated OB                               Yes                R           R
8                                           AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013


Changeover Briefing                   Yes
Pre-deployment Briefing               Yes    R      R
Situation Briefing                    Yes
GDSS II/ATO/ACO/SPINS Breakout        Yes    R      R
Intelligence Integration in Mission   Yes    R
Planning
Pre-mission Briefing                  Yes    R      R
Debriefing                            Yes    R      R
INTREPs                               Yes    R      R
Instructional Ability                 Yes                  R
Evaluator Ability                     Yes                         R
AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013                                                                    9



                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Grading Standards. The grading criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: General Grading Criteria and Specialized Qualification Grading Criteria. Use
applicable sections depending on the events performed on the evaluation.
   3.1.1. Use all sections of criteria applicable to the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
   3.1.2. Where major areas are divided into sub-areas, only one grade will be assigned to the
   major areas. Annotate discrepancies in sub-areas in the comments section of the AF Form
   4350. (T-2)
   3.1.3. Gradesheets are included in Attachment 4 of AFI 14-2C-5, Volume 1, to assist the IE
   in determining the overall qualification and in documenting the AF Form 4350.
   3.1.4. Security will be considered in all evaluations.
3.2. General Grading Areas.

Table 3.1. General Grading Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q   Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on MQF.
 Q-  Not applicable.
 U   Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 VR
 Q   Correctly identified 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 Q-  Not applicable.
 U   Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 MANUAL OB
 Q   Without the use of automated intelligence support systems and IAW MIL STD 2525C
     and FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, accurately plotted all threats/items within .5 nm of center
     point of coordinates on a Tactical Pilotage Chart (TPC) (or larger scale chart),
     consistently used correct OB symbology, identified inconsistencies or errors in OB.
     Plotted to appropriate level of detail with respect to unit requirements. Accurately
     maintained OB to unit specifications, including classification and currency. Correct
     classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-  Plotted 95% of the order of battle within .5 nm of center point of coordinates on a TPC
     (or larger scale chart), the remaining 5% within 1 nm on a TPC (or larger scale chart).
     Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little prompting.
 U   Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors or
     inconsistencies in OB. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision or
     intervention. Incorrect classification.
 AUTOMATED OB
 Q   Demonstrated proficiency in using applicable intelligence support systems to maintain
     OB, including current as of times and classification. Able to input OB manually with
     no typographical errors. Successfully downloaded, printed, exported, displayed data.
10                                                          AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013


     Able to manipulate data, display appropriate threat rings, and perform terrain masking
     analysis. Correctly converted geocoords and MGRSs. Able to utilize applicable tools
     to aid in mission planning. Correct classification and security markings on all
     products.
Q-   Required some assistance, but no impact on mission success.
U    Required significant assistance. Lacked proficiency in operating intelligence support
     systems to the detriment of mission success. Incorrect classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q    Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas. Demonstrated
     clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass on to next shift. Showed
     ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
     capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identified
     significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Correctly
     annotated event log, identified significant events and issued TUCs. Correct
     classification and security markings on all products.
Q-   Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
     prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.
     relocation, attacks, etc.) vs. poor planning.
U    Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist
     usage. Deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even
     with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next shift. Missed significant
     information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
     understanding of capabilities or limitations of unit assets or impact information may
     have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
PRE-DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q    Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist or local
     procedures. Tailored, relevant content appropriate for audience. Easily understood by
     audience. Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience. Hit
     key points including synopsis of military and political situation generating the
     deployment, and enemy activity and force disposition in AOR and along deployment
     route. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact
     on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability
     to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
     limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly.
     Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-   Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission. Needs
     improvement in organization or delivery.
U    Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas.
     Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed
     significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor understanding of
     capabilities or limitations of unit assets or impact information may have negative
     impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q    Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
     Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, well tailored analysis relevant
     to audience. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013                                                               11


      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
      limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identified significant
      information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Fielded questions
      correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission. Needs
      improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
      redundant.
U     Failed to use checklist. Content not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas.
      Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed
      significant information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
      understanding of capabilities or limitations of unit assets or impact information may
      have on the mission. Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information.
      Incorrect classification.
GDSS II/ATO/ACO AND SPINS BREAKOUT
Q     Demonstrated ability to access GDSS II and correct ATO/ACO/SPINS and any
      changes. Correctly extracted mission tasking and other information relevant to unit or
      tasking. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
      intelligence integration in mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed
      minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions, delays in extracting information that could impact mission planning.
      Required significant intervention to accomplish tasks. Incorrect classification.
INTELLIGENCE INTEGRATION IN MISSION PLANNING
Q     Coordinated activities with operations/route planners/AF SF Ravens IAW local
      procedures. Demonstrated proficiency in individual duty position responsibilities.
      Clearly understood mission tasking and able to address all factors relevant to mission.
      Logical route recommendations (where applicable) and landing zone (LZ) and airfield
      analysis. Well organized, fully prepared. Appropriate selection and effective use of
      planning materials and resources. Provided all mission materials in correct quantities
      and of sufficient detail. Materials neat, well organized. Considered all factors that
      could impact mission accomplishment. Provided thorough terrain analysis regarding
      threats, airfield, route, LZ area. Identified shortfalls in information, appropriately
      submitted RFIs. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact mission planning. Able to
      recover with minor prompting.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized or unprepared. Made errors or omissions
      that could have impacted mission. Displayed wrong or limited knowledge of factors
      relevant to the mission. Improper use of mission planning tools/materials. Significant
      lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of
      capabilities or limitations of unit assets which may have negatively impacted the
      mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification and security markings.
PRE-MISSION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively and logically organized, professionally presented. Effective use of
      visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable
12                                                            AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013


        items IAW checklists: airfield, takeoff, en route, LZ area, PR considerations. Able to
        identify gaps in information that could impact the mission. Clear understanding of
        research methods and sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information.
        Demonstrated understanding of capabilities, limitations of unit assets when conducting
        analysis. Demonstrated ability to create, manipulate four dimensional (4D) (3D
        visualization plus time) models and overlays using visualization and analysis tools and
        programs IAW current guidance. Demonstrated ability to build 3D models of various
        products (e.g. mission route, threat locations, airfield structures, detection/engagement
        rings). Integrated with 3D visualization and time-stamped threat data to support FP
        when appropriate. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
        Fielded questions correctly.
Q-      Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
        omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission. Needs
        improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
        redundant. Provided extraneous information. Needed some assistance with 4D
        modeling but did not impact mission.
U       Failed to use checklist. Did not brief all threats directly impacting the mission. Very
        confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information, unable to recover with prompting.
        Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Fabricated
        information. Unable to correctly build/manipulate data using 4D analysis tools and
        programs without detailed assistance. Demonstrated lack of understanding of C-5
        mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
DEBRIEFING
Q       Thoroughly prepared and able to extract pertinent mission results in timely manner.
        Quickly identified perishable information. Controlled the debriefing, asked
        amplifying questions and recognized irrelevant information. Collected all significant
        intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish reporting requirements IAW checklists
        and theater directives. Identified significant events. Correct classification and security
        markings on all products.
Q-      Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some amplifying questions that
        would have enhanced detail of information gathered.
U       Failed to use checklist. Not prepared. Disjointed flow. Failed to identify perishable
        information. Completely missed a debrief. Not enough detail to accomplish reporting
        requirements. Incorrect classification.
Intelligence Reports (INTREP)
Q       Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
        available with minimal to no extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting
        timelines. Produced report IAW checklists and theater directives. Identified
        significant events. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-      Missed timeline but still delivered quality INTREP. Delay due to extenuating
        circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization, and/or formatting, but
        pertinent information was included.
U       Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Failed to use checklist.
        Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills complicated meaning of information or
        omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct users
        through appropriate channels). Incorrect classification.
AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013                                                               13


3.3. Specialized Qualification Grading Criteria. The following grading criteria apply to duty
positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications (e.g. EIT, IE).

Table 3.2. EIT ST Grading Criteria.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY
 Q    Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Effectively fielded and accurately
      answered questions from audience. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Able to
      quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-   Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
      mission, or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of instruction.
      Did not adversely affect training.
 U    Unable to communicate to the audience effectively. Did not plan training efficiently.
      Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with procedures,
      requirements, mission, or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and security markings.

Table 3.3. IE Grading Criteria.
 EVALUATOR ABILITY
 Q    Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Completed appropriate evaluation
      records accurately. Adequately assessed and recorded performance. Comments were
      clear and pertinent. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-   Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
      mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of evaluation.
      Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in evaluation
      records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
 U    Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
      plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
      evaluation process. Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or threats.
      Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from evaluator effectiveness.
      Did not complete required forms or records. Comments were invalid, unclear, or did
      not accurately document performance. Incorrect classification and security markings.




                                           LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                           Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 14                                                        AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-2C-5, Volume 1, C-5 Unit Intelligence Training, 21 February 2013
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A2—Directorate of Intelligence
4D—Four dimensional
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013                                                             15


EIT—External Intelligence Trainer
FP—Force Protection
GDSS II—Global Decision Support System II
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT—Initial (Evaluation)
INTREP—Intelligence Report
LZ—Landing Zone
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
SF—Security Forces
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TPC—Tactical Pilotage Chart
USAF—United States Air Force
VR—Visual Recognition

Terms
Tier 2 (T2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC levels.
16   AFI14-2C-5V2 21 February 2013
