BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2RC-135,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 1

                                                                          4 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                  RC-135 UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 37


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in RC-135 units. This publication
applies to all Air Force Active Duty, Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting RC-135 operations. National Guard Bureau will be considered functionally
as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this instruction. This publication requires
the collection or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Privacy Act
System of Records Notice F011 AF AFMC B, Patriot Excalibur covers required information.
The authority to maintain the records prescribed in this instruction are Title 10 U.S.C. 8013,
Secretary of the Air Force; AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System and Executive
Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating To Individual Persons, as
amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal
Agency Use of Social Security Numbers. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule. This publication may be
supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route AF Form 847s through the appropriate MAJCOM functional chain of command. Units
may request waivers for tiered compliance items IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management. Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Intelligence (A2) is the waiver
 2                                                                         AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


authority for non-compliance items; these requests must be submitted through the chain-of-
command to the publication OPR.



Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                 4
      1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   4
      1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................    4
      1.3.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
      1.4.   Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................                7
      1.5.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            7
      1.6.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING (IQT)                                                                                              8
      2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
      2.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                    9
      3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
      3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                              9

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                            17
      4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   17
      4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           17
      4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                18
Table 4.1.   RC-135 Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements. ......................                                           18
      4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     19
      4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       19

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                             20
      5.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................           20
      5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        20
Table 5.1.   External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................                                   21
      5.3.   RC-135S COBRA BALL Intelligence Support. ....................................................                                 22
      5.4.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE). ....................................................................................             22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             24

Attachment 2—EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT EXAMPLE                                                                                     28

Attachment 3—RC-135 MQT GRADESHEET ELEMENTS                                                                                                29
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                  3


Attachment 4—SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS             35

Attachment 5—RC-135 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING, SPECIALIZED
             TRAINING AND RIP REQUIREMENTS                        36
 4                                                    AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013



                                            Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
     1.1.1. Scope. This volume provides guidance for training RC-135 unit intelligence
     personnel. Together with the cited references, it establishes the requirements and procedures
     for personnel to attain the qualifications and maintain currencies required to support RC-135
     unit operations. These requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented with unit-
     level written guidance. Unit-level guidance will not be less restrictive.
     1.1.2. References. The primary references for RC-135 unit intelligence training are AFI 14-
     2RC-135, Volume 2, RC-135 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2RC-135,
     Volume 3, RC-135 Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and
     Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual;
     AFTTP 3-1.RC-135, Tactical Employment—RC-135 and this instruction. These references
     can be supplemented with other classified and unclassified authoritative publications such as
     National Air and Space Intelligence Center products, Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis
     Reports, Country Studies, etc., as long as the source is appropriately referenced.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s are granted waiver authority for specific intelligence procedural
requirements outlined in this instruction. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding
all waiver requests and responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of any significant trends in
waiver correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress policy and
guidance
1.3. Responsibilities.
     1.3.1. ACC/A2 Responsibilities. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified
     in AFI 14-202, Volume 1, ACC/A2 will:
        1.3.1.1. Coordinate with user MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
        requirements for RC-135 intelligence personnel training.
        1.3.1.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
        training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
        (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST).
            1.3.1.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop/maintain and provide a
            training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for IQT through formal course
            reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
            1.3.1.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
            baseline threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral forces
            aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAMs), surface-to-air missiles (SAMs), air defense
            artillery (ADA), electronic warfare (EW), directed energy weapons (DEW), ground
            forces and associated equipment, naval and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations
            and employment techniques.
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                              5


         1.3.1.2.3. In coordination with other organizations: develop, obtain and provide
         softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer-generated graphics, and digital
         audiovisual visual recognition (VR) training materials. These will cover worldwide
         adversary, neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of
         battle (OB), as well as asymmetric threat systems, their deployment patterns,
         camouflage, concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
     1.3.1.3. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIOs) and
     MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
     Provide feedback on lead MAJCOM-endorsed training materials and discuss applicability
     of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes
     in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level
     'best practices' exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
     1.3.1.4. Assist subordinate units in developing training programs.
     1.3.1.5. Assist MAJCOMs with RC-135 units in providing support to unit training
     programs.
  1.3.2. Other MAJCOM/A2 Responsibilities.           Other MAJCOM/A2s with unit-level
  intelligence personnel providing support to RC-135 units will:
     1.3.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
     requirements for intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials.
     1.3.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs.
     1.3.2.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
  1.3.3. Unit SIO Responsibilities. The unit SIO will:
     1.3.3.1. Develop and execute orientation, mission qualification, continuation and
     specialized qualification training programs. Provide written guidance detailing how
     programs will be conducted to all intelligence work centers. (T-2)
         1.3.3.1.1. Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train.
         All personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.
         Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate,
         with a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions. (T-3)
         1.3.3.1.2. Use lead MAJCOM-endorsed training materials to assist in the
         development and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these
         baseline training materials to meet unit needs. (T-3)
         1.3.3.1.3. Execute training with sufficient frequency, consistency and accuracy, to
         ensure personnel knowledge, skills and abilities remain current in accordance with
         locally developed standards and this AFI. (T-2)
         1.3.3.1.4. Develop procedures to evaluate the training program at the end of each
         training cycle. (T-3)
     1.3.3.2. Appoint an intelligence qualification training program manager to oversee
     accomplishment and documentation of IQT, MQT, CT and ST of unit personnel. When
6                                                    AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


       assigned, the USAF Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course graduate will provide input
       into the training programs. (T-3)
       1.3.3.3. Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
       1.3.3.4. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all personnel. Assigned
       Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) will be trained and equipped according to
       established standards for their respective active duty counterpart. (T-3)
       1.3.3.5. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and
       current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or
       perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current. (T-2)
       1.3.3.6. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
       the MAJCOM/A2 and courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable. See
       attachment 2 for an example report. (T-3)
       1.3.3.7. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
       lead MAJCOM-endorsed training materials and discuss applicability of emergent training
       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
       opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level 'best practices' exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
    1.3.4. The Intelligence Qualification Training Program Manager will:
       1.3.4.1. Develop intelligence personnel training programs with written guidance
       detailing how programs will be conducted. Design training programs to achieve the
       highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and resource availability.
       Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, unit mission and
       capabilities. (T-3)
       1.3.4.2. Use lead MAJCOM-endorsed training materials to assist in the development and
       conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training materials
       to meet unit needs. (T-3)
       1.3.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include
       delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
       1.3.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports IAW local procedures for tracking
       overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.3.4.5. Provide individuals a copy of their qualification training and evaluation records
       when they change station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing current
       qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
    1.3.5. Work Center Supervisor Responsibilities. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.3.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 7


       1.3.5.2. Assist the Intelligence Qualification Training Program Manager in developing
       and executing unit intelligence training programs. (T-3)
       1.3.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of and interview newly assigned
       personnel and those completing formal training to determine the training required for
       them to achieve the qualifications required for their assigned duty position. (T-2)
   1.3.6. Intelligence Personnel Responsibilities. Intelligence personnel will:
       1.3.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       instruction and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.3.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues affecting training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
       1.3.6.3. When changing station or assignment, hand-carry or electronically send
       qualification training and evaluation records to assist the gaining unit in assessing
       qualifications and training needs. (T-3)
1.4. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is a venue intended to
facilitate achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. While the SIO
is ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training; professional
development, including intelligence-specific and mission-specific training, is the responsibility
of the trainee and supervisor. Training received during internal training may be achieved via
skills practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics or as otherwise
devised by the SIO. The internal intelligence training plan will include all identified training
requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
1.5. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks
and achieve CMR status. CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST
qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be
conducted in conjunction with skill-level upgrade training. For a detailed explanation of IQT,
MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202, Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this AFI.
1.6. Documentation. All intelligence training must be documented. Units will document
qualification training in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online
documentation. (T-3)
 8                                                     AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                             Chapter 2

                        INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING (IQT)

2.1. General. IQT for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training and concludes
with successful completion of the Intelligence Initial Qualification Course (IIQC).
2.2. IQT Requirements. The RC-135 IIQC is designed to meet the IQT requirements for
personnel assigned to support the RC-135 weapon system.
     2.2.1. IQT will be conducted at the unit using the RC-135 IIQC syllabus and training
     courseware provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2)
     2.2.2. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the RC-135 IIQC syllabus.
     Failure to complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to
     MAJCOM/A2 with person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated
     completion date. (T-3)
     2.2.3. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the RC-135 IIQC training standard.
     In-unit IQT will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on the individual’s
     proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-3)
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                              9


                                          Chapter 3

                         MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting RC-135 missions/operations. This chapter provides guidance
to assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program. MQT execution will take into
account assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience and training, currency,
documented performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. Accomplish MQT
through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or other training
opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Use applicable portions of MQT to create a
requalification program for personnel who are in non-CMR (N-CMR) or non-BMC (N-BMC)
status. (T-2)
   3.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT;
   however, in situations determined by the SIO, intelligence personnel may begin MQT before
   completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make this option more practical. Member
   must complete IQT before fully completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR. MQT will
   be completed within the time specified below. (T-3)
   3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for AFRC and ANG) of the individual’s first
   duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the completion of IQT, if IQT was
   conducted in-unit. Timelines for completion of MQT for each MAJCOM and reporting
   requirements are specified in the following paragraphs.
       3.1.2.1. For active duty units, MQT will be completed within 120 days.            Notify
       MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline.
       3.1.2.2. IMAs will complete MQT within 120 days with seasoning days. If no seasoning
       days are available, complete MQT within 365 calendar days, or the execution of one
       year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and Annual Training, whichever is earlier.
       Notify MAJCOM Intelligence IMA Program Manager and AFRC/A2 if training timelines
       are exceeded.
       3.1.2.3. ANG units will complete MQT within 120 days with seasoning days. If no
       seasoning days are available, complete MQT within 180 calendar days, or the execution
       of six-months cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and Annual Training. Notify the
       National Guard Bureau /A2 and ACC/A2 if training exceeds this timeline.
   3.1.3. AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet. Use the AF Form 4381 to document the
   trainee’s progression through each individual training item. Specific MQT intelligence
   gradesheet elements are located in attachment 3. (T-2)
   3.1.4. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT and a successful
   Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
   14-2RC-135, Volume 2. (T-3)
3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-
developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
 10                                                 AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


MQT program for RC-135 intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position. Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
   3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to unit
   missions for all areas listed below except 3.2.1.1 and 3.2.1.5, by successfully completing a
   test from the unit master question file (MQF) (85 percent minimum to pass). To demonstrate
   the knowledge requirements outlined in 3.2.1.5, trainees must successfully complete a VR
   test via a visual presentation system (85 percent minimum to pass). (T-2)
       3.2.1.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination (RAD) and Intelligence Preparation of
       the Operational Environment (IPOE).
          3.2.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
          intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and Operations Plan (OPLAN)/
          Concept of Operations Plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks: Identify unit
          hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Explain strengths and weaknesses of
          specific types of intelligence in the context of the RC-135 weapons system and the
          unit mission. Identify Intelligence Community analysis centers and intelligence
          producers useful for intelligence applications at the unit level. Demonstrate use of
          intelligence systems and software to request intelligence from outside sources when
          unit intelligence holdings are insufficient. Draft and transmit requests for information
          using US Message Text Format (USMTF) when reporting directives do not exist or
          when intelligence information systems are unavailable. Demonstrate knowledge of
          unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Demonstrate knowledge of the
          strengths and weaknesses of specific types of intelligence in the context of the RC-
          135 weapons system and the unit mission.
          3.2.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
          intelligence applies to the unit mission, (e.g., what is useful to unit aircrew, mission
          planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not useful). Specific
          tasks: Describe intelligence needed by RC-135 aircrew and mission planners for
          combat operations. Define rules of engagement and operations security. Describe
          general intelligence requirements of the wing commander, operations group
          commander and other functional areas supported by wing intelligence. Describe the
          intelligence requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s
          OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
          3.2.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Show knowledge of unit-level
          resources, points of dissemination and methods of dissemination to aircrew, mission
          planners, operations group and wing leadership and other end-users of intelligence as
          determined by the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks:
          Describe the use of intelligence systems and information displays to disseminate data.
          Describe professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure video
          teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination systems
          used by the unit. Identify aircrew/sensor operator, mission planner and unit
          information resources and ways to integrate updated intelligence into the information
          flow. Describe methods to identify currency and expiration of intelligence provided
          to end users. Identify fundamentals of information security classification marking
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               11


          and controls and sources of authoritative guidance. Describe rules, procedures and
          restrictions for secure transfer of intelligence from various levels of classified
          intelligence and information networks.
          3.2.1.1.4. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment. Objective:
          Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and concepts and understand the analytical
          methodology employed in IPOE. Specific tasks: Describe the IPOE process (e.g.,
          define the operational environment) as it pertains to the unit mission and
          OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Describe the impact of the operational environment,
          evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action. Identify IPOE
          products and producers based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and
          the ability to identify/extract intelligence for unit operations.
       3.2.1.2. RC-135 Weapons System Academics.                Objective:     Demonstrate an
       understanding of the unit’s specific RC-135 weapons system equipment and missions.
       Specific tasks: Describe the steps to accomplish the RC-135 operational mission.
       Describe RC-135 capabilities and limitations; self-protection systems; and
       communications capabilities. Identify the roles of friendly assets involved in the various
       RC-135 missions. Identify the relationship between crew coordination practices for the
       various RC-135 missions and successful mission completion. Describe how Air Force
       and joint doctrine drive the unit’s missions and employment. Define operational and
       intelligence terms commonly encountered in an RC-135 unit.
       3.2.1.3. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable area of
       responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Identify details of
       aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground and naval forces and associated
       equipment, cyber and asymmetric threat capabilities and limitations.    Describe
       employment techniques of adversary/threat forces in the operational environment.
       Describe how these threats could affect unit mission accomplishment.
       3.2.1.4. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
       applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks:
Identify details of aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground and naval forces and
associated equipment, and asymmetric threat capabilities and limitations. Describe employment
techniques of friendly and neutral forces in the operational environment.
       3.2.1.5. Visual Recognition (VR). Objective: When shown a video or still image of
       sufficient quality, be able to identify enemy/adversary, friendly, or neutral weapon
       systems that may be encountered in the operational environment based on unit mission
       and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Visually identify enemy/adversary,
       friendly and neutral aircraft (both rotary and fixed-wing), ground equipment, and naval
       vessels by appropriate name or numerical designator and determine whether the object is
       a threat or non-threat. Training will include all aspects/angles; theater-specific paint
       schemes; national markings; various configurations; employment characteristics; muzzle
       flashes; smoke plumes; and burst patterns as applicable.
       3.2.1.6. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role
       intelligence personnel play in preparing aircrews for the possibility of survival, evasion,
       resistance, escape (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Identify
12                                                AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


     environmental, operational and combat search and rescue information contained in the
     special instructions (SPINS) that will drive intelligence requirements during PR
     operations. Identify theater-specific evasion plan of action (EPA) requirements based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.                 Describe specific PR materials
     intelligence provides to aircrew/operators.
     3.2.1.7. Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate understanding of
     principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks: Identify
     irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and other hot spot
     areas. Give examples of hostile force tactics and weapons employment. Identify
     intelligence FP resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and FP conditions. Describe
     unit FP considerations. State facts concerning base-specific and regional threats.
     3.2.1.8. Electronic Warfare Support. Objective: Demonstrate an understanding of EW
     support for RC-135 operations including an understanding of the intelligence support
     required to maximize Passive Detection System (PDS) capabilities. Describe the types of
     signals the PDS can detect and the maximum range to detect target signals. Specific
     Tasks: Explain intelligence principles and procedures for EW support to RC-135.
     Summarize PDS capabilities. Give examples of EW tactics and weapons employment.
     3.2.1.9. Mission Planning Support. Objective: Demonstrate an understanding of the
     unit’s intelligence support to specific RC-135 mission planning. Specific tasks: Identify
     roles and mission planning considerations for large force employment. Identify
     procedures for validating the accuracy of mission planning materials developed/provided
     by intelligence. Explain local area procedures for potential emergency ad/hoc
     contingencies.
 3.2.2. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
 IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting threat briefings IAW standards established by the SIO. Specific Tasks:
     Conduct research on specific threat systems. Compile data and develop a concise
     briefing with focus on the threat to the RC-135 mission. Tailor information to the RC-
     135 airframe and countertactics. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
     information display and dissemination tools. Deliver a threat briefing.
     3.2.2.2. Situation displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing, posting,
     updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without automated
     intelligence system support IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Select the proper medium to
     use for constructing a situation display. Identify the proper components to be included on
     a situation display IAW AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 3. Research, analyze and plot
     situation display elements using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common
     Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual /US Marine Corps Reference
     Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics).
        3.2.2.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
        maintaining OB on situation displays without intelligence systems IAW SIO
        standards and based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks:
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               13


        Identify OB production sources for the AOR. Research and analyze OB data.
        Identify critical elements of the table of organization and equipment for potential
        enemy/adversary nations. Differentiate between coordinate systems. Plot OB using
        the correct symbology.
        3.2.2.2.2. Automated OB.       Objective:   Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing
        intelligence support systems to download, update, purge and control quality of
        automated OB used on situation displays. Specific tasks: Identify OB production
        sources for the AOR. Research and analyze OB data. Identify critical elements of
        the table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Use
        intelligence software applications to post and maintain OB. Verify accuracy of
        computer generated symbology. Use intelligence software applications to convert
        between coordinate systems.
     3.2.2.3. Initial Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing IAW unit standards.
     Specific tasks: Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Identify significant events
     leading to the crisis. Identify adversary, neutral, friendly and/or US political decisions or
     diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the
     deploying unit. Identify relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and
     irregular force disposition and activity, most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary
     courses of action (COA). Identify FPI for the local area. Tailor information in the
     briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, and the audience.
     Determine intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Use
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
     tools. Construct and deliver an initial situation briefing.
     3.2.2.4. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis.
     Identify changes in the operational environment since the last update. Identify any
     enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or diplomatic initiatives
     that affect the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the deployed unit. Identify
     changes to enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force
     disposition and activity. Identify FPI for the local area. Determine the most dangerous
     and most likely enemy/adversary COA for the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours. Tailor
     information in the briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, and the
     audience. Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps.
     Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a situation briefing.
     3.2.2.5. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting a changeover briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Organize and
     prioritize key information. Compile data and develop a concise briefing with focus on
     events to prepare personnel for their shift. Identify issues needing immediate attention.
     Include a situation update, review of threat levels/conditions, briefing schedules, work
     and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team (CAT) directives, mission report
     (MISREP) status, and other pertinent items. Tailor information in the briefing based on
14                                                 AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


     unit mission. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display
     and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a changeover briefing.
     3.2.2.6. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing IAW unit standards and the
     requirements of the deploying commander. Specific tasks: Identify unit taskings (e.g.,
     warning order, execution order) and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF)
     tasking. Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Develop a synopsis of political-
     military situation generating the deployment. Identify relevant enemy/adversary air,
     ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity along deployment
     route. Determine the most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction
     to the deployment. Identify FPI for the local area and deployment location. Determine
     en route hazards to flight and alternate landing sites. Identify reporting instructions,
     essential elements of information (EEI), and additional items as dictated by the local
     situation. Tailor information in the briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN
     tasking, and the audience. Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely
     answers to the gaps. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a deployment briefing.
     3.2.2.7. Air Tasking Order (ATO)/Air Control Order (ACO)/Reconnaissance,
     Surveillance and Target Acquisition (RSTA) Annex/Collection Emphasis
     Message/SPINS and other tasking documents. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
     obtaining, identifying, and breaking out the applicable elements of the ATO/ACO/RSTA
     Annex/ Collection Emphasis Message/SPINS, as well as a WARNORD, Alert Order,
     EXORD, Operations Order and Deployment Order IAW unit procedures. Specific Tasks:
     Locate and obtain correct ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/Collection Emphasis
     Message/SPINS. Identify and extract unit tasking, supported missions, airspace control,
     orbits, refueling areas, RC-135 portion of the RSTA Annex, RC-135 portion of the
     Collection Emphasis Message, PR information, tracks and supported asset data from
     tasking orders/messages. Demonstrate breakout of ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/Collection
     Emphasis Message/SPINS with both manual and automated techniques and tools IAW
     prescribed local timelines and format requirements. Derive specified and implied
     intelligence requirements from tasking documents; research applicable intelligence;
     define gaps; submit collection requirements and/or RFIs as appropriate. As applicable,
     identify other types of tasking requests the unit may face in particular theaters.
     3.2.2.8. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
     in providing intelligence support to mission planners IAW with unit procedures. Specific
     tasks: Describe the mission planning process. Review the tactical problem/scenario.
     Analyze the ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/Collection Emphasis Message/SPINS breakout
     and derive specified and implied intelligence requirements (including mission materials).
     Plot unit tasking. Analyze operating area threats (e.g., integrated air defense system, air,
     SAMs, ADA) and terrain. Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely
     answers to the gaps. Construct and deliver mission planning situation briefing, as
     applicable. Coordinate with operations to recommend mission route based on threat and
     terrain analysis. Identify other mission support assets.
     3.2.2.9. Mission Package Construction. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in mission
     package construction, IAW unit procedures. Specific tasks: Conduct appropriate
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            15


     research and analysis. Identify and obtain geospatial information and services (GI&S)
     products to build mission materials. Tailor mission materials to the planned mission type
     and objective area. Portray objective area threats and hazards as well as ingress and
     egress factors. Use mission planning software to construct mission packages as
     applicable.
     3.2.2.10. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a mission briefing IAW unit standards. Specific
     tasks: Extract updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research
     and analysis. Identify changes in the operational/tactical environment. Determine en
     route, objective area, and egress threats (e.g., air, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground,
     naval, and asymmetric), FPI for the local area, target information, RC-135 information,
     EEIs, in-flight report requirements, threat update code (TUC), debrief location, and other
     factors essential to mission success. Tailor information in the briefing to the mission.
     Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a mission briefing.
     3.2.2.11. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     an intelligence step briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Identify critical last
     minute changes in threats (e.g., air, air defense, ground), new tactics, PR data, latest
     TUC, and any other changes impacting the mission. Tailor information in the briefing to
     the mission. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display
     and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a step briefing.
     3.2.2.12. Mission Tracking. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in monitoring mission
     execution and in communicating with other agencies and coordination centers IAW unit
     procedures. Specific tasks: Monitor and use communication systems including
     collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions. React as
     necessary to support the mission. Log significant communications in a locally developed
     mission tracking log. Track mission debriefings and appropriate reports.
     3.2.2.13. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing IAW with unit standards. Specific tasks: Prepare
     appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist. Extract mission intelligence from RC-
     135 crew. Identify time-sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and
     expediently. Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements. Identify
     key points and develop intelligence by asking amplifying questions relevant to the
     mission. Consult appropriate post flight products. Control the flow and pace of the
     debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and accurate information collection without
     wasting time. Be aware and control environmental factors that may distract crew or
     impede the debriefing process. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
     information display and dissemination tools.
     3.2.2.14. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting accurate MISREPs and other intelligence reports [e.g., intelligence summary
     (INTSUM), intelligence report (INTREP)] as required by local directives. Specific tasks:
     Describe the purpose and content of theater reporting directives. Analyze and extract
     information of intelligence value from in-flight reports (INFLTREP) and other aircrew-
     submitted formats. Validate accuracy and completeness of reports. Generate intelligence
16                                             AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


     reports using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools. Draft and transmit intelligence reports using USMTF when
     reporting directives do not exist.
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 17


                                           Chapter 4

                                CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence
knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure familiarization with
RC-135 capabilities, threat systems, and unit intelligence functions. The second aspect of CT is
the Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which consists of specific mission-related training
required to accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This guidance is
intended to provide a baseline and may be supplemented by the SIO based on unit requirements.
IPTPMs will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and other resources as needed to
provide the most effective and efficient training. CT must reinforce MQT tasks and facilitate
RIP requirements. Basic knowledge examinations will be compiled from the unit MQF.
Completion of CT tasks will be annotated using the online training documentation system. At a
minimum, the following topics will be covered during CT (T-2):
   4.2.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.2. RC-135 Weapons Systems and Operations – to include on-board systems, ,
   employment and defensive tactics/maneuvers, mission profiles, and capabilities and
   limitations.
   4.2.3. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground, naval, and cyber threat system capabilities
   and limitations with respect to RC-135 operations.
   4.2.4. Visual Recognition – to include identification features and employment characteristics
   of enemy/adversary, friendly and/or neutral weapon systems.
   4.2.5. Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence systems, software
   applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit mission.
   4.2.6. Personnel Recovery – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater
   ISOPREP/EPA requirements and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
   4.2.7. Force Protection Intelligence – to include intelligence support to FP principles;
   irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist
   threat levels and unit force protection considerations.
   4.2.8. Situation Displays – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating
   and maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.2.9. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operation required briefings.
   4.2.10. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning – to include tasking document/RSTA
   Annex/Collection Emphasis Message/SPINS breakout; mission planning software
   applications and route/CAP analysis; GI&S familiarization to determine product
 18                                                   AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


   requirements (e.g., quantity, chart type, appropriate scale) acquisition, receipt, storage and
   maintenance for mission package construction.
   4.2.11. Debriefing – to include preparing for and techniques for conducting a debriefing,
   handling time-sensitive information, and proper debriefing tools/products.
   4.2.12. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to
accomplish the unit’s tasked missions. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, conduct
RIP tasks in conjunction with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. (T-2)
   4.3.1. The standard task requirements listed in Table 4.1, RC-135 Ready Intelligence
   Program and Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirements for
   CMR and BMC. Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR
   or BMC status and additional training will be required as determined by the SIO. (T-2)
   4.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks to maintain currency. If
   an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform
   that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for
   documenting RIP task completion. (T-2)

Table 4.1. RC-135 Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements.
                                        Minimum Frequency to          Minimum Frequency to
 Subject
                                        Maintain CMR Status           Maintain BMC Status
 Requests for Information               Annually                      Annually
 Situation Displays                     Semi-annually                 Annually
 Manual OB                              Semi-annually                 Annually
 Automated OB                           Semi-annually                 Annually
 Initial Situation Briefing             Semi-annually                 Annually
 Situation Briefing                     Semi-annually                 Annually
 Changeover Briefing                    Annually                      Annually
 Deployment Briefing                    Semi-annually                 Annually
 ATO/ACO/SPINS/RSTA Annex
                                        Semi-annually                Annually
 and other Tasking Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission
                                        Semi-annually                Annually
 Planning
 Mission Package Construction           Semi-annually                Annually
 Mission Briefing                       Semi-annually                Annually
 Step Briefing                          Semi-annually                Annually
 Mission Tracking                       Semi-annually                Annually
 Debriefing                             Semi-annually                Annually
 Intelligence Reports                   Semi-annually                Annually
 Note: For the purposes of this instruction semi-annually is defined as once every 6 months,
 and annually is once every 12 months.
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                19


4.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC, as applicable. The SIO will direct the member who
fails to demonstrate proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Document regression and the
steps required to correct the situation in the individual's training record. Intelligence personnel
regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved recertification program to return
them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during the re-certification program will
be credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
 20                                                     AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                              Chapter 5

                                    SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST. Tailor these requirements for intelligence personnel with current qualifications,
prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training. Unless governed by a
formal syllabus, these programs will consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios.
Document ST on the AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for the appropriate gradesheet elements).
Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. (T-2)
      5.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected for EIT trainer must:
         5.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
         5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
         5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
         listed below.
      5.2.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Profiles:
         5.2.2.1. EIT 1 – EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
         instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks: Modify
         training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of delivering training using
         visual, auditory and physical applications. Demonstrate one-on-one, small group and
         large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify trainee achievement.
         5.2.2.2. EIT 2 – Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide threat
         training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 3. Specific
         tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer, web-based,
         audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Prepare and
         deliver an instructional session for a threat based on unit mission and
         OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
         5.2.2.3. EIT 3 - Visual Recognition. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide VR
         training. Specific tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use
         computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
         tools. Prepare and deliver a VR instructional session for threat and friendly weapons
         systems based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
         5.2.2.4. EIT 4 – Collection and Reporting (C&R). Objective: Demonstrate ability to
         provide C&R training based on reporting directives and SIO guidance. Specific tasks:
         Identify collection requirements and EEIs. Describe the use of aircrew-originated reports
         (INFLTREP or other formats) and intelligence-generated reports (e.g., INTREP,
         MISREP, INTSUM). Prepare and deliver an instructional session on C&R based on unit
         mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                21


       5.2.2.5. EIT 5 – Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide
       PR training based on theater and unit requirements. Specific tasks: Coordinate with
       tactics, aircrew flight equipment, and SERE personnel. Tailor information in the briefing
       to the audience. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
       display and dissemination tools. Prepare and deliver an instructional session on
       intelligence PR operational support processes as required based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Where possible, PR EIT trainers should be graduates of
       SV-80A Survival Training. Units with an assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1) may omit
       this block.
       5.2.2.6. EIT-6 – Force Protection Intelligence. Objective: Demonstrate ability to
       provide FPI training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume
       3. Specific tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer,
       web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools.
       Prepare and deliver an instructional session for FPI based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   5.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT trainers upon
   successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer evaluation (INIT EIT) and SIO
   endorsement.
   5.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 5.1, External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and
   Currencies, defines the currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
   maintain EIT trainer status. EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT
   trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 2. If an EIT trainer loses currency in a
   particular area, the individual will not conduct EIT unsupervised until currency is regained.
   Trainers who are non-current must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by
   another current and qualified EIT trainer in the same training event.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
 Event                 Specialized Training                    Currency Requirement
 Threat Knowledge      Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific       Instruct one threat training
                       tasks.                                  event quarterly.
                       Pass MQF test (threat specific).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 VR                    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 specific       Instruct one VR training event
                       tasks.                                  semi-annually.
                       Pass VR test.
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 C&R                   Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 specific       Instruct one C&R training
                       tasks.                                  event annually.
                       Pass MQF test (C&R specific).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 PR                    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 specific       Instruct one PR training event
                       tasks.                                  semi-annually.
                       Pass MQF test (PR-specific).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 22                                                   AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


 FPI                   Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 specific          Instruct one FPI training event
                       tasks.                                     annually.
                       Pass MQF test (FPI-specific).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every three months;
 semi-annually is defined as once every six months and annually is defined as once every 12
 months. If an MQF test was accomplished for these areas during MQT, another MQF test is
 not required.
5.3. RC-135S COBRA BALL Intelligence Support. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to provide intelligence support to the
COBRA BALL mission. Only qualified personnel may provide unsupervised support to
COBRA BALL. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel selected for COBRA BALL Intelligence Support
   must:
       5.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.3.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.3.1.3. Complete the requirements for the COBRA BALL Intelligence Support profile
       listed below.
   5.3.2. COBRA BALL Intelligence Support Training Profiles
       5.3.2.1. COBRA BALL Intelligence Support. Objective: Demonstrate ability to tailor
       intelligence support to COBRA BALL unique intelligence requirements. Specific tasks:
       Understand and analyze the primary websites to research in order to predict the
       threat/emitters that the RC-135S could see. Identify correct theater intelligence reporting
       directive for each mission. Demonstrate ability to provide specialized intelligence
       products/debriefs to the RC-135S mission.
       5.3.2.2. COBRA BALL Intelligence Support Evaluation. COBRA BALL Intelligence
       Support evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2RC-
       135, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified to provide intelligence support to COBRA
       BALL upon successful completion of required tasks, an initial COBRA BALL evaluation
       (INIT COBRA BALL) and endorsement from the SIO.
       5.3.2.3. COBRA BALL Intelligence Support Currency. Personnel providing intelligence
       support to COBRA BALL must pass a COBRA BALL-specific MQF test per six month
       period (Semi-annually) to remain current. They must also successfully complete periodic
       IE evaluations IAW AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 2.
5.4. Intelligence Evaluator (IE). This program establishes the minimum guidelines for
intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform IE within the unit. Intelligence evaluator
trainees must be immersed in the knowledge of governing directives and task procedures.
Intelligence evaluator training consist of two steps: observation and performance proficiency.
Only qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations. (T-2)
   5.4.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel selected to be an IE must:
       5.4.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                             23


     5.4.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2.
     5.4.1.3. Complete one or both of the IE observation profiles and the proficiency profile
     listed below.
  5.4.2. Intelligence Evaluator Training Profiles:
     5.4.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Through observation of a qualified
     evaluator conducting a mission evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation techniques and
     procedures. Specific tasks: Observe a mission evaluation. Describe the evaluation
     criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN
     evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and
     techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.4.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Trainer Observation. Objective: Through observation of a
     qualified evaluator conducting an EIT Trainer evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation
     techniques and procedures. Specific tasks: Observe an EIT Trainer evaluation. Describe
     the evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT
     EIT or EIT evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues,
     and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.4.2.3. IE 3 – IE COBRA BALL Observation. Objective: Observe a COBRA BALL
     evaluation. Specific tasks: Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
     evaluation form preparation for an INIT COBRA BALL or COBRA BALL evaluation.
     Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for
     conducting evaluations.
     5.4.2.4. IE 4 – IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in conducting
     intelligence evaluations. Perform the evaluation with the trainer as the examinee in a
     simulated evaluation. Specific tasks: Conduct an evaluation and provide a thorough
     debrief with the person being evaluated. Use evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
     proper techniques in documenting evaluation forms.
  5.4.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
  Volume 2 and AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized
  training is completed. The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after
  completing training, successful completion of the initial IE evaluation and SIO endorsement.
  5.4.4. Intelligence Evaluator Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding
  evaluation annually to remain current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE
  evaluations IAW AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 2.




                                           ROBERT P. OTTO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                           Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 24                                              AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 2, RC-135 Unit Evaluation Criteria, 4 September 2013
AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 3, RC-135 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 4 September 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.RC-135, Tactical Employment – RC-135, 11 January 2013 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December
2012 (S)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
AIT—Aircrew Intelligence Trainer/Training
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                          25


ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Course of Action
CONPLAN—Concept of Operations Plan
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer/Training
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EW—Electronic Warfare
EXORD—Exercise Order
FM—Field Manual
FP—Force Protection
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
FPIT—Force Protection Intelligence Trainer/Training
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT—Initial (evaluation)
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT—IE—Initial Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
 26                                              AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
LIMFAC—Limiting Factors
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCRP—Marine Corps Reference Publication
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MIL STD—Military Standard
MISREP—Mission Report
MPT—Mission Planning Team
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification (Evaluation)
NAF—Numbered Air Force
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDS—Passive Detection System
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
QUAL—Qualification (Evaluation)
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                          27


ST—Specialized Training
TUC—Threat Update Code
USMTF—US Message Text Format
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
VR—Visual Recognition
WARNORD—Warning Order

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2) —Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3) —Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
 28                                              AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                      Attachment 2
              EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT EXAMPLE

Figure A2.1. Example Training Shortfall Report

[DATE]

MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2

FROM: [UNIT]

SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls

1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. (Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a
major impact on training.)

 EVENT             PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL AFFECTED

                   SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

                   CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

                   LIMFACS

2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).




SIGNATURE BLOCK


CC: NAF/A2
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            29


                                         Attachment 3
                        RC-135 MQT GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A3.1. RC-135 MQT Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT gradesheet tables
in this attachment are elements are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence
qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through
training events. File the completed gradesheets in the trainee’s training record. (T-2)

Table A3.1. RC-135 Threat Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Primary threat countries
 2.2. Capabilities and limitations
 2.3. Employment characteristics
 2.4. Countertactics
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. RC-135 Situation Displays Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Construct, post, update and maintain quality situation displays
 2.1. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
 2.2. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
 2.3. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Geographic coordinates
 3.2. MGRS and UTM
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.3. RC-135 Manual OB Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Identified OB production sources
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Differentiated between coordinate systems
 3.2. Geographic coordinates
 30                                                   AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


 3.3. MGRS and UTM
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Updated and maintained on the situation display
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. RC-135 Automated OB Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Identified OB production sources
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Used intelligence systems to post and maintain OB
 3.1. Verify accuracy of computer-generated symbology
 3.2. Performed coordinate conversion
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. RC-135 Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
 2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.3. Current enemy force disposition
 2.4. Potential enemy COAs
 2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.6. FPI for the local area
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.6. RC-135 Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Changes to IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                31


 2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
 2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.3. Current enemy force disposition
 2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
 2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.6. FPI for the local area
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. RC-135 Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. Presented situation update briefing
 3. Issues requiring immediate attention
 4. Addressed relevant areas
 4.1. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
 4.2. Reviewed briefing, work and flying schedules
 4.3. Reviewed situation displays
 4.4. Reviewed CAT directives
 4.5. Review incoming/outgoing messages
 4.6. Reviewed MISREP status
 5. Delivery
 5.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 5.2. Effective use of visual aids
 5.3. Appropriate level of detail
 5.4. Applicability to audience
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.8. RC-135 Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Unit tasking
 2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
 32                                                    AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


 2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
 and activity
 2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
 2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location
 2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
 2.7. Personal recovery
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. RC-135 ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/Collection Emphasis Message/SPINS
Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Located and obtained correct tasking documents
 2.   Determined unit tasking, airspace control, PR information and intelligence related data
 3.   Extracted unit data using manual and automated processes
 3.   Adherence to unit standards
 4.   Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. RC-135 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Provide intelligence support to mission planner
 2. Described the RC-135 mission planning process
 3. Review of tactical scenario understanding
 4. Analyzed the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout and plotted unit tasking
 4.1. Determined intelligence requirements
 4.2. Determined mission material requirements
 5. Identified intelligence gaps and made assessments
 6. Analyzed operating area threats and terrain
 7. Presented Mission Planning Situation Briefing (as applicable)
 8. Coordinated with operations to recommend mission route
 8.1. Ingress
 8.2. Objective/Mission area
 8.3. Egress
 9. Identified other mission support assets
 10. Adherence to unit standards
 11. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.11. RC-135 Mission Package Construction Gradesheet Elements.
1. Mission package construction
1.1. Conducted appropriate research and analysis
1.2. Identified and obtained mission materials
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                33


1.3. Used mission planning software
2. Adherence to unit standards
3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. RC-135 Mission Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
 2.2. En route, mission area, egress threats
 2.3. FPI for the local area
 2.4. PR information
 2.5. EEIs
 2.6. INFLTREP requirements
 2.7. Threat update code
 2.8. Debrief location
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to mission
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.13. RC-135 Step Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Last minute changes in threat that affect the mission
 2.2. New threats and/or threat tactics
 2.3. PR data changes/reminders
 2.4. Latest TUC
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines
 34                                                 AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


Table A3.14. RC-135 Mission Tracking Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Monitored and used appropriate communication systems
 2.   Maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions
 3.   Reacted as necessary to support the mission
 4.   Logged all communications
 5.   Ensured all missions were debriefed and reported upon
 6.   Made provisions for diverted missions
 7.   Adherence to unit standards
 8.   Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. RC-135 Debriefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Debriefing preparation
 1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General performance
 2.1. Extracted relevant mission intelligence from aircrew
 2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
 2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
 2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
 2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
 2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
 3. Time management
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.16. RC-135 Intelligence Reports Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Described the purpose and content of theater reporting directives
 2. Analyzed and extracted information from INFLTREP and other aircrew-submitted formats
 3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 3.1. Validate accuracy and completeness of reports
 3.2. Draft and transmit intelligence reports using USMTF when reporting directives do not
 exist
 4. Time management
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                        35


                                          Attachment 4
                  SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A4.1. RC-135 Specialized Training Gradesheet elements. The ST task gradesheet elements
in this attachment are to be when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence qualification
trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST. The ST
gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s training record. (T-2)

Table A4.1. RC-135 COBRA BALL Intelligence Support Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Understanding of cobra ball intelligence requirements
 4.   Website usage
 5.   Emitter identification
 6.   Recording criteria
 7.   Checklist usage
 8.   Security

Table A4.2. RC-135 EIT Trainer Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 8.   Security

Table A4.3. RC-135 Intelligence Evaluator Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 36                                           AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                    Attachment 5
RC-135 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING, SPECIALIZED TRAINING AND RIP
                           REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be used by unit
training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. RC-135 MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements.
 Requirement                                         MQT        ST         RIP
 RAD and IPOE                                        X          ---        ---
 RC-135 Weapons System Academics                     X          ---        ---
 Threat Knowledge                                    X          ---        ---
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                X          ---        ---
 VR                                                  X          ---        ---
 PR                                                  X          ---        ---
 FPI                                                 X          ---        ---
 EW Support                                          X          ---        ---
 Mission Planning Support                            X          ---        ---
 Threat Briefings                                    X          ---        ---
 Situation Displays                                  X          ---        X
 Manual OB                                           X          ---        X
 Automated OB                                        X          ---        X
 Initial Situation Briefing                          X          ---        X
 Situation Briefing                                  X          ---        X
 Changeover Briefing                                 X          ---        X
 Deployment Briefing                                 X          ---        X
 ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/Collection Emphasis
 Message/SPINS                                       X          ---        X
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning            X          ---        X
 Mission Package Construction                        X          ---        X
 Mission Briefing                                    X          ---        X
 Step Briefing                                       X          ---        X
 Mission Tracking                                    X          ---        X
 Debriefing                                          X          ---        X
 Intelligence Reports                                X          ---        X
 COBRA BALL Intelligence Support                     ---        X          ---
 EIT 1 – EIT Concepts and Methods                    ---        X          ---
 EIT 2 – Threat Knowledge                            ---        X          ---
 EIT 3 – VR                                          ---        X          ---
 EIT 4 – C&R                                         ---        X          ---
 EIT 5 – PR                                          ---        X          ---
 EIT 6 – FPI                                         ---        X          ---
 IE 1 – IE MSN Observation                           ---        X          ---
 IE 2 – IE EIT Observation                           ---        X          ---
AFI14-2RC-135V1 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                   37


IE 3 – IE Proficiency              ---   X   ---
