BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2RQ-4,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 1

                                                                              19 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                    RQ-4 UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for download on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 31


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in RQ-4 units. This publication
applies to Active Duty, Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence personnel
supporting RQ-4 operations. The National Guard Bureau (NGB) will be considered functionally
as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly
implement this publication must be routed to ACC/A2X Policy Branch for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated
with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered
compliance items.
 2                                                                                   AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                      3
      1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    3
      1.2.   References. .............................................................................................................      3
      1.3.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................     3
      1.4.   Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               3
      1.5.   Internal Training. ...................................................................................................         5
      1.6.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            6

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                    7
      2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    7
      2.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            7

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                    8
      3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
      3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                              8

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                            14
      4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   14
      4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           14
      4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                15
Table 4.1.   RQ-4 Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements. ..........................                                         15
      4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     15
      4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       16

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                             17
      5.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................           17
      5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        17
Table 5.1.   External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................                                   18
      5.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE). ....................................................................................             18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             20

Attachment 2—EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                                                                                             23

Attachment 3—RQ-4 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADESHEET
             ELEMENTS                                                                                                                      24

Attachment 4—RQ-4 SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS                                                                                 30

Attachment 5—RQ-4 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING, SPECIALIZED
             TRAINING, AND                                                                                                                 31
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                     3



                                            Chapter 1

                                       INTRODUCTION

1.1. General. This volume provides guidance for training RQ-4 unit intelligence personnel.
With the cited references, it establishes the procedures to attain and maintain the qualifications
and currencies to support unit operations. These requirements are the minimum and can be
supplemented with unit-level written guidance. Unit-level guidance will not be less restrictive.
1.2. References. The primary references for RQ-4 unit intelligence training are AFI 14-2RQ-4,
Volume 2, RQ-4 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 3, RQ-4 Unit
Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) AFTTP 3-
1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.RQ-4, Tactical
Employment—RQ-4. These references can be supplemented with other classified and
unclassified authoritative publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center
products, Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc., as long as the source
is appropriately referenced.
1.3. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and
responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if such
correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.4. Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.4.1. ACC/A2. In addition to the lead command responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202,
   Volume 1, ACC/A2 will:
       1.4.1.1. Coordinate with affected MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
       requirements for intelligence personnel training.
       1.4.1.2. In coordination with other organizations, develop or obtain and provide baseline
       training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
       (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST). These materials will
       include:
           1.4.1.2.1. A training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for IQT through
           formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
           1.4.1.2.2. Baseline threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and
           neutral forces aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAM), surface to air missiles (SAM), air
           defense artillery (ADA),electronic warfare (EW), directed energy weapons (DEW),
           ground forces and associated equipment, naval systems, asymmetric threat
           capabilities, and limitations and employment techniques.
           1.4.1.2.3. Softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer generated graphics, and
           digital visual recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide adversary,
           neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of battle (OB) as
           well as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and camouflage,
           concealment, and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces. AFI 14-103,
           Visual Recognition Training Materials Production, provides information for
           submitting VR training materials production requirements.
4                                                          AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


       1.4.1.3. Assist subordinate units in developing training programs.
       1.4.1.4. Assist MAJCOM/A2s with RQ-4 units in providing support to unit training
       programs.
       1.4.1.5. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIO) and
       MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
       Solicit feedback on lead command-endorsed training materials and discuss applicability
       of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes
       in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level
       “best practices” exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
    1.4.2. MAJCOM/A2. MAJCOM/A2s with unit-level intelligence personnel providing
    support to RQ-4 units will:
       1.4.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
       requirements and supporting training materials.
       1.4.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs.
       1.4.2.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
    1.4.3. Unit SIO. The unit SIO will:
       1.4.3.1. Execute orientation, mission qualification, continuation and specialized
       qualification training programs with sufficient frequency, consistency and accuracy, to
       ensure personnel knowledge, skills and abilities remain current in accordance with locally
       developed standards and this publication. Provide written guidance detailing how
       programs will be conducted. (T-2)
       1.4.3.2. Designate the qualification to which each position will train. All personnel must
       maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification. Upon request, provide
       MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with a list of Combat
       Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC positions. Review this designation annually. (T-3)
       1.4.3.3. Appoint an intelligence qualification training manager to oversee
       accomplishment and documentation of IQT, MQT, CT and ST of unit personnel. When
       assigned, the USAF Intelligence Sensor Weapons Instructor Course graduate will provide
       input into the training programs. (T-3)
       1.4.3.4. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all personnel. Assigned
       Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) will be trained and equipped according to
       established standards for their respective active duty counterpart. (T-3)
       1.4.3.5. Assign personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and current personnel
       when required to participate in operational events or perform tasks for which they are not
       qualified and current. (T-2)
       1.4.3.6. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
       the MAJCOM/A2 and courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable. See
       attachment 2 for an example report. (T-3)
       1.4.3.7. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations to address standardized training requirements, training materials, training
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                     5


       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
       opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level 'best practices' exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
   1.4.4. Unit Intelligence Qualification Training Manager.       The Intelligence Qualification
   Training Manager will:
       1.4.4.1. Develop and manage an intelligence qualification training program. Design
       training programs to achieve the highest degree of mission readiness consistent with
       safety and resource availability. Training must balance the need for realism against the
       expected threat, unit mission and capabilities. (T-2)
       1.4.4.2. Use lead command-developed training materials to assist in the development and
       conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training materials
       and augment with locally-derived products to meet unit needs. (T-3)
       1.4.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements                     and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on training issues. (T-3)
       1.4.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports IAW local procedures for tracking
       overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.4.4.5. Provide a copy of individual qualification training records upon member’s
       change of station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing current
       qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
   1.4.5. Work Center Supervisor. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.4.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
       1.4.5.2. Assist the intelligence qualification training manager in developing and
       executing unit intelligence training programs. (T-3)
       1.4.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned personnel and those
       completing formal training to determine the training required for them to achieve the
       qualifications required for their assigned duty position. (T-2)
   1.4.6. Intelligence Personnel. Assigned intelligence personnel will:
       1.4.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       publication and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.4.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues affecting training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
       1.4.6.3. When changing station or assignment, ensure qualification records are delivered
       to the gaining unit. (T-3)
1.5. Internal Training. Internal training is a venue intended to facilitate achieving and
maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. Training received during internal
training is achieved via skills practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group
academics or as otherwise devised by the SIO. The internal intelligence training plan will
include all identified training requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
 6                                                        AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


1.6. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs progress intelligence personnel
from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks and achieve CMR status.
CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST qualifies individuals to perform
specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be conducted in conjunction with skill-
level upgrade training. For a detailed explanation of IQT, MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-
202, Volume 1.
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                 7


                                          Chapter 2

                         INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. IQT for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training and concludes
with successful completion of the Strategic Reconnaissance Intelligence Initial Qualification
Course (SR IIQC). The SR IIQC is designed to meet the IQT requirements for personnel
assigned to support the RQ-4 weapon system.
2.2. IQT Requirements.
   2.2.1. IQT will be conducted at the unit using the SR IIQC syllabus and training courseware
   provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2)
   2.2.2. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the SR IIQC syllabus. Failure to
   complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2 with
   person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated completion date. (T-2)
   2.2.3. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the SR IIQC training standard. IQT
   will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on the individual’s
   proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-2)
 8                                                        AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


                                           Chapter 3

                          MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting RQ-4 missions/operations. This chapter provides guidance to
assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program. MQT execution will take into
account assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience and training, currency,
documented performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. Accomplish MQT
through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or other training
opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Use applicable portions of MQT to create a
requalification program for personnel who are in non-CMR (N-CMR) or non-BMC (N-BMC)
status. (T-2)
     3.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT;
     however, in situations determined by the SIO, intelligence personnel may begin MQT before
     completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make this option more practical. Member
     must complete IQT before fully completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR. (T-3)
     3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
     ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the
     completion of IQT. Timelines for completion of MQT for each MAJCOM and reporting
     requirements are specified in the following paragraphs.
        3.1.2.1. Active duty units will complete MQT within 120 days after start.        Notify
        MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
        3.1.2.2. AFRC Air Reserve Technicians will complete MQT IAW with the active duty
        requirement. All other Reservists will complete MQT within 365 calendar days. Notify
        MAJCOM/A2 and AFRC functional manager if training timelines are exceeded. (T-2)
        3.1.2.3. ANG units will complete MQT within 120 days with seasoning days. If no
        seasoning days are available, complete MQT within 180 calendar days, or the execution
        of six-months cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and Annual Training. Notify NGB/A2
        and ACC/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
     3.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
     timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis.
     3.1.4. AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet. Use the AF Form 4381 to document the
     trainee’s progression through each individual training item. Specific MQT gradesheet
     elements are located in attachment 3. (T-2)
     3.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT and a successful
     Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
     14-2RQ-4 Volume 2.
3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission. Derive training from lead command-provided and unit-
developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                   9


MQT program for RQ-4 intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position. Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
   3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to the unit’s
   missions for the areas listed below by successfully completing a test from the unit’s master
   question file (MQF) (85 percent minimum to pass). (T-2)
       3.2.1.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination and Intelligence Preparation of the
       Operational Environment. RAD and IPOE involves imparted knowledge that intelligence
       personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the training and will be evaluated as
       subsets of each applicable graded area rather than being directly tested.
          3.2.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
          intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and Operations Plan
          (OPLAN)/Concept Plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks: Identify unit hardcopy
          and softcopy intelligence resources. Explain strengths and weaknesses of specific
          types of intelligence in the context of the RQ-4 weapons system and the unit mission.
          Identify intelligence community analysis centers and intelligence producers useful for
          intelligence applications at the unit level. Demonstrate use of intelligence systems
          and software to request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence
          holdings are insufficient. Draft and transmit requests for information using US
          Message Text Format (USMTF) when reporting directives do not exist or when
          intelligence information systems are unavailable.
          3.2.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
          intelligence applies to the unit mission, (e.g., what is useful to unit pilots/sensor
          operators (SO), mission planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence
          is not useful). Specific tasks: Describe intelligence needed by pilots/SOs and
          mission planners. Define rules of engagement and operations security. Describe
          general intelligence requirements of the wing commander, operations group
          commander and other functional areas supported by intelligence. Describe the
          intelligence requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s
          OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
          3.2.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of unit-
          level resources, points and methods of dissemination to pilots/SOs, mission planners,
          wing/group leadership and other end-users of intelligence as determined by the unit
          mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Describe the use of
          intelligence systems and information displays to disseminate data. Describe
          professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure video
          teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination systems
          used by the unit. Identify pilot/SO, mission planner and unit information resources
          and ways to integrate updated intelligence into the information flow. Describe
          methods to identify currency and expiration of intelligence provided to end users.
          Identify fundamentals of information security classification marking and controls, and
          sources of authoritative guidance. Describe rules, procedures and restrictions for
          secure transfer of intelligence from various levels of classified intelligence and
          information networks.
10                                                      AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


         3.2.1.1.4. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment. Objective:
         Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and concepts and understand the analytical
         methodology employed in IPOE. Specific tasks: Describe the IPOE process (e.g.,
         define the operational environment) as it pertains to the unit mission and
         OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Describe the impact of the operational environment,
         evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action. Identify IPOE
         products and producers based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and
         the ability to identify/extract intelligence for unit operations.
     3.2.1.2. RQ-4 Platform and Sensors Academics. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     the unit’s specific RQ-4 platform and sensors. Specific tasks: Describe RQ-4 missions,
     capabilities and limitations; imagery and signals intelligence systems and communication
     architecture; RQ-4 roles in the intelligence process. Relate facts on how Air Force and
     joint doctrine drive the unit’s missions and employment. Define operational and
     intelligence terms commonly encountered in the unit.
     3.2.1.3. Planning, Collection, Processing, Analysis and Dissemination (PCPAD)
     Academics. Objective: Specific tasks: Demonstrate comprehension of the various
     components of PCPAD and how the RQ-4 fits into the architecture. Specific tasks:
     Explain the Air Tasking Order (ATO)/ Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target
     Acquisition (RSTA) Annex and where RQ-4 mission data is contained. Describe the role
     and function of the Distributed Common Ground System enterprise and how the RQ-4
     interacts with a Distributed Ground Station.
     3.2.1.4. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable area of
     responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Identify details of
     aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground and naval forces and associated
     equipment, cyber and asymmetric threat capabilities and limitations.    Describe
     employment techniques of adversary/threat forces in the operational environment.
     Describe how these threats could affect unit mission accomplishment.
     3.2.1.5. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks:
     Identify details of aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground and naval forces
     and associated equipment, and asymmetric threat capabilities and limitations. Describe
     employment techniques of friendly and neutral forces in the operational environment.
     3.2.1.6. Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the
     principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks: Identify
     irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and other hot spot
     areas. Give examples of hostile force tactics and weapons employment. Identify FPI
     resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and FP conditions. Describe unit FP
     considerations. State facts concerning base-specific and regional threats.
  3.2.2. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
  IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting threat briefings IAW standards established by the SIO. Specific Tasks:
     Conduct research on specific threat systems. Compile data and develop a concise
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                    11


     briefing with focus on the threat to the RQ-4 mission. Tailor information to the RQ-4
     airframe and countertactics. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
     information display and dissemination tools. Deliver a threat briefing.
     3.2.2.2. Situation Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting intelligence initial situation and situation briefings IAW unit standards.
     Specific tasks: Conduct effective research and analysis and/or extract relevant updates
     from unit products. For the initial situation briefing, identify significant events leading to
     the crisis. For the situation briefing identify significant changes in the operational
     environment since the last update. Identify any enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral,
     and/or US political decisions or diplomatic initiatives that affect the unit’s operational
     environment, the mission, or the deploying/deployed unit.                  Identify relevant
     enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
     activity. Determine the most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary courses of
     action (COA) for the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours. Identify FPI for the local area.
     Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Use
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
     tools. Tailor information for the briefing based on unit mission and the audience.
     Construct and deliver an initial situation and situation briefing.
     3.2.2.3. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting a changeover briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Organize and
     prioritize key information. Identify issues needing immediate attention. Compile data
     and develop a concise briefing with focus on events to prepare personnel for their shift.
     Include a situation update, review of threat levels/conditions, briefing schedules, work
     and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team (CAT) directives, mission report
     (MISREP) status, and other pertinent items. Tailor information in the briefing based on
     unit mission. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display
     and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a changeover briefing.
     3.2.2.4. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing IAW unit standards and the
     requirements of the deploying commander. Specific tasks: Identify unit taskings (e.g.,
     warning order, execution order) and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces tasking.
     Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Develop a synopsis of political-military
     situation generating the deployment. Identify relevant enemy/adversary air, ground,
     naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity along deployment route.
     Determine the most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the
     deployment. Identify FPI for the local area and deployment location. Determine en route
     hazards to flight and alternate landing sites. Identify reporting instructions, essential
     elements of information (EEI), and additional items as dictated by the local situation.
     Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Use
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
     tools. Tailor information for the briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN
     tasking, and the audience. Construct and deliver a deployment briefing.
     3.2.2.5. ATO/RSTA Annex/Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance (ISR) Target
     deck/ /Special Instructions (SPINS) and Other Tasking Documents. Objective:
     Demonstrate proficiency in obtaining, identifying, and extracting applicable elements of
12                                                      AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


     tasking documents IAW unit procedures. Specific tasks: Locate and obtain correct
     ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target Deck/SPINS or other tasking document as applicable.
     Determine unit tasking, RQ-4 information and intelligence related data from tasking
     documents. Breakout unit tasking from tasking documents using manual and automated
     techniques and tools.
     3.2.2.6. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
     in providing intelligence support to mission planners IAW with unit procedures. Specific
     tasks: Describe the mission planning process. Review the tactical problem/scenario.
     Analyze the ATO/SPINS breakout and derive specified and implied intelligence
     requirements (including mission materials). Plot unit tasking. Analyze operating area
     threats (e.g., integrated air defense system, air, SAMs, ADA) and terrain. Identify
     intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely responses to the gaps. Construct and
     deliver mission planning situation briefing, as applicable. Coordinate with operations to
     recommend mission route based on threat and terrain analysis. Identify other mission
     support assets.
     3.2.2.7. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a mission briefing IAW unit standards. Specific
     tasks: Extract updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research
     and analysis. Identify changes in the operational/tactical environment. Determine en
     route, objective area, and egress threats (e.g., air, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground,
     naval, and asymmetric), FPI for the local area, target information, EEIs, in-flight report
     requirements, debrief location, and other factors essential to mission success. Tailor
     information in the briefing to the mission. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual information display and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a mission
     briefing.
     3.2.2.8. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     an intelligence step briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Identify critical last-
     minute changes in threats (e.g., air, air defense, ground), new tactics, and any other
     changes impacting the mission. Tailor information in the briefing to the mission. Use
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
     tools. Construct and deliver a step briefing.
     3.2.2.9. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing IAW with unit standards. Specific tasks: Prepare
     appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist. Extract mission intelligence from RQ-
     4 crew.     Identify time-sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and
     expediently. Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements. Identify
     key points and develop intelligence by asking amplifying questions relevant to the
     mission. Consult appropriate post flight products. Control the flow and pace of the
     debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and accurate information collection without
     wasting time. Be aware and control environmental factors that may distract crew or
     impede the debriefing process. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
     information display and dissemination tools.
     3.2.2.10. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting MISREPs and other intelligence reports (e.g., intelligence summary
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                              13


     (INTSUM), intelligence report (INTREP)) IAW unit standards and theater reporting
     directives. Specific tasks: Describe the purpose and content of theater reporting
     directives. Analyze and extract information of intelligence value from in-flight reports
     (INFLTREP) and other aircrew-submitted formats. Validate accuracy and completeness
     of reports. Generate intelligence reports using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual information display and dissemination tools. Draft and transmit intelligence
     reports using USMTF when reporting directives do not exist.
 14                                                         AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


                                           Chapter 4

                                CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence
knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure intelligence personnel
remain competent in RQ-4 operations and aircraft capabilities, threat systems and unit
intelligence functions. The second aspect of CT is the Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which
identifies specific mission-related tasks intelligence personnel must perform on a regular basis.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This section
provides a baseline of basic knowledge and performance tasks. SIOs will supplement these
requirements, as necessary. Trainers will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and
other resources as needed to provide the most effective and efficient training. CT must reinforce
MQT tasks and facilitate RIP requirements. Compile basic knowledge examinations from the
unit MQF. Annotate completion of CT tasks using the approved online training documentation
system. At a minimum, cover the following topics during CT: (T-2)
   4.2.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.2. RQ-4 Weapons Systems and Operations – to include sensors, systems, tactics,
   mission profiles, employment and defensive tactics/maneuvers, and capabilities and
   limitations; roles in the intelligence process.
   4.2.3. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground, naval, and cyber threat system capabilities
   and limitations with respect to RQ-4 operations.
   4.2.4. Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence systems, software
   applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit mission.
   4.2.5. PCPAD – to include PCPAD architecture and the RQ-4 roles and responsibilities; the
   role and function of the Distributed Common Ground System.
   4.2.6. Force Protection Intelligence – to include intelligence support to FP principles;
   irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist
   threat levels; and unit force protection considerations.
   4.2.7. Situation Displays – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating
   and maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.2.8. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operations required briefings.
   4.2.9. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning – to include tasking document/SPINS
   breakout, mission planning software applications and route/operating area analysis, GEOINT
   familiarization to determine product requirements (e.g., quantity, chart type, appropriate
   scale), acquisition, receipt, storage and maintenance for mission materials.
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                    15


   4.2.10. Debriefing – to include preparation for and techniques to conduct a debriefing,
   handling of time-sensitive information and proper debriefing tools/products.
   4.2.11. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, conduct
RIP tasks in conjunction with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. (T-2)
   4.3.1. The task requirements listed in Table 4.1, RQ-4 Ready Intelligence Program and
   Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirements for CMR and BMC.
   Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC status
   and additional training will be required as determined by the SIO. (T-2)
   4.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks to maintain currency. If
   an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform
   that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for
   documenting RIP task completion. (T-2)

Table 4.1. RQ-4 Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements.
 SUBJECT                             Frequency to Maintain          Frequency to Maintain
                                     CMR Status                     BMC Status
 Situation Displays                  Semi-annually                  Annually
 Manual OB                           Semi-annually                  Annually
 Automated OB                        Quarterly                      Semi-annually
 Situation Briefing                  Semi-annually                  Annually
 Changeover Briefing                 Semi-annually                  Annually
 Deployment Briefing                 Semi-annually                  Annually
 ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target           Quarterly                      Semi-annually
 deck/SPINS and Other Tasking
 Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission     Quarterly                       Semiannually
 Planning
 Mission Briefing                    Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Step Briefing                       Semi-annually                   Annually
 Debriefing                          Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Intelligence Reports                Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every three months;
 semi-annually is defined as once every six months and annually is defined as once every 12
 months.
4.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC status, as applicable. The SIO will direct the member
who fails to demonstrate proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Document regression and
the steps required to correct the situation in the individual's training record. Intelligence
personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved recertification program
 16                                                      AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


to return them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during the re-certification
program are credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                  17


                                            Chapter 5

                                  SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST.      These ST program requirements are for individuals without previous
qualifications. Tailor these requirements for intelligence personnel with current qualifications,
prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training. Unless governed by a
formal syllabus, these programs will consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios.
Document ST on the AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for the appropriate gradesheet elements).
Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. (T-2)
   5.2.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel selected to be an EIT trainer must:
       5.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
       listed below.
   5.2.2. EIT Trainer Profiles:
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
       instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks: Modify
       training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of delivering training using
       visual, auditory and physical applications. Demonstrate one-on-one, small group and
       large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify trainee achievement.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 - Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide threat
       training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 3. Specific
       tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer, web-based,
       audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Prepare and
       deliver an instructional session for a threat based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.3. EIT 3 - Collection and Reporting (C&R). Demonstrate ability to provide C&R
       training based on reporting directives and SIO guidance. Specific tasks: Identify
       collection requirements and EEIs. Describe the use of aircrew-originated reports (e.g.,
       INFLTREP or other formats) and intelligence-generated reports (e.g., INTREP, MISREP,
       INTSUM). Prepare and deliver an instructional session on C&R based on unit mission
       and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.4. EIT 4 - Force Protection Intelligence. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide
       FPI training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 3.
       Specific tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer, web-
       based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Prepare
 18                                                           AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


         and deliver an instructional        session   for FPI based       on   unit   mission and
         OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   5.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT trainers upon
   successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer evaluation (INIT EIT) and SIO
   endorsement.
   5.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 5.1, External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and
   Currencies, defines the currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
   maintain EIT trainer status. EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT
   trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 2. If an EIT trainer loses currency in a
   particular area, the individual will not perform training unsupervised until currency is
   regained.    To regain currency, non-current trainers must satisfy overdue training
   requirements while supervised by another current and qualified EIT trainer in the same
   training event.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
 Event                  Specialized Training                     Currency Requirement
 Threat Knowledge       Complete EIT 1and EIT 2 and              Instruct one threat training
                        specific tasks.                          event annually.
                        Pass MQF test (threat specific).
                        Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 C&R                    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 and             Instruct one C&R training event
                        specific tasks.                          annually.
                        Pass MQF test (C&R specific).
                        Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 FPI                    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 and             Instruct one FPI training
                        specific tasks.                          annually.
                        Pass MQF test (FPI specific).
                        Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every three months and
 annually is defined as once every 12 months. If an MQF test was accomplished for these areas
 during MQT, another MQF test is not required.
5.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE). This program establishes the minimum guidelines for
intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform IE duties within the unit. Intelligence
evaluator trainees must be immersed in the knowledge of governing directives and task
procedures. Intelligence evaluator training consists of two steps; observation and performance
proficiency. Only qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations. (T-2)
      5.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel selected to be an IE must:
         5.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
         5.3.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2.
         5.3.1.3. Complete one or both of the IE observation profiles and the proficiency profile
         listed below.
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                 19


  5.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator Training Profiles:
     5.3.2.1. IE 1 - IE MSN Observation. Objective: Through observation of a qualified
     evaluator conducting a mission evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation techniques and
     procedures. Specific tasks: Observe a mission evaluation. Describe the evaluation
     criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN
     evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and
     techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.3.2.2. IE 2 - IE EIT Trainer Observation. Objective: Through observation of a
     qualified evaluator conducting an EIT Trainer evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation
     techniques and procedures. Specific tasks: Observe an EIT Trainer evaluation. Describe
     the evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT
     EIT or EIT evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues,
     and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.3.2.3. IE 3 - IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in conducting
     intelligence evaluations. Specific tasks: Conduct an evaluation and provide a thorough
     debrief with the person being evaluated. Use evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
     proper techniques in documenting evaluation forms.
  5.3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
  Volume 2 and AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized
  training is completed. The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after
  completing training, successful completion of the initial IE evaluation and SIO endorsement.
  5.3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding
  evaluation annually to remain current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE
  evaluations IAW AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 2. If an IE loses currency, the individual will not
  perform IE duties unsupervised until currency is regained. To regain currency, non-current
  IEs must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by another current and
  qualified IE.




                                           ROBERT P. OTTO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                           Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 20                                                     AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2RQ-4, Volume 1, RQ-4 Crew Training, 3 February 2007
AFI 14-103, Visual Recognition Training Materials Production, 25 November 2013
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 4 May 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 2, RQ-4 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria, 19 August 2014
AFI 14-2RQ-4, Volume 3, RQ-4 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 19 August 2014
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFTTP 3-1.RQ-4, Tactical Employment—RQ-4, 5 January 2011 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December
2012 (S)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACC—Air Combat Command
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—AF Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                              21


BMC—Basic Mission Capable
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Course of Action
CONPLAN—Concept Plan
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EW—Electronic Warfare
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NGB—National Guard Bureau
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
 22                                                     AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCPAD—Planning, Collection, Processing, Analysis and Dissemination
RAD—Research, Analysis, and Dissemination
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SO—Sensor Operator
SPINS—Special Instructions
SR IIQC—Strategic Reconnaissance Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
USMTF—US Message Text Format
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
VR—Visual Recognition

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                           23


                                      Attachment 2
                    EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

Figure A2.1. Example Training Shortfall Report.
 DATE

 MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2

 FROM: [UNIT]

 SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls

 1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a
 major impact on training.

  EVENT      PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL AFFECTED

             SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

             CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

             LIMFACS


 2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).




                                                              SIGNATURE BLOCK


 CC: NAF/A2
 24                                                        AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


                                         Attachment 3
      RQ-4 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A3.1. RQ-4 MQT Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT performance task
gradesheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out AF Forms 4381.
Intelligence qualification trainers will use AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress
through training events. File the completed gradesheets in the trainee’s training record. Note:
This attachment includes gradesheet elements for situation displays, manual OB and automated
OB. Although these tasks are covered in during IQT vice MQT, they are subject to CT, RIP, and
mission qualification evaluations. (T-2)

Table A3.1. RQ-4 Threat Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Primary threat countries
 2.2. Capabilities and limitations
 2.3. Employment characteristics
 2.4. Countertactics
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. RQ-4 Situation Displays Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Understanding of current situation and creating situation displays
 2.1. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
 2.2. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
 2.3. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Geographic coordinates
 3.2. MGRS and UTM
 3.3. Coordinate conversion
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Updated and maintained situation displays
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.3. RQ-4 Manual OB Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Maintaining OB Manually
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                                    25


 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Differentiated between coordinate systems
 3.2. Geographic coordinates
 3.3. MGRS and UTM
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Updated and maintained OB on the situation display
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. RQ-4 Automated OB Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Identified OB production sources
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Used intelligence systems to post and maintain OB
 3.1. Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology
 3.2. Performed coordinate conversion
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. RQ-4 Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Extracted relevant information from unit products
 2. Briefing content/general knowledge
 2.1. (Initial briefing) Understanding of the initial operational environment/adversary(s)
 motives/strategies
 2.2. (Initial briefing) Understanding of significant events leading to crisis
 2.3. (Initial briefing) Enemy/adversary political decisions or diplomatic initiatives that affect
 the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the deploying unit
 2.4. (Initial briefing) Friendly/neutral and/or US political decisions or diplomatic initiatives
 that affect the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the deploying unit.
 2.5. (Subsequent briefings) Identified pertinent significant changes in operational environment
 since the last update
 2.6. (Subsequent briefings) Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.7. Current enemy/adversary force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
 2.8. Potential enemy/adversary COAs for the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
 2.9. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.10. FPI for the local area
 3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual, and/or manual information display and
 dissemination tools
 4. Delivery
 26                                                       AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


 4.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 4.2. Effective use of visual aids
 4.3. Appropriate level of detail
 4.4. Applicability to audience
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.6. RQ-4 Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. Presented situation update briefing
 3. Identified issues needing immediate attention
 4. Addressed relevant areas
 4.1. Issues requiring immediate attention
 4.2. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
 4.3. Reviewed briefing, work, and flying schedules
 4.4. Reviewed situation displays
 4.5. Reviewed CAT directives
 4.6. Review incoming/outgoing messages
 4.7. Reviewed MISREP status
 5. Delivery
 5.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 5.2. Effective use of visual aids
 5.3. Appropriate level of detail
 5.4. Applicability to audience
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. RQ-4 Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Unit tasking
 2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
 2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
 and activity
 2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
 2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location
 2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
 2.7. Reporting instructions
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                     27


 2.8. EEIs
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.8. RQ-4 ATO/RSTA ANNEX/ISR Target Deck/Spins Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Located and obtained correct tasking documents
 2.   Determined unit tasking information and intelligence related data
 3.   Extracted unit data using manual and automated processes
 4.   Adherence to unit standards
 5.   Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. RQ-4 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Provide intelligence support to mission planner
 2. Described the RQ-4 mission planning process
 3. Reviewed tactical problem/scenario
 4. Analyzed the ATO/SPINS breakout and plotted unit tasking
 4.1. Determined intelligence requirements
 4.2. Determined mission material requirements
 5. Identified intelligence gaps and made assessments
 6. Analyzed operating area threats and terrain
 7. Presented Mission Planning Situation Briefing (as applicable)
 8. Coordinated with operations to recommend mission route
 8.1. Ingress
 8.2. Objective/Mission Area
 8.3. Egress
 9. Identified other mission support assets
 10. Adherence to unit standards
 11. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. RQ-4 Mission Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
 2.2. En route, mission area, and egress threats
 2.3. FPI for the local area
 28                                                       AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


 2.4. EEIs
 2.5. INFLTREP requirements
 2.6. Debrief location
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to mission
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.11. RQ-4 Step Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Collection mission changes
 2.2. Last minute changes in threat that affect the mission
 2.3. New threats and/or threat tactics
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. RQ-4 Debriefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Debriefing preparation
 1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General performance
 2.1. Extracted mission intelligence from aircrew
 2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
 2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
 2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
 2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
 2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
 3. Time management
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                             29


Table A3.13. RQ-4 Intelligence Reports Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Described the purpose and content of theater reporting directives
 2. Analyzed and extracted information from INFLTREP and other aircrew-submitted formats
 3. Used of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 3.1. Validate accuracy and completeness of reports
 3.2. Draft and transmit intelligence reports using USMTF when reporting directives do not
 exist
 4. Time management
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines
 30                                                     AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014


                                       Attachment 4
               RQ-4 SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A4.1. RQ-4 Specialized Training Gradesheet Elements. The ST task gradesheet elements in
this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence qualification
trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST. The ST
gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s training record. (T-2)

Table A4.1. RQ-4 EIT Trainer Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 8.   Follow security guidelines

Table A4.2. RQ-4 Intelligence Evaluator Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 8.   Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2RQ-4V1 19 AUGUST 2014                                                             31


                                       Attachment 5
   RQ-4 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING, SPECIALIZED TRAINING, AND

READY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
A5.1. Table A5.1 consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be used by
unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. RQ-4 MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements
 Requirement                                MQT             ST             RIP
 RAD and IPOE                               X               ---            ---
 RQ-4 Platform & Sensors Academics          X               ---            ---
 PCPAD                                      X               ---            ---
 Threat Knowledge                           X               ---            ---
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems       X               ---            ---
 FPI                                        X               ---            ---
 Threat Briefings                           X               ---            X
 Situation Displays                         ---             ---            X
 Manual OB                                  ---             ---            X
 Automated OB                               ---             ---            X
 Situation Briefing                         X               ---            X
 Changeover Briefing                        X               ---            X
 Deployment Briefing                        X               ---            X
 ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target                  X               ---            X
 Deck/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning   X               ---            X
 Mission Briefing                           X               ---            X
 Step Briefing                              X               ---            X
 Debriefing                                 X               ---            X
 Intelligence Reports                       X               ---            X
 EIT 1 – EIT Concepts and Methods           ---             X              ---
 EIT 2 – Threats Knowledge                  ---             X              ---
 EIT 3 – C&R                                ---             X              ---
 EIT 4 – FPI                                ---             X              ---
 IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                  ---             X              ---
 IE 2 - IE EIT Trainer Observation          ---             X              ---
 IE 3 - IE Proficiency                      ---             X              ---
