BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2UH-1N
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 2

                                                                         11 FEBRUARY 2008
                                                  Incorporating Through Change 2, 19 AUGUST
                                                                                        2011

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                UH-1N AIRCREW EVALUATION CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3TV                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O
                                                                     (Maj Gen Marke F. Gibson)
Supersedes:    AFI11-2UH-1NV2, 4 March                                                Pages: 44
               2004, H-1 Aircrew
               Evaluation Criteria,


This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures. It establishes the UH-
1N Aircrew Evaluation Criteria consistent with the Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program
that support Air Force objectives and is applicable to all units assigned to or gained by
MAJCOMs and applies to commanders, operations supervisors, and aircrews assigned or
attached to all flying activities of these commands. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) Units and to the Air National Guard (ANG). Major commands and DRUs
will send one copy of their supplement to AF/A3O-AT and Air Force Global Strike Command
(AFGSC)/A3TV for coordination prior to publication, in accordance with AFPD 11-2. Field
units below MAJCOM level will coordinate supplements to this publication to their parent
MAJCOM office of primary responsibility prior to publishing. Submit suggested improvements
to this instruction on AF IMT Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through
unit/Numbered Air Force (NAF) standardization/evaluation channels, to AFGSC/A3TV, 841
Fairchild Ave, Suite 223, Barksdale AFB, LA 71110. Attachment 2 is the UH-1N Aircrew
Evaluation Criteria. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) on the AF Portal:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/index.cfm
 2                                                                             AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds applicability to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC), TO 1H-1(U)N-1 CL-2, Crewmembers Flight Crew Checklist as a required
publication to Table 2.1, one qualification and one certification to Table 3.1, directs the use of
AF Form 4348 in place of AF Form 1381, updates publication dates in Attachment 1 and adds
AFDW to Abbreviations and Acronyms.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                                 4
       1.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................    4
       1.2.    Waiver Authority. ..................................................................................................           4
       1.3.    Higher Headquarters Stan/Eval Program: ..............................................................                          4
       1.4.    Unit Stan/Eval Programs (Operations Group, Squadron and Flight): ....................                                          5

Chapter 2—EVALUATION PROCEDURES                                                                                                               6
       2.1.    Evaluation Criteria Source. ....................................................................................               6
       2.2.    Evaluation Conduct: ..............................................................................................             6
       2.3.    Aircrew Publications. .............................................................................................            6
Table 2.1.     Required Aircrew Publications. .............................................................................                   8
       2.4.    Crew Resource Management. ................................................................................                     8
       2.5.    Evaluation Grading Instructions: ...........................................................................                   8
       2.6.    Aircrew Examination Procedures: .........................................................................                      9
       2.7.    SPOT Evaluations: .................................................................................................            9

Chapter 3—EVALUATION DESCRIPTION                                                                                                             11
       3.1.    Evaluation Requisites: ...........................................................................................            11
       3.2.    Emergency Procedure Evaluations: .......................................................................                      11
       3.3.    Qualification (QUAL) Evaluations. .......................................................................                     11
       3.4.    Instrument (INSTM) Evaluations. .........................................................................                     11
       3.5.    Mission (MSN) Evaluations. .................................................................................                  11
Table 3.1.     UH-1N Qualifications and Certifications2. ...........................................................                         12
       3.6.    Instructor Evaluations. ...........................................................................................           12
       3.7.    Formal Course Evaluations. ...................................................................................                13
       3.8.    DELETED .............................................................................................................         13
       3.9.    DELETED .............................................................................................................         13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               14
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                     3


Attachment 2—UH-1N HELICOPTER CREWMEMBER FLIGHT EVALUATION CRITERIA 17
 4                                                  AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008



                                          Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. Conduct all evaluations IAW AFI11-202V2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation
Program, and this publication. This volume contains detailed procedures and criteria for the
evaluation of individual aircrew members assigned flying duties in the UH-1N. Due to the
diverse nature of the structure of UH-1N units all references to MAJCOM, NAF or a particular
MAJCOM or NAF office are intended to mean that office or equivalent. MAJCOM supplements
to this AFI will indicate if there is a different office of responsibility.
1.2. Waiver Authority. The MAJCOM/A3 (including AFDW/A3) is the waiver authority for
provisions of this instruction unless otherwise indicated. Request waivers to this instruction
through applicable standardization/evaluation channels to MAJCOM/A3 or equivalent level.
MAJCOMs (including AFDW) will provide information copies of approved waivers to HQ Air
Force Global Strike Command (HQ AFGSC/A3TV). Waivers to supplemental guidance will be
handled by the MAJCOM agency that generated the supplement.
1.3. Higher Headquarters Stan/Eval Program:
     1.3.1. HQ USAF/A3O:
        1.3.1.1. Designates AFGSC as lead command, in accordance with AFPD 10-9, Lead
        Operating Command Weapon Systems Management, for the UH-1N.
        1.3.1.2. Assigns HQ AFGSC as OPR for this instruction.
        1.3.1.3. Monitors and reviews UH-1N programs ensuring policies, guidance and
        supplements are adequate.
        1.3.1.4. Resolve issues of contention between the UH-1N lead command (AFGSC) and
        other user commands.
     1.3.2. Lead Command (AFGSC):
        1.3.2.1. AFGSC will develop this instruction consistent with the USAF Standardization
        and Evaluation Program and unique requirements, according to AFPD 11-2, Aircraft
        Rules and Procedures. AFGSC will coordinate operational procedures, evaluation criteria
        and guidance published in this instruction with user MAJCOMs operating like weapons
        systems.
        1.3.2.2. Develop and maintain any additional forms required by all user-MAJCOMs.
        These forms will be approved and issued as AF Forms if they are needed by more than
        one command.
        1.3.2.3. Convene conferences and working groups, as necessary to review and improve
        UH-1N stan/eval procedures.
     1.3.3. User-MAJCOMs:
        1.3.3.1. MAJCOMs may supplement this instruction, provided these supplements are not
        less restrictive. All MAJCOM supplements will be forwarded through HQ
        AFGSC/A3TV to AF/A3O for approval. Provide notification of final AF/A3O-AT-
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                         5


      approved supplements to HQ AFGSC/A3TV upon posting on the e-publishing website.
      If not posted on e-publishing provide final copies of AF/A3O-AT-approved supplements
      to HQ AFGSC/A3TV.
1.4. Unit Stan/Eval Programs (Operations Group, Squadron and Flight): Not Used.
 6                                                     AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


                                             Chapter 2

                                EVALUATION PROCEDURES

2.1. Evaluation Criteria Source. UH-1N crewmember evaluation criteria for instrument,
qualification, mission and instructor evaluations are located in Attachment 2.
2.2. Evaluation Conduct:
     2.2.1. Flight examiners will use the evaluation criteria contained in this volume for
     conducting all flight and emergency procedures evaluations (EPE). To ensure standard and
     objective evaluations, Flight examiners will be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed
     evaluation criteria.
     2.2.2. Unless specified, the examinee or flight examiner may fly in any seat (within their
     crew qualification) that will best enable the flight examiner to conduct a thorough evaluation.
     2.2.3. Prior to flight, the flight examiner will brief the examinee on the purpose and conduct
     of the evaluation and, if applicable, will inform the Aircraft Commander of special
     requirements. The examinee will accomplish appropriate flight planning/mission preparation.
     Flight examiner will be furnished copies of mission materials to include necessary maps
     (only one map per aircraft is required), flight logs, etc.
     2.2.4. Units will utilize the AF Form 4068, UH-1N Helicopter Crewmember Flight
     Evaluation (or MAJCOM equivalent) to aid in administering flight evaluations and EPEs.
     2.2.5. When it is impossible to evaluate a required area in flight (due to equipment
     malfunctions, operational requirements, scheduling restrictions, or weather), the flight
     examiner may elect to evaluate the area(s) by an alternate method (verbal, procedural
     trainer). Document why required area(s) were not evaluated in flight and the alternate method
     of evaluation used, in the examiner’s remarks section of the AF Form 8, Certificate of
     Aircrew Qualification. If, in the flight examiners judgment, a required item cannot be
     adequately evaluated by an alternate method, complete the evaluation on an additional flight.
     2.2.6. For initial evaluations, all required items must be performed by actual demonstration.
     Additionally, to evaluate a mission area, all sub-areas on the AF Form 4068 must be
     evaluated, unless the sub-area is designated as optional.
     2.2.7. All simulated emergency procedure maneuvers will be accomplished according to the
     guidance in the flight manual and AFI 11-2UH-1N Vol 3, UH-1N Helicopter Operations
     Procedures.
     2.2.8. The flight examiner will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. During the
     debrief, the flight examiner will review the overall rating, specific deviations, area grades
     assigned, and required additional training (if applicable).
     2.2.9. Instrument evaluations may be administered in a UH-1N configured flight simulator.
     For simulator evaluations, the video tape recorder should be used, when available, to
     reconstruct/evaluate the mission.
2.3. Aircrew Publications. Aircrew publications will be checked during all qualification
evaluations to ensure they are current and properly posted, reference Attachment 2 for grading
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                 7


criteria. Each aircrew member is responsible for maintaining the publications listed in Table 2.1.
MAJCOMs may authorize electronic publication procedures. Each MAJCOM will determine any
additional flight publications their aircrew members are required to maintain.
 8                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


Table 2.1. Required Aircrew Publications.

Publication                                                        Pilot     Flight       Aerial
                                                                            Engineer      Gunner
                                                                              (FE)         (AG)

TO 1H-1(U)N-1, UH-1N Flight Manual                                   X          X            X

TO 1H-1(U)N-1 CL-1, Pilot’s Flight Crew Checklist                    X          X            X
TO 1H-1(U)N-1 CL-2, Crewmembers Flight Crew Checklist 1              X          X            X
TO 1H-1(U)N-5 Basic Weight Checklist and Loading Data                           X            X
AFI 11-2UH-1N,Vol 3 UH-1N Helicopter Operations                      X          X            X
Procedures
AFI 11-2UH-1N, Vol 3 CL-1 UH-1N Helicopter Crew Briefing             X          X            X
Guides and Checklists
AFI 11-2UH-1N, Vol 3 CL-2, UH-1N Helicopter Mission                             X
Equipment Cleaning and Inspection Procedures 1
AFI 11-202, Vol 3 General Flight Rules                               X          X            X
AFMAN 11-217, Vol 1 Instrument Flight Procedures                     X
NOTE: 1. If applicable to unit assigned mission equipment.

2.4. Crew Resource Management. Crew Resource Management (CRM) is the effective use of
all available resources-by individuals or crews to safely and efficiently accomplish an assigned
mission or task. The term ―CRM‖ will be used to refer to the training program, objectives, and
key skills directed to this end. CRM will be evaluated on all flight evaluations, reference
Attachment 2 for grading criteria.
2.5. Evaluation Grading Instructions:
     2.5.1. All areas performed will be graded. Areas not applicable to the unit or mission should
     not be performed.
     2.5.2. Base tolerances for in-flight parameters on conditions of smooth air and a stable
     aircraft. Do not consider a momentary deviation from tolerances, provided the examinee
     applies prompt corrective action and such deviations do not jeopardize flying safety. The
     flight examiners may consider cumulative deviations when determining the overall grade.
     2.5.3. The standards/grading criteria contained in Attachment 2 of this volume are provided
     as a guide to assist the flight examiner in determining grades. They are not necessarily
     provided as minimum/maximum parameters for each maneuver. Examiners should compare
     examinee performance for each grading area with the standards provided in this instruction,
     and consider all other factors before assigning grades. Derive the overall flight evaluation
     grade IAW AFI11-202V2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, and this volume.
        2.5.3.1. Flight examiner judgment must be exercised when wording of grading criteria is
        subjective and when specific situations are not covered.
        2.5.3.2. Flight examiner judgment will be the determining factor in assigning the overall
        grade.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                 9


   2.5.4. Critical Area/Sub-Area. Critical areas/sub-areas are defined as those that can be
   graded only ―Q‖ or ―U‖ and are identified on the AF Form 4068 (or MAJCOM equivalent).
   Any unsatisfactory performance in a critical area/sub-area will result in a qualification level
   of ―Q-3‖. Critical areas/sub-areas are identified in Attachment 2 with an asterisk (*) prior to
   the sub-area number.
   2.5.5. Non-Critical Area/Sub-Area. Non-critical areas/sub-areas are graded either ―Q‖, ―Q-‖
   or ―U‖. Unsatisfactory performance in a non-critical area/sub-area will result in a
   qualification level of no higher than ―Q-2‖.
   2.5.6. Area/Sub-area Grades. The desired level of performance, ―Q,‖ is listed in Attachment
   2 for each area/sub-area. Descriptions for Q- and U are included when they contain specific
   criteria or tolerances. Otherwise refer to the definitions for Q-, and U from AFI11-202V2.
2.6. Aircrew Examination Procedures:
   2.6.1. Computer based training or electronic information management tools may satisfy the
   requirement for written examinations, if the computer/electronic format meets the
   requirements for examinations in AFI11-202V2. Units may generate a unique test for each
   crewmember using appropriate computer software programs.
   2.6.2. The minimum number of test questions are:
      2.6.2.1. Qual Open - 50 questions.
      2.6.2.2. Qual Closed - 25 questions.
      2.6.2.3. Instrument Open - 50 questions.
      2.6.2.4. Mission Open - 50 questions.
      2.6.2.5. Flight Surgeon - as required by AFMOA/SGPA.
   2.6.3. AFGSC will provide a UH-1N specific master question file (MQF) to all user-
   MAJCOMs.
2.7. SPOT Evaluations:
   2.7.1. Spot Evaluations of Other Aircrew Specialties. Any UH-1N OGV/HHQ flight
   examiner, regardless of aircrew specialty, may administer aircrew SPOT evaluations.
   However, if the examiner is administering a SPOT evaluation to a person in another aircrew
   specialty, only boldface, safety consciousness, judgment, situational awareness, and
   instructor duties (if applicable) may be evaluated.
   2.7.2. SPOT Evaluations of Evaluator Aircrew. Any UH-1N OGV/HHQ flight examiner
   may administer aircrew SPOT evaluations to observe an evaluation and evaluate the
   objectivity and skill of a lower echelon flight examiner. The overall rating for this style of
   SPOT evaluation will be either qualified (1) or unqualified (3).
      2.7.2.1. An evaluator receiving an unqualified rating will not sign the AF Form 8 for the
      direct evaluation examinee. If the higher echelon evaluator is the same crew position as
      the direct evaluation examinee, the higher echelon evaluator will sign both the lower
      echelon evaluator’s and the direct examinee’s AF Form 8, as the Flight Examiner.
10                                                AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


     2.7.2.2. If the direct examinee was receiving a recurring evaluation (QUAL, INSTM or
     MSN), the higher echelon evaluator is responsible for ensuring all requisites and items
     are completed for the evaluation, or the evaluation will be recorded as a SPOT and not
     count for the 17-month recurring evaluation requirement.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                             11


                                          Chapter 3

                              EVALUATION DESCRIPTION

3.1. Evaluation Requisites:
   3.1.1. Qualification (QUAL) evaluation requisites. Reference AFI11-202V2.
   3.1.2. Instrument (INSTM) evaluation requisites. Reference AFI11-202V2.
   3.1.3. Mission (MSN) evaluation requisites. A mission open book examination and EPE
   (EPE N/A Aerial Gunners), evaluate MSN specific emergency procedures and systems
   knowledge during MSN evaluations. Only one EPE is required if MSN evaluation is
   combined with a QUAL checkride. A mission open book examination is not required for a
   mission evaluation that adds a qualification for a crewmember, however, if the mission open
   book examination is not completed the evaluation will not update the 17-month cycle.
3.2. Emergency Procedure Evaluations:
   3.2.1. EPEs will not be conducted in flight. The purpose of the EPE is to evaluate systems
   knowledge and emergency procedures out of the in-flight environment, allowing a more in-
   depth investigation of systems knowledge and scenario driven circumstances.
   3.2.2. The EPE is a verbal evaluation and should be scenario driven with an emphasis on
   emergency procedures and systems knowledge. Flight examiners may use one continuous
   scenario throughout the EPE or different scenarios for each emergency procedure.
   3.2.3. Examinees may use publications that are normally available in flight. The examinee
   must recall applicable boldface items from memory.
   3.2.4. The flight examiner may present situational emergency procedures in flight, however,
   they will be graded under applicable sections of the AF Form 4068, as required.
   3.2.5. The flight examiner will assign an overall grade (1, 2, or 3) IAW AFI11-202V2.
3.3. Qualification (QUAL) Evaluations. Complete all required sub-areas from sections I and
II of the AF Form 4068, according to crew position. If the crewmember is an instructor,
complete section IV. ―Optional‖ areas/sub-areas that are not accomplished in flight will be
evaluated verbally.
3.4. Instrument (INSTM) Evaluations. Complete all required sub-areas from sections I and
III of the AF Form 4068, according to crew position. If the crewmember is an instructor,
complete section IV. ―Optional‖ areas/sub-areas that are not accomplished in flight will be
evaluated verbally.
3.5. Mission (MSN) Evaluations. Complete all of Area I (General) and a representative sample
of mission areas/sub-areas from section V of the AF Form 4068. If the crewmember is an
instructor, complete section IV. Evaluators are encouraged to give the crewmember a scenario
representative of a unit mission. Not every unit mission needs to be evaluated in flight.
Additionally, unit missions can be conducted day or night, with or without Night Vision Goggles
(NVG). If performed, pre-flight of NVGs will be evaluated in section I, General, area 3.
Preflight/Postflight Flight Equipment.
   3.5.1. Table 3.1 prescribes qualifications and certifications for the UH-1N.
 12                                                 AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


Table 3.1. UH-1N Qualifications and Certifications2.
             Qualifications3                                  Certifications
NAME            Abbreviation     Position1   NAME                   Abbreviation     Position1
Aerial Gunnery GUN               (FE, AG)    Aircrew Chemical       ACDE             All
                                             Defense Ensemble
NVG Aerial       NGUN            (FE, AG)    AIE                    AIE              (P)
Gunnery
AIE              AIE             (FE, AG)    Aircraft Commander     AC               (P)
NVG AIE          NAIE            (FE, AG)    Cargo Sling            SLNG             All
Formation        FORM            (P)         Contingency            CONT             All
NVG              NFORM           (P)         Control Burn           CBN              (FE)
Formation
Hoist            HST             (FE, AG)    Day Water              DWO              All
                                             Operations
NVG Hoist        NHST            (FE, AG)    Defensive              DSF              All
                                             Suppressive Fire
Remote           REM             All         Evaluator              EVL              All
NVG Remote       NREM            All         Fast Rope              FR               (FE, AG)
Tactical         TAC             All         Fire Bucket            FB               All
NVG Tactical     NTAC            All         Functional Check       FCF/AC           (AC)
                                             Flight (AC)
Instructor       INSTR           All         Functional Check       FCF/(P/FE)       (P, FE)
                                             Flight (P/FE)
                                             Hot Refuel             HR               All
                                             Parachute Drop         PARA             All
                                             Rappel                 RPL              (FE, AG)
                                             Rope Ladder            RL               (FE, AG)
                                             Shipboard Operations   SBO              All
NOTES:
1. Position: AC = Aircraft Commander, AG = Aerial Gunner, FE = Flight Engineer, P = Pilot
(all categories)
2. Table 3.1. Does not apply to Flight Surgeons and Aerial Photographers.
3. Evaluations completed with NVGs will qualify/credit corresponding day events.
   3.5.2. Initial Mission (INIT MSN). Any evaluation that completes a formal mission
   qualification upgrade will be annotated as INIT MSN on the AF IMT 8 and the AF Form
   942, Record of Evaluation.
   3.5.3. Examiner’s remarks on the AF Form 8 will include mission qualifications and
   certifications evaluated IAW Table 3.1. Document missions and certifications evaluated in
   the Mission Description section.
   3.5.4. The certifying official will sign the AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications.
3.6. Instructor Evaluations. To initially qualify as an instructor in the UH-1N, the
crewmember must successfully complete an initial instructor (INIT INSTR) evaluation. The
evaluation may be conducted as one flight covering areas I and IV, plus a representative sample
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                      13


of areas II, III (for pilots), and V. Events qualified/certified after the initial instructor evaluation
do not require additional instructor evaluations.
    3.6.1. MAJCOMs will determine appropriate crew compliment for initial instructor (INIT
    INSTR) evaluations.
    3.6.2. Evaluate Area IV during all periodic evaluations for instructors.
    3.6.3. Thoroughly evaluate the examinee’s instructor knowledge and ability as outlined in
    Attachment 2.
3.7. Formal Course Evaluations. Conduct evaluations IAW syllabus mission profile
guidelines, or on a mission profile developed from syllabus training objectives. Formal course
guidelines may be modified, based on local operating considerations or flight examiners
judgment. Grade training objectives and related areas using the performance criteria in this
volume. For all pilot initial evaluations, a qualified instructor/flight examiner will be in a seat
with a set of controls.
3.8. DELETED
3.9. DELETED




                                                DANIEL J. DARNELL, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
 14                                                AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management, 8 March 2007
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 Jan 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 11-2UH-1NV3, UH-1N Helicopter Operations Procedures, 27 December 2006
AFI 11-2UH-1N, Vol 3 CL-1, UH-1N Helicopter Crew Briefing Guides and Checklists, 27
February 2007
AFI 11-2UH-1N, Vol 3 CL-2, UH-1N Helicopter Mission Equipment Cleaning and Inspection
Procedures, 28 Feb 2007
AFI 11-202V2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 13 September 2010
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFMAN 11-217, Vol 1 Instrument Flight Procedures, 3 Jan 2005
TO 1H-1(U)N-1, UH-1N Flight Manual, 17 January 2009
TO 1H-1(U)N-1 CL-1, Pilot’s Flight Crew Checklist, 17 January 2009
TO 1H-1(U)N-1 CL-2, Crewmembers Flight Crew Checklist, 17 January 2009
Prescribed Form
AF Form 4068, UH-1N Helicopter Crewmember Flight Evaluation, 26 September 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, 8 December 2006
AF Form 942, Record of Evaluation, 8 December 2006
AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications, 12 December 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Aircraft Commander
ACDE—--Aircrew Chemical Defense Ensemble
AF—Air Force
AFDW—--Air Force District of Washington
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AG—Aerial Gunner
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008            15


AGL—Above Ground Level
AHO—Above Highest Obstacle
AIE—Alternate Insertion or Extraction
ANG—Air National Guard
CRM—Crew Resource Management
DH—Decision Height
EF—Evaluator Flight Engineer
EPE—Emergency Procedures Evaluation
FCF—Functional Check Flight
FE—Flight Engineer
GS—Ground Speed
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
ILS—Instrument Landing System
IMC—Instrument Meteorological Conditions
INIT INSTR—Initial Instructor
INIT MSN—Initial Mission
INSTM—Instrument
IP—Instructor Pilot or Initial Point
KIAS—Knots Indicated Airspeed
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDA—Minimum Descent Altitude
MDS—Mission Design Series
MP—Mission Pilot
MQF—Master Question File
MSN—Mission
N/A—Not Applicable
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NAV—Navigation
NM—Nautical Mile
NOTAM—Notice to Airman
NVG—Night Vision Goggle
P—Pilot (all inclusive)
 16                              AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


PAR—Precision Approach Radar
TO—Technical Order
TOLD—Take off and Landing Data
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
VOR—VHF Navigation Aid
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                               17


                                         Attachment 2
     UH-1N HELICOPTER CREWMEMBER FLIGHT EVALUATION CRITERIA

A2.1. Ground Phase Requisites:
   A2.1.1. Ground Phase Requisites Grading Criteria. Ground phase requisites are graded as
   level [1], [2], or [3] IAW AFI11-202V2.
   A2.1.2. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE).
[1] Given a simulated emergency, correctly analyzed the situation and provided the appropriate
action (boldface, if required provided promptly with correct response in the correct sequence).
Used checklist or flight manual, as required. Thoroughly familiar with applicable aircraft
systems, limitations, and performance characteristics.

[2] Minor deviations from [1] criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Analysis slow or incomplete. Some deficiencies in systems
knowledge. Referred to checklist or flight manual, as required.

[3] Major deviations from [1] criteria. Incorrect analysis or incorrect response to boldface. If
required, boldface provided with significant hesitation or with incorrect response or incorrect
sequence. Significant deficiencies in systems knowledge. Did not refer to checklist or flight
manual, as required.
A2.2. Flight Phase Areas, Sub-areas and Grading Criteria (See AF Form 4068): Asterisk
(*) items identify critical areas/sub-areas
I. GENERAL:

1. Knowledge of Publications, Systems, and Limits: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) Demonstrated thorough knowledge of National Airspace System rules and procedures,
applicable aircraft, equipment, publications and systems operating limits. Ensured satisfactory
operation within limits. Publications current and properly posted.

(Q-) Knowledge is marginal in some areas of aircraft systems, equipment, procedures, and
operating limits. Publications current with minor/administrative errors in posting.

(U) Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft systems, equipment, and procedures or
operating limits. Publications not current and/or with errors in posting that result in
incorrect/incomplete information. Operated the aircraft or systems outside of applicable limits.

2. Performance Data/Weight and Balance: (P/FE)

A. Takeoff and Landing Data (TOLD).

(Q) Checked all factors applicable to the flight. Satisfactory knowledge of applicable directives
and correctly computed TOLD. Computed TOLD within the following specified tolerances:
power available +/-1 percent, power required +/-2 percent (4 foot and OGE only), minimum safe
 18                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


single-engine airspeed +/-2 knots, maximum safe single-engine airspeed +/-2 knots, Vne +/-2
knots.

(Q-) Checked all factors applicable to the flight. Satisfactory knowledge of applicable directives
and correctly computed TOLD. Computed TOLD within the following specified tolerances:
power available +/-2 percent, power required +/-3 percent (4 foot and OGE only), minimum safe
single-engine airspeed +/-3 knots, maximum safe single-engine airspeed +/-3 knots, Vne +/-3
knots.

(U) Major errors or omissions in the above criteria that would preclude safe and effective
mission accomplishment. Exceeded the limits of Q-.

B. Weight and Balance.

(Q) Checked or verified all factors applicable to the flight. Satisfactory knowledge of weight and
balance and other applicable directives. Computed or verified the DD Form 365-4 within the
following specified tolerances: Weight +/-100 pounds, center of gravity +/-0.1 inches.

(Q-) Checked or verified all factors applicable to the flight. Knowledge is marginal in some areas
of weight and balance and other applicable directives. Computed or verified the DD Form 365-4
within the following specified tolerances: Weight +/-150 pounds, center of gravity +/-0.2 inches.

(U) Major errors or omissions in the above criteria that would preclude safe and effective
mission accomplishment. Exceeded the limits of Q-.

3. Preflight/Postflight: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) Accomplished required aircraft/equipment inspections IAW flight manual and applicable
directives. Ensured the aircraft was correctly configured for assigned mission and is fully aware
of aircraft readiness for flight. Appropriate checklists and/or T.O.s were available for reference.
Ensured all required personal and mission equipment was available. Equipment was properly
preflighted, operated, and secured. Has a thorough understanding of the information contained in
aircraft/equipment forms and correctly determined aircraft/equipment status. Completed all
required forms (before, during, and after flight, to include training folders, as applicable) without
significant errors.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety or mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission.
accomplishment. Did not use checklist (must be available for reference). Failed to accurately
determine proper configuration or readiness of aircraft for flight.


4. Cargo/Passenger Loading/Offloading and Tiedown: (P/FE/AG)
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                19


(Q) Satisfactorily loaded/off loaded the aircraft and secured all cargo and equipment IAW the
flight manual and other applicable directives.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not affect safe/effective mission accomplishment.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Unsatisfactory knowledge/performance of
aircraft/passenger loading and unloading. Major deviations which would affect safe/effective
mission accomplishment.

5. Start/Shutdown Procedures: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) Accomplished engine start and shutdown procedures, including all required checks, IAW the
flight manual, checklist, and applicable directives. Correctly configured the cockpit and
coordinated with ground support personnel. Familiar with required responses to abnormal or
emergency situations.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe or effective
maneuver/mission accomplishment. Incorrect or unfamiliar with startup or shutdown procedures
or checks. Incorrect configuration or coordination with ground support personnel. Did not
respond properly to abnormal or emergency situations.

6. Use of Checklists: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) Effectively referenced and completed appropriate checklists with accurate and timely
responses. Must be familiar with checklist Notes, Cautions, and Warnings without reference to
Flight Manual. Before Takeoff and/or Before Landing checklists adequately covered aircrew
intentions in the event of an abort, aircraft problem etc.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
mission effectiveness. Slow to respond and/or had difficulty executing proper procedures. Poor
checklist discipline. Before Takeoff and/or Before Landing checklists did not adequately cover
aircrew intentions in the event of an abort, aircraft problem etc., yet did not compromise safety
or aircraft limitations.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Did not use or complete checklists. Lacked acceptable familiarity with
contents. Before Takeoff and/or Landing checklists did not adequately cover aircrew intentions
in the event of an abort, aircraft problem etc., which compromised safety and/or exceeded
aircraft limitations.
*7. Safety: (P/FE/AG)
 20                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


(Q) Recognized factors affecting safety of flight. Assessed available options and selected a
suitable course of action based on reasonable risk assessment. Aware of and complied with all
safety factors required for safe aircraft operation and mission accomplishment.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors
required for safe operation of aircraft or mission accomplishment. Did not adequately clear the
aircraft. Operated aircraft in a dangerous manner. Unnecessarily subjected crew/aircraft to
increased risk. Compromised safety and allowed a dangerous situation to develop.
*8. Judgment: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) Assessed all aspects of the situation and took an appropriate course of action consistent with
prudence, common sense, integrity, mission priority, and safe and effective mission
accomplishment.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Untimely or inappropriate decision led to inappropriate
response to the situation or compromised integrity, safety, or degraded or prevented effective
mission accomplishment.


9. Crew Resource Management: (P/FE/AG)
*A. Situational Awareness:


(Q) Aware of and responded to all factors which affected safety, crewmembers, aircraft or
mission effectiveness. The aircrew member maintained continuous perception of self and aircraft
in relation to the dynamic environment of flight, threats, and mission, demonstrated the ability to
forecast, and then execute tasks based on that perception. Demonstrated knowledge and skills to
prevent the loss of situational awareness, recognize the loss of situational awareness, and when
necessary, demonstrated techniques for recovering from the loss of situational awareness.


(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting mission
accomplishment, safety, crewmembers, or aircraft.

B. Crew Coordination/Flight Integrity:

(Q) Communicated and coordinated effectively with other crewmembers without
misunderstanding, confusion, or delay. Considered needs, responsibilities, abilities, and inputs of
all crewmembers. Worked effectively with all members of the crew to accomplish the tasks of
the mission. Utilized all the members of a flying package to accomplish the mission at hand. Had
knowledge of, and effectively exercised the attributes of leadership, responsibility, assertiveness,
conflict resolution, hazardous attitudes, behavioral styles, legitimate avenues of dissent, and team
building.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                21



(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Improperly or ineffectively communicated or coordinated with other
crewmembers, causing misunderstanding, confusion, or delay. Did not consider other
crewmember’s needs, responsibilities, abilities, or inputs.

C. Communications/ATC Procedures:

(Q) Fully knowledgeable of communications procedures. Required contacts were made without
hesitation, omission, or discrepancy. Promptly complied with all controlling agencies
instructions and made required reports. Obtained proper clearance from controlling agency.
Shared information with others to cause some kind of action: to direct, to inform, to question, or
to persuade. Had knowledge of common errors, cultural influences, and barriers (rank, age,
experience and position). Demonstrated effective listening, feedback, precision and efficiency of
communication with all members and agencies (i.e. crewmembers, wingmen, weather, ATC,
intelligence, etc.).

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Improperly or ineffectively communicated or coordinated with all members
and agencies (i.e. crewmembers, wingmen, weather, ATC, intelligence, etc.). Did not consider
other crewmember’s inputs.

D. Risk Management/Decision Making:

(Q) Accurately completed Safety Risk Assessment program to mitigate risks. Updated risk
analysis throughout the mission, and kept the crew informed on changes. Exercised logic-based,
common sense approach to making calculated decisions on human, material, and environmental
factors before, during, and after mission activities and operations. Demonstrated the ability to
choose a course of action using logical and sound judgment based on available information to
include other crewmembers. Effectively incorporated risk assessment, the risk management
process, tools, breakdowns in judgment and discipline, problem solving, evaluation of hazards,
and control measures.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Failed to demonstrate risk assessment or risk management processes. Unable to
develop courses of action to given situations and make decisions.

E. Task Management:
 22                                                   AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


(Q) Effectively demonstrated the ability to alter a course of action based on new information,
maintain constructive behavior under pressure, and adapt to internal and external environment
changes. Also, properly considered establishing priorities, overload, underload, complacency,
management of automation, available resources, checklist discipline, and standard operating
procedures.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment.

F. Mission Planning: [evaluates the process not just the plan]

Q Developed a sound and thorough plan to accomplish the mission. Accounted for all factors
applicable to the flight (i.e. weather, NOTAMs, landing site data, FLIPs, weight and balance,
performance data, fuel requirements, maps, etc.) IAW applicable directives. Flight engineers,
Aerial Gunners assisted in assessing all factors applicable to flight and actively contributed to
mission planning as necessary.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Did not account for or forgot about factors applicable to the flight. Flight
Engineers, Aerial Gunners did not provide assistance to planning process.

G. Brief/Debrief:


(Q) Presented a logical, well-organized, and professional briefing in a timely manner. Covered
all factors pertaining to the flight and provided effective discussion for accomplishing the
mission. Concluded the briefing in time to allow for a thorough preflight of personal equipment,
aircraft and mission equipment. Considered the abilities/limitations of all crew and flight
members. Effective use of training aids. Passengers were thoroughly and professionally briefed
IAW applicable directives. Note: If not the briefer, actively participated and provided input when
required. Fully understood the briefing and followed instructions. Thoroughly debriefed the
mission. Discussed mission accomplishment and debriefed deviations and lessons learned.
Offered correct guidance as appropriate. Debriefed maintenance personnel as required. Included
pre-mission analysis and planning, briefing, ongoing mission evaluation, and post mission
debrief as well as specific tools and techniques to be used in operational and training missions.
Reviewed and discussed mission accomplishment looking at what was achieved what barriers
were encountered and how the mission could be accomplished better next time.


(Q-) Events were not briefed in a logical sequence, were redundant, or were difficult to
understand. Did not effectively use training aids. Focused on non-essential items and omitted
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                   23


minor details. Did not consider all aircrew members’ abilities. Poor time management. Passenger
briefing lacked sufficient information. Did not compromise safety or mission effectiveness.
Note: If not the briefer/debriefer, did not fully understand duties and lack of action/input created
minor problems that did not affect safe mission accomplishment.


(U) Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission accomplishment. Disorganized or
illogical sequence. Presentation created doubts or confusion or omitted major events. Did not
allow sufficient time for preflight of personal equipment, aircraft, and/or mission equipment.
Ignored crew and flight members’ abilities, limitations, and/or questions. Passengers not briefed.
Did not debrief mission deviations or offer corrective guidance. Did not debrief maintenance
personnel, as required. Note: If not the briefer/debriefer, late or missed the briefing. Not prepared
or did not actively participate when requested. Did not fully understand duties, and lack of
action/input created problems that impacted safe mission accomplishment.

10. Resource Management: (P/FE/AG)


(Q) Effectively managed all resources (time, fuel, etc.) applicable to mission execution. Able to
adapt available resources to changing situations.


(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.


(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Ineffective use of resources precluded mission accomplishment. Resources
used inappropriately. Did not adapt available resources to changing situations.


11. Scanning/Clearing: (P/FE/AG)


(Q) Provided clear, concise and positive direction to the crew during flight, reconnaissance,
approaches, landing, and departures. Ensured aircraft clearance from obstacles.


(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.


(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Did not provide sufficient direction or directions were not
clear, concise and positive. Affected safe, effective mission accomplishment. Did not assure
adequate clearance from obstacles.

II. QUALIFICATION:
 24                                                   AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008



12. Hover/Taxi Maneuvers: (P)


(Q) Performed hover and taxi IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual and other directives.
Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Maintained desired position/ground track.
Taxied at appropriate speeds and altitudes. Familiar with marshaling signals. Cleared the aircraft.


(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver effectiveness.


(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe or effective maneuver
accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with applicable procedures. Did not safely
control the aircraft or maintain desired position/ground track. Taxi speeds/altitudes inappropriate
or dangerous. Insufficient knowledge of marshaling signals. Failed to clear the aircraft.

13. Takeoffs: (P)

(Q) Performed takeoffs IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual and other directives.
Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Maintained constant ground track and
climbout angle. Smooth power application. If necessary, takeoff abort executed in a safe and
timely manner as briefed/required without exceeding aircraft limitations.

       A. Normal Takeoff: Initiated from the ground or hover. Applied hover power plus 10%,
       and achieved approximately 70 knots indicated airspeed (KIAS) at 50 feet above ground
       level (AGL), but greater than 15 feet by 60 KIAS (see HV diagram) or as briefed.

       B. Marginal Power Takeoff: Initiated at a 3-5 foot hover. Accelerated without ground
       contact. Applied no more than hover power. Cleared a 50-ft. obstacle downrange.
       Climbout above effective translational lift (ETL) without descending below 50-ft. and/or
       the obstacle while accelerating to 50 KIAS.

       C. Maximum Performance Takeoff: Initiated from the ground. Applied desired power
       (usually hover power plus 10-15%) smoothly and expediently. Cleared a real or
       simulated 100-ft. obstacle. Climbout without descending below 100 ft. and/or the
       obstacle while accelerating to 70 KIAS.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver effectiveness. Slight compromise of power requirements.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe or effective maneuver
accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with applicable procedures. Did not safely
control the aircraft or maintain desired ground track or climbout angle.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                 25


14. Approaches: (P)

(Q) Performed approach IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual and other directives.
Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Maintained constant ground track and
approach angle. Descent and deceleration constant and even. If necessary, landing abort executed
in a safe and timely manner as briefed/required without exceeding aircraft limitations.

       A. Normal Approach: Entered at 300 feet AGL and 70 KIAS. Started descent on an
       apparent approach angle of 30 degrees. Terminated to hover or touchdown at the desired
       landing point.

       B. Steep Approach: Entered at 300 feet and 30 knots apparent ground speed. Started
       descent on an apparent approach angle of 45 degrees. Terminated to touchdown at the
       desired landing point.

       C. Shallow Approach: Entered at 300 feet AGL and 70 KIAS. Started descent on an
       apparent approach angle of 10 degrees. Terminated to hover or slide at the desired
       landing point.

       D. Turning Approach (optional): Entered from any applicable point in the traffic
       pattern. Executed a continually descending, decelerating turn to align the aircraft with the
       landing spot. Terminated to hover or touchdown at the desired landing point.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective maneuver
accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with applicable procedures. Did not safely
control the aircraft or maintain desired ground track or approach angle. Aircraft control erratic;
excessive flare required to arrest descent. Desired landing point not achieved. Approach angle
consistently under or overshot. Exceeded 800-fpm descent rate with less than 40 KIAS.

15. Landing: (P)

(Q) Performed landing IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual and other directives.
Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Maintained constant heading.

       A. Hover: Terminated at 3-5 feet over the intended spot with no forward speed.

       B. Touchdown: Maintained constant rate of descent to touchdown. Touched down with
       minimal forward speed over the intended spot. Touched down without excessive descent
       rate and with no side drift.

       C. Slide: Maintained above ETL (or as briefed) until touchdown. Maintained alignment
       with the landing area. Level touchdown accomplished at the intended location with
       minimal rate of descent.
 26                                                   AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008



(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective maneuver
accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with applicable procedures. Did not safely
control the aircraft or maintain heading. Aircraft control erratic or unsafe.

16. Traffic Pattern: (P)

(Q) Performed traffic pattern IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual and other directives.
Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Maintained a rectangular pattern. Maintained
90 KIAS and 500 feet AGL on downwind; 70 KIAS and 300 feet AGL on base (or as local
directives dictate). Conducted a level turn to final. Cleared the aircraft. Airspeed maintained +/-
10 KIAS and altitude+/-50 feet.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver effectiveness. Airspeed maintained+/-20 KIAS and altitude+/-100 feet.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective maneuver
accomplishment. Did not clear the aircraft. Deviations of airspeed greater than 20 KIAS and
altitude greater than 100 feet.

17. Single Hydraulic Failure: (P/FE)


(Q) (P) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Entry must be at a minimum altitude of 500 feet AGL and 70 KIAS during straight
and level flight or on the ground. Pattern, approach, and landing adjusted to the situation.
Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Touchdown from hover accomplished with
no sideward drift. Touchdown to slide accomplished with an appropriate amount of forward
speed and appropriate lane alignment.


(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and
other directives. Communicated aircraft alignment, and performance to pilot flying in an accurate
and timely manner. Able to explain corrective actions.


(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver effectiveness.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with entry procedures. Aircraft
control erratic; frequent major heading deviations. Touchdown accomplished dangerously or too
fast/slow. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                27



(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.
Failed to make appropriate calls to preclude unsafe aircraft positioning or touchdown
dangerously fast/slow. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft.

18. Manual Fuel: (P/FE)

(Q) (P) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. If the Fuel Control System Actuation Checklist is accomplished in flight, the aircraft
must be at a minimum of 500 feet AGL and 70 KIAS (or on the ground) before initiating step 1
of the checklist. Pattern, approach, and landing adjusted to the situation. Smooth, precise, and
controlled aircraft movement. Controlled engine and rotor rpm throughout the maneuver.
Maintained manual engine torque approximately 5-10% below the governed engine.

(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and
other directives. Communicated aircraft performance in an accurate and timely manner. Able to
explain corrective actions.

(Q-) (P) Deviations of Q 10% - 20% below the governed engine. Rarely married or swapped Nf
needles, and applied proper corrections. Did not over control engine or rotor RPM. Aircraft
control not erratic or unsafe.

(Q-) (FE) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Slow to make advisory calls indicating deviations of Q greater
than 10% below the governed engine, or married or swapped Nf needles.

(U) (P) Deviations of Q greater than 20% below the governed engine. Unfamiliar with or did not
comply with established procedures. Aircraft control erratic or unsafe; frequent overcontrol of
engine and rotor RPM. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft.

(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver accomplishment. Missed multiple advisory calls indicating deviations of Q greater
than 10% below the governed engine or married or swapped Nf needles. Unfamiliar with or did
not comply with established procedures. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the
aircraft.

19. Single Engine: (P/FE)

(Q) (P) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Pattern, approach, and landing adjusted to the situation. Smooth, precise, and
controlled aircraft movement. Touchdown speed commensurate with terrain and power available.

(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and
other directives. Accomplished power computations as required. Communicated aircraft
performance quickly and effectively. Able to explain corrective actions.
 28                                                  AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008



(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver effectiveness.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.
Aircraft control erratic or unsafe. Unaware of go-around requirements or power
available/required. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft.

(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.
Unaware of go-around requirements or power available/required. Unaware of or unresponsive to
factors affecting the aircraft.

20. Autorotation: (P/IP/FE)

Q (P/IP) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and
other directives. Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Controlled Nr throughout
the maneuver. If a power recovery during descent is required, initiated in a timely and effective
manner without exceeding aircraft limitations. Flared at an appropriate altitude (between
approximately 100 and 75 feet AGL), smooth and controlled power recovery, and would have
landed safely and in the desired area. Power recovery no lower than 4 feet AGL.

       A. Straight Ahead Autorotation. (P/IP) Entered above 500 feet AGL, and between 60
       and 100 KIAS.

       B. Turning Autorotations.

              (90-degree) (P/IP). Entered above 500 feet AGL, and between 60 and 100 KIAS.

              (180-degree) (IP). Entered above 800 feet AGL, and between 60 and 100 KIAS.


Q (FE) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Communicated aircraft performance quickly and effectively. All advisory calls made
to the pilot flying were consistent and clear, and FE was able to explain corrective actions. FEs
must be evaluated on either: a Straight Ahead Autorotation, a Turning Autorotation, or both.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver effectiveness.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.
Aircraft control erratic or unsafe. Unable to maintain aircraft position or alignment. Cushion
applied too early/late in improper amount. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the
aircraft. Would not have landed in the desired area.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                               29



(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not comply with established procedures.
Failed to make appropriate advisory calls to the crew. Unable to analyze engine and rotor
responses. Unaware of or unresponsive to factors affecting the aircraft. Would not have landed in
the desired area.

III. INSTRUMENTS: (P)

Table A2.1. General Instrument Deviation Criteria.
Event                                       Q               Q-               U
Airspeed                                    < 10 KIAS       < 20 KIAS        > 20 KIAS
Altitude                                    < 100 foot      < 300 foot       > 300 foot
Heading                                     < 10 degrees    < 15 degrees     > 15 degrees
Maintaining an Arc                          < 1 NM          < 2 NM           > 2NM
21. Instrument Cockpit Check:


(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Ensured required publications were onboard.


(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.


(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Did not use the appropriate checklist or omitted major item(s).



22. Instrument Departure/Climb/Level-Off:

(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Performed departure as
published/directed and complied with all restrictions. Maintained course/heading accurately.
Leveled off smoothly at specified altitude. Promptly established proper cruise airspeed.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Aircraft control erratic or unsafe. Failed to comply with published/directed
departure instructions.

23. Use of NAVAIDs/Navigation:
 30                                                  AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008



(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Ensured NAVAIDs were properly tuned, identified, and monitored. Used appropriate
navigation procedures and demonstrated capability to navigate accurately. Arrived at fix-to-fix
point within 1 mile. Complied with clearance instructions. Aware of position at all times.

(Q-) Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver/mission effectiveness. Arrived
at fix-to-fix point within 2 miles.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver/mission accomplishment. Errors in procedures/use of navigation equipment. Could not
establish position. Deviations would have violated airspace or resulted in unsafe maneuver.
Exceeded Q- standards.

24. Holding Procedures:

(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Able to correctly maintain a holding pattern. Able to estimate winds and makes
appropriate corrections. For VHF Navigational Aid (VOR) holding, able to make timing
corrections. Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Complied with ATC
instructions.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Unfamiliar with holding procedures or directives. Unable to make appropriate
wind or timing corrections. Aircraft control erratic or unsafe. Failed to comply with ATC
instructions.

25. Non-Precision Approach:

(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Able to fly a non-precision approach as published/directed. Complied with all
restrictions. Made smooth and timely corrections. Position would have permitted a safe landing.
Not more than momentary descent below minimum descent altitude (MDA). Course deviation
within +/-1 dot; MDA deviation: –50/+100 feet. Note: The –50 foot tolerance at MDA applies
only to momentary excursions.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Guideline: Course deviation within +/-2 dots; MDA deviation:
–50/+150 feet. Note: The –50 foot tolerance at MDA applies only to momentary excursions.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures or directives. Excessive or
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                 31


erratic corrections. Not in a position for a safe landing. Extended flight below MDA. Exceeded
Q- criteria.

26. Precision Approach:


(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Able to fly a precision approach as published/directed. Complied with all restrictions.
Made smooth and timely corrections. Position would have permitted a safe landing. For
Instrument Landing System (ILS): Maintained on course and glidepath with no more than
momentary deviations 1 dot left or right of localizer course and/or 1 dot below, 2 dots above
glidepath. Not more than momentary descent below decision height (DH). For Precision
Approach Radar (PAR): Followed controller instructions. Not more than momentary descent
below DH.


(Q-) Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or maneuver/mission effectiveness.
Courses: +/-2 dots; Glideslope +/-1¾ dots below or 2¾ dots above.


(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures or directives. Excessive or
erratic corrections. Not in a position for a safe landing. Extended flight below DH. Exceeds Q-
criteria.



27. Missed Approach/Climbout:

(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Executed missed approach/climbout as published/directed.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Did not comply with instructions or restrictions.

28. Circling Procedures (optional):

(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Able to fly a circling maneuver from an instrument approach as directed. Complied
with all restrictions. Maneuver would have permitted a safe landing.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.
 32                                                   AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008



(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures or directives. Did not comply
with instructions or restrictions. Maneuver compromised safety or would not have permitted a
safe landing.

29. Transition to Landing (optional):

(Q) Complied with instructions/restrictions. Able to safely land the aircraft at the termination of
an instrument approach in the desired landing area as briefed.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness and/or did not perform as briefed.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Did not comply with instructions or restrictions. Did not
land safely or in the desired landing area.

30. Unusual Attitude Procedures (optional):

(Q) Familiar and complied with procedures outlined in the flight manual, checklist, and other
directives. Able to recover from an unusual attitude using appropriate procedures.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unable to apply correct recovery procedures.


IV. INSTRUCTOR: (P/FE/AG)


Asterisk (*) items identify critical sub-areas
*31. Ability to Instruct:


(Q) Reviewed student’s present level of training and defined mission events to be performed.
Developed a sound plan for accomplishing necessary tasks. Provided a well-organized, thorough
student briefing. Planned ahead and made timely decisions. Demonstrated ability to
communicate effectively and offer instruction or suggestions for improvement.


(U) Failed to assess student’s present level of training. Briefings were marginal or non-existent.
Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems. Inability to communicate effectively with the
student or did not provide corrective actions where necessary.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                   33



32. Demonstration of Maneuvers:

(Q) Able to effectively demonstrate procedures and maneuvers. Demonstrated thorough
knowledge of aircraft systems, procedures and all applicable publications and directives.
(Q-) Struggled demonstrating some procedures and maneuvers. Minor weaknesses of knowledge
of aircraft systems, procedures and all applicable publications and directives.


(U) Did not demonstrate correct procedures. Insufficient depth of knowledge about aircraft
systems, procedures, or applicable publications or directives.

33. Performance Analysis/Critique:

(Q) Accurately assessed student performance. Able to discern problem areas. Correctly
identified performance deficiencies or strengths. Able to provide performance feedback at
appropriate times. Able to reconstruct the flight, offer analysis and provide corrective guidance
where appropriate. Completed all training documents thoroughly and accurately.

(Q-) Could identify student problem or weaknesses but provided weak or confusing feedback
and corrective guidance.


(U) Inaccurate assessment of student performance. Failed to discern, misdiagnosed problem
areas. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Provided performance feedback at
inopportune times or not at all. Unable to reconstruct the flight, offer analysis, provide corrective
guidance. Failed to complete training documents properly. Comments in training documents
insufficient to determine student’s status, did not reflect actual performance of student.

V. MISSION: (as applicable)


34. Visual Flight Rules (VFR) Navigation: (P/FE/AG)


(Q) Familiar with and able to effectively use available aircraft navigational systems. Able to
satisfactorily determine position when map reading. Recognized check/turn points. Consistently
remained on planned course. Able to adjust for deviations in time and course. Flight
engineer/Aerial gunner assisted pilot as briefed/required in identifying terrain features and or
obstacles while providing timely and useful navigation inputs as briefed/required throughout the
mission.

       A. Dead Reckoning: Able to use the principles of time, distance, and heading to
       determine aircraft position, navigation, and destination. Complied with appropriate
       planning guidance (used proper symbols, posted route on master map, etc.).
 34                                                   AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


       B. Contour Navigation: Complied with appropriate planning guidance (used proper
       symbols, posted route on master map, etc.). Remained within route/area boundaries.
       Effectively used terrain to determine route, altitude, ground speed, and aircraft masking.

       C. Divert Procedures: Correctly determined new heading+/-10o. Correctly determined
       ETE+/-2min. Determined ETE from the diversion point to nearest recovery base+/-2min.
       Correctly determined fuel requirement+/-100 lbs; and surplus (loiter time)+/-5min.
       Correctly analyzed and determined if mission could be accomplished (to include payload
       capability at arrival to destination point). Accomplished without undue delay.

(Q-) Able to regain position orientation in a minimal amount of time. Adapted to missed
check/turn points. Did not provide adequate navigational input as briefed/required yet did not
compromise safety or mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not execute maneuvers IAW the
flight manual or other directives. Unfamiliar with and unable to effectively use available aircraft
navigational systems. Unable to satisfactorily determine position when map reading. Did not
recognize check/turn points. Consistently deviated from planned course. Unable to adjust for
deviations in time and course. Flight engineer/Aerial gunner did not assist pilot as
briefed/required in identifying terrain features and or obstacles while providing timely and useful
navigation inputs as briefed/required throughout the mission. Failed to monitor aircraft
systems/instruments and/or aircraft flight path/position. Did not assist pilot flying as
briefed/required or accomplish the mission.

35. Formation: (P)

(Q) Familiar with and complied with formation procedures and directives. Established
appropriate formations. Positive control of flight/element. Smooth on the controls and had proper
wingman considerations. Planned ahead and made timely decisions.

       A. En Route: Maintained position with only momentary deviations. Made smooth and
       immediate position corrections. Maintained safe separation.

       B. Lost Visual Procedures: Provided concise lost visual and rejoin instructions;
       correctly executed applicable actions.

       C. Rejoin: Able to make a smooth, timely join-up without excessive closure rate to the
       appropriate briefed position.

       D. Terminal Area Operations: Maintained position with only momentary deviations.
       Made smooth and immediate position corrections. Maintained safe separation.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Some unfamiliarity with procedures or directives. Adequate
flight management. Occasionally rough on the controls. Not unsafe, but made it difficult for
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                35


wingman to maintain position. Did not always plan ahead and/or hesitant in making decisions.
Some deviations in procedures. Slow to provide lost visual or rejoin instructions; instructions
vague or unclear. Varied position considerably. Over controlled. Some procedure deviations.
Minor deviations in lost visual procedures, slow to join-up.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures or directives. Did not establish
appropriate formations. Rough on the controls. Little consideration for wingman. Did not plan
ahead or indecisive. Major deviations in procedures. Did not provide adequate lost visual or
rejoin instructions; instructions or execution incorrect. Unable to maintain a formation position.
Abrupt position corrections. Did not maintain safe separation. Unsafe join-up or formation
procedures. Incorrect lost visual procedures.

36. Remote Operations: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) (P) Familiar with procedures and able to execute appropriate maneuvers IAW the flight
manual and other directives. Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement during
approach/hovering/takeoff. Thoroughly aware of power requirements/limitations. Proper
consideration and use of terrain features and wind conditions. If not flying, closely monitored
aircraft systems/instruments and aircraft flight path/position. Ensured aircraft clearance from
obstacles.

       A. Site Evaluations: Effectively assessed landing risk. Evaluated and communicated the
       landing area’s obstacles, size and topography, associated winds and turbulence, aircraft’s
       power available/required, and departure route. Maintained no lower than 300’ above the
       landing site and no lower than 100’ above highest obstacle (AHO) and a minimum of 50
       KIAS during the high reconnaissance. Maintained a minimum of 50’ above highest
       obstacle (AHO) and 50 knots during the low reconnaissance.

       B. Approach/Landing/Departure: Performed landing IAW procedures outlined in the
       flight manual and other directives. Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement.
       Maintained constant ground track and approach angle. Descent and deceleration constant
       and even. Maintained constant heading during touchdown. Performed takeoff IAW
       procedures outlined in the flight manual, other directives and commensurate with terrain.
       Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement. Maintained constant ground track,
       obstacle clearance, and climbout angle. Smooth power application.

       C. Slope Operations (optional): No excessive drift before touchdown and allowed
       minimum drift after skid contact with the ground. Heading remains within+/-5degrees.

(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with procedures IAW the flight manual and other directives.
Confirmed required TOLD and is thoroughly aware of power requirements/ limitations. Provided
clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches,
landings, and departures. Communicated aircraft clearance from obstacles with an acceptable
level of speed and accuracy.
 36                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


(Q) (AG) Familiar and complied with procedures IAW the flight manual and other directives.
Aware of power requirements/ limitations. Provided clear, concise and positive direction to the
pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches, landings, and departures. Communicated aircraft
clearance from obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Missed minor factors pertinent to the approach, landing, or
departure. Site evaluation not tailored to the situation or excessively detailed and time
consuming. Confused or disorganized communication with crew.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Not familiar or did not comply with procedures. Failed to
consider significant details pertinent to the approach, landing, or departure. Unable to clearly
communicate with crew. Aircraft control was erratic/unsafe. Failed to verify that TOLD was
computed and/or that an adequate power margin exists for the flight conditions.

(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Not familiar or did not comply with procedures. Unable to
clearly communicate with crew. Failed to compute or confirm TOLD or is unaware of power
requirements/limitations. Failed to provide clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying
during reconnaissance, approaches, landings, and departures. Inadequate aircraft clearance from
obstacles. Severe lack of knowledge, and improper use, and employment of pyrotechnics.

(U) (AG) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Not familiar or did not comply with procedures. Unable to
clearly communicate with crew. Unaware of power requirements/limitations. Failed to provide
clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches,
landings, and departures. Inadequate aircraft clearance from obstacles. Severe lack of
knowledge, and improper use, and employment of pyrotechnics.

37. Contingency Operations: (P/FE/AG)

IAW local directives.
38. Tactical Operations: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) (P) Familiar with procedures and able to execute appropriate maneuvers IAW the flight
manual and other directives. Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement during
approach/hovering/takeoff. Thoroughly aware of power requirements/limitations. Proper
consideration and use of terrain features and wind conditions. If not flying, closely monitored
aircraft systems/instruments and aircraft flight path/position.

       A. En Route: Chose and flew an effective route, altitude and check/turn points. Flew
       above the minimum altitude and in an established low-level area.

       B. Terminal Area Operations: Familiar with and able to apply infiltration/exfiltration
       procedures. Developed an appropriate plan to accomplish the infiltration/exfiltration.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                 37


       Able to adapt to unforeseen circumstances or contingencies. Successfully accomplished
       the infiltration/exfiltration. Correctly applied authentication procedures.

       C. Threat Degradation: Familiar with and able to apply threat degradation principles.
       Planned for and applied appropriate tactics for known and suspected threats consistent
       with directives. Took prompt, appropriate action to minimize exposure to unforeseen
       threats.

       D. Low-Level Navigation: Complied with appropriate planning guidance (used proper
       symbols, posted route on master map, etc.). Able to use the principles of time, distance,
       heading to determine aircraft position, navigation, and destination. Remained within
       route/area boundaries. Effectively used terrain for masking if available.

       E. Time-On-Target. Arrived at target within ±2 minutes. (Q-) Arrived at the target
       within +/-5 minutes.

(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with procedures IAW the flight manual and other directives.
Provided clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during approaches, landings, and
departures. Confirms TOLD and is thoroughly aware of power requirements/limitations.
Communicated aircraft clearance from obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy.

(Q) (AG) Familiar and complied with procedures IAW the flight manual and other directives.
Provided clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during approaches, landings, and
departures. Aware of power requirements/limitations. Communicated aircraft clearance from
obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy.

(Q-) (P) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Arrived at the target within +/-5 minutes. Successfully
accomplished authentication despite minor errors. Did not compromise safety, aircraft
limitations, or maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(Q-) (FE/AG) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Minor errors with communicating aircraft
clearance from obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy. Minor lapses in
situational awareness of power requirements/limitations. Did not compromise safety, aircraft
limitations, or maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Aircraft control was erratic/unsafe. Unsuccessful
authentication, or failure to authenticate. Unfamiliar with or unable to apply threat degradation
principles. Did not plan for or apply appropriate tactics for known or suspected threats. Did not
take prompt action, or failed to take appropriate action, to minimize exposure to unanticipated
threats. Tactics used were ineffective in meeting the threat and/or accomplishing the mission.
Mission effectiveness compromised. Failed to confirm or compute TOLD.

(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Failed to provide clear, concise, and positive
direction during approaches and departures that affected safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Failed to confirm or compute TOLD or is unaware of power
requirements/limitations. Inadequate aircraft clearance from obstacles.
 38                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008



(U) (AG) Major deviations from Q criteria. Failed to provide clear, concise, and positive
direction during approaches and departures that affected safe and effective mission
accomplishment. Unaware of power requirements/limitations. Inadequate aircraft clearance from
obstacles.

39. Search Procedures: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) Familiar with the various types of search patterns and search procedures. Knowledgeable of
scanning techniques and content of appropriate briefing guides. Able to correctly apply search
procedures to a scenario.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with types of search patterns or search
procedures. Inadequate knowledge of scanning techniques or content of briefing guides. Applied
incorrect search procedures to a scenario. Mission effectiveness or flight safety compromised.

40. Alternate Insertion and Extraction (Rescue Hoist, Rope Ladder, Fast Rope, or Rappel):
(P/FE/AG)

(Q) (P) Familiar with procedures and able to execute appropriate maneuvers IAW the flight
manual and other directives. Smooth, precise, and controlled aircraft movement during
approach/hovering/takeoff. Thoroughly aware of power requirements/limitations. Proper
consideration and use of terrain features and wind conditions. If not flying, closely monitored
aircraft systems/instruments and aircraft flight path/position. Provided clear, concise and positive
direction to the pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches, hovering, and departures.
Maintained hover altitude +/-10 feet from desired/briefed; maintained hover heading +/-10
degrees from briefed/desired.

(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with procedures IAW the flight manual and other directives.
Confirmed required TOLD and is thoroughly aware of power requirements/ limitations. Provided
clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches,
hovering, landings, and departures. Communicated aircraft clearance from obstacles with an
acceptable level of speed and accuracy. Ensured required equipment is properly preflighted, and
configured for the mission. Effectively deployed and/or recovered AIE device/personnel (if
necessary).

(Q) (AG) Familiar and complied with procedures IAW the flight manual and other directives.
Aware of power requirements/ limitations. Provided clear, concise and positive direction to the
pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches, hovering, landings, and departures.
Communicated aircraft clearance from obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy.
Effectively assisted in deploying and/or recovering AIE device/personnel (if necessary).
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                   39


(Q-) (P) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Maintained hover altitude +/-20 feet from desired/briefed;
maintained hover heading +/-20 degrees from desired/briefed.

(Q-) (FE/AG) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations,
or maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not execute maneuvers IAW the
flight manual or other directives. Aircraft control was erratic/unsafe. Failed to consider power
requirements/limitations, use of terrain features and wind considerations. Failed to monitor
aircraft systems/instruments and/or aircraft flight path/position.

(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not execute maneuvers IAW the
flight manual or other directives. Failed to consider power requirements/limitations, use of
terrain features and wind considerations. Failed to monitor aircraft systems/instruments and/or
aircraft flight path/position. Did not assist pilot flying as briefed/required. Required equipment is
not properly preflighted, configured for mission.

(U) (AG) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with or did not execute maneuvers IAW the
flight manual or other directives. Unaware of power requirements/limitations or use of terrain
features. Failed to monitor aircraft flight path/position. Did not assist pilot flying as
briefed/required.

41. Water Operations: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) (P) Familiar and complied with procedures, directives, and operations as applicable to the
assigned mission. Able to effectively execute the assigned mission. Established appropriate
traffic pattern, approach, and departure; enabled proper pyrotechnic and/or swimmer
deployment. Smooth, precise and controlled aircraft movement.

       A. Swimmer Deployment/Observation Pass: Flown at an appropriate altitude and
       airspeed for effective deployment or observation IAW directives.

       B. Day Water Pattern: Flown at appropriate altitude and airspeed IAW directives.

(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with procedures, directives, and operations as applicable to the
assigned mission IAW the flight manual and other directives. Confirmed required TOLD and is
thoroughly aware of power requirements/limitations. Provided clear, concise and positive
direction to the pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches, hovers, and departures; enabling
proper pyrotechnic and/or swimmer deployment. Communicated aircraft clearance from
obstacles with an acceptable level of speed and accuracy and has a satisfactory knowledge in the
use and employment of pyrotechnics.
 40                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


(Q) (AG) Familiar and complied with procedures, directives, and operations as applicable to the
assigned mission IAW the flight manual and other directives. Aware of power
requirements/limitations. Provided clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during
reconnaissance, approaches, hovers, and departures; enabling proper pyrotechnic and/or
swimmer deployment. Communicated aircraft clearance from obstacles with an acceptable level
of speed and accuracy and has a satisfactory knowledge in the use and employment of
pyrotechnics.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures, directives, or operations.
Incorrect traffic pattern, approach, or departure; procedures did not allow for proper pyrotechnic
or swimmer deployment. Aircraft control was erratic or unsafe. Mission effectiveness or safety
was compromised.

(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Not familiar or did not comply with procedures. Unable to
clearly communicate with crew. Failed to compute or confirm TOLD or is unaware of power
requirements/limitations. Failed to provide clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying
during reconnaissance, approaches, hovers and departures; calls were inconsistent and or erratic.
Inadequate aircraft clearance from obstacles and/or water. Severe lack of knowledge, with regard
to the use and employment of pyrotechnics.

(U) (AG) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Not familiar or did not comply with procedures. Unable to
clearly communicate with crew. Unaware of power requirements/limitations. Failed to provide
clear, concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during reconnaissance, approaches, hovers
and departures; calls were inconsistent and or erratic. Inadequate aircraft clearance from
obstacles and/or water. Severe lack of knowledge, with regard to the use and employment of
pyrotechnics.


42. Cargo Sling: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) (P) Familiar and complied with cargo sling procedures and directives. Properly briefed and
executed hookup, flight and release procedures. Smooth, precise and controlled aircraft
movement. Knowledgeable of power requirements and aware of safety concerns.

(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with cargo sling procedures IAW the flight manual and other
directives. Properly executed hookup and release procedures. Computed required TOLD and is
thoroughly aware of power requirements/limitations and emergency procedures. Provided clear,
concise and positive direction to the pilot flying during takeoff, en route, approaches and
landings. Communicates sling load clearance from obstacles. Provided clear, concise and
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                  41


positive direction to place the sling load on a pre-designated or specified area without inadvertent
contact with the ground/obstacles.

(Q) (AG) Familiar and complied with cargo sling procedures IAW the flight manual and other
directives. Properly executed hookup and release procedures. Thoroughly aware of power
requirements/limitations and emergency procedures. Provided clear, concise and positive
direction to the pilot flying during takeoff, en route, approaches and landings. Communicates
sling load clearance from obstacles. Provided clear, concise and positive direction to place the
sling load on a pre-designated or specified area without inadvertent contact with the
ground/obstacles.

(Q-) (P) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(Q-) (FE) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Directions allowed sling load to be positioned within the
predesignated or specified area but required multiple attempts or repositioning after ground
contact. While hovering, the FE’s direction or lack of direction caused the load to
briefly/unintentionally contact the ground.

(Q-) (AG) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Directions allowed sling load to be positioned within the
predesignated or specified area but required multiple attempts or repositioning after ground
contact. While hovering, the AG’s direction or lack of direction caused the load to
briefly/unintentionally contact the ground.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures, directives, or operations.
Improperly briefed or executed hookup, flight, or release procedures. Aircraft control was erratic
or unsafe. Inadequate knowledge of power requirements. Allowed load to come in contact with
the ground on the approach. Mission effectiveness or safety was compromised.

(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures, directives, or operations.
Improperly executed hookup and/or release procedures. Inadequate knowledge of power
requirements. Allowed load to come in contact with the ground on the approach. Direction or
lack of direction allowed the sling load to be positioned outside the predesignated or specified
area, despite numerous attempts to reposition after ground contact. Mission effectiveness or
safety was compromised.

(U) (AG) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures, directives, or operations.
Improperly executed hookup and/or release procedures. Unaware power requirements. Allowed
load to come in contact with the ground on the approach. Direction or lack of direction allowed
the sling load to be positioned outside the predesignated or specified area, despite numerous
attempts to reposition after ground contact. Mission effectiveness or safety was compromised.
 42                                                   AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008



43. DV Support Operations: (P/FE/)

IAW local directives.

44. NVG Operations: (P/FE)

(Q) Complied with guidance in AFI11-2UH-1NV3, Chapter 6, maneuver and CRM standards
while using NVGs.

(Q-) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.

(U) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe or effective
maneuver/mission accomplishment.

45. Aerial Gunnery: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) (P) Familiar and complied with procedures and operations IAW flight manual and other
directives. Able to effectively execute the assigned mission. Established appropriate aerial
gunnery patterns, approaches to target zone and departures away from target zone allowing for
successful target engagement. Smooth, precise and controlled aircraft movement.

(Q) (FE/AG) Familiar and complied with procedures and operations IAW flight manual and
other directives for arming, de-arming, and safeing the weapon. Properly accomplished all
weapons procedures IAW Flight Manual, other technical orders and directives. Provided clear,
concise, and positive direction to the pilot flying, allowing for constant target acquisition.
Ensured pilots flying maintained appropriate gunnery patterns, approaches to and away from
target zone. Must consistently be able to deliver rounds on target.

(Q-) (P) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness. Able to established appropriate aerial gunnery patterns,
approaches to target zone and departures away from target zone despite minor errors allowing for
successful target engagement.

(Q-) (FE/AG) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations,
or maneuver/mission effectiveness. Completed procedures and operations IAW flight manual
and other directives for arming, de-arming, and safeing the weapon with minor errors.
Accomplished all weapons procedures IAW Flight Manual, other technical orders and directives
with minor errors. Direction provided to the pilot flying was not completely clear and concise but
still allowed for constant target acquisition. Minor deviations to rounds on target.

(U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe or effective
maneuver/mission accomplishment. Incorrect traffic pattern, approach, or departure; procedures
did not allow for successful target engagement. Aircraft control was erratic or unsafe.
AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                 43


(U) (FE/AG) Unfamiliar with procedures and operations IAW flight manual and other directives
for arming, de-arming, and safeing the weapon. Improperly performed weapons procedures IAW
Flight Manual, other technical orders and directives. Direction provided to the pilot flying was
inaccurate, confusing, and/or delayed preventing constant target acquisition. Failed to ensure
pilots flying maintained appropriate gunnery patterns, approaches to and away from target zone.
Cannot consistently deliver rounds on target.

46. Para Drop: (P/FE/AG)

IAW local directives.

47. Fire Bucket: (P/FE/AG)

(Q) (P) Familiar and complied with fire bucket procedures and operations IAW applicable
directives. Properly briefed and executed hookup, flight, and water release procedures. Smooth,
precise and controlled aircraft movement. Knowledgeable of power requirements and aware of
safety concerns.
(Q) (FE) Familiar and complied with fire bucket procedures IAW applicable directives.
Thoroughly familiar with and properly performs fire bucket preflight procedures IAW applicable
directives. Properly performs fire bucket operational checks, hookup and water release
procedures. Computed required TOLD and is thoroughly aware of power
requirements/limitations. Provided clear, concise and positive calls directing fire bucket and
water release over a predetermined and specified area. Ensure fire bucket clearance from
obstacles.
(Q) (AG) Familiar and complied with fire bucket procedures IAW applicable directives. Aware
of power requirements/limitations. Provided clear, concise and positive calls directing fire bucket
and water release over a predetermined and specified area. Ensure fire bucket clearance from
obstacles.
(Q-) (P) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations, or
maneuver/mission effectiveness.
(Q-) (FE/AG) Minor deviations from Q criteria. Did not compromise safety, aircraft limitations
or maneuver/mission effectiveness. Directions allowed water release over a predetermined and
specified area but required multiple attempts.
 (U) (P) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures, directives, or operations.
Improperly briefed or executed hookup, flight, or release procedures. Aircraft control was erratic
or unsafe. Inadequate knowledge of power requirements. Allowed load to come in contact with
the ground on the approach. Mission effectiveness or safety was compromised.
(U) (FE) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures, directives, or operations.
Improperly executed hookup and/or release procedures. Inadequate knowledge of power
requirements. Direction or lack of direction allowed the water release to be outside the
predetermined or specified area, despite numerous attempts. Mission effectiveness or safety was
compromised.
(U) (AG) Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and effective
mission/maneuver accomplishment. Unfamiliar with procedures, directives, or operations.
 44                                                  AFI11-2UH-1NV2 11 FEBRUARY 2008


Unaware of power requirements. Direction or lack of direction allowed the water release to be
outside the predetermined or specified area, despite numerous attempts. Mission effectiveness or
safety was compromised.
