Blank header for spacing


23 JUNE 2010

Administrative Change to AFI 11-2UH-1N V3 CL-2, UH-
1N Helicopter Mission Equipment Cleaning and Inspection
Procedures

OPR: AFSPC/A3NH

New OPR: AFGSC/A3IH (Lt Col Douglas Robertson)

References to AFSPC should be changed to AFGSC
throughout this publication

References to A3NH should be changed to A3IH
throughout this publication
Blank Header for Spacing

BY ORDER OF                 AFI 11-2UH-1N V3 CL-2
THE SECRETARY OF THE AIRFORCE 28 February 2007
                     Certified Current, 8 March 2009




                                                    Flying Operations

             UH-1N HELICOPTER MISSION EQUIPMENT
            CLEANING AND INSPECTION PROCEDURES

       COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS
                  MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms/IMTs are available
     on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil
     for download or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on
     this publication.

OPR: AFSPC/A3NH                          Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O
                                          (Brig Gen Robert C. Kane)
Supersedes N/A                                             Pages: 46

This publication applies to all USAF UH-1N helicopter flying units.
This checklist does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command, nor
Air National Guard. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacture, commercial product, commodity or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of
Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
2                         AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007



 1. General. This publication contains information and procedures for
inspecting and maintaining mission equipment currently approved for
and being used on the UH-1N. Flight Engineers (FEs) and Aerial
Gunners (AGs) will use only those checklists covering equipment
applicable to their unit/mission. Members are authorized to carry only
those checklists applicable to their unit/mission.

2. Supplements. Supplemented information is additional steps or more
restrictive guidance and will be published as a MAJCOM supplement.
MAJCOMs can further supplement this publication with additional
USAF approved mission equipment information. Forward supplements
to parent MAJCOM through Stan Eval channels for approval and
implementation.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007                               3

TABLE OF CONTENTS

ROPE LADDER PROCEDURES
Rope Ladder Preflight Checklist                               5
Rope Ladder Cleaning Procedures                               8

FAST ROPE PROCEDURES
Fast Rope (End Cap or Full Eye Splice) Preflight Checklist   11
Fast Rope Cleaning (End Cap or Full Eye Splice) Procedures   13

ANCHOR CABLE PROCEDURES
Anchor Cable Assembly Preflight Checklist                    15
Anchor Cable Assembly Cleaning Procedures                    16

STOKES LITTER (MEDEVAC II F) PROCEDURES
Stokes Litter Preflight Checklist                            19
Stokes Litter Cleaning Procedures                            22

RESCUE BASKET PROCEDURES
Rescue Basket Initial Acceptance
        Inspection/Load Test Procedures                      29
Rescue Basket Initial Acceptance Inspection                  29
Rescue Basket Load Test Procedures                           32
Rescue Basket Preflight Checklist                            33
Rescue Basket Cleaning Procedures
35

RESCUE STROP (HORSE-COLLAR/RESCUE SLING)
PROCEDURES
Rescue Strop Calendar Inspection                             37
Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover Visual Inspection        37
Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover Marking Inspection       38
Rescue Strop Proof Load Test Procedures                      39
Rescue Strop Preflight Checklist                             42
Rescue Strop Cleaning Procedures                             43

MISCELLANEOUS
Hoist Hand Signals                                           45
Helicopter Rope Suspension (HRS) Emergency Hand Signals      46
4                         AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007


ROPE LADDER PROCEDURES.
      The rope ladder preflight checklist will be accomplished prior to
the first rope ladder deployment of a particular evolution or mission.
Preflight requirement is once per flight/sortie regardless of the number
of evolutions performed.

                              WARNING
           If any nicks, excessive fraying or broken
           strands are found, do not use the rope ladder for
           live operations. Serious injury or death may
           result. Reference Fig 1.0.




                    Figure 1.0 Excessive Fraying.
• Excessive fraying would not allow you to see the flow/run of the
  fabric.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007                                   5




                      Figure 2.0 Cut Webbing.
• Nicks/cuts normally occur from the side and are usually caused by
  improper use of a knife.




           Figure 3.0 New Rope Ladder Nylon Webbing.
• No rust allowed on the rivet/washer assembly. Nylon webbing holes
  for the rivet/washer area are not allowed to be elongated.

• The nylon webbing is a rough texture, not smooth like a vehicle seat
  belt.
6                         AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007


ROPE LADDER PREFLIGHT CHECKLIST.
1.   Rope Ladder Forms - Checked. Review form(s) for equipment
     serviceability, overdue inspections, and maintenance/delayed
     discrepancies. Prior to using equipment, ensure data indicating the
     preflight checklist was accomplished is annotated on the
     applicable form(s). Annotate any discrepancies found during
     preflight.

2.   Anchor Cable - Checked. (IAW T.O. 1-1A-8 and this checklist.)

3. Cargo Tiedown Fittings - Checked. Inspect for cracks, security and
    serviceability.

4.   Cabin Floor and Lower Doorframe - Checked. Inspect for sharp
     edges and tape as necessary. Ensure cabin floor is clean of oil,
     grease and solvents.

                            WARNING
           Do not use carabiners if the spring-loaded gates
           do not operate properly or if the locking nut
           cannot be manipulated (loosened and tightened)
           by hand.

5.   Detacher Assembly Attachment Straps and Carabiners - Checked.
     Inspect for serviceability, webbing for abrasions, cuts, fraying,
     kinks and knots. Check carabiners for cracks and corrosion;
     ensure the spring-loaded gates operate freely and are spring-loaded
     to the closed position and the locking nut can be manipulated
     (loosened and tightened) by hand.

6.   Detacher Assembly - Checked. Inspect for corrosion, cracks,
     loose or missing hardware and serviceability.


                              CAUTION
           Detacher assembly and rope ladder are
           manufactured and assembled as a “matched set”
           and must never be separated. Do not mix and
           match differently numbered detacher assemblies
           and rope ladders.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007                                   7

7.   Detacher Assembly and Rope Ladder Manufacture ID Numbers
     Match - Checked. Ensure identification numbers between the
     detacher assembly and rope ladder match.

                               CAUTION
           When positioning the rope ladder eyelet’s onto
           the base plate assembly, ensure eyelet’s are
           placed underneath the bolt heads. Failure to do
           so will cause eyelet’s to bind on the fastener
           pins during the jettison sequence, preventing the
           rope ladder from being jettisoned.

8.   Release Handle and Control Shaft Assembly - Checked. Inspect
     release mechanism for proper operation, corrosion and cracks.
     Fastener pins for corrosion, cracks and serviceability. Pip-pin for
     proper operation and security. Rope ladder eyelet’s for corrosion,
     cracks, security and proper engagement.

9.   Standoff Wheel Assemblies - Checked. Inspect assemblies for
     corrosion, cracks, and freedom of movement, serviceability and
     locking nuts for security.

                              CAUTION
           During the rope ladder preflight or while setting
           up the ladder for deployment, dragging the rope
           ladder on concrete/asphalt should be kept to a
           minimum to reduce abrasion/fraying.

                                NOTE
           Ensure both sides of the rope ladder are visually
           inspected.

10. Rope Ladder Nylon Webbing - Checked. Inspect entire length for
    abrasions, cuts, dry rot, excessive fraying, kinks, knots and
    twisting. Pay close attention to the nylon webbing area underneath
    the anti-abrasion pad.

11. Rope Ladder to Skid Tube Anti-Abrasion Pad - Checked. Check
    to ensure the anti-abrasion pad is not excessively worn and does
    not have any holes worn through the padding.
8                         AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

12. Rope Ladder Rungs - Checked. Inspect for corrosion, cracks,
    security and worn or missing grip tape. Pay close attention to the
    rivet areas, rivet heads and washers for corrosion, cracks, loose or
    missing hardware and for stretched nylon webbing around rivet
    areas.


ROPE LADDER CLEANING PROCEDURES.
         The rope ladder cleaning criteria, detergent ratio, etc are IAW
AFI 11-2UH-1N Vol 3, Chapter 10. The chapter defines
water/detergent mixing ratios, the frequency and specific circumstances
when the rope ladder requires cleaning.

Detacher Assembly.
1.   Separate Assembly from Rope Ladder.

2.   Place Assembly into Wash Tank.

3.   Wash Assembly.

4.   Place Assembly in Primary Rinse Tank and Rinse.

5.   Place Assembly in Secondary Rinse Tank and Rinse. (If using the
     hose method to rinse, rinse until the detacher assembly is free of
     soap).

6.   Set Assembly Out to Dry. Ensure any entrapped water is removed
     by thoroughly drying assembly.

Rope Ladder.

                             CAUTION
           Dragging the rope ladder on concrete/asphalt
           should be kept to a minimum to reduce
           abrasion/fraying.

                               NOTE
           Rope ladders will be soaked in the
           detergent/water mixture for a minimum of 30
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007                                     9

           minutes. It may be necessary to occasionally
           agitate the rope ladder while it is soaking.

1.   Place Rope Ladder into Wash Tank.

                                NOTE
           Once the rope ladder has been entirely worked
           through the primary rinse tank, repeat the
           procedure using the secondary rinse tank.

2.   Place 3 - 4 Rungs at a Time into Primary Rinse Tank. Work or
     agitate the rungs until they are free of heavy soap residue. Work
     the entire length of the rope ladder through the primary rinse tank
     (in this fashion.)

3.   Place 3 - 4 Rungs at a Time into Secondary Rinse Tank. Work
     or agitate the rungs until this section of the rope ladder is visibly
     free of soap. Work the entire length of the rope ladder through the
     secondary rinse tank (in this fashion.)

                                 NOTE
           • When using the hose method to rinse a rope
             ladder, extend the rope ladder out flat on a
             firm relatively clean surface. Turn the water
             volume on to establish a continuous low
             pressure flow and rinse nylon webbing until
             no soap residue bleeds through nylon
             webbing.

           • Drying time under direct sunlight, is not
             considered ”excessive” and should not
             damage the nylon webbing. Do not store the
             rope ladder in direct sunlight.

4.   Lay Rope Ladder Out Flat (horizontally) and Allow to Dry.
     Allow the rope ladder to dry in the open air on a firm dry and
     relatively clean surface (i.e. concrete, asphalt, planking, plywood,
     cardboard, etc.). Ensure any entrapped water is removed by
     thoroughly drying rope ladder.
10                       AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007




                             CAUTION
          • Ensure the rope ladder is completely dry
            before it is repacked into its container and
            placed back into storage.      Storing wet or
            damp nylon webbing will cause the webbing
            to deteriorate and fail prematurely.

          • Detacher assembly and rope ladder are
            manufactured and assembled as a “matched
            set” and must never be separated. Do not mix
            and match differently numbered detacher
            assemblies and rope ladders.

          • When positioning the rope ladder eyelet’s
            onto the base plate assembly, ensure eyelet’s
            are placed underneath the bolt heads. Failure
            to do so will cause eyelet’s to bind on the
            fastener pins during the jettison sequence,
            preventing the rope ladder from being
            jettisoned.

5.   Attach Detacher Assembly to Rope Ladder once they are
     Completely Dry.

6.   Forms Documentation - Completed.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                       28        February         2007
11

FAST ROPE PROCEDURES.

FAST ROPE (END CAP or FULL EYE SPLICE)
PREFLIGHT CHECKLIST.
      Preflight checklists will be accomplished prior to using the
equipment on a particular maneuver or mission. Preflight requirement
is once per flight/sortie regardless of the number of evolutions
performed.

                               NOTE
           Either fast rope requires an initial acceptance
           inspection and cleaning prior to being placed
           into service.

1.   Fast Rope Forms - Checked. Review form(s) for equipment
     serviceability, overdue inspections, and maintenance/delayed
     discrepancies. Prior to using equipment, ensure data indicating the
     preflight checklist was accomplished is annotated on the
     applicable form(s). Annotate any discrepancies found during
     preflight..

2.   Hoist Operator’s Checklist-Completed. (IAW T.O. 1H-1(U)N-1
     CL-2)

3.   Cabin Floor - Checked. Ensure cabin floor is free of oil, grease
     and solvents.

4.   End Cap Assembly - Checked. Inspect metal cylinder, shackle,
     and torpedo pins and steel ring for penetrating corrosion, cracks,
     deformation, dents, sharp edges and security.

                              CAUTION
           No broken or cracked wires are allowed in the
           End Cap Safety Cable. Do not use the fast rope
           if a broken or cracked wire is found. If the fast
           rope safety cable has any broken or cracked
           wires, the fast rope must be removed from
           service and replaced.
12                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

5.   End Cap Safety Cable - Checked. Inspect cable for abrasions,
     broken wires, bird caging, corrosion, kinking and security. Check
     cable swage for security and indications of slippage.

6.   Full Eye Splice - Checked. Inspect steel ring for penetrating
     corrosion, cracks, deformation sharp edges and security.

7.   Full Eye Splice Woven Loop - Checked. Check the woven loop
     for abrasions, chaffing, chemical contamination, cuts, and/or
     excessive fraying/wear or chemical contamination.

                             WARNING
           • If any main braid filament is cut in excess of
             50%, or has two or more cuts that penetrate
             one-third or more through any braid filament
             within 1 foot of the running length. The of
             the fast rope is unserviceable and must be
             removed from service and replaced.

           • Do not use a fast rope that is severely frayed.

                                NOTE
           • Never stand, walk or step on a fast rope. This
             can force sand or dirt into the strands, causing
             fraying and weakness.

           • Light fraying of a fast rope is considered
             normal and does not weaken the fast rope.

8.   Fast Rope - Checked. Lay rope out full length and inspect entire
     length for abrasions, chaffing, chemical contamination, cuts,
     excessive fraying
     and unraveling affecting the integrity of the rope. Twist the rope at
     various intervals along its length looking between the strands for
     small stones, dirt, twigs etc.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28        February        2007
13
FAST ROPE (END CAP or FULL EYE SPLICE)
CLEANING PROCEDURES (IAW AFI 11-2UH-1N
VOL 3, Randon Tech Mfr’s Tech Data and this
checklist.)
          The following cleaning procedures apply to both types of fast
rope (End Cap or the Full Eye Splice) used on the UH-1N helicopter.
Both fast ropes will be cleaned anytime they are used in a salt water
environment or become encrusted with soil.

                                NOTE
           • Changes in color caused by chemicals are
             usually blotchy and have an unusual odor.

           • Although used ropes gradually change color,
             such changes do not indicate a decrease in
             strength unless the change is due to contact
             with strong chemicals. Changes occurring
             because of use are usually uniform
             throughout the length of the rope.


1.   Fast Rope - Checked. Inspect the fast rope for alkaline
     compounds, contamination of acid, fire extinguisher solutions,
     petroleum-based solvents and saltwater residue.

                             CAUTION
           When using the hose method to wash the fast
           rope, do not use high pressure as this will
           damage rope fabric and decrease the service life
           of the fast rope.

                                  NOTE
           Soaking the fast rope in a container is the
           preferred method used for washing the fast
           rope. If unable to soak the fast rope in a
           container, use a low pressure spray from a hose
           to clean the fast rope.

2.   Accomplish Fast Rope Cleaning - Completed. Prior to washing a
     fast rope, any imbedded debris or dirt must be removed using a
     stiff nylon brush. Work the nylon brush in between braids to
14                           AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

     remove all debris and dirt. Using fresh water thoroughly wash the
     fast rope removing all debris, dirt and salt water residue.


                                 NOTE
           Allow the fast rope to completely dry before
           further use or returning it to storage. Exposure
           to certain environmental conditions will
           decrease fast rope service life. Fast ropes
           deteriorate quicker when exposed to direct
           sunlight or fluorescent lighting for extended
           periods of time. “Drying time in direct sun light
           is not considered an “extended period of time.”

3.   Dry Fast Rope - Completed. The preferred method for drying a
     fast rope is to lay the fast rope out (horizontally) on a clean dry
     surface. Occasionally turn the fast rope over to ensure it
     thoroughly dries. If conditions or surface do not permit the fast
     rope to be laid out, S-Fold and hang it on hardwood pegs in a dry
     warm area.

                                NOTE
           Fast ropes will also deteriorate quicker when it
           is stored or maintained in high-humidity
           environments.       To the maximum extent
           possible, fast ropes should also be kept in a
           climate controlled low-humidity environment.

4.   Fast Rope - Stored. Ensure the fast rope is properly stored by
     either covering the fast rope up or placing the fast rope into a
     suitable container (i.e. A-3 bag, etc). Never expose the fast rope to
     either direct sunlight or fluorescent lighting for extended periods of
     time.

5.   Forms Documentation - Completed.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28        February         2007
15


ANCHOR CABLE PROCEDURES.
ANCHOR CABLE ASSEMBLY PREFLIGHT
CHECKLIST (IAW T.O. 1-1A-8, AFI 11-2UH-1N VOL
3 and this checklist.)
         The following preflight procedures apply to the anchor cable
assembly used in UH-1N Para-Drop, Rappelling and Rope Ladder
operations. Preflight checklists will be accomplished prior to using the
equipment on a particular maneuver or mission. Preflight requirement
is once per flight/sortie regardless of the number of evolutions
performed.

1.   Anchor Cable Assembly Forms - Checked. Review form(s) for
     equipment serviceability, overdue inspections, and
     maintenance/delayed discrepancies. Prior to using equipment,
     ensure data indicating the preflight checklist was accomplished is
     annotated on the applicable form(s). Annotate any discrepancies
     found during preflight.

                                CAUTION
           No broken or cracked wires are allowed in the
           critical fatigue area. Do not use an anchor cable
           assembly if a broken or cracked wire is found in
           the critical fatigue area. If any broken or
           cracked wires are found in the critical fatigue
           area, the cable assembly has must be removed
           from service and replaced.

2.   Inspect Entire Length of Cable - Checked. Inspect for broken
     wires, bird caging, abrasions, excessive kinking and corrosion.

3.   Steel Bolt, Locking Nut and Safety Pin - Checked. Inspect for
     cracks, corrosion, damaged threads. Ensure nut can be threaded on
     (by hand) to allow safety pin to be installed.

 4. Cable Assembly Fork and Eye Terminal Ends - Checked. Inspect
    for corrosion, cracks, deformation, security and sharp edges.
16                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007



                           CAUTION
           If any evidence of cable slippage exists the
           cable assembly must be removed from service
           and replace.

5.   Inspect Cable Assembly Bitter Ends for Cable Slippage Paint -
     Checked. Inspect the cable assembly bitter ends (2 total) to ensure
     they are flush or slightly extending past their respective swaged
     fitting/sleeve. Ensure cable assembly bitter ends are painted.
     Ensure an unpainted gap does not exist between paint mark(s) and
     swaged fittings/sleeves. Evidence of a gap indicates cable
     slippage.

6.   Initial Manufacture and Weight Tested Capacity - Checked.
     Ensure the date of initial manufacture and weight tested capacity
     (2500 lbs) are permanently stamped/etched) on the fork terminal
     end.



ANCHOR CABLE ASSEMBLY CLEANING
PROCEDURES (IAW T.O. 1-1A-8 and this checklist.)
         The following maintenance and cleaning procedures apply to
the cable assembly used in UH-1N Para-Drop, Rappelling and Rope
Ladder operations. The anchor cable assembly requires an initial
inspection and cleaning prior to being placed into service. The anchor
cable assembly also requires recurring inspections and cleaning once
every 90 days and anytime the anchor cable assembly is used in a salt
water environment or becomes encrusted/imbedded with dirt or mud.

                                CAUTION
           • No broken or cracked wires are allowed in
             the critical fatigue area. Do not use an anchor
             cable assembly if a broken or cracked wire is
             found in the critical fatigue area. If any
             broken or cracked wires are found in the
             critical fatigue area, the cable assembly has
             must be removed from service and replaced.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28         February        2007
17
           • Any cable assembly that has 3 broken wires
             in the uncritical area must be removed from
             service and replaced.

           • Any cable assembly that has a popped core or
             loose strands regardless of wear or broken
             wires must be removed from service and
             replaced.


                               NOTE
           • Critical Fatigue Area is defined as any point
             within 1 foot of a swaged fitting/sleeve, the
             remaining area of the cable assembly is
             defined as the Uncritical Area.

           • Document any broken wires found in the
             uncritical area of the cable assembly on the
             equipment forms.

           • Any time a cable assembly is immersed or
             comes in contact with salt water, wash the
             cable assembly to remove all salt water
             residue. Allow cable assembly to completely
             dry prior to inspecting the assembly.

1.   Inspect Cable Assembly for Broke Wires - Checked. Inspect for
     broke wires by passing a cloth over the entire length of the cable
     assembly to snag broken wires. Pay particular attention to the
     Critical Fatigue Area for broken or cracked wires.

                              CAUTION
           Corrosion on the interior strands of the cable
           assembly constitutes failure and the cable
           assembly must be removed from service and
           replaced.

2.   Inspect Anchor Cable Assembly for Corrosion - Checked. If
     surface of the cable assembly is corroded, force the cable assembly
     open by reverse twisting and visually inspect the interior of the
     cable.
18                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

                            CAUTION
           Do not use metallic wools or solvents to clean
           cable assembly.

3.   Cleaning Surface Corrosion (if required) - Completed. If no
     internal corrosion is detected; remove loose surface corrosion and
     rust with a clean dry “course-weave” rag or fiber/nylon brush.

4.   Anchor Cable Assembly General Cleaning - Completed. Using a
     clean dry “course-weave” rag, clean the entire cable assembly
     including the terminal ends.

                              CAUTION
           Any bolt, nut or safety pin that is found cracked
           or with corrosion that cannot be removed must
           be removed from service and replaced.

5.   Anchor Cable Assembly Bolt, Nut and Safety Pin - Checked.
     Inspect bolt, nut and safety pin assembly for cracks, excessive
     wear and corrosion. Remove surface corrosion and rust with a
     “course-weave” rag.

                           CAUTION
           Any fork or eye terminal end that is found
           cracked or with corrosion that cannot be
           removed is unserviceable and the cable
           assembly must be removed from service and
           replaced.

6.   Fork and Eye Terminal Ends - Checked. Inspect the fork and eye
     terminal ends for cracks, excessive wear and corrosion. Remove
     surface corrosion and rust with a “course-weave” rag.

7.   Corrosion Preservative - Applied. After thoroughly cleaning the
     cable assembly, apply Mil Spec MIL-C-16173, Grade 4 (or
     equivalent) corrosion preventive compound. Wipe off any excess
     and place cable assembly back into service.

8.   Forms Documentation - Completed.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                        28        February          2007
19

STOKES LITTER (MEDEVAC II F)
PROCEDURES.

STOKES LITTER PREFLIGHT CHECKLIST
(IAW T.O. 00-75-5, 00-75-5 ACC Supplement 1, 15 Aug
94
and this Checklist.)
    Prior to placing the MEDEVAC IIF stokes litter into initial service,
accomplish the Acceptance Inspection IAW 00-75-5 ACC Supplement
1. The MEDEVAC IIF stokes litter will be inspected prior to each
flight or alert period by the pararescue-man/ medical technician/flight
engineer.

1.   Stokes Litter and Stokes Litter Sling Assembly Forms - Checked.
     Review form(s) for equipment serviceability, overdue inspections,
     and maintenance/delayed discrepancies. Prior to using equipment,
     ensure data indicating the preflight checklist was accomplished is
     annotated on the applicable form(s). Annotate any discrepancies
     found during preflight.

2.   General Condition of Stokes Litter - Checked. Inspect the overall
     condition of the stokes litter for serviceability.

3.   Stokes Litter Stainless Steel Slats and Tubing - Checked. Inspect
     all metal slats and tubing for corrosion, cracks, dents, and security.

4.   Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly Attachment
     Areas/Points - Checked. Inspect the stokes litter attachment
     areas/points (area where the cable assembly carabiners physically
     contact the stokes litter) for cracks, deformation and proper color
     coded reflective tape.

5.   Stokes Litter Weld Beads - Checked. Inspect all weld beads for
     cracks and security.

6.   Stokes Litter Upper and Lower Section 4-Point Attachment System
     - Checked. Inspect the upper section screw type couplers and self-
     alignment pin attachment points for alignment, corrosion, cracks
     ease of operation and sharp edges. Inspect the lower section hook
20                           AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

     and pin type attachment points for alignment, corrosion, and
     cracks.

7.   Stokes Litter Bed Plastic Netting - Checked. Ensure netting is
     securely fastened to stokes litter. Inspect netting to ensure it is not
     broken, cuts, frayed, stained or torn.

                             CAUTION
         • If the double locking quick release safety
           buckle does not lock or function properly, the
           PRS must be removed from service and
           replaced.

         • If the PRS webbing is cut, torn, heavily
           contaminated with grease/oil, stitching is
           suspect or showing evidence of excessive
           fraying, the PRS must be removed from service
           and replaced.

8.   Stokes Litter Patient Restraint Straps (PRS) - Checked. Inspect
     the PRS for cuts, fraying, grease/oil contamination, security to
     litter, stains, and tears. Inspect all PRS stitching for fraying.
     Inspect double locking quick release safety buckle for proper
     operation.

9.   Stokes Litter Ballast Bar (if installed) - Checked. Inspect ballast
     bar for corrosion and security. If ballast bar is loose, secure as
     necessary or remove ballast bar.

                               CAUTION
            Document broken wire discrepancies on stokes
            litter forms and trim wires as needed. Any
            cable assembly having 3 or more broken wires
            in a single strand, the cable assembly must be
            removed from service and replace. If kinks are
            found in the cable assembly, the cable assembly
            must be removed from service and replaced.

                                NOTE
          A cable assembly is considered serviceable if a
          single strand in the cable has 2 or less broken
          wires.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28         February         2007
21

10. Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly - Checked. Inspect
    cable assembly for broken wires, cleanliness, corrosion (on
    exterior and in between strands), general condition and kinks.
                             WARNING
           Do not use carabiners if the spring loaded gates
           do not operate properly or if the locking nuts
           cannot be manipulated (loosened or tightened)
           by hand.

11. Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly Snap Hooks
    (Carabiners) - Checked. Inspect carabiners for corrosion, cracks,
    damage, deformity, properly color coded, and wear. Check the
    carabiner gates for alignment, ease of operation, locking nuts can
    be manipulated (loosened or tightened) by hand and pin hinge for
    security.

12. Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly Lift Rings -
    Checked. Inspect lift rings for corrosion, cracks, damage,
    deformity, security and wear.

                             CAUTION
           Ensure an unpainted gap does not exist between
           paint mark(s) and swaged fittings/sleeves.
           Evidence of a gap indicates cable slippage. If
           any evidence of cable slippage exists, remove
           the cable assembly from service and replace.

13. Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly Swagging
    Fittings/Sleeves - Checked. Inspect sleeves for corrosion, (on
    sides and in ends), cracks, deformity, internal cable slippage,
    impending failure, security and wear. Inspect the cable bitter ends
    (eight) to ensure they are flush or slightly extended from the
    respective swaged fitting/sleeve.

14. Stokes Litter Flotation Assembly (if installed) - Checked. Inspect
    the flotation assembly (flotation log and chest pad foam and
    covers) for cleanliness, cuts, fraying, general condition, and tears.
    Inspect stitching for fraying and security of slide fastener
    attachment stitching. Inspect for presence of oil, fuel, grease or
    chemical contamination.
22                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

15. Stokes Litter Snow Skids (Skaggs) (if installed) - Checked.
    Inspect general condition of snow skids (skaggs) for cracks,
    serviceability and security.



16. Stokes Litter Lift Insert (if installed) - Checked. Inspect the lift
    insert for cleanliness, cracks, cuts, general condition, and tears.
    Inspect for loose or fraying stitching, security and attachment of
    seam binding, snap closures and straps/handles. Inspect for
    presence of oil, fuel, grease or chemical contamination. Inspect
    slide fasteners and track for alignment, ease of operation and
    serviceability.

                                 NOTE
           If plastic shield is cracked or broken remove
           shield from service and replace. If hardware is
           corroded or broken replace hardware.

17. Stokes Litter Shield (if installed) - Checked. Inspect the shield
    for cracked or broken plastic and corroded or broken hardware.


STOKES LITTER CLEANING PROCEDURES.
(IAW T.O. 00-75-5, 00-75-5 ACC SUPPLEMENT 1, 15
Aug 94 and this Checklist.)

         The following maintenance and cleaning procedures apply to
the stokes litter, stokes litter cable hoisting (sling) assembly, Personnel
Restraint Straps (PRS), flotation assembly and any other installed
equipment.
     The stokes litter and stokes litter cable (hoisting) sling assembly
both require an initial acceptance inspection and cleaning prior to being
placed into service, a 90 Day Visual Inspection and a 180 Day Load
Test/Inspection. The stokes litter flotation assembly requires an initial
acceptance inspection and cleaning prior to being placed into service, a
90 Day Visual Inspection plus and a Semi-Annual (6 month) Float
Test.
     Accomplish this checklist anytime the stokes litter and associated
components/equipment are used in a salt water environment or become
encrusted with dirt and soil. As a minimum the stokes litter assembly
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                    28        February        2007
23
and associated components/equipment will be cleaned annually (at an
interval not to exceed 12 months.)
24                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

                             CAUTION
           Do not use metallic wools or solvents to clean
           cable assemblies.


                                 NOTE
           • To facilitate the cleaning process, remove the
             flotation assembly (flotation logs and chest
             pads) lift insert (if installed) and all the
             personnel restraint straps from the stokes
             litter.

           • Allow all equipment and components too
             completely dry prior to inspecting the
             equipment, and prior to placing equipment
             into service or storage.

1.   Accomplish Stokes Litter and Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling
     Assembly General Cleaning - Completed. Using a non-
     chlorinated mild detergent and fresh water solution, thoroughly
     wash the stokes litter and cable assembly. For heavily soiled or
     dirty equipment, use a “course weave rag” or fiber/nylon brush to
     remove the containments.

2.   Accomplish Stokes Litter Flotation Assembly (Flotation Lgs and
     Chest Pads) Personnel Restraint Straps and Associated
     Component/Equipment General Cleaning - Completed. Wash
     flotation assembly (flotation logs and chest pads), all the PRS and
     associated components/equipment in a non-chlorinated mild
     detergent and fresh water solution. For heavily soiled or grease/oil
     stained equipment, use a fiber/nylon brush to remove the
     containments.

3.   Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly Lift Rings -
     Checked. Inspect lift rings for corrosion, cracks, damage,
     deformity, security and wear.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28        February        2007
25
                             CAUTION
           • Any cable assembly having 3 or more broken
             wires will be removed from service and
             replaced. Replace any cable assembly that has
             a popped core or loose strands regardless of
             wear or broken wires.

           • If kinks are found in the cable assembly, the
             cable assembly must be removed from service
             and replaced.


                               NOTE
           • Any single strand in the cable assembly
             having 2 or less broken wires is considered
             unserviceable and the broken wires may be
             trimmed.

           • Any broken wires found on the cable
             assembly, will be documented on the
             equipment forms.


4.   Inspect Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assemblies -
     Checked. Inspect for broke wires by passing a cloth over the entire
     length of the cable assembly to snag on broke wires.

                               CAUTION
                    Corrosion on the interior strands of the
            cable assembly constitutes failure and the
            assembly must be removed from service and
            replaced.
5.   Inspect Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Assembly for Corrosion -
     Checked. If surface of the cable assembly is corroded, force the
     cable assembly open by reverse twisting and visually inspect the
     interior of the cable.

6.   Cleaning Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly of Surface
     Corrosion (If required) - Completed. If no internal corrosion is
     detected but exterior of cable is corroded; remove loose surface
     corrosion and rust with a clean dry “course-weave” rag or
     fiber/nylon brush.
26                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007



                               CAUTION
           If a gaps exists, the cable has slipped, through
           the swaged fitting/sleeve, do not use the cable
           assembly. Remove the cable assembly from
           service and replace.

7.   Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly Swaged
     Fittings/Sleeves - Checked. Inspect the swaged fittings/sleeves
     for one crimp (identified by ½ in. wide compression) on
     fitting/sleeve. Inspect swaged fittings/sleeves for corrosion, (on
     sides and in ends), cracks, deformity, internal cable slippage,
     impending failure, security and wear.


8.   Inspect the Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly Bitter
     Ends for Cable Slippage Paint - Checked. Inspect the cable
     assembly bitter ends (8 total) to ensure they are flush or slightly
     extending past their respective swaged fitting/sleeve. Ensure cable
     assembly bitter ends are painted. Ensure an unpainted gap does
     not exist between paint mark(s) and swaged fittings/sleeves.
     Evidence of a gap indicates cable slippage.

                            WARNING
           Do not use carabiners if the spring loaded gates
           do not operate properly or if the locking nuts
           can not be manipulated (loosened or tightened)
           by hand.

                                 NOTE
           Carabiners must be properly marked with
           respective color coded reflective tape. The red
           reflective tape (NIIN 00-949-7552) is applied to
           the carabiners attached to the head of the litter.
           The white reflective tape (NIIN 01-078-8660) is
           applied to the carabiners attached to the foot of
           the litter.

9.   Inspect Stokes Litter Cable (Hoisting) Sling Assembly Snap Hooks
     (Carabiners) - Checked. Inspect carabiners for corrosion, cracks,
     damage, deformity, color coded tape and wear. Check the
     carabiner gates for alignment, ease of operation, locking nuts can
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                       28        February          2007
27
    manipulated (loosened or tightened) by hand and pin hinge for
    security.

10. Stokes Litter Ballast Bar (if installed) - Checked. Inspect ballast
    bar for corrosion and security. If ballast bar is loose, secure as
    necessary or remove ballast bar.

                               NOTE
           If cracks are suspected, have a florescent dye
           penetrant inspection performed by qualified
           personnel. If the florescent dye penetrant
           inspection reveals cracks, have the welds
           repaired by a qualified structural repair
           technician.

11. Stokes Litter Stainless Steel Slats and Tubing - Checked. Inspect
    all metal slats and tubing for corrosion, cracks, dents, and security.


12. Stokes Litter Cable Assembly Attachment Areas/Points -
    Checked.
    Inspect the stokes litter attachment areas/points (where the cable
    assembly carabiners physically contact the stokes litter) for cracks,
    deformation and proper color coded reflective tape.

                               NOTE
           If cracks are suspected, have a florescent dye
           penetrant inspection performed by qualified
           personnel. If the florescent dye penetrant
           inspection reveals cracks, have the welds
           repaired by a qualified structural repair
           technician.

13. Stokes Litter Weld Beads - Checked. Inspect all weld beads for
    cracks and security.

                                NOTE
           Realignment type repairs are to only be
           performed by a qualified Structural Repair
           Technician. Realign attachment point(s) or
           replace applicable section.
28                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

14. Stokes Litter Upper and Lower Section 4-Point Attachment
    System - Checked. Inspect the upper section screw type couplers
    and self-alignment pin attachment points for alignment, corrosion,
    cracks, ease of operation and sharp edges. Inspect the lower
    section hook and pin type attachment points for alignment,
    corrosion, and cracks.

                              CAUTION
           If either the double locking quick release safety
           buckle does not lock or function properly, or
           the PRS webbing is cut, torn heavily
           contaminated with grease/oil, stitching is
           suspect or showing evidence of excessive
           fraying, the PRS must be removed from service
           and replaced.

15. Stokes Litter Patient Restraint Straps - Checked. Inspect straps for
    cuts, fraying, stain, and tears. Inspect all strap stitching for
    fraying. Inspect double locking quick release safety buckle for
    proper operation. If PRS are serviceable, reattach the straps to the
    stokes litter.


16. Stokes Litter Flotation Assembly (if installed) - Checked. Inspect
    the flotation assembly (flotation log and chest pad covers) for cuts,
    fraying, general condition, and tears. Inspect stitching for fraying
    and security of slide fastener attachment stitching. If covers show
    signs of excessive fraying or are extensively torn, remove the
    flotation assembly from service and replace.

17. Stokes Litter Snow Skids (Skaggs) (if installed) - Checked.
    Inspect general condition of snow skids (skaggs) check for cracks,
    serviceability and security.

18. Stokes Litter Lift Insert (if installed) - Checked. Inspect the lift
    insert for cleanliness, cracks, cuts, general condition, and tears.
    Inspect for loose or fraying stitching, security and attachment of
    seam binding, snap closures and straps/handles. Inspect slide
    fasteners and track for alignment, ease of operation and general
    condition.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                        28         February         2007
29
                                NOTE
           If plastic shield is cracked or broken replace
           shield. If hardware is corroded or broken
           replace hardware.

19. Stokes Litter Shield (if installed) - Checked. Inspect the shield for
    cracked or broken plastic and corroded or broken hardware.

20. Corrosion Preservative - Applied. Once all of the metal portions
    of the stokes litter, stokes litter cable (hoisting) sling assembly are
    cleaned and dry, lubricate the cable assemblies and all moving
    metal parts with VVL-800, lubricating oil (NIIN 00-273-2389) or
    equivalent. Wipe off any excess and place stokes litter and cable
    assembly back into service.

21. Forms Documentation - Completed.
30                           AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007


RESCUE BASKET PROCEDURES.
RESCUE BASKET INITIAL ACCEPTANCE
INSPECTION / LOAD TEST PROCEDURES.
(IAW T.O. 00-25-245, U.S. Coast Guard and
Manufacture’s Tech Data and this Checklist.)
         The following inspection and load testing criteria apply to
rescue basket Lifesaving Systems Corp (LSC) P/N 499-ELE. The
rescue basket and all associated components require an Initial
Acceptance Inspection and Load Test prior to being placed into initial
service. An Initial Acceptance Inspection and Load Test will also be
accomplished annually (at an interval not to exceed 12 months), or
anytime the bail, bail cables or rescue basket metal frame assembly
have been repaired, or removed and replaced.

RESCUE BASKET INITIAL ACCEPTANCE
INSPECTION.
                                WARNING
            For any single main cable strand having five or
            more broken wires, the rescue basket must be
            removed from service and the main cable bails
            must be replaced. Do not use the rescue basket
            with a cable in this condition.

                             CAUTION
            Any main cable single strand having four or
            less broken wires is considered serviceable.
            The broken wires may be trimmed as needed.

                                 NOTE
            Document any broken wires found on the main
            cable assembly in the equipment forms.

1.   Main Bail Cables - Checked. Inspect the (load bearing)
     cables at all four hinge points and at the center of the bails
     for broken strands, corrosion and wear.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28        February          2007
31
                             WARNING
           • At least ⅛ inch of cable must extend past
             each end of the compression sleeve. If cable
             ends are less than ⅛ inch from each end of
             the compression sleeve, the cable must be
             removed from service and either repaired or
             replaced.

           • If any evidence of cable slippage exists the
             main bail cable must be removed from service
             and either repaired or replaced.

2.   Main Bail Cable Compression Sleeves - Checked. Inspect
     compression sleeves for cracks, deformation, impending failure,
     security and signs of internal cable slippage. Ensure cable ends are
     painted. Ensure an unpainted gap does not exist between paint
     mark(s) and compression sleeves. Evidence of a gap indicates
     cable slippage.

                               CAUTION
           If weld cracks are suspected, remove the rescue
           basket from service and have a florescent dye
           penetrant inspection performed by qualified
           personnel. If the florescent dye penetrant
           reveals cracks in the weld beads, do not use the
           rescue basket until it can be repaired by a
           qualified structural repair technician.

                                NOTE
           All weld bead repairs shall be TIG welded by
           qualified welders only.

3.   Folding Bail Assemblies - Checked. Inspect bail tubing for
     bends, broken or cracked weld beads, corrosion, deformation,
     security and serviceability.
32                           AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007



                               CAUTION
           If weld cracks are suspected, remove the rescue
           basket from service and have a florescent dye
           penetrant inspection performed by qualified
           personnel. If the florescent dye penetrant
           reveals cracks in the weld beads, do not use the
           rescue basket until it can be repaired by a
           qualified structural repair technician.

                                NOTE
           All weld bead repairs shall be TIG welded by
           qualified welders only.

4.   Rescue Basket Frame Assembly - Checked. Inspect frame
     assembly for bends, broken or cracked weld beads, corrosion,
     deformation, security and serviceability. Ensure that the drain
     holes (4 total, located in the bottom frame assembly tubing) are
     open.

                               CAUTION
           If the etha-foam floats or covers are cut, torn,
           heavily      contaminated      with    chemicals,
           grease/oil, the float and/or float covers must be
           removed from service and either repaired or
           replaced.

5.   Etha-Foam Float Assemblies and Float Cover Fabric - Checked.
     Inspect etha-foam floats and nylon float covers for abrasions,
     cleanliness, cuts, fraying, general condition and tears. Inspect for
     presence of oil, fuel, grease or chemical contamination. Ensure
     float assemblies are securely
     fastened to the rescue basket.

                              NOTE
           Cut or torn he rescue basket netting must be
           removed from service and replaced.

6.   Rescue Basket Plastic Netting - Checked. Ensure netting is
     securely fastened to rescue basket. Inspect netting to ensure it is
     not broken, cut, frayed, stained or torn.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28         February         2007
33
7.   Rescue Basket Forms Documentation - Completed.


RESCUE BASKET LOAD TEST PROCEDURES.
          The Load Test will also be accomplished every 6 months (at
intervals not to exceed 183 days.)

1.   Load Rescue Basket - Completed. To load test the rescue basket,
     attach the folding bail assembles to a hoist system capable of
     suspending (hanging) a loaded rescue basket. Evenly distribute a
     600 pound load in the bottom of the rescue basket.

                              WARNING
           When working around a loaded rescue basket
           that is suspended, inadvertent structural failure
           could cause the rescue basket and/or load to
           drop onto personnel in the immediate vicinity.
           Do not perform the visual inspection while
           positioned directly underneath the loaded rescue
           basket.

2.   Suspend Loaded Rescue Basket - Completed. Suspend rescue
     basket for a minimum of 15 minutes. After the 15 minute time
     limit has been attained, with the rescue basket still loaded and
     suspended, perform a visual inspection of the following rescue
     basket components.

3.   Folding Bail Assemblies - Checked. Inspect bail tubing for bends,
     broken or cracked weld beads, deformation, security and
     serviceability.

4.   Main Bail Cables - Checked. Inspect the (load bearing) cables at
     all four hinge points and at the center of the bails for broken
     strands, and wear. Inspect the main bail cable for even load
     distribution.

5.   Main Bail Cable Compression Sleeves - Checked. Inspect
     compression sleeves for deformation, impending failure, internal
     cable slippage. Ensure an unpainted gap does not exist between
     paint mark(s) and compression sleeves. Evidence of a gap
     indicates cable slippage.
34                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

                                 NOTE
           Upon completing the rescue basket inspection
           lower the rescue basket to the floor, disconnect
           the folding bails from the hoist hook and unload
           the rescue basket.

6.   Rescue Basket Frame Assembly - Checked. Inspect frame
     assembly for bent, broken or deformed frame tubing. Inspect
     frame tubing for cracked weld beads, security and serviceability.

7.   Rescue Basket Plastic Netting - Checked. Inspect netting for cuts
     or tears that could have been caused by the weights used to load
     rescue basket.

8.   Rescue Basket Forms Documentation - Completed.


RESCUE BASKET PREFLIGHT CHECKLIST.
         Preflight inspection checklist will be accomplished prior to
using the equipment on a particular maneuver or mission. This
inspection will also be performed once every 30 days.

1.   Rescue Basket Forms - Checked. Review form(s) for equipment
     serviceability, overdue inspections, and maintenance/delayed
     discrepancies. Prior to using equipment, ensure data indicating the
     preflight checklist was accomplished is annotated on the
     applicable form(s). Annotate any discrepancies found during
     preflight.

                               WARNING
           For any single main cable strand having five or
           more broken wires, the rescue basket must be
           removed from service and the main bail cables
           must be replaced. Do not use the rescue basket
           with a cable in this condition.

                             CAUTION
           Any single main cable single strand having four
           or less broken wires is considered serviceable.
           The broken wires may be trimmed as needed.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28        February         2007
35
                                NOTE
           Document any broken wires found on the main
           cable assembly in the equipment forms.

2.   Main Bail Cables - Checked. Inspect the (load bearing) cables at
     all four hinge points and at the center of the bails for broken
     strands, corrosion and wear.

                              WARNING
           If any evidence of cable slippage exists the
           main bail cable must be removed from service
           and either repaired or replaced.

3.   Main Bail Cable Compression Sleeves - Checked. Inspect
     compression sleeves for cracks, deformation, impending failure,
     security and signs of internal cable slippage. Ensure cable ends are
     painted. Ensure an unpainted gap does not exist between paint
     mark(s) and compression sleeves. Evidence of a gap indicates
     cable slippage.

                              CAUTION
           If weld cracks are suspected, the rescue basket
           must be removed from service and either
           repaired or replaced.

4.   Folding Bail Assemblies - Checked. Inspect bail tubing for bends,
     broken or cracked weld beads, corrosion, deformation, security and
     serviceability.

                              CAUTION
           If weld cracks are suspected, the rescue basket
           must be removed from service and either
           repaired or replaced.

5.   Rescue Basket Frame Assembly - Checked. Inspect frame
     assembly for bends, broken or cracked weld beads, corrosion,
     deformation, security and serviceability. Ensure that the drain
     holes (4 total, located in the bottom frame assembly tubing) are
     open.
36                           AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

                               CAUTION
           If the etha-foam floats or covers are cut, torn,
           heavily      contaminated      with    chemicals,
           grease/oil, the float and/or float covers must be
           removed from service and either repaired or
           replaced.

6.   Etha-Foam Float Assemblies and Float Cover Fabric - Checked.
     Inspect etha-foam floats and nylon float covers for abrasions,
     cleanliness, cuts, fraying, general condition and tears. Inspect for
     presence of oil, fuel, grease or chemical contamination. Ensure
     float assemblies are securely fastened to the rescue basket.

7.   Rescue Basket Plastic Netting - Checked. Ensure netting is
     securely fastened to rescue basket. Inspect netting to ensure it is
     not broken, cut, frayed, stained or torn.


RESCUE BASKET CLEANING PROCEDURES.
(IAW T.O. 00-25-245, U.S. Coast Guard and
Manufacture’s Tech Data and this Checklist.)
          The following maintenance and cleaning procedures apply to
the rescue basket, rescue basket bails, bail cables and flotation
assembly.
          Accomplish this checklist anytime the rescue basket and
associated components have been used in a salt water environment or
become heavily encrusted with dirt and soil. As a minimum the rescue
basket and associated components will be cleaned annually (at an
interval not to exceed 12 months).

1.   Etha-Foam Float Assemblies - Removed and Washed. Remove
     the float assemblies from the rescue basket. Using a fresh soap
     and water solution, wash the float assemblies. Rinse float
     assemblies off with clean, fresh water. Ensure all soap residue is
     removed, then set float assemblies out to dry.

                              CAUTION
           Flush, clean fresh water through all bail tubing
           that has the main bail cable routed through it.

2.   Folding Bail Assemblies - Washed. Using a fresh soap and water
     solution, wash the exterior surface of the folding bail assemblies.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28         February         2007
37
     Once the folding bail assemblies’ have been washed, rinse the bail
     assembly exterior surface off with clean, fresh water.

                              CAUTION
           Ensure the drain holes (4 each) located in the
           bottom of the main frame are open. If the drain
           holes are plugged, water can collect inside the
           tubing, causing the tubes to become corroded.

                                NOTE
           Ensure the rescue basket and the foam float
           assemblies are completely dry prior to
           reinstalling the foam float assemblies onto the
           rescue basket and placing rescue basket into
           storage.

3.   Rescue Basket Frame Assembly - Washed. Using a fresh soap
     and water solution, soapy water, wash the entire rescue basket
     assembly. Once the rescue basket has been completely washed,
     rinse rescue basket off using clean, fresh water. Set rescue basket
     out to dry.

                                 NOTE
           In an emergency (as an alternate to using the
           MIL-C-81308 E Type II Class 2 Grade 134A,
           Soft Film Lubricant), apply light machine oil to
           the bail cable and inside the bail tubes. Pay
           particular attention to lubricating the bail cable
           hinge points.

4.   Corrosion Preservative - Applied. After the rescue basket has
     completely dried, apply Mil Spec MIL-C-81309 E Type II Class 2
     Grade 134A, Soft Film (NSN 8030-00-938-1947) Lubricant or
     equivalent to the bail cable and inside the bail tubes.

5.   Forms Documentation - Completed.
38                           AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007


RESCUE STROP (HORSE-COLLAR /
RESCUE SLING) PROCEDURES.
RESCUE STROP CALENDAR INSPECTION
(IAW T.O. 00-25-245, NAVAIR 13-1-6.5, U.S. Coast
Guard and Manufacture’s Tech Data and this
Checklist.)
     The calendar inspection criteria applies to the rescue strop (horse-
collar), P/N 216-1, (NIIN 01-347-4946) and all of its associated
components. The calendar inspection consists of a Visual Inspection, a
Marking Inspection and a Proof Load Test. The only inspections
required to be accomplished on the cable weight cover are the visual
and marking inspections.

RESCUE STROP AND CABLE WEIGHT COVER
VISUAL INSPECTION

    A visual inspection shall be performed at the time of initial issue
from supply, when the rescue strop is permanently accepted from
another unit, and semi-annually (at an interval not to exceed 183 days).

1.   Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover Fabric - Checked. Inspect
     fabric for abrasions, cuts, deterioration, dry rot and grease/oil
     contamination.

2.   Rescue Strop Webbing and Cable Weight Cover Seams -
     Checked. Inspect seams for proper adhesion; inspect seam and
     webbing stitching for dry rot, grease/oil contamination, fraying and
     serviceability.

3.   Rescue Strop Retainer Strap Webbing - Checked. Inspect
     webbing for abrasions, cuts, deterioration, dry rot, grease/oil
     contamination, security of attachment and wear.

                                CAUTION
            Do not use snap hook assemblies that do not
            operate freely or cannot be manipulated (latched
            or unlatched) by hand. If snap Hook assembly
            does not operate freely, the rescue strop must be
            removed from service and replaced or repaired.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                       28         February         2007
39
4.   Rescue Strop Metal Hardware - Checked. Inspect rescue strop
     and retainer strap V-rings and snap hook assemblies for corrosion,
     cracks, dents, ease of operation/freedom of movement (if
     applicable), and for sharp burrs/edges.

5.   Cable Weight Cover Hardware - Checked. Inspect hardware for
     corrosion, damage, ease of operation (if applicable), and security.

6.   Rescue Strop Forms Documentation - Completed. Document that
     a visual inspection was accomplished. Annotate any discrepancies
     noted during the visual inspection in appropriate section of
     equipment forms.


RESCUE STROP AND CABLE WEIGHT COVER
MARKING INSPECTION.
    The marking inspection shall be performed on the rescue strop and
cable weight cover at the time of initial issue from supply, when a
rescue strop is permanently accepted from another unit, and semi-
annually (at an interval not to exceed 183 days).

                                NOTE
           Reference T.O. 00-25-245 or NAVAIR 13-1-
           6.5 for proper location and description of
           marking(s). All markings shall be stamped or
           stenciled with wash/water-proof (indelible)
           black laundry ink, P/N SPE-92, (NIIN 00-161-
           4229) or equivalent.

1.   Rescue Strop Marking(s) - Checked. Inspect rescue strop for
     proper marking(s). If marking(s) are missing or faded, stamp or
     stencil the proper marking(s) on the rescue strop. If marking(s)
     is/are incorrect, paint out incorrect marking(s) and stamp or stencil
     correct marking(s) as close to the proper location as possible.

2.   Rescue Strop Cable Weight Cover Marking(s) - Checked. Inspect
     cable weight cover for proper marking(s). If marking(s) are
     missing or faded, stamp or stencil the proper marking(s) on the
     cable weight cover. If marking(s) is/are incorrect, paint out
     incorrect marking(s) and stamp or stencil correct marking(s) as
     close to the proper location as possible.
40                          AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007



3.   Rescue Strop Forms Documentation - Completed. Document that
     a marking inspection was accomplished. Annotate any
     discrepancies noted during the marking inspection in appropriate
     section of equipment forms.

RESCUE STROP PROOF LOAD TEST
PROCEDURES
          The proof load test shall be performed on the rescue strop at
the time of initial issue from supply, when a rescue strop is
permanently accepted from another unit, and semi-annually (at an
interval not to exceed 183 days).

                                NOTE
           • The proof load test will be accomplished after
             every flight the rescue strop is immersed in
             salt water.

           • Ensure the rescue strop is completely dry
             before accomplishing the proof load test.

1.   Perform Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover Visual Inspection -
     Completed. Refer to AFI 11-2UH-1N Vol 3 2CL-1, Helicopter
     Mission Equipment Cleaning and Inspection Procedures for
     inspection criteria.

                                 NOTE
           • If webbing testing machine is not available,
             proceed to Step 6 and accomplish the
             alternate proof load testing method steps.

           • Inspect the rescue strop while it is still
             attached to the webbing testing machine with
             the 500 pound load still applied.

2.   Place Rescue Strop in a Webbing Testing Machine - Completed.
     Apply a load of 500 pounds at rate of one inch per minute. Allow
     loaded rescue strop to stabilize for a minimum of 2 minutes prior
     to inspecting the rescue strop.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                     28         February        2007
41
                             CAUTION
           Damage other than frayed or separated stitching
           the rescue strop must be removed from service
           and replaced.

3.   Rescue Strop Webbing - Checked. Inspect seams/stitching for
     damage and serviceability. Webbing that has frayed or separated
     stitching can be repaired/replaced IAW ASTM-D-6193 or FED-
     STD-751.

4.   Remove Load From Webbing Testing Machine - Completed.

5.   Remove Rescue Strop From Webbing Testing Machine -
     Completed. Proceed to the last step of this checklist.

                               NOTE
           The following steps will be used to proof load
           test the rescue strop if a webbing testing
           machine is unavailable or unserviceable.

6.   Attach Rescue Strop to a Stationary Point or Hoist System -
     Completed. Ensure stationary point or hoist system will
     accommodate a minimum of 600 Lbs and is capable of suspending
     the rescue strop and load. Attach only one end of the rescue strop
     to the stationary point or hoist system.

                             WARNING
           When working around a loaded rescue strop
           that       is      suspended;       inadvertent
           webbing/hardware failure could cause the
           rescue strop and/or load to drop onto personnel
           in the immediate vicinity. Do not perform the
           visual inspection while positioned directly
           underneath the suspended load.
42                         AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007

                                 NOTE
           • Units may attach a suitable container (i.e.
             rescue basket, stokes litter, etc) capable of
             accommodating the correct amount of weight
             to the free end of the rescue strop. The
             weight of the container must be calculated as
             part of the 400 - 500 Lb load being applied to
             the rescue strop.

           • Inspect the rescue strop while it is attached to
             either the stationary point/hoist system and is
             still loaded with the 400 - 500 pounds.


7.   Load Rescue Strop for Proof Load Test - Completed. Ensure load
     is suspended off of the floor/ground. Gradually apply a force of
     400 - 500 Lbs to the free end of the rescue strop by adding
     weights. Allow loaded rescue strop to stabilize for a minimum of 2
     minutes prior to inspecting the webbing.

                              CAUTION
           For damage other than frayed or separated
           stitching, the rescue strop must be removed
           from service and replaced.

8.   Rescue Strop Webbing - Checked. Inspect seams/stitching for
     damage and serviceability. Webbing that has frayed or separated
     stitching can be repaired/replaced IAW ASTM-D-6193 or FED-
     STD-751.

9.   Remove Load From Rescue Strop - Completed.

10. Remove Rescue Strop From Stationary Point or Hoisting System -
    Completed.

11. Rescue Strop Forms Documentation - Completed. Document that
    a proof load test was accomplished. Annotate any discrepancies
    noted during the proof load test in appropriate section of
    equipment forms.


 RESCUE STROP PREFLIGHT CHECKLIST
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                       28         February           2007
43
      Preflight inspection checklist will be accomplished prior to using
the equipment on a particular maneuver or mission.

1.   Rescue Strop Forms - Checked. Ensure forms are reviewed for
     any overdue inspections and annotate discrepancies found during
     inspection. Annotate that the preflight inspection was completed,
     indicating equipment is serviceable and ready for immediate use.

2.   Rescue Strop Webbing and Cable Weight Cover Fabric -
     Checked. Inspect fabric and webbing for abrasions, cuts,
     deterioration, dry rot and grease/oil contamination. Inspect seams
     for proper adhesion; inspect webbing stitching for dry rot, fraying
     and serviceability.

3.   Rescue Strop Retainer Strap Webbing - Checked. Inspect
     webbing for abrasions, cuts, deterioration, dry rot, grease/oil
     contamination, security of attachment and wear.

                                CAUTION
            Do not use snap hook assemblies that do not
            operate freely or cannot be manipulated (latched
            or unlatched) by hand. If snap hook assembly
            does not operate freely, the rescue strop must be
            removed from service and replaced or repaired.

4.   Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover Hardware - Checked.
     Inspect rescue strop and retainer strap V-rings and snap hook
     assemblies for corrosion, cracks, damage, dents, ease of
     operation/freedom of movement (if applicable), functions properly,
     security and for sharp burrs/edges.

5.   Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover Marking(s) - Checked.
     Inspect rescue strop and cable weight cover for proper marking(s).
44                         AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007


RESCUE STROP CLEANING PROCEDURES.
(IAW T.O. 00-25-245, NAVAIR 13-1-6.5, U.S. Coast
Guard and Manufacture’s Tech Data and this
Checklist.)
         The following cleaning procedures apply to the rescue strop
and cable weight cover. Accomplish this checklist anytime the rescue
strop and associated components have been immersed in salt water,
grease/oil contaminated or encrusted with dirt and soil. As a minimum
the rescue strop and associated components will be cleaned semi-
annually (at an interval not to exceed 183 days).

                                NOTE
           The materials required to clean the rescue strop
           and associated components are a general
           purpose detergent MIL-D-16791 (NIIN 00-
           282-9699) or equivalent and a lint free type II
           cloth MIL-C-85043 (NIIN 00-165-7195) or
           equivalent.


1.   Clean Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover - Completed. Clean
     the rescue strop and cable weight cover with a general purpose
     detergent and water solution. For the correct detergent to water
     mixture, follow ratios recommended by the detergent manufacture.

                               CAUTION
           Do not use high pressure washers or high
           pressure water flow to rinse the webbing as it
           can damage the webbing decreasing rescue
           strop service life.

2.   Rinse Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover - Completed. Using
     clean fresh water, thoroughly rinse the rescue strop and cable
     weight cover. Rinse rescue strope and cable weight cover until all
     soap residue is removed.

                               CAUTION
           Ensure the rescue strop is completely dry before
           placing it either into service or storage. Storing
           wet or damp webbing will cause the webbing to
           deteriorate and fail prematurely.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                      28         February         2007
45

                                 NOTE
           The proof load test will be accomplished after
           every flight the rescue strop is immersed in salt
           water.

3.   Dry Rescue Strop and Cable Weight Cover - Completed. Cover
     the rescue strop and cable weight cover with the clean, dry, lint-
     free cloth and allow to completely dry.

4.   Rescue Strop Forms Documentation - Completed. Document the
     rescue strop cleaning was accomplished. Annotate any
     discrepancies noted during rescue strop cleaning in the appropriate
     section of equipment forms.
46                         AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2 28 February 2007


MISCELLANEOUS.
HOIST HAND SIGNALS.
(Commands are highlighted in bold letters.)

Aircraft Movement - Open palm of hand indicating aircraft direction
of movement.

Survivor in and Secure, Ready for Takeoff or Go-Around - Index
finger in a circling movement overhead and point in the direction of
flight.

Stop Aircraft, Cable Movement or Hold Hover - Clenched fist.

Hoist Cable Up / Down - Clenched fist with thumb pointing up or
down.

Hoist Boom Left / Right - Clenched fist held horizontally with thumb
pointing left or right.

Cut Cable - Make clenched fist with left hand, have right hand making
a horizontal slashing movement underneath left hand.

Hoist Power Switch Placed in Opposite Position - Two fingers
extended while moving lower arm forward and backward at head
height.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3CL-2                       28        February          2007
47
HELICOPTER ROPE SUSPENSION (HRS)
EMERGENCY HAND SIGNALS.
         The following commands are not part of the normal HRS
sequence of events. They are used to either suspend or terminate HRS
operations whenever unsafe or questionable situations arise. These
commands and signals are general in nature and can and will be applied
to all UH-1N HRS operations.

(Commands are highlighted in bold letters.)

Abort - Signal is moving a hand horizontally, fingers extended, palm
down, back and forth in front of the neck in a slashing motion.

Aircraft Emergency - Signal is a hand with fingers extended and palm
down is raised and lowered above the head.

Crash Landing - Signal is both hands, each with fingers extended and
palms down, raised and lowered above the head in unison.

Cut Rope - Signal is a hand with fingers extended and joined moving
in a chopping motion against the opposite wrist.

Entanglement - Signal is forearms raised laterally to the front at
shoulder height, clasping hands with palms facing inward and fingers
interlocking.

Hold - Signal is a forearm raised vertically (as in taking an oath) with a
clenched fist in front of the face.

Lost Communications - Signal is hands placed at the ears with palms
open and forward.

Rope Deployment - Signal is a sweeping horizontal motion of the
hand with the index finger extended towards the exit.

Strap In - Signal is double clenched fists waist height moving back
and forth from your sides to your belt buckle.
