BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-261
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             15 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                    TACTICAL DATA LINK PLANNING AND
                                                                         OPERATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
OPR: ACC/A3C                                                              Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                        (Maj Gen James J. Jones)
Supersedes:    AFI11-261, 12 August 2009                                               Pages: 34


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements the guidance contained in AFI 11-200, Aircrew
Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure. It provides guidance
on the responsibilities of the Air Combat Command Director of Operations (ACC/A3) Tactical
Data Link Operations and Management Organization (TDLOMO), tactical data link (TDL)
managers, and wing/unit managers to support global interoperability of TDL operations with
primary focus on Link 16. This instruction applies to all personnel and units involved with Link
16 and other TDL operations in the Combat Air Forces, Special Operations Forces, Space
Forces, and Mobility Air Forces. It applies to the following MAJCOMs: Air Combat Command
(ACC), Air Education and Training Command (AETC), Air Force Special Operations Command
(AFSOC), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), Air Mobility Command (AMC), Air Force
Global Strike Command (AFGSC), Air National Guard (ANG), Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC), Air Force Material Command (AFMC), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), and United States
Air Forces in Europe (USAFE). This publication may be supplemented at any level.
Supplements must be forwarded to ACC/A3CJ for coordination prior to certification and
approval. No waivers may be granted for any part of this publication.

This instruction provides guidance to units to plan, implement, and manage Link 16 and other
TDLs as they operate independently or integrate into multi-TDL networks both within the United
States and its Possessions (US&P) and in theaters of operations outside the US&P. US&P is
referenced in accordance with guidance provided in CJCSI 6232.01, and will be used throughout
this document.

It covers specific responsibilities for units tasked with planning and operating Link 16 and other
TDLs. It carries out the tenets for operational Link 16 deconfliction directed in the Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6232.01, Link-16 Spectrum Deconfliction and
 2                                                                                              AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


tactical data link standardization directed in CJCSI 6610.01D, Tactical Data Link
Standardization Implementation Plan. It covers similar responsibilities for other emerging TDLs.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command to include ACC/A3CJ,
acca3cj.jtids@langley.af.mil. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
maintained in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil /afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. General changes
include: Reflects new charter for ACC/A3CJ expanding its responsibilities from Link 16-only
and a role of Air Force Link 16 Network Design Facility to its responsibilities for operations
management of all non-legacy tactical data links (TDL) and its new role of (TDLOMO), with its
primary focus remaining on Link 16. Identifies ACC/A3 as the Air Force command lead
addressing cross-platform issues resulting from platform implementation, operational network
employment, and TDL management. Adds F-35 Air Force operational Crypto Controlling
Authority to TDLOMO responsibilities. Adds the new position of TDL Manager and its
responsibilities as well as new responsibilities by Wing/Unit Managers for capabilities such as
Situation Awareness Data Link (SADL) and the responsibilities associated with such
capabilities. Introduces continuing education concept for TDL Managers and Wing/Unit
Managers. Updates capabilities of using a website as a primary communications tool between
the TDLOMO, TDL Managers, and Wing/ Unit Managers. Updates responsibilities of AF Link
16 Network Management Working Group. Expands guidance and procedures for requesting a
new Link 16 network. Clarifies procedures for deconflicting Link 16 operations.

Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                        4
        1.1.    Tactical Data Links (TDL). ....................................................................................               4
        1.2.    Headquarters Air Force Responsibilities. ..............................................................                       5
        1.3.    ACC Responsibilities. ............................................................................................            5

Chapter 2—AIR COMBAT COMMAND DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS TACTICAL
            DATA LINK OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
            (ACC/A3 TDLOMO)                                                                                                                   6
        2.1.    Background. ...........................................................................................................       6
        2.2.    Mission. ..................................................................................................................   6
        2.3.    Duties and Responsibilities. ...................................................................................              6
        2.4.    AFLNMWG. ..........................................................................................................           7

Chapter 3—DATA LINK MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                9
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                                                                 3


     3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
     3.2.   Wing Manager. ......................................................................................................          10
     3.3.   Unit Manager. ........................................................................................................        14
     3.4.   Tactical Data Link Manager (TDLM). ..................................................................                         14
     3.5.   SADL Equipped Units. ..........................................................................................               16

Chapter 4—REQUESTING A LINK 16 DESIGN                                                                                                     18
     4.1.   Design Requests. ....................................................................................................         18
     4.2.   Designated Designs. ...............................................................................................           18
     4.3.   Design Support. .....................................................................................................         18

Chapter 5—LINK 16 FREQUENCY ASSIGNMENT                                                                                                    19
     5.1.   Background. ...........................................................................................................       19
     5.2.   Operations in the US&P. .......................................................................................               19
     5.3.   Operations Outside the US&P. ..............................................................................                   19

Chapter 6—LINK 16 DECONFLICTION PROCEDURES                                                                                                21
     6.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   21
     6.2.   Deconfliction Server. .............................................................................................           21
     6.3.   Link 16 Deconfliction. ...........................................................................................            22
     6.4.   Stop Buzzer. ...........................................................................................................      22

Chapter 7—INFORMATION COLLECTIONS, RECORDS, AND FORMS OR
            INFORMATION MANAGEMENT TOOLS (IMT)                                                                                            23
     7.1.   Information Collections. ........................................................................................             23
     7.2.   Records. .................................................................................................................    23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, PRESCRIBED FORMS, AND
             SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                                       24

Attachment 2—NETWORK REQUEST WORKSHEET                                                                                                    30
 4                                                              AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012



                                            Chapter 1

                                       INTRODUCTION

1.1. Tactical Data Links (TDL). Command, control, and communications systems should be
reliable, survivable, flexible, interoperable, timely, and secure. This concept of joint combat
operations is supported by the exchange of tactical information between participants on a real-
time or near-real-time basis with TDLs. The exchange of real-time tactical information between
command and control (C2) systems, weapon systems, and intelligence systems provides mutual
support, allows coordinated action, and prevents interference between interfaced forces for the
efficient and effective application of military force.
     1.1.1. Link 16 Background. Link 16 is the predominant TDL used in USAF, joint and
     coalition operations. It is a high capacity, secure, jam resistant communications system that
     supports a wide variety of information exchanges.                  These exchanges include
     air/surface/subsurface/land/space surveillance tracks, command and control directives,
     participant position reports, platform status, electronic warfare, imagery, network enabled
     weapons, engagement coordination, integrated fire control, and fighter target reports.
        1.1.1.1. Description. Link 16 operates in the 960 – 1215 megahertz (MHz) frequency
        band, and is a line-of-sight system. However, message relays may extend the range
        beyond line of sight (BLOS). In addition, messages may be transmitted BLOS over
        digital media and networks not originally designed for tactical data exchange by
        embedding formatted tactical digital messages as data fields within available commercial
        and government protocols, such as those used over satellites and terrestrial links. Both
        the Link 16 waveform and data messages are standardized to provide interoperability
        between the different Services, allies, and platform types. Two levels of encryption
        provide secure information (message security) and non-vulnerable jam resistance
        (transmission security).
        1.1.1.2. Terminals. The Air Force uses multiple types of Link 16 terminals that require
        operational parameter configuration to ensure mission capabilities are provided. Systems
        with integrated TDLs such as the F-22 and emerging systems such as the F-35 which
        support Link 16 using specific platform unique cryptographic modules, and future
        systems that will contain software programmable data link capability radios, will
        likewise require network design and management support.
        1.1.1.3. Link 16 Message Standard: The Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS)-
        mandated J-series message set is used in tactical data links in accordance with Military
        Standard (MIL-STD) 6016, Tactical Data Link (TDL) 16 Message Standard and CJCSI
        6610.01D, Tactical Data Link Standardization Implementation Plan.
     1.1.2. SADL Background: SADL is a high capacity, secure, jam resistant communications
     system that is an AF derivative of the Army’s Enhanced Position Location Reporting System
     (EPLRS) networking technology. It supports a wide variety of information exchanges along
     with the ability to exchange friendly ground force positions and Close Air Support (CAS)
     mission data with the ground EPLRS network. A configured Gateway is required for
     integration with Link-16 networks.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  5


       1.1.2.1. SADL Messages: TDL information exchanges, in the form of J-series messages,
       are used primarily for tactical operations among Link 16 and SADL-capable platforms
       and other platforms using J-series messages.
   1.1.3. Other TDLs: Additional TDLs that may be used in a multi-TDL network (MTN)
   include those listed in Table 1-1 of the Joint Tactical Data Enterprise Services (TDES)
   Migration Plan (JTMP) under the Joint Family of TDLs and Expanded DLs list.
1.2. Headquarters Air Force Responsibilities. Headquarters Air Force (HAF), AF/A3O-AC
provides policy, guidance and advocacy for tactical data links employed by AF platforms. This
division provides HAF advocacy for TDL functional areas to include training, operations and
maintenance funding, and special experience identifier (SEI) development.
1.3. ACC Responsibilities. ACC, Directorate of Operations, Command and Control,
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C2ISR) Operations Division (ACC/A3C),
Langley AFB, VA, is designated as the Air Force’s command lead for TDLs with emphasis on
the Link 16 operational network design and management process.
   1.3.1. The TDLOMO is located within ACC/A3C and provides an infrastructure to support
   TDLs included in the TDES JTMP, and employed on AF weapon systems. It is the Air
   Force’s provider and OPR for Link 16 network design operations providing warfighter
   support to ensure effective planning and management of Link 16 and other TDL operations.
   The TDLOMO is manned by personnel assigned to ACC/A3CJ who have the experience in
   AF operations and the technical expertise in Link 16 capabilities needed to accurately
   incorporate operational information exchange requirements into the development and
   management of TDL networks. The TDLOMO also provides support services to SADL to
   ensure interoperability with Link 16 operations. Although Link 16 centric, the TDLOMO
   will migrate to network design and management support for other operational TDL systems
   employed by AF platforms as manning and requirements are identified.
 6                                                             AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


                                           Chapter 2

 AIR COMBAT COMMAND DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS TACTICAL DATA LINK
    OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION (ACC/A3 TDLOMO)

2.1. Background. The TDLOMO will support the interoperability needs of the data links
fielded on AF weapons systems. The focus of this organization is Link 16, but its charter also
includes other TDLs such as those listed in JTMP DL Categories under Joint Family of TDLs
and Expanded DLs that are in use by AF platforms and whose data may be integrated into multi-
TDL networks. This office will address other data links comprising the Joint Family of Tactical
Data Link Systems and emerging data links in the future as these capabilities are fielded on AF
weapon systems and as they are integrated into the multi-TDL networks.
2.2. Mission. The TDLOMO provides the Air Force with one organization as command lead
addressing cross-platform issues resulting from platform implementation, operational network
employment and TDL management with the goal of fostering interoperability and cross-domain
integration and enhancing the digital kill chain. The TDLOMO supports existing and future Air
Force requirements for validation, publication, management and maintenance of Link 16
network designs and integrates data from other TDL’s operating in conjunction with Link 16.
2.3. Duties and Responsibilities.
     2.3.1. Functions. The primary focus of the TDLOMO is the AF Link 16 Network Design
     Facility (AF NDF), which is the sole provider of Link 16 design products and services within
     the Air Force. The NDF:
        2.3.1.1. Supports theater commander’s Link 16 requirements for Joint, Combined or
        Coalition operations as part of the Joint Network Design Team (JNDT), which includes
        representatives from the United States Army (USA), the United States Navy (USN), the
        United States Air Force (USAF), and the United States Marine Corps (USMC) NDFs and
        is defined by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 6120.01, Joint
        Multi Tactical Data Link (TDL) Operating Procedures, and CJCSM 3115.01, Joint Data
        Network Operations.
        2.3.1.2. Supports operational and theater commanders and Air Force participants by
        ensuring that Link 16 designs are developed, validated, published, managed, and
        maintained in accordance with USAF, Joint, and Coalition/Combined requirements and
        by providing on-site support, as required, in support of operational plans, operational
        employment, exercises, testing and unit training.
        2.3.1.3. Ensures that Link 16 operational networks that include USAF platforms meet
        USAF, Joint, Combined, and/or Coalition requirements. Provide Link 16 designs in
        accordance with user requirements, issue Air Force platform initialization data loads
        (IDLs) directly to users, and provide technical expertise for solving problems
        encountered during Link 16 operations.
        2.3.1.4. Coordinates directly with the requesting unit/platform POC to help define Link
        16 requirement for Air Force-only Link 16 network requirements. If a current design
        does not exist that meets the requirements, the AF NDF will coordinate with Joint and
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                      7


      National and Multinational Design Facilities, as needed, to develop a new Link 16 design
      and distribute platform loads to satisfy customer requirements.
      2.3.1.5. Maintains a master library of all operational Link 16 network designs that
      include Air Force platforms. The library will provide a centralized source of predefined
      Link 16 files for selection and implementation by Link 16-equipped units, forces and
      theaters.
      2.3.1.6. Coordinates with unit platform representatives to validate new designs prior to
      operational use.
      2.3.1.7. Uses, evaluates, and recommends improvements, as needed, to Link 16 design
      aids and tactical data link monitoring tools.      Ensure new platform Link 16
      implementations interface properly and are correctly included in the Joint Network
      Design Aid (JNDA).
   2.3.2. The TDLOMO will:
      2.3.2.1. Manage AF Link 16 training slots at the Joint Multi-TDL School (JMTS) and
      assist in the development and planning of Link 16 continuing education opportunities.
      2.3.2.2. Function as controlling authority for Air Force Link 16 cryptographic keys
      (crypto keys), F-22A and F-35 Air Force operational crypto keys and SADL Tactical
      Users Group (TUG) crypto keys. This responsibility includes serving as the POC and
      controlling authority for units to establish initial distribution, revalidate and/or change
      requirements. Crypto key material will be administered in accordance with AFI 33-215,
      Controlling Authorities for COMSEC Keying Material (keymat). Crypto keying material
      can be ordered using the processes identified in AFI 33-201, Vol. 2 (FOUO),
      Communications Security (COMSEC) User Requirements.
      2.3.2.3. Update and maintain a community web page that provides on-line support for
      unit Link 16 operations. The community web page will support up/down channel
      communications feedback, and information-sharing between operational commands and
      units. The community web page will provide the ability to disseminate platform loads to
      customers. The TDL community web page will be accessible through any military
      domain.
      2.3.2.4. Represent the Air Force as command lead for TDL operational and technical
      issues in Service/Joint/Combined/North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)/bilateral
      forums that address TDL design, management and related issues. Disseminate
      information and solicit input from MAJCOMs and other key TDL support agencies on
      any significant TDL issues.
      2.3.2.5. Support ESC efforts to develop and evaluate Link 16 enhancements and new
      concepts of link employment and to integrate them into future platforms and network
      architectures. Also support efforts to evaluate Link 16 interfaces with evolving airborne
      networking waveforms and protocols, as time permits.
      2.3.2.6. Chair the Air Force Link 16 Network Management Working Group
      (AFLNMWG).
2.4. AFLNMWG. ACC/A3 has delegated operational Link 16 network design and management
oversight authority to ACC/A3C, with support from the TDLOMO. The AFLNMWG consists
 8                                                            AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


of Link 16 wing/unit managers as well as other agencies that support the network management
process. As AFLNMWG chair, TDLOMO will convene the group annually; however, any
participating agency may request that it be convened more often.
     2.4.1. Working Group Responsibilities. The AFLNMWG will:
        2.4.1.1. Define and provide user requirements for the design and management of Link 16
        designs throughout the four phases (design, validation, publication, and maintenance) of
        the Link 16 network management process.
        2.4.1.2. Support the Link 16 network management process for Air Force and Joint
        environments as appropriate, to include Link 16 network designs.
        2.4.1.3. Assist in planning, scheduling, and implementing formal training programs, both
        short-term and long-term, for all phases of the Link 16 network management process.
        2.4.1.4. Ensure Link 16 network designs and management processes are implemented by
        existing Joint Battlespace Interoperability (JBI) interfaces and personnel.
        2.4.1.5. Discuss, research, and assist in the resolution of issues related to Link 16
        network management.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                        9


                                            Chapter 3

                                DATA LINK MANAGEMENT

3.1. General. TDLs provide participating platforms the capability of operating together as an
integrated force by allowing operators to share tactical information. Different levels of planning,
coordination, and technical management skills are required depending upon the complexity of
the TDL environment.
   3.1.1. The most complex TDL environments are real world operations under the
   responsibility of a Joint Force Commander and conducted IAW an Operational
   Plan/Operations Order (OPLAN/OPORD). Complex TDL networks can also occur in large-
   scale joint exercises. These complex multi-TDL network (MTN) operations will fall under
   the management of a Joint Interface Control Officer managing a Joint Interface Control Cell.
   The network operations may further be subdivided into subordinate areas of responsibility
   and managed by Regional Interface Control Officers/Sector Interface Control Officers. Such
   individuals and the individuals manning interface control cells are normally located at Battle
   Management Command and Control (BMC2) facilities and are trained and qualified as
   Interface Control Officers/Interface Control Technicians under their unit training programs.
   Although TDL management and training in BMC2 facilities are not governed by this
   instruction, it provides data link management core functions that should form the basis for
   that training.
   3.1.2. Most other TDL network pre-execution planning, coordination, infrastructure
   management, and network execution, NOT in support of an OPLAN/OPORD (Joint Task
   Force) or for major exercises, are conducted at the wing level for the purpose of training.
   The Air Force needs defined points of contact (POCs) at wing and unit level to act as
   Tactical Data Link (TDL) experts and interfaces between own wing/unit TDL participants
   and other elements of the TDL operational infrastructure. To provide an appropriate data link
   management infrastructure, the wing commander, or designated representative, of a wing
   possessing TDL capability will appoint:
   3.1.2.1. A wing manager to act as the wing’s designated POC and interface for network
   planning and coordination between the wing and other elements of the TDL operational
   infrastructure, including the TDLOMO. The appointed wing manager will be identified to
   the TDLOMO.
       3.1.2.2. A unit manager for units with TDL capability, as required (see Para 3.3). For
       wings with limited TDL use, the wing/unit manager can be the same person. Unit
       commanders for units below wing level and not reporting to a wing will appoint a unit
       manager to perform the wing manager’s duties referenced in this document. Note: Units
       with platforms that do not possess an RF Link 16 capability but still represent a distinct
       presence (direct or indirect PPLI, TDL connectivity) within the TDL interface are still
       required to establish a wing/unit manager position for direction of platform configuration,
       and coordination with the TDL network manager to ensure information exchange
       requirements (IERS) are met. Training requirements may differ for these individuals, but
       at a minimum should include an understanding of the capabilities and interoperability
 10                                                            AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


      requirements of their specific system or platform and how it impacts the overall TDL
      architecture.
      3.1.2.3. For wings with complex TDL environments, the commander or designated
      representative may also appoint a separate TDL Manager (TDLM) to support the
      wing/unit managers at various locations. Whereas wing/unit managers at squadron levels
      are more focused in the pre-execution planning for TDL operations, the individual
      tactical data link managers at locations such as training ranges fulfill additional technical
      and TDL execution responsibilities.
3.2. Wing Manager. The wing manager will act as TDL expert and interface between wing
TDL participants and other elements of the TDL operational infrastructure.
   3.2.1. Appointed wing managers are assumed to possess the basic training for pre-execution
   planning and employment requirements for their wing’s TDL system, to include mission
   planning and IERs for their specific weapons system. The wing manager will act as interface
   between own unit platforms and the exercise/host manager when wing assets are either
   participating in an exercise being managed by a TDLM outside the unit or deploying to
   participate in TDL operations being managed by another unit.
   3.2.2. For coordinating unit TDL equipment requirements and the networks to meet local-
   unit requirements, the wing manager will act as the interface between the wing and higher-
   level agencies such as the TDLOMO. For daily training, the wing manager will act as the
   network manager for locally operated networks. He/she will determine the requirements for
   those networks and identify them to the AF agency tasked with providing network support.
   The wing manager will obtain network descriptions and initialization data loads for all
   networks in which own-unit platforms are potential participants, including joint and allied
   networks, and maintain them in a local TDL network library for use by local unit platform
   operations personnel. The wing manager will provide the appropriate information required
   to operate in the network (as extracted from the appropriate Operational Tasking Data Links
   (OPTASK LINK) message) directly to own-unit platforms and to other participants. If own
   platforms are deploying to work in a TDL network being managed by another unit, the wing
   manager will act as the interface between his/her platforms and that unit’s TDL manager to
   ensure own-unit requirements are being met.
   3.2.3. Responsibilities. The wing manager will plan and coordinate operations for the
   TDL(s) for which he/she is responsible and which include own-unit participants.
      3.2.3.1. The wing manager will identify duties and responsibilities (see section 3.2) that
      are delegated to the unit managers.
      3.2.3.2. The wing manager will determine (see section 3.2.4) training requirements that
      are applicable to unit managers. Unit managers should be afforded as much training in
      section 3.2.4 as is practical.
      3.2.3.3. The wing manager will identify if unit managers will develop independent
      continuity books or if specific unit information will be incorporated in the single wing
      continuity book.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    11


     3.2.3.4. The wing manager will identify how unit managers will obtain TDL reference
     documentation (i.e. have independent reference library, use central wing reference library
     or some combination of both).
     3.2.3.5. TDL Network Selection. For local operations/training events involving own-
     unit platforms, the wing manager will determine which TDL design will be used (either
     existing, modified or new); ensure the design meets own unit operations requirements;
     confirm it has required connectivity for own-unit platforms; confirm its functions
     correlate with the mission that will be conducted; ensure data to be exchanged is
     protected IAW its level of classification, and confirm that anticipated TDL frequency
     spectrum transmissions conform to frequency authorization constraints. If the planned
     network(s) do not meet requirements, coordinate with the TDLOMO for an updated/new
     design that best meets message exchange requirements and matches the maximum
     number of participants. Read the description document for the specific configuration of
     each candidate design. If necessary, request a new design. For joint and allied training,
     contact the TDLOMO to identify the correct design.
     3.2.3.6. When wing assets are either participating in an exercise being managed by a
     TDL/wing manager outside the unit or deploying to participate in TDL operations being
     managed by another unit, the wing manager will act as interface between own unit’s
     platforms and the exercise/host manager and will coordinate to ensure own-unit
     requirements are being met.
     3.2.3.7. The wing manager will maintain a local TDL design library containing
     description documents and IDL files for TDL designs in which own wing platforms are
     potential participants (including joint and allied); and periodically review for needed
     updates. Design information for contingency operations and exercises may be classified
     or contain sensitive information. When documentation of this type is published, it will be
     available     for     download     on   the    TDLOMO        SIPRNET       website      at:
     https://www.my.af.smil.mil/gccs-af/USAF/ep/globaltab.do?channelpageId=-476653 .
     Classified design information will be handled, stored, and protected in accordance with
     its level of classification. Note: Air Support Operations Groups will perform the wing
     manager function for Air Support Operations Squadrons.
     3.2.3.8. TDL Spectrum and Deconfliction. The wing manager will coordinate with the
     Installation Spectrum Manager/MAJCOM Spectrum Management Office to ensure that
     wing platforms operating TDL terminals are operating in accordance with the
     constraints/restrictions expressed in a valid frequency assignment. Radiate only if
     operations in the affected area have been deconflicted with all operators in the same area
     and meet the conditions in the frequency assignment. Ensure unit participants know and
     comply with the restrictions in the frequency assignment.
        3.2.3.8.1. The wing manager will follow the appropriate AF guidance/procedures to
        obtain or update temporary frequency assignments for anticipated wing operating
        areas.
        3.2.3.8.2. For deployed operations, the wing manager will coordinate with the TDL
        wing manager at the deployed location to confirm that a TDL frequency assignment
        exists. If an assignment exists, review the assignment to ensure planned operations
12                                                          AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


        will not exceed the assigned parameters. If an assignment does not exist, refer to
        Chapter 5.
        3.2.3.8.3. If required, schedule unit TDL operations with the appropriate TDL
        deconfliction agency.
     3.2.3.9. Crypto Key Functions. The wing manager will support crypto key functions,
     to include acquisition, maintenance and TDL terminal fill. Managers should consult the
     appropriate cryptokey utilization plans and order the crypto key(s) indicated for TDLs
     being operated by wing platforms.       NOTE: Crypto keys are ordered via the base
     cryptographic custodian and normal cryptographic channels. The wing managers should
     ensure their units have a minimum of current plus 90 days of crypto keying material
     readily available to be drawn from wing accounts and held at unit level for daily use.
        3.2.3.9.1. The wing manager will decide which crypto keys to use for local TDL
        operations and training or, for exercises/multi-wing operations, refer to the
        appropriate OPTASK LINK message for the appropriate TDL crypto key(s).
        3.2.3.9.2. Proper link operation requires the correct loading of crypto short titles to
        match the crypto design of the network. NOTE: Loading crypto keys contrary to
        the instructions in the OPTASK LINK and the Network Description Document
        will result in a lack of interoperability and may compromise classified
        information being exchanged on the network. This could also result in a
        potential COMSEC incident that should be reported to the COMSEC manager.
     3.2.3.10. Operational Tasking Data Links (OPTASK LINK) Message. For TDL
     events whereby the wing is participating in operations/training under the direction of an
     external Joint Interface Control Officer or TDL/wing manager, the wing manager will be
     able to extract data from an OPTASK LINK message, as defined in MIL-STD 6040, U.S
     Message Text Formatting Program, and to provide own unit’s platforms with data
     essential to operating TDLs with which own unit is equipped.
        3.2.3.10.1. As appropriate, the wing manager will associate actual units with generic
        design participants, the appropriate IDLs and track numbers, and other appropriate
        network-specific identifiers as indicated in the appropriate TDL section of the
        OPTASK LINK.
        3.2.3.10.2. For TDL track producers, the wing manager will align track number
        blocks with producers as indicated in the appropriate TDL section of the OPTASK
        LINK.
        3.2.3.10.3. The wing manager will determine which unit participants are designated
        to play special roles, as indicated in the appropriate TDL section of the OPTASK
        LINK, and will confirm roles are appropriate to their capability.
        3.2.3.10.4. The wing manager will extract instructions for activating the network and
        provide them to expected link participants. Ensure the time frame of reference is
        clearly specified (e.g., local, Zulu, etc.)
     3.2.3.11. Operating TDLs. The wing manager will ensure unit operators are
     knowledgeable of and follow procedures mandated in CJCSM 6120.01, Joint Multi-
     Tactical Data Link Operating Procedures (JMTOP) when operating TDLs.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                      13


     3.2.3.12. AFLNMWG Participant. As a stakeholder in TDL operations, each wing
     manager will participate to the extent practical in activities leading to achievement of
     AFLNMWG responsibilities as outlined in Para 2.4.1.
  3.2.4. Training. Wing managers will complete the academic and proficiency training
  appropriate to the TDL and position for which they have been designated. Wing managers at
  Link 16-equipped units will complete the Link 16 Unit Manager (LUM) Course (JT-220)
  offered at the Joint Multi-TDL School to obtain a basic level of knowledge and
  understanding of responsibilities as soon as practical but not later than six months after being
  appointed. The LUM course provides training in Link 16 planning and employment. The
  LUM course is not mandatory if the wing manager has previously attended the Multi-TDL
  Operations Planning Course, JT-201. ACC/A3CJ will confirm training requirements on a
  case by case basis after notification of assignment.
     3.2.4.1. If an appointed individual is unable to complete the LUM course within the
     prescribed time, the unit operations training officer will notify ACC/A3CJ, in writing,
     and provide the unit’s plan for completing the training.
     3.2.4.2. ACC/A3CJ will provide funding, to the extent funds are available, for travel
     (excluding rental vehicles in the local area of the training) and per diem for active duty,
     government civilians supporting the AF, and ANG Title 10 individuals attending this
     training.. Other individuals will require unit funding.
  3.2.5. Continuing Education. Training of personnel to effectively perform TDL pre-
  execution planning and coordination is an ongoing process primarily made up of local
  training programs and those provided by ACC/A3CJ, with the goal of expanding their TDL
  knowledge base and staying up-to-date on new developments in network planning and
  operations. Units must consider various means of reaching an objective level of knowledge
  through the use of continuing education. Some tools for consideration include local
  development of refresher training modules, use of computer-based training programs,
  development of local training guides for specific subject areas, and use of a self-inspection or
  compliance checklist. Operating procedures for TDLMs will be developed and added as an
  annex and/or chapter to unit local operating procedures and included in an annual review
  process. The TDLOMO Portal Page contains tools to be used as a basis for continuing
  education programs for both the wing/unit and TDL Managers. The TDLOMO will assist in
  development of non-platform-specific Defense Connect Online (DCO) training sessions as
  requested by the field.
     3.2.5.1. JT-101, the Link 16 Joint Interoperability Course, is offered as a computer based
     training program and can be taken over a 90 calendar day period. Instructions for
     registration are located on the TDLOMO A3CJ Portal Page.
  3.2.6. TDL References. Effective TDL planning requires that wing and TDL managers
  have access to a standard set of references to support TDL operations. Resources include a
  library of reference documents, a continuity book, and access to the internet. As a minimum
  requirement, the wing manager will develop a local continuity book and review annually.
  The TDLOMO A3CJ Portal Page contains applicable references and an outline for minimum
  topics to be established in the continuity book.
 14                                                             AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


3.3. Unit Manager. Some wings may only require a wing manager who coordinates and
manages all TDL operations for the wing and acts as the primary interface with external TDL
operational infrastructure. Others may have a variety of TDL participants which requires
managers at the unit levels below the wing level. This allows the wing manager to delegate
responsibility to unit level managers to perform some of the duties described in wing manager
(section 3.2) as they apply to their unit. The unit manager will be the unit’s interface with the
wing manager.
   3.3.1. If given clearance by the wing manager, the unit manager can act as interface between
   own unit platforms and the exercise/host manager when wing assets are either participating
   in an exercise being managed by a TDLM outside the unit or deploying to participate in TDL
   operations being managed by another unit. This individual may also be designated to
   coordinate with higher-level agencies such as the TDLOMO.
3.4. Tactical Data Link Manager (TDLM). To maximize benefits of any TDL system, pre-
execution planning, and management of the infrastructure components are critical. For wings
with complex TDL network pre-execution planning, coordination, infrastructure management,
and network execution (e.g., at test and training ranges), the responsible wing commander may
choose to designate, in writing, a TDLM to perform these core functions (see Para 3.4.1 below).
The TDLM core functions provide the minimum essential tasks needed for all TDL operations
management. These functions ensure initiation, operation, and termination of data link
operations are efficient, effective, and conducted within established constraints. Operation of the
TDL network will begin and end with the TDLM. The TDLM may be responsible for networks
supporting operations such as daily training, test and evaluation, and experiments. The networks
may consist of only Link 16 participants or may be part of a larger MTN. Wing or unit managers
may double as TDLMs for Link 16 networks that only include participants from their unit/wing.
Data Link managers in theaters located outside the US&P may have different coordination and
deconfliction procedures than those listed here. However, procedures will be similar as these
functions are necessary in all TDL operations.
   3.4.1. TDLM Minimum Core Functions.
       3.4.1.1. Assess platform multi-TDL capabilities and limitations, anticipated data loads,
       known interoperability problems, and environmental limitations.
       3.4.1.2. Develop a multi-TDL network architecture that supports the operational
       information exchange requirements.
       3.4.1.3. Publish OPTASK LINK message to assign appropriate network data and roles to
       participants.
       3.4.1.4. Perform necessary coordination to accommodate restrictions on multi-TDL
       operations.
       3.4.1.5. Initialize TDL networks and manage data coordination nets.
       3.4.1.6. Identify and resolve multi-TDL data exchange anomalies or deficiencies that
       degrade accomplishment of network IERs.
   3.4.2. Responsibilities. TDLMs will:
       3.4.2.1. Specify planning parameters and IERs for TDL networks that will best satisfy
       operational requirements and will facilitate the TDLM’s or external network manager’s
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                       15


     selection of a network from the JTIDS Network Library or description of the
     characteristics of an alternate network, as required. The network that is selected may be
     an existing network, either as is or altered to meet requirements; or it may be a newly
     designed network. The TDL manager selecting the network will: ensure network
     configuration meets the operations requirement of the users; will confirm it has required
     connectivity for all users; will confirm its functions correlate with the mission that will be
     conducted; and will confirm the Time Slot Duty Factor (TSDF) meets frequency
     assignment restrictions. If a new network design or a modification to an existing design
     is required, the TDLM or an external network manager (if TDL operations are being
     managed by an external network manager) will contact ACC/A3CJ with requirements as
     indicated in Para 4.1. Users who are unsure whether an existing network design fulfills
     the users’ requirements should contact ACC/A3CJ to request advice regarding a network
     design.
     3.4.2.2. Prepare, or assist in preparing, the data link portions of the OPTASK LINK
     message.
     3.4.2.3. Manage assignment of functional network roles such as network time reference
     or navigation controller.
     3.4.2.4. Coordinate with the appropriate Link 16 Deconfliction Coordinators to satisfy all
     frequency assignment authorization restrictions. Each frequency assignment identifies
     the deconfliction requirement, as stated in CJCSI 6232.01, Link-16 Spectrum
     Deconfliction, for deconflicting US&P Link 16 operations. Each Service appoints
     deconfliction coordinators for their operations/areas, as needed. Chapter 6 lists
     coordinator responsibilities.
     3.4.2.5. Confirm participants have the appropriate initialization data load files and the
     appropriate crypto.
     3.4.2.6. Monitor the network operation for efficient operation and adjust, as needed.
        3.4.2.6.1. Coordinate the data link initialization process.
        3.4.2.6.2. Monitor and ensure that the Link 16 operations comply with civil and other
        restrictions on Link 16 transmissions in the operating areas.
        3.4.2.6.3. Manage connectivity between JTIDS Units (JUs) including
        activation/deactivation of relays, and recommending change of JU transmit mode to
        normal or data silent.
        3.4.2.6.4. Take corrective actions when disruptions occur.
        3.4.2.6.5. Monitor and manage the network to ensure operations are efficient,
        effective, and conducted within established constraints.
  3.4.3. Training
     3.4.3.1. TDLMs will complete, as a minimum, the JT-102 (Multi-Tactical Data Link
     Advanced Joint Interoperability Course) and the JT-201 (Link 16 Planner Course) taught
     by the Joint Multi-TDL School. In addition, if possible TDLMs should complete the
     Advanced JICC Operators Course (JT-310).
 16                                                            AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


      3.4.3.2. If an appointed TDLM is unable to complete the JT-102 and/or the JT-201
      course within six months of appointment, the unit operations training officer will notify
      ACC/A3CJ in writing and provide the unit’s plan for correcting the deficiency as soon as
      possible.
   3.4.4. Continuing Education.
      3.4.4.1. Training of personnel to effectively perform TDL pre-execution planning and
      coordination is an ongoing process primarily made up of local training programs and
      those provided by ACC/A3CJ, with the goal of expanding their TDL knowledge base and
      staying up-to-date on new developments in network planning and operations. Units must
      consider various means of reaching an objective level of knowledge through the use of
      continuing education. Some tools for consideration include local development of
      refresher training modules, use of computer-based training programs, development of
      local training guides for specific subject areas, and use of a self-inspection or compliance
      checklist. Operating procedures for TDLMs will be developed and added as an annex
      and/or chapter to unit local operating procedures and included in an annual review
      process. The TDLOMO Portal Page contains tools to be used as a basis for continuing
      education programs for both the wing/unit and TDL Managers. The TDLOMO will assist
      in development of non-platform-specific Defense Connect Online (DCO) training
      sessions as requested by the field.
      3.4.4.2. Of particular importance is an established continuity book and review of the
      resource library materials posted on the TDLOMO A3CJ Portal Page. As a minimum,
      TDLMs will develop a local continuity book and review annually. An outline for
      continuity book minimum topics is located on the Portal Page under the Wing/Unit
      Manager tab.
      3.4.4.3. JT-101, the Link 16 Joint Interoperability Course, offered as a computer-based
      training program, can be taken over a 90 calendar day period. This course is highly
      recommended as part of continuing education. Instructions for registration are located on
      the TDLOMO A3CJ Portal Page.
3.5. SADL Equipped Units. The guidance that follows is unique to wings equipped with
SADL platforms and is in addition to that in Para 3.2.
   3.5.1. Responsibilities. SADL equipped unit managers will plan and coordinate data link
   operations which may also include gateway-supported operations in conjunction with other
   TDL’s.
      3.5.1.1. Gateways. The SADL Manager will coordinate with appropriate Gateway
      System’s Managers to verify mission area coverage and capability to support the
      applicable IERs.
      3.5.1.2. Crypto Key Functions. For local SADL operations, the SADL Manager will
      select the appropriate crypto key and notify anticipated participants of the planned key.
      For operations/training in conjunction with an external TDLM or network manager, the
      SADL Manager will ensure correct crypto keys are used, as specified in the OPTASK
      LINK message for SADL operations.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                            17


     3.5.1.3. Source Track Number (STN). The SADL data link participants are universally
     identified by a STN as specified in the OPTASK LINK. For operations/training
     associated with an external TDLM or network manager where no OPTASK LINK exists,
     the TDL manager will assign the appropriate STN information.
 18                                                            AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


                                          Chapter 4

                            REQUESTING A LINK 16 DESIGN

4.1. Design Requests. Any unit planning to participate in local Link 16 operations/training
where a Link 16 network design does not exist or has not been designated may submit a Link 16
design request to ensure operational needs are met. A request worksheet can be found in
Attachment 2 of this publication. A request form is in JMTOP, pages A-D-A-5 through A-D-A-
8. Air Force units will contact ACC/A3CJ to initiate this process.
   4.1.1. Existing Designs. Prior to requesting a new design, review existing designs for
   applicability. The AF NDF will provide description documents for designs containing Air
   Force platforms. Users should review the description document and consider designs that
   support at least the maximum number and type of participants required, applicability of
   interface units to other links/TDLs, functional capabilities, connectivity/relay requirements,
   cryptographic isolation, and pulse density compliance. When an existing design meets the
   unit’s need, download the terminal IDLs for platform participants and the network
   description document (NDD) from the TDLOMO Community Webpage at
   https://www.us.army.mil/suite/grouppage/189842.
4.2. Designated Designs. Units planning to participate in Link 16 operations/training under the
direction of an external TDLM or network manager will identify the design to be used using the
Link 16 section of the appropriate OPTASK LINK. Changes must be coordinated with the
TDLM/network manager.
4.3. Design Support. If a new design or a modification to an existing design is required,
contact ACC/A3CJ with unit platform requirements as indicated in Para 4.1 above. Users who
are unsure whether an existing design fulfills the requirement should contact ACC/A3CJ to
request advice regarding a network design.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                      19


                                           Chapter 5

                           LINK 16 FREQUENCY ASSIGNMENT

5.1. Background. Link 16 planners and managers must be aware of the complex issues
associated with Link 16 equipment operation within the 960 - 1215 MHz frequency band. This
band is reserved worldwide for the safe operation of aeronautical radio navigation equipment.
Therefore, responsibility for flight safety causes considerable scrutiny of operations within this
band.
5.2. Operations in the US&P. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is the designated
administrator of the 960 - 1215 MHz band in the US&P and is responsible for ensuring all
equipment operating in the band is electromagnetically compatible. Air Force units must obtain
a Link 16 frequency assignment before Link 16 operations can be authorized. Link 16 users will
strictly adhere to the restrictions or limitations placed on Link 16 operations.
   5.2.1. Using Existing Frequency Assignment. Contact your installation spectrum manager
   to determine if a frequency assignment exists in your desired area of operations. If one
   exists, review it to ensure that your platforms, class of terminals and specific authorizations
   are included. Any operational capability that exceeds the existing assignment parameters
   will require a temporary frequency assignment in order to operate. If the installation
   spectrum manager cannot provide the necessary assistance, contact your MAJCOM
   Spectrum Management Office to determine whether an existing assignment will meet your
   requirements. If an assignment exists, the wing/unit deconfliction coordinator can schedule
   the operation through the Link 16 Pulse Deconfliction Server (LPDS).
   5.2.2. Requesting New Frequency Assignment. If no frequency assignment exists for an
   intended area of operations, the user must submit requirements to the installation spectrum
   manager. If an existing assignment does not support the mission, the user must submit a
   temporary frequency assignment or process a new assignment through the installation
   spectrum manager. Procedures for requesting a new frequency assignment are found in the
   JTIDS/MIDS Spectrum Users Guide, Chapter 4 (Copy located in references on TDLOMO
   Portal Page @ https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/site/ACC/A3/A3C/A3CJ. The
   TDLOMO will coordinate with the appropriate MAJCOM Spectrum Management Office to
   assist field units in establishing and updating Link 16 frequency assignments for their
   operating/training areas.
5.3. Operations Outside the US&P. Use of Link 16 outside the US is subject to the frequency
restrictions and procedures of the country where operations take place. These restrictions and
procedures are country-dependent and vary from virtually no Link 16-specific controls to very
strict restrictions with detailed procedures. Restrictions and procedures are subject to change.
Some guidance for requesting frequency assignments in operating areas outside the US&P can
be found in the JTIDS/MIDS Spectrum Users Guide, Chapter 7. Prior to use of Link 16 outside
the US&P, users must identify, and comply with, host country procedures and restrictions.
Current guidance for NATO countries is available in ADatP-33, Annex A to Volume 1 (National
Annexes). Other sources of guidance include: Nationally published Frequency Clearance
Agreements (FCA); Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); and Guest Force Operating
Procedures. Some nations have established TDL management cells that deconflict and provide
 20                                                           AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


authorization to operate on a day to day basis. Contact US Link 16-capable forces assigned to
that country, or other appropriate host nation contacts to obtain the latest guidance needed to
obtain permission to use Link 16 and follow that guidance. As there are often lead times for
requesting permission to use Link 16, begin coordination well ahead of required operations date.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                       21


                                           Chapter 6

                        LINK 16 DECONFLICTION PROCEDURES

6.1. General. CJCSI 6232.01 establishes the requirement to accomplish geographic area
deconfliction for Link 16 operations to ensure Link 16 use in the US&P does not exceed pulse
density restrictions/TSDF limitations specified by National Telecommunications and Information
Administration (NTIA) and subsequent US Military Communications-Electronics Board
guidance. Individual units must deconflict operations to ensure compliance with frequency
assignment restrictions. If two or more units cannot deconflict themselves, the first common
commander will perform this function. When no common commander exists or where such
coordination is not achievable, the Joint Staff Link 16 Deconfliction Authority will perform the
function and ensure compliance with frequency assignment restrictions. The ultimate authority
for deconfliction of Link 16 operations is the Joint Staff (J-8). Link 16 operations outside US&P
may be subject to similar deconfliction procedures specific to theater frequency constraints.
6.2. Deconfliction Server. The Deputy Director Joint Staff J7 for Joint and Coalition
Warfighting’s Joint Interoperability Division (JID) located at Ft Bragg, NC provides technical
and operational support for pulse density deconfliction through the LPDS. It provides a LPDS
web site (https://jndl.forscom.army.mil) to assist with coordination and deconfliction. To
safeguard the scheduling information contained in the server database, a log-in and password are
required to access the system. They may be obtained by contacting the LPDS administrator at e-
mail jndl@conus.army.mil . The LPDS is an automated approach to support the coordination
process.
   6.2.1. Deconflicting Operations. For routine operations, the wing/unit and data link
   managers will ensure unit planned activities are input into the server. The total number of
   Link 16 pulses for all operations in a geographic area must not exceed the TSDF limitation
   established in the applicable frequency assignment unless a temporary frequency assignment
   has been requested and approved. For complex exercises, tests, demonstrations, and special
   operations outside of routine operations, the planning OPRs for those operations will ensure
   that pulse deconfliction restrictions and procedures are followed. These OPRs will ensure
   that the planned event is properly coordinated with the Service-designated coordinator(s) and
   entered into the LPDS. Events will be input as part of the normal planning process of the
   exercise and should be accomplished at least as far in advance as coordination of airspace (or
   Operational Area) use.
   6.2.2. Conflicting Operations. In the case of conflicting operations, deconfliction
   coordinators will deconflict their operations to ensure compliance with frequency
   assignments for the area.
       6.2.2.1. There are many options available to deconfliction coordinators when the mission
       requirements exceed pulse density restrictions within a specific geographic area. The JID
       or the TDLOMO can provide technical advice to reduce the pulse density. Actions that
       may be taken/recommended include, but are not limited to, the following:
           6.2.2.1.1. Provide different operating times to units within a single geographic area.
           6.2.2.1.2. Establish operational procedures to limit the use of capacity to some or all
           units, so that the total pulse density in any given area complies with restrictions.
 22                                                            AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


       6.2.2.2. Change the geographical disposition of forces to reduce the pulse density in an
       area where Link 16 use is particularly heavy.
6.3. Link 16 Deconfliction. Each wing/unit or TDLM will ensure that the use of Link 16 by
unit assets within that unit’s geographic operating area is coordinated IAW CJCSI 6232.01. This
includes ensuring that the total number of Link 16 pulses within that geographic area does not
exceed the TSDF limitation established in the frequency assignment. The wing/unit or data link
manager may either perform these duties or appoint an individual to assist with these duties. If
requested, the TDLOMO will assist unit personnel with gaining access to the LPDS. The person
responsible for deconfliction coordination will:
   6.3.1. Ensure all participating Link 16 forces are included in the coordination process and
   are briefed on specific frequency assignment restrictions.
   6.3.2. Ensure that entries for Link 16 operations within their area of responsibility are
   entered into the LPDS. This facilitates overlapping and adjacent area link operations
   coordination. The unit POC will be given access to the deconfliction server to record
   planned/scheduled operations. For operations involving more than one unit, one of the
   participating units’ deconfliction coordinators can be identified as the individual responsible
   for recording the information in the server for all participants.
   6.3.3. Ensure Link 16 operations within the frequency assignment authorizations have been
   coordinated, comply with NTIA restrictions, and do not exceed the geographic area TSDF
   limits.
   6.3.4. Coordinate with the Link 16 wing managers to satisfy operational requirements for
   Link 16 use in their geographical area.
   6.3.5. Coordinate with local frequency management agencies to obtain current Link 16
   assignments and restrictions.
6.4. Stop Buzzer. Term is used as direction to immediately stop radiating RF energy in the
tactical data link frequency spectrum. An agency within the Federal Aviation Agency has
detected an indication of interference that could affect navigational aids and directs immediate
correction.
   6.4.1. Every Link 16 frequency assignment request must contain a stop buzzer POC. This is
   a 24-hour point of contact within the unit, or other command element in the area who can be
   contacted when Link 16 operations are in violation of restrictions.
   6.4.2. The stop buzzer POC will immediately remedy the situation and take action to ensure
   adherence to the restrictions.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   23


                                          Chapter 7

   INFORMATION COLLECTIONS, RECORDS, AND FORMS OR INFORMATION
                    MANAGEMENT TOOLS (IMT)

7.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
7.2. Records. No records are created by this publication




                                            BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen. USAF
                                            DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
 24                                                         AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
      GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, PRESCRIBED FORMS, AND SUPPORTING
                           INFORMATION

References
Most documents are available at TDLOMO A3CJ Portal Page at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/site/ACC/A3/A3C/A3CJ or at the TDLOMO A3CJ Community of Interest (COI)
website at: https://www.us.army.mil/suite/grouppage/189842
AFPD 11-2, Aircrew Operations, 19 Jan 2012
AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure,
19 Jan 2012
CJCSM 3115.01C, Joint Data Network (JDN) Operations, 16 Nov 2011
CJCSM 6120.01E, Joint Multi-Tactical Data Link (TDL) Operating Procedures (JMTOP), 20
Jun 2011
CJCSI 6232.01D, Link-16 Spectrum Deconfliction, 15 Dec 2006
CJCSI 6520.01A, Link 16 Joint Key Management Plan, 9 Dec 2011
CJCSI 6610.01D, Tactical Data Link Standardization Implementation Plan, 30 Dec 2010
MIL-STD-188-220, Interoperability Standard for Digital Message Transfer Device Subsystems,
23 Jun 2008
MIL-STD-2045-47001D, Connectionless Data Transfer Application Layer Standard, 22 Mar
2002
MIL-STD 6016D, Tactical Data Link (TDL) 16 Message Standard, 12 Dec 2008
MIL-STD 6017, Variable Message Format (VMF), 01 Apr 2004
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
AFI 13-1 AOC, Vol 3, Operational Procedures-Air Operations Center (AOC), 02 Nov 2011
AFI 13-1 CRC, Vol 3, Operating Procedures-Control and Reporting Center (CRC), 21 Jan 2010
AFI 13-114, Vol 3, Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) Operations Procedures, 01 Jun 2009
AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management, 18 Jul 2005AFI 33-201, Vol. 2 (FOUO),
Communications Security (COMSEC) User Requirements, 26 Apr 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, AFGM1, 13 Oct 2011
AFI 33-215, Controlling Authorities for COMSEC Keying Material (keymat), 01 Jan 1998
AFI 38-101, Manpower and Organization, Air Force Organization, 16 Mar 2011
AFFOR Command and Control Enabling Concept (Change 4), 11 Apr 2012
MIL-STD 6040B, U.S. Message Text Formatting System, 31 Jan 2011
JTIDS/MIDS Spectrum Users Guide (JSUG), Jun 2004
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                   25


Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AF—Air Force
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFNDF—Air Force Link 16 Network Design Facility
AFLNMWG—Air Force Link 16 Network Management Working Group
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AOR—area of responsibility
ASOC—Air Support Operations Center
BLOS—beyond line of sight
C2—command and control
C2ISR—Command and Control, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CAS—close air support
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
CoP—community of practice
CPD—crypto period designator
CRC—Control and Reporting Center
Crypto Keys—cryptographic keys
 26                                                      AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


DME—distance measuring equipment
DOD—Department of Defense
EPLRS—Enhanced Position Location Reporting System
ESC—Electronic Systems Center
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FTC—force track coordinator
GAAC—geographic area assignment coordinator (Navy)
IAW—in accordance with
IDL—initialization data load
IER—information exchange requirements
IMT—Information Management Tool
JBI—Joint Battlespace Interoperability
JICC—joint interface control cell
JID—Joint Interoperability Division
JMTOP—Joint Multi-TDL Operating Procedures (CJCSM 6120.01)
JMTS—Joint Multi-TDL School
JNDT—Joint Network Design Team
JTIDS—Joint Tactical Information Distribution System
JTF—Joint Task Force
JTMP—Joint Tactical Data Enterprise Services (TDES) Migration Plan
JTRS—Joint Tactical Radio System
JU—JTIDS Unit
KEYMAT—keying material
LOS—line of sight
LPDS—Link 16 pulse deconfliction server
LUM—Link 16 Unit Manager
LVT—low volume terminal
MAJCOM—major command
MHz—megahertz
MIDS—multi-functional information distribution system
MIL STD—military standard
NC—navigation controller
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  27


NDD—Network Description Document
AF NDF—Air Force Link 16 network design facility
NTIA—National Telecommunications and Information Administration
NTR—Network Time Reference
OPLAN/OPORD—operations plan/operations order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPTASK LINK—operational tasking data links
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
POC—point of contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SADL—Situation Awareness Data Link
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SOF—Special Operations Forces
SPACEAF—Space Air Forces
STN—source track number
TDC—Tactical Data Coordinator
TDES—Tactical Data Enterprise Services
TDL—tactical data link
TDLM—Tactical Data Link Manager
TDLOMO—Tactical Data Link Operations and Management Organization
TSDF—time slot duty factor
URL—uniform resource locator
USA—United States Army
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USMC—United States Marine Corp
USN—United States Navy
US&P—United States and Its Possessions

Terms
Crypto Variable Logic Label (CVLL)—A 7-bit number that can range in value from 0 to 127
that is used during Link 16 design to implement the segmenting or isolation of portions of the
design into cryptographic nets.
Deconfliction Coordinator—A designated representative of an organization tasked with the
scheduling of JTIDS/MIDS operations for their platforms.
 28                                                            AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


Frequency Assignment—Authorization given by an administration for a radio station to use a
radio frequency or radio frequency channel under specified conditions.
Geodetic Navigation—A procedure used by a Link 16 terminal to determine its position and
velocity in a latitude/longitude grid using passive observations of Position and Status messages
transmitted by other platforms.
Interference Protection Feature (IPF)—A Link 16 hardware feature that monitors the
terminal’s transmissions for out-of-band transmissions, transmissions in the IFF notches,
improper frequency hopping distribution, incorrect pulse widths, high powered amplifier
operation, and TSDF above a preset level. If authorized levels are exceeded, the interference
protection feature (IPF) function automatically inhibits further transmissions.
Initialization Data Load (IDL)—Platform initialization data files that, in the case of Link 16,
contain time slot assignments and standard parameter values fixed for the platform type and, for
other TDLs, contain the necessary timing, spectrum control, and addressing assignments used to
assure efficient and effective tactical digital communications.
JTIDS Unit (JU)—A unit communicating directly on Link 16.
Multi-Net—The coordinated use of a specific block of time slots for different functions on
different nets in a Link 16 design by different communities of users.
Navigation Controller (NC)—The navigation controller establishes the origin and North
orientation of the relative grid for the LINK 16 Relative Navigation function. Other JUs align to
the grid reported by the NC.
Network Participation Group (NPG)—A unique list of applicable messages used to support an
agreed-upon technical function without regard to subscriber identities. This list is a means of
transmitting a common set of messages to all interested users.
Net Time Reference (NTR)—A subscriber Link 16 terminal that is assigned as the reference for
system time for each synchronized netted system. The NTR terminal’s clock time is never
updated by system information and is the reference to which all other terminals synchronize their
own clocks. There can be only one NTR in each Line of Sight segment.
Operational Tasking Data Links (OPTASK LINK)—The OPTASK LINK message is a
formatted message that disseminates the detailed instructions necessary for establishing and
maintaining the operational tactical data links in a multi-TDL network/multi-TDL architecture.
Relative Grid Navigation—A procedure used by a Link 16 terminal to determine its position
and velocity in a common referenced coordinate system (with an arbitrary grid origin established
by the navigation controller) by passive observations of Position and Status messages transmitted
by other terminals.
Stacked Net—The coordinated use of a specific block of time slots for the same function but on
different nets in a Link 16 network design by different communities of users.
Tactical Data Link (TDL)—A Joint Staff-approved, standardized communication link suitable
for transmission of digital information. Tactical data links interface two or more command and
control or weapons systems via a single or multiple architecture and multiple communications
media for exchange of tactical information.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                       29


Time Slot Duty Factor (TSDF)—A measure of the aggregate number of pulses transmitted by
all Link 16 units within a geographic area. A pulse density of 396,288 pulses per frame is
defined as a TSDF of 100%.
Track Number (TN)—The unique numeric or alphanumeric octal identifier associated with a
specific set of track data representing a vehicular object, point, line of bearing, fix, or area of
probability.
United States and Its Possessions (US&P)—The term "United States and Its Possessions"
includes the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the
territories and possessions
 30                                                           AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


                                        Attachment 2
                           NETWORK REQUEST WORKSHEET

GENERAL INFORMATION



1. Requesting Unit: ________________

2. Address of Requester.

Name/Rank/Title:

DSN/Commercial Phone Number:

E-Mail:

Street Address:

Base/State/Zip:

3. Projected Use:

Operation, Exercise, Test, Training, Experiment

Reference Name (Provide operation/exercise name only if unclassified):

4. Requested Delivery Date:

GENERAL NETWORK INFORMATION.

1. Are different digital subnets required? Network designs will normally support stacked or
pseudo-stacked nets for Air Control (NPG 9), Imagery (NPG 11), Voice (NPG 12/13), NEW
(NPG 18), and Fighter-to-Fighter (NPG 19/20). If additional subnet requirements are needed to
support functions such as Red/Blue/Purple training, network enabled weapons, image transfer,
etc., specify the participants and functions you need to be separated to subnets. 2. Is Link 16
voice needed? (1 or 2 channels; 2.4 KBPS, 16KBPS or both). Because of the large number of
time slots needed to support Link 16 voice, use other secure voice communications, if available.

Number of Channels

2.4 KBPS: ______                      16 KBPS: ______

3. What is the jamming environment? None ___, Low ___, Medium ___, High ___.
AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    31


4. What are the Interference Protection constraints (pulse density restrictions)? If you are not
certain of the interference protection requirements in your area, contact your frequency
management office.

Full Protect100/50 ___; Contention Access Permitted ___ Combat ___ Other ____.

5. Are there any special crypto net requirements? Series and editions should be published in the
OPTASK LINK which specifies this network. Default network design will support NPG 20
crypto isolation for all US fighter-to-fighter-B exchanges. Explain any special crypto net
requirements:
 32                                                                    AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012




SPECIFIC INFORMATION

Table A2.1. Information Exchange Requirements.

                                                                                                IJMS
                      Surveillan   Air     Mission    Ftr    EW    Image    Networ   Integrat   (NPG      Voice
            Positio
Participa                ce        Contr   Manageme   to     (NP   Transf   k        ed Fire    30/31)    (2.4/1
              n/
nt                    (Number      ol      nt         Ftr    G     er       Enable   Control    (Numb     6
            Status
                         Of        (NPG    (NPG 8)    (NP    10)   (NPG     d        (NPG       er of     KBPS
            (PPL       Tracks      9)                 G            11)      Weapo    25)        Tracks)   )
              I)      Required)                       19/2                  ns
                                                      0)                    (NPG
                                                                            18)
Table A2.2. Geographic Disposition of Forces.
34                                                                AFI11-261 15 OCTOBER 2012


Notes:

     1. Choose a convenient scale for estimating distances and label the diagram.

     2. Depict the most likely positions of the platforms contained in the Participant List.

     3. Depict the threat axis, if known.

     4. Depict any geographic obstructions to LOS connectivity.
