BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-420
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    9 JULY 2010


                                                                    AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                  27 JUNE 2012

                                                                                      Operations

                                                           COMBAT AIR FORCES AVIATION
                                                                          SCHEDULING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no RELEASABILITY restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A3O                                                               Certified by: AF/A5X
                                                                           (Maj Gen Kip L. Self)
Supersedes:    AFI 10-420, 7 November                                                   Pages: 33
               2006
                                             (ACC)
OPR: HQ ACC/A3OS                                                          Certified by: ACC/A3
                                                                     (Maj Gen Charles W. Lyon)
Supersedes:    AFI10-420_ACCSUP, 1                                                       Pages:4
               August 2007


This Instruction implements AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary
Force (AEF). This AFI describes the responsibilities and procedures used to schedule Combat
Air Forces (CAF) aviation assets by the CAF Aviation Scheduling Integrated Product Team
(SIPT). This Instruction is applicable to all Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and subordinate
agencies possessing CAF aviation assets. This Instruction applies to Air National Guard (ANG)
and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). For the purpose of this Instruction, the Air National
Guard is functionally considered to be a MAJCOM. Refer recommended changes and conflicts
between this and other publications to HQ ACC/A3OS, 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101, Langley AFB
VA 23665-2789, using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
 2                                                     AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

(ACC) AFI10-420, 9 JUL 2010, is supplemented as follows. This supplement describes
procedures and responsibilities for scheduling of ACC aviation forces to support the Air and
Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). This supplement is applicable to all HQ ACC staff agencies
identified herein. This supplement does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) except for their respective HQ ACC staff representatives. Send
recommended improvements and questions about this publication through the appropriate
channels on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ ACC/A3OS, 205
Dodd Boulevard, Suite 101, Langley AFB VA 23665-2789. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Significant changes
involve a more refined naming convention to better reflect the aviation scheduling function. The
aviation descriptor in Aviation Scheduling Integrated Product Team (Aviation SIPT) reflects the
functional expertise in the wider context of AEF scheduling as well as providing better
organization to product relationship with the Aviation SIPT producing the Aviation Schedule.
This revision replaces the discontinued term Consolidated Planning Order (CPO) with CAF
Aviation Schedule (numerous paragraphs); Scheduling Integrated Product Team (SIPT) with the
more definitive Aviation Scheduling Integrated Product Team (Aviation SIPT); low density high
demand (LDHD) with the new term high demand/low supply (HD/LS); Force Allocation for
Contingencies (FALCON) is replaced with Flying Organization Taskable Resource Scheduler
(FORTRESS); FALCON Change Request (FCR) is replaced by Aviation Change Request
(ACR); FALCON Automated Change Control Tracking System (FACCTS) is replaced by
Aviation Change Tracking System (ACTS). Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) was
added to paragraphs 2.2 and 3.6.2. Global Military Force Policy (GMFP) was deleted from
paragraphs 1.4, 1.10, and Attachment 1. Total Force Integration (TFI) associate unit
capabilities for schedule planning are addressed in added paragraphs 4.1.3, and added Tables
4.2 and 4.3 Attachment 4 contents have been replaced by an explanation of the Consolidated
Planning Schedules (CPS) construct.

(ACC) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include: Numerous references to the ACC Scheduling Integrated Product Team (SIPT)
throughout the supplement have been changed to ACC Aviation SIPT to better define the
function of the team and to align with the parent instruction definitions. References to
Consolidated Planning Order (CPO) have been changed to Combat Air Forces (CAF) Aviation
Schedule to reflect terminology changes in the parent instruction. Changes in organization
names have been made to reflect current HQ ACC organization (paragraphs 2, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3).
Responsibilities of the Core Membership have been better defined (paragraph 3.1). The
exception to CRCs being in the Aviation Schedule has been removed (paragraph 5.1.6).
Measures of effectiveness (paragraph 5.2.1) are changed to the data currently reported.
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                                                                           3


Paragraph 4.1.3 (Added) has been incorporated into the parent instruction and is removed from
this supplement.

Chapter 1—COMBAT AIR FORCES SCHEDULING GUIDANCE                                                                                            5
       1.1.   Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    5
       1.2.   Global Force Management (GFM). .......................................................................                       5
       1.3.   Global Force Management Allocation Plan (GFMAP). ........................................                                    5
       1.4.   The Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). ....................................................                            5
       1.5.   Centralized CAF Aviation Scheduling. .................................................................                       6
       1.6.   CAF Aviation Scheduling Cycle and Tempo Bands. ............................................                                  6
Figure 1.1.   CAF Aviation Scheduling Cycle ...........................................................................                    6
       1.7.   Air Reserve Component (ARC) Commitment to the AEF. ...................................                                       6
       1.8.   Decreasing the Requirement on Mobility Air Forces (MAF) Air Bridge. .............                                            6
       1.9.   CAF Forces not included in the AEF. ....................................................................                     7

Chapter 2—CAF AVIATION SCHEDULING INTEGRATED PRODUCT TEAM (SIPT)                                                                           8
       2.1.   CAF Aviation SIPT Mission. .................................................................................                 8
       2.2.   CAF Aviation SIPT Membership. .........................................................................                      8
       2.3.   CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat. ...........................................................                         8
       2.4.   MAJCOM Aviation SIPTs. ....................................................................................                  8

Chapter 3—CAF AVIATION SCHEDULE                                                                                                            9
       3.1.   Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    9
       3.2.   Aviation Scheduling Software. ..............................................................................                 9
       3.3.   Aviation Schedule Development. ..........................................................................                    9
       3.4.   Aviation Schedule Dates. .......................................................................................             9
       3.5.   Event Funding. .......................................................................................................       9
       3.6.   Planning Orders and Deployment Orders. .............................................................                        10
       3.7.   Aviation Schedule Historical Database. ................................................................                     10

Chapter 4—CONTINGENCY SCHEDULING PROCESS                                                                                                  11
       4.1.   CAF Scheduling Availability Pool. .......................................................................                   11
Table 4.1.    ARC Volunteer Availability. .................................................................................               11
Table 4.2.    TFI Classic Associate Rotational Availability. ......................................................                       11
Table 4.3.    TFI Active Associate Rotational Availability. .......................................................                       12
       4.2.   Contingency Scheduling Process. ..........................................................................                  12
4                                                                           AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


     4.3.   Contingency Scheduling Standards. ......................................................................                 13

Chapter 5—EXERCISE AND TRAINING SCHEDULING PROCESS                                                                                   14
     5.1.   Unit Exercise and Training Availability. ...............................................................                 14
     5.2.   Exercise and Training Scheduling Process. ...........................................................                    14
     5.3.   Exercise and Training Scheduling Standards. .......................................................                      16

Chapter 6—AVIATION SCHEDULE DATABASE MANAGEMENT                                                                                      18
     6.1.   Aviation Schedule Management Functions. ..........................................................                       18
     6.2.   Changes to the Aviation Schedule. ........................................................................               18
     6.3.   ACR Processing. ....................................................................................................     18
     6.4.   Force Tasking. .......................................................................................................   18
     6.5.   Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................     19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       20

Attachment 2—AVIATION SCHEDULE BUILD TIMELINE.                                                                                       25

Attachment 3—CAF AVIATION SIPT SCHEDULING PRIORITIES.                                                                                28

Attachment 4—CONSOLIDATED PLANNING SCHEDULES (CPS)                                                                                   29

Attachment 5—(Added-ACC) ACC AVIATION SIPT                                                                                           31
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                                    5



                                            Chapter 1

                   COMBAT AIR FORCES SCHEDULING GUIDANCE

1.1. Introduction. This Instruction outlines the guidance, process, and rules by which the
Combat Air Forces (CAF) Aviation Scheduling Integrated Product Team (SIPT) schedules CAF
aviation assets in support of the Air and Space Expeditionary Force Schedule (AS). It includes
the Aviation SIPT’s role in the development, approval, and maintenance of the CAF Aviation
Schedule.
1.2. Global Force Management (GFM). GFM is a Department of Defense process to align
force apportionment, assignment, and allocation methodologies to support joint force availability
requirements, enable comprehensive insight into global availability of U.S. military forces, and
provide senior decision makers a vehicle to quickly and accurately assess the impact and risk of
proposed allocation, assignment, and apportionment changes.
1.3. Global Force Management Allocation Plan (GFMAP). GFMAP is a subset of GFM that
establishes a formal process to allocate the Services’ rotational forces to meet combatant
commander demands for military capabilities. Recognizing that the global demand for rotational
forces may exceed the available supply, the objectives of GFMAP are to: prioritize combatant
commanders’ operational tasks and allocate rotational forces to satisfy those tasks; optimize
force management to mitigate risk while balancing the Services’ organize, train, and equip
responsibilities to meet combatant commander tasks; establish a mechanism to provide joint
solutions to combatant commander requirements; provide predictability for both Services’
rotational deployment scheduling and combatant commanders’ operational planning; and
increase flexibility and options for senior leadership that facilitate Services’ ability to surge for
war.
   1.3.1. The Global Force Management Board (GFMB), chaired by the Joint Staff J3, and
   comprised of representatives from the Joint Staff, Services, and combatant commands,
   oversees the GFMAP process. The GFMB assesses and prioritizes combatant command
   requests for rotational capabilities, provides a prioritized list of combatant command requests
   to the Joint Force Provider (JFP) to use in identifying Joint solutions for military capabilities
   among the Services, and frames any contentious issues for decision by the SecDef.
   1.3.2. US Joint Forces Command (USJFCOM) serves as the JFP for conventional forces not
   assigned to US Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) or US Transportation Command
   (USTRANSCOM). The JFP, working through its assigned Service components, provides
   global sourcing recommendations via the GFMAP to fill GFMB validated rotational force
   requirements. After GFMB review, the GFMAP is submitted to the Secretary of Defense for
   approval. The SecDef-approved GFMAP provides rotational authority for named forces to
   deploy in support of Combatant Commander (CCDR) requirements.
1.4. The Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). The AEF is the force generation
construct used to manage the battle rhythm of forces in order to meet global CCDR requirements
while maintaining the highest possible level of overall readiness. Through the AEF, the Air
Force establishes a predictable, standardized battle rhythm ensuring rotational forces are properly
organized, trained, equipped, and ready to sustain capabilities while rapidly responding to
emerging crises. Each AEF contains active component and reserve component aircraft,
 6                                                       AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


associated expeditionary combat support, command and control elements, and other enablers
available to support each AEF.
1.5. Centralized CAF Aviation Scheduling. CAF aviation uses a centralized scheduling
process described herein that facilitates an equitable distribution of assigned tasks. The CAF
Aviation SIPT manages the scheduling process of 3-series UTCs containing aircraft for both
contingency and MAJCOM or above training tasks. The CAF Aviation SIPT uses computer
software to mesh requirements and known variables into unit schedules published through the
web-based Aviation Schedule. The CAF Aviation SIPT also provides the contingency portion of
the Aviation Schedule to the JFP as the Air Force portion of the GFMAP.
1.6. CAF Aviation Scheduling Cycle and Tempo Bands. Operating within the overall AEF
Life Cycle of normal training, preparation, and deployment, the training period is further
segmented into a recovery phase (if required), a basic training phase, and advanced training
phase for CAF aviation scheduling purposes. The overall length of a particular unit’s cycle is
dependent on their assigned tempo band. Tempo banding methodology is used to ensure
capabilities are distributed equitably across AEF deployments. Tempo banding places various
capabilities on different rotational intervals that are known as dwell. Different dwell rates across
the AEF provide a consistent deployed capability despite the wide ranging number of CAF units
capable of providing a particular capability. All units in an AEF deployment will not necessarily
be on the same deployment interval due to the differing tempo bands. Figure 1.1 illustrates the
time phasing of this cycle.

Figure 1.1. CAF Aviation Scheduling Cycle




1.7. Air Reserve Component (ARC) Commitment to the AEF. The Air National Guard and
Air Force Reserve Command each have a major role in the AEF. Unless otherwise noted, each
of the commands assumes all of a specific mission responsibility within an AEF deployment
eligibility period. During the scheduling process, ARC forces will normally be considered
before active component forces for steady state contingencies to make full use of their
availability if the other relevant scheduling factors contained in paragraph 4.2.1 are met. ANG
and AFRC each retain their responsibility to provide sufficient units to fulfill their agreed
commitment to the AEF. This is normally accomplished by a grouping of units often referred to
as a ―rainbow.‖
1.8. Decreasing the Requirement on Mobility Air Forces (MAF) Air Bridge. Aircraft
rotations for maintenance reasons should be small enough to avoid establishing a complete air
bridge. Wings desiring to swap aircraft at the mid-point of a two consecutive AEF period
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                             7


deployment must gain approval from the parent MAJCOM/A3 and the supported air component
commander.
1.9. CAF Forces not included in the AEF. Forces assigned to the Korean Peninsula are
aligned in the AEFs; however, because they normally do not deploy they are seldom shown in
the AEF alignment depiction. High demand/low supply (HD/LS) aircraft, including low
observable (i.e., stealth) platforms, form an enabler force that supports the AEF as required.
Scheduling of HD/LS platforms is in accordance with GFM.
 8                                                     AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 2

       CAF AVIATION SCHEDULING INTEGRATED PRODUCT TEAM (SIPT)

2.1. CAF Aviation SIPT Mission. The CAF Aviation SIPT is a multi-command organization
responsible for maintaining the CAF AEF aviation unit alignment and developing the Aviation
Schedule. The CAF Aviation SIPT is an impartial scheduling body for the assignment of HHQ
requirements. Aviation Schedule tasks are made based upon provisions of the AEF and guidance
contained in this Instruction. To maintain impartiality, the CAF Aviation SIPT does not create,
submit, or manage event requirements. The CAF Aviation SIPT subject matter expertise is
exclusive to scheduling aviation units; specifically, only the units’ 3-series UTCs that contain
aircraft.
2.2. CAF Aviation SIPT Membership. The MAJCOM members are Air Combat Command
(ACC), Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), AFRC, Pacific Air Forces (PACAF),
United States Air Forces Europe (USAFE), Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), and
the ANG. Each participating MAJCOM appoints a colonel-level representative that is
empowered to commit resources and make scheduling changes on behalf of their respective
MAJCOM director of operations. The CAF Aviation SIPT, through the participating MAJCOM
directors of operations, may amend the scheduling guidance contained in this directive as
necessary for effective scheduling.
2.3. CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat. The Headquarters ACC Operations Division
(ACC/A3O) serves as an Executive Secretariat for the CAF Aviation SIPT with the division
chief acting as the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary. The Executive Secretary is
responsible for coordinating SIPT decision-making. Concerns identified during the scheduling
process are arbitrated among team members through the Executive Secretary. The Executive
Secretariat is a support branch responsible for maintaining the CAF AEF aviation alignment,
building and coordinating the Aviation Schedule, maintaining and improving scheduling
software, drafting planning and deployment orders for CAF aviation contingency tasking, and
developing courses of action for various scheduling-related issues to include CAF aviation inputs
to the GFM and GFMAP processes. The CAF Aviation SIPT interacts continually via electronic
means and will normally meet on an annual basis with more frequent meetings as required.
2.4. MAJCOM Aviation SIPTs. The participating members maintain command Aviation
SIPTs (or equivalent) to provide scheduling, tasking, and decision making support for the CAF
Aviation SIPT. Normally the MAJCOM representative to the CAF Aviation SIPT will act as
chief of their respective Aviation SIPT; however, the rules and guidelines for each MAJCOM
Aviation SIPT are the exclusive purview of that command. MAJCOMs may supplement this
Instruction to document their procedures.
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                                  9


                                            Chapter 3

                                CAF AVIATION SCHEDULE

3.1. Introduction. The CAF Aviation Schedule is a stand-alone database that is one of the
Consolidated Planning Schedules (CPS). Details of the CPS construct are contained in
Attachment 4. The CAF Aviation Schedule contains the master event schedule of HQ directed
taskings for CAF aviation units. A complete one-year CAF Aviation Schedule is always
available in the Aviation CPS. The Aviation Schedule is accessed through a web-based CAF
scheduling database program available at http://cafsipt.langley.af.smil.mil on the Secure
Internet Router Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET).
3.2. Aviation Scheduling Software. Flying Organization Taskable Resource Scheduler
(FORTRESS) program supports aircraft scheduling of those 3-series UTCs containing aircraft
that are managed by the CAF Aviation SIPT. The aviation scheduling database program was
developed as an event deconfliction tool based on primary mission assigned aircraft. Aviation
scheduling software design precludes the addition of aircraft support systems and personnel
groups into the current aviation database. Aviation scheduling software consists of three primary
modules. The data entry module, accessible only by the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive
Secretariat, ensures schedule deconfliction for finite aircraft assets. The web site module
displays results of Aviation Schedule queries in both a graphic and tabular format. The Aviation
Change Tracking System (ACTS) module supports initial Aviation Schedule development by the
input of new requirements and provides a means for units or functional managers to request
subsequent scheduling changes.
3.3. Aviation Schedule Development. The Aviation Schedule uses a dual-track development
process whereby the contingency and training schedules contained in the Aviation Schedule are
independently built and approved. The first track builds a CAF contingency schedule for the
AEF deployment window beginning two years in the future (See Chapter 4). The second track
builds the CAF exercise and training schedule for the AEF period one year in the future (See
Chapter 5). This dual-track process moves the Aviation Schedule ahead in an incremental time
block known as an Aviation Schedule ―Build.‖ Aviation Schedule Builds take up to 120 days to
complete, with established milestones to ensure timely production. Milestones and Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPRs) are shown in Attachment 2. The Aviation Schedule
development process begins by compiling a complete list of CAF aviation requirements.
Contingency requirements are normally identified through the GFMAP allocation annexes or
Chairman, Joint Chief of Staff (CJCS) orders. Service level training, exercise, and test
requirements are submitted by the responsible functional or program managers. Joint training
and test requirements are identified through the CJCS Joint Training Master Schedule. All
Aviation Schedule requirements are submitted using the ACTS module.
3.4. Aviation Schedule Dates. All tasking dates shown in the Aviation Schedule are required
in-place dates. Transit times are not reflected because of the diversity of travel time from origin
to destination.
3.5. Event Funding. Only funded non-contingency event requirements will be considered for
tasking by the Aviation SIPT. Units will not be bound to an event without a funding source to
 10                                                   AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


cover costs of participation. Unfunded events will be filled on a volunteer basis and may be
entered in the Aviation Schedule. Event OPRs maintain their respective event’s fund cite.
3.6. Planning Orders and Deployment Orders.
   3.6.1. Contingency Operations. Although the Aviation Schedule is directive in nature,
   formal tasking for all contingency events is issued through planning orders (PLANORD),
   deployment orders (DEPORD), and prepare to deploy orders (PTDO). Approximately 6
   months prior to an AEF contingency deployment window, ACC issues an AEF PLANORD
   telling CAF units to prepare for specific AEF tasks (i.e., unit, number of aircraft, mission,
   deployment location, and arrival dates).       Approximately 45 days prior to an AEF
   contingency deployment window, ACC issues an AEF DEPORD for all ACC and ACC-
   gained units, and a formal request to other CAF commands contributing forces to that AEF
   rotation to issue appropriate deployment orders. The ACC orders are coordinated through
   respective MAJCOMs before release by the ACC Operations Center.
   3.6.2. Exercise and Training Deployments. DEPORDs are required for all OCONUS CJCS
   sponsored and MAJCOM-sponsored/supported exercise deployments supported by ACC or
   ACC-gained CAF aviation units. The respective force providing MAJCOM exercise
   manager will draft DEPORDs for CJCS and MAJCOM-sponsored/supported exercises.
   DEPORDs for other OCONUS training deployments will be drafted by the force provider
   arranging the training (e.g., the ANG would draft DEPORD for State Partnership Program
   training events). Draft DEPORDs for ACC and ACC-gained CAF aviation units will be sent
   to the ACC Operations Center for approval and release. Draft DEPORDs for AFGSC,
   AFSOC, PACAF, and USAFE units will be sent to their respective MAJCOM–equivalent
   Operations Center for approval and release. ACC/A3TA is OPR for all OCONUS air shows
   and aerial events supported by ACC and ACC-gained units. DEPORDS for these specific
   events will be prepared by ACC/A3TA, when required, as determined by current Aerial
   Events guidance.
3.7. Aviation Schedule Historical Database. The Aviation Schedule is an historical record.
Categories of Aviation Schedule information will be retained IAW the applicable Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule Table 10-3, Rule 5, or 6, or Table 10-4, Rule 4.
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                                11


                                           Chapter 4

                       CONTINGENCY SCHEDULING PROCESS

4.1. CAF Scheduling Availability Pool. Forces designated in the CAF scheduling availability
pool consist of the following:
   4.1.1. Active Component. All CAF forces are aligned in either a Tempo Band or the
   Enabler library up to their full designed operational capability (DOC). Service-directed
   resource actions (e.g., major weapon system modifications, unit conversions, etc.) may
   preclude unit availability.
   4.1.2. Reserve Component. Normally, the ARC supports AEF rotations by a ―rainbow‖ of
   several aligned units to fill a single requirement in accordance with the availability levels
   outlined in Table 4.1. Units within the rainbow have flexibility to fill the requirement as
   needed. The volunteer limit may be further reduced in order to accomplish an operational
   readiness inspection. Such reductions will be identified during the annual GFMAP update.
   ARC units may be tasked up to their full capability upon receipt of SecDef mobilization
   authority.

Table 4.1. ARC Volunteer Availability.
   Squadron Primary Mission
                                    AEF Quantity Provided           Employment Duration
   Aircraft Inventory (PMAI)
              15-21                     at least 12 aircraft                 40 days
               24                       at least 12 aircraft                 60 days
   4.1.3. Total Force Integration (TFI) associate units. AEF rotational commitment varies from
   unit to unit based on the particular integration scheme. AFI 90-1001, Responsibilities for
   Total Force Integration, establishes the requirement to determine rotational capabilities. TFI
   associate units will forward their rotational capabilities, and any subsequent changes, through
   MAJCOM channels to the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat. ARC and active
   component associate unit capabilities will be reported by the host unit owning the aircraft
   since associate units provide personnel only UTC capability. ARC support rates in Tables
   4.2 and 4.3 are expected levels used for planning purposes only. TFI associate units may be
   tasked up to their full DOC statement capability upon receipt of SecDef mobilization
   authority.

Table 4.2. TFI Classic Associate Rotational Availability.
 Active Component Dwell          ARC Support                    Rotational Support Rate *
 1:2                             Mobilization at 1:5            33 percent
 1:1                             Mobilization at 1:4            25 percent
* The number of authorized UTC ULNs supported for a full AEF deployment whether by
volunteer rainbows or through mobilization
 12                                                    AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


Table 4.3. TFI Active Associate Rotational Availability.
   Active Component        PMAI Supported            Tour Length             Rotational
         Dwell                                                               BOG:Dwell
      1:3 or Better              12 a/c                 60 days                  1:5
          1:2                 100 percent           Same as Active              1:8 *
          1:1                 100 percent           Same as Active              1:7 **
* Equivalent mobilization-to-dwell rate of 1:5 (Tempo Band M)
** Equivalent mobilization-to-dwell rate of 1:4 (Tempo Band N)
4.2. Contingency Scheduling Process. The CAF rotational contingency schedule is developed
in sequential four-month build increments using forces identified in the approved alignment.
The contingency schedule forecasts two years in advance based on the approved and projected
GFMAP annexes. This two-year forecast is necessary to support the timelines for GFMAP
development. The contingency scheduling process includes development of a Quick Look
Contingency Schedule and publication of formal unit tasking in the Aviation Schedule.
   4.2.1. Quick Look Contingency Schedule. Two years prior to the beginning of each
   rotational period, the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat develops a Quick Look
   Contingency Schedule. The Quick Look is a compilation of established/projected
   contingency requirements sourced against the forces contained in the available AEF. In
   developing the Quick Look, several factors are examined to balance deployments across the
   force. Relevant scheduling factors include recent deployment history to include deployment
   in primary versus secondary mission, deployment locations, ARC Operational Readiness
   Inspection (ORI) schedules, and unit conversions. Once developed, the draft Quick Look is
   simultaneously loaded into the main Aviation Schedule database and released to the CAF
   Aviation SIPT for coordination.
   4.2.2. Quick Look Coordination and Approval. During the coordination process, all CAF
   Aviation SIPT members will closely examine projected unit tasking and highlight
   disconnects with detailed rationale for changes, to include alternate solutions using AEF
   available forces. The ANG and AFRC representatives will also examine the order of unit
   deployment for tasked ARC rainbows and make any recommended changes. The CAF
   Aviation SIPT chiefs are empowered to resolve any issues that arise during the coordination
   process. After all recommended changes are incorporated, the contingency schedule will be
   forwarded in staff summary format for final MAJCOM approval. If MAJCOM objections
   arise that cannot be jointly resolved, the outstanding issues will be highlighted in the final
   approval package that is forwarded to COMACC for decision as the air component
   commander to the Joint Force Provider. All MAJCOM objections must be stated in terms of
   the GFM Implementation Guidance (GFMIG) risk categories. For CAF Aviation SIPT
   purposes, force management risk is the most likely category. Only supported commanders
   can identify operational risk (e.g., ACC for NOBLE EAGLE, PACAF for Korean Operations
   Plan (OPLAN) support).
   4.2.3. Global Force Management Allocation Plan. After the contingency schedule is
   approved and the Aviation Schedule database is updated, an extract is forwarded to
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                             13


   USJFCOM for inclusion in the GFMAP. The GFMAP is then forwarded to the GFMB as
   part of the JFP’s sourcing recommendation for SecDef-approved GFMAP tasks.
   4.2.4. New Contingency Requirements. Contingency requirements identified after approval
   of the GFMAP are submitted as a Request for Forces/Request for Capability (RFF/RFC)
   from the combatant commander to the Joint Staff. If the RFF/RFC is validated by the
   GFMB, the CAF Aviation SIPT uses the approved alignment to source the additional
   capability, conduct a risk assessment, update the Aviation Schedule, and obtain COMACC
   approval for submission to the JFP.
4.3. Contingency Scheduling Standards. The CAF Aviation SIPT uses a series of standards to
guide the scheduling of AEF units in support of rotational contingency operations.
   4.3.1. Contingency tasks take precedence over all other events.      Contingency tasks are
   prioritized by the GFMB.
   4.3.2. Contingency assignments are based on a unit’s AEF alignment. Reaching forward to
   future AEF deployment windows for other than PTDO requirements will not occur unless the
   appropriate approval levels as defined in AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and
   Execution have been obtained.
   4.3.3. Contingency requirements may be worldwide and can include OCONUS units
   deploying to the CONUS in support of homeland security missions.
   4.3.4. Squadrons normally are not scheduled for split operations without approval of
   COMACC. For AEF scheduling purposes, supporting home station non-contingency
   operations such as air defense alert, while conducting a simultaneous AEF deployment, is not
   considered split operations.
   4.3.5. Units should plan to deploy for their AEF period unless special circumstances (e.g.,
   unit conversions) warrant otherwise. Units not specifically tasked must remain ready to
   respond within their DOC statement response criteria.
   4.3.6. The task start and task end dates listed in the Aviation Schedule are based on in-
   theater arrival dates and mission termination dates. Airlift, air refueling, and country
   clearance restrictions will generally extend the contingency commitment beyond the
   scheduled deployment dates shown in the Aviation Schedule. The Air Operations Squadron
   (AOS) will attempt to minimize travel impacts, especially on ARC units.
   4.3.7. Units that do not deploy during their AEF vulnerability period will have priority for
   filling a contingency requirement during their subsequent AEF vulnerability period. The
   CAF Aviation SIPT makes every effort to balance deployment opportunities with the best
   match for meeting and filling all mission requirements.
 14                                                     AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


                                           Chapter 5

                 EXERCISE AND TRAINING SCHEDULING PROCESS

5.1. Unit Exercise and Training Availability. Exercise and training requirements are
scheduled based on individual units’ positions in the CAF Aviation Scheduling Cycle.
   5.1.1. Basic Training Phase. This is the four-month window immediately following a unit’s
   deployment eligibility period. It includes a two-week recovery phase that begins upon
   redeployment to home station for units that supported contingency operations. The
   scheduling focus of the basic training phase is the recovery of aircrew skills that may have
   diminished while deployed, maintenance reconstitution of aircraft, and an orderly transfer of
   personnel into and out of the unit. Units that were not tasked for contingency operations will
   not have a basic training phase. Units that deployed are not normally tasked to support off-
   station exercises or training events during this phase. However, units may be tasked to
   support training events from home station or may volunteer for off-station training events
   that enhance their overall unit training. Although designated basic training for CAF
   scheduling purposes, units are expected to be ready to support the full spectrum of AEF
   operations, if required, within their designated DOC statement response timing.
   5.1.2. Advanced Training Phase. The advanced training phase immediately follows a unit’s
   basic training phase and ends 2 months prior to the start of the next AEF deployment
   eligibility period. The advanced training phase focuses on opportunities to engage in
   CONUS and OCONUS Joint, Service and MAJCOM exercise and training events in
   preparation for future contingency requirements such as Green Flag and Red Flag. Events
   also include other inter-Service exercises, intra-Service exercises, proficiency improvement
   events, ORI support, tests, demonstrations and aerial events.
5.2. Exercise and Training Scheduling Process. The exercise and training schedule is built in
four-month increments using a five-phase process designed to provide stability, predictability,
and oversight. The exercise and training schedule matches units having combat coded aircraft in
their AEF advanced training phase with exercise and training requirements submitted in the
window 12 to 16 months in advance. When the scheduling ―build‖ is complete, units have 8 to
12 months of notification for each scheduled event. Units having training coded aircraft (e.g.,
FTUs, AGRS units) or test coded aircraft (e.g., TES units) are not tasked by the Aviation SIPT to
avoid disruption of their unique missions. Training and test coded units have their own priorities
for event support. Training or test coded aircraft assignments shown in the Aviation Schedule
reflect voluntary coordinated support that would otherwise need to be tasked to combat coded
units.
   5.2.1. Call for Requirements (CFR). Requirements are established by program or functional
   managers and submitted to the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat during the CFR that
   occurs in the first 2 weeks of each build cycle. All requirements are submitted using the
   web-based ACTS. Commands sponsoring events can pre-source from their own forces
   during their CFR submission. Such pre-sourcing will normally be accepted without change
   unless the forces are needed for higher-priority CAF-wide requirements. Due to the
   volunteer nature of ARC forces, the CAF Aviation SIPT does not unilaterally schedule ARC
   forces. As a result, ANG and AFRC must identify units wishing to volunteer for training
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                                 15


  events during their CFR submission. Unit level requirements that could impact their ability
  to be tasked are also entered into the database to provide for minimum schedule disruption.
  Examples include projected runway repair projects or significant aircraft maintenance
  programs. A requirement generated by another Service or a non-CAF Aviation SIPT
  command (e.g., support for an Air Force Material Command (AFMC) test) requires a staff
  agency from one of the CAF Aviation SIPT commands to sponsor and submit the request on
  their behalf. The sponsorship arrangement provides visibility for a CAF headquarters agency
  to ensure the requirement is compatible with existing programs. To enhance a primary AEF
  objective of stability and predictability, requirements identified during the regular build cycle
  receive sourcing priority.
  5.2.2. Exercise and Training Schedule Development. After the CFR phase is complete, the
  CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat develops a draft exercise and training schedule
  using available forces in their advanced training phase, scheduling standards delineated
  below, and scheduling priorities (Attachment 3). Nevertheless, scheduling decisions, which
  appear contrary to established guidance, may be necessary to support unique requirements or
  transient priorities. Once the draft schedule is complete, sourced events are loaded into the
  Aviation Schedule database. Unsourced events, or events not sourced to the desired level,
  are placed on the Unfilled Requirements List (URL). An event remains on the URL until a
  unit is sourced to support, the functional manager rescinds the requirement, or the date of the
  event passes. The URL provides a vehicle for advertising unfilled events that units,
  including those from other Services, can volunteer to support.
  5.2.3. Initial Executability Review (IER). Once the exercise and training schedule is loaded
  into the Aviation Schedule database, it is released to the CAF Aviation SIPT members and
  event OPRs for executability review. Each command develops internal processes for
  reviewing the draft Aviation Schedule. CAF Aviation Scheduling is a top-down process.
  The primary purpose of the IER phase is to assess executability of the draft Aviation
  Schedule and not to highlight unit exercise and training ―desires.‖ CAF Aviation SIPT
  members and event OPRs submit recommended changes and executability issues to the CAF
  Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary via the ACTS Aviation Change Request (ACR). Once all
  changes/issues have been submitted, the Executive Secretariat adjusts the draft Aviation
  Schedule accordingly.
  5.2.4. Final Executability Review (FER). The FER process follows the same steps and has
  the same purpose as the IER. However, the focus of the FER is intentionally narrow, looking
  only at those issues identified for potential changes during the IER. Once all changes/issues
  have been submitted, the Executive Secretariat adjusts the draft Aviation Schedule
  accordingly and builds a MAJCOM review package.
  5.2.5. MAJCOM Aviation SIPT Coordination. The MAJCOM review package provides
  metric data on results of the Executability Reviews, identifies submitted issues that were
  disapproved by the Executive Secretary, and highlights any new tasking. CAF MAJCOM
  Aviation SIPT members review the schedule for supportability, and determine acceptability
  of unfilled events. Unresolved training issues may be submitted for general officer review
  before the Aviation Schedule Build is submitted for COMACC approval. General officer
  review is normally at the A3 level. The MAJCOM Aviation SIPT representative is expected
  to get the appropriate MAJCOM approval for the COMACC review package.
 16                                                    AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


   5.2.6. COMACC Review and Approval. Following MAJCOM Aviation SIPT coordination,
   the Executive Secretariat will refine the review package, incorporating all views of other
   CAF Aviation SIPT members. The MAJCOM-approved schedule review package will be
   forwarded for approval to COMACC in the role of CAF force provider.
5.3. Exercise and Training Scheduling Standards. The standards are designed to prevent unit
schedules from being saturated with HHQ event tasks while simultaneously maximizing support
for HHQ event requirements. The constraints provided by the scheduling standards often result
in requirements remaining unfilled. Advanced training events are tasked based on the units’
DOC statement and the next AEF tasking. Every attempt is made to provide relevant training
throughout the advanced phase with events focused on the next AEF tasking concentrated near
the end of the advanced phase. Nevertheless, scheduling decisions that appear contrary to this
flow may be necessary to support unique requirements and transient priorities. Syllabus training
and joint events are often not compatible with the AEF Schedule. Some inter-Service training
requirements are based on pre-existing agreements that are also contrary to a graduated AEF
training flow.
   5.3.1. Red Flag-Nellis and Red Flag-Alaska are Large Force Exercises (LFE) used as AEF
   preparation training. Green Flag is a specialized event that may also be used for AEF
   preparation training. Unit participation in their respective AEF’s preparation Flag is
   finalized during the Aviation Schedule Build. Units typically attend the appropriate AEF
   preparation exercise in the final months of their advanced training phase. The ARC verifies
   their intention to participate when submitting their build requirements.
   5.3.2. To the maximum extent possible, OCONUS units participating in a Flag are scheduled
   for Weapons School support, Combat Hammer, Combat Archer or other events of their
   choice while deployed to the CONUS. OCONUS units normally are limited to no more than
   30 consecutive days of stateside participation. OCONUS MAJCOMS verify their intention
   to participate in these various events during the schedule build.
   5.3.3. Published ORIs will have a 30-day preparation period where the unit will not receive
   other tasks. Inspections should minimize their impact on training. No-notice or limited-
   notice inspections will not have a 30-day preparation period.
   5.3.4. Units in their AEF deployment period that do not deploy in support of a contingency
   operation may be tasked to support a training or exercise event from homestation; however,
   they remain vulnerable to deploy if required.
   5.3.5. Units that do not deploy during their AEF deployment period can be tasked with
   training or exercise events in the four-month basic training phase.
   5.3.6. No more than one ―must fill‖ event may be tasked in the last 30 days of the basic
   training phase for units that deployed in their AEF period. Concurrent or sequential events at
   the same location count as a single tasking.
   5.3.7. All squadrons from a multiple squadron wing should not be deployed for exercises or
   training at the same time. Any remaining non-deployed squadrons may be scheduled to
   support exercise and training requirements from homestation.
   5.3.8. A unit should have a minimum of 10 days between off-station deployments when the
   deployment includes significant maintenance package support.
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                            17


  5.3.9. Deployments to Nellis AFB should not exceed a cumulative total of 30 days per
  squadron during any rolling 90-day window.
  5.3.10. Units should not be scheduled for more than 4 off-station training deployments
  requiring significant maintenance package support during any rolling 90-day window.
  Concurrent or sequential events at the same deployed location count as a single deployment.
  5.3.11. Units may volunteer to support training or exercise events within their assigned AOR
  during their AEF Prep and/or Deployment periods provided they are able to meet DOC
  statement timing as well as any potential AEF contingency tasking.
  5.3.12. Volunteer participation does not supersede or substitute for any Aviation Schedule
  tasked event. When a scheduling conflict develops between a previously approved tasking
  and a unit’s voluntary event participation, the voluntary event participation will be
  disapproved or cancelled.
  5.3.13. Local unit events, such as an Operational Readiness Exercise (ORE) or community
  appreciation day, may be added to the Aviation Schedule after the applicable build is
  complete.
  5.3.14. Test requirements using 53rd Wing assets are scheduled via the Electronic Project
  Order IAW ACCI 99-101, ACC Test and Evaluation, rather than the Aviation Schedule.
  5.3.15. Classic associate wings may identify 1 ORE per quarter for schedule deconfliction to
  allow for the limited availability of ARC Traditional Reservists or Guardsmen. The classic
  associate wing ORE date must be submitted during the Call for Requirements, otherwise the
  ORE will be scheduled in accordance with 5.3.13 above.
  5.3.16. Theater engagement or exercise deployments in excess of 30 days (STARTEX to
  ENDEX) are sourced from available AEF deployment eligible units. Sourcing other than
  AEF deployment eligible units requires owning MAJCOM/CC approval. Exercises in the
  GFMAP allocation process that are 30 days or less in duration may be sourced from either
  AEF deployment eligible units or units in their AEF advanced training phase.
 18                                                      AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


                                            Chapter 6

                  AVIATION SCHEDULE DATABASE MANAGEMENT

6.1. Aviation Schedule Management Functions. There are four primary management
functions that occur after a contingency or training schedule build has been approved: adding a
requirement, deleting a requirement, changing a requirement, or changing specific unit
participation.
6.2. Changes to the Aviation Schedule. After the Aviation Schedule has been approved, new
events may arise, existing event requirements or priorities may change, or a unit's ability to
execute assigned tasks may change. Requesting relief from a task after the Aviation Schedule
has been officially approved causes an exercise/training plan disruption that should be avoided.
CAF Aviation SIPT members will request changes affecting their respective units using
procedures established by their MAJCOM Aviation SIPT and this Instruction. The affected
program/event manager, or unit, or MAJCOM Aviation SIPT POC will initiate requested
changes to the Aviation Schedule. All requested aviation changes to the Aviation Schedule must
be submitted through ACTS. The ACTS system provides cradle-to-grave tracking of each issue.
ACTS automatically assigns an ACR tracking number that is permanently associated with each
request. These procedures ensure all affected parties contribute to a final resolution and receive
a clear understanding of how the ultimate decision was determined.
6.3. ACR Processing. All ACRs are processed in the same manner. Some ACRs may be
resolved immediately after receipt, while others may take significantly longer depending on the
amount of coordination involved. ACTS will generate an automatic email notification to alert
the next coordinating party that the change request is waiting in the ACR system.
   6.3.1. Assigning Change Request. Upon receipt, the change request will be assigned to a
   CAF SIPT Executive Secretariat action officer for resolution with the appropriate event
   functional manager, Mission Design Series (MDS) functional manager, affected unit(s), or
   MAJCOM POC.
   6.3.2. Analysis and Recommendation. During this phase, background data is gathered and a
   recommendation is developed and forwarded to all interested parties. If consensus is
   obtained, the change is entered into the Aviation Schedule. An ACTS generated email is sent
   notifying the requestor of the final disposition.
   6.3.3. Resolving Change Requests without a Consensus. If a consensus is not obtained, the
   Executive Secretary consolidates opposing views and forwards them to the involved
   MAJCOMs for General Officer resolution. Based upon the final resolution, the Executive
   Secretary authorizes any change to the Aviation Schedule. An ACTS generated email is sent
   notifying the requestor of the final disposition.
6.4. Force Tasking. Periodically, event/program managers submit out-of-cycle, high priority
event requirements outside of the Aviation Schedule Build period. Similarly, previously
submitted unfilled requirements may be reprioritized as "must fill" events. When a unit is not
readily available within the tasking guidelines of this AFI and no volunteer unit is available, or if
unresolved scheduling conflicts occur, a General Officer decision may be pursued to "force task"
a unit. The respective event/program manager is responsible for preparing a coordinated staff
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                    19


package for General Officer decision. The event/program manager will keep the CAF SIPT
Executive Secretariat apprised of the General Officer’s decision.

6.5. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                        PHILIP M. BREEDLOVE, Lieutenant General,
                                        USAF
                                        DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements

                                        (ACC)

                                        GILMARY M. HOSTAGE III, General, USAF
                                        Commander
 20                                                AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 April 2009
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 90-1001, Responsibilities for Total Force Management, 29 May 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACR—Aviation Change Request
ACTS—Aviation Change Tracking System
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AEFPP—Air and Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
AOS—Air Operations Squadron
ARC—Air Reserve Component
AS—AEF Schedule
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CAS—Close Air Support
CCDR—Combatant Commander
CFR—Call for Requirements
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
COMACC—Commander, Air Combat Command
CONUS—Continental United States
CSAF—Chief of Staff, Air Force
DEPORD—Deployment Order
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                   21


ENDEX—End of Exercise
ER—Executability Review
GFL—Global Force Laydown
GFM—Global Force Management
GFMAP—Global Force Management Allocation Plan
GFMB—Global Force Management Board
HD/LS—High Demand/Low Supply
HQ—Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
IPT—Integrated Product Team
JFP—Joint Force Provider
LFE—Large Force Exercise
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NLT—No Later Than
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORE—Operational Readiness Evaluation
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PLANORD—Planning Order
PMAI—Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory
PTDO—Prepare to Deploy Order
RFC—Request For Capability
SecDef—Secretary of Defense
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SIPT—Scheduling Integrated Product Team
 22                                                     AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


STARTEX—Start of Exercise
URL—Unfilled Requirements List
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USJFCOM—United States Joint Forces Command
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
UTC—Unit Type Code
WIC—Weapons Instructor Course
WSEP—Weapon System Evaluation Program

Terms
ACC Aviation SIPT Chief—The Colonel-level leader of the ACC Aviation SIPT, usually the
Chief of Operations Division. The ACC Aviation SIPT Chief is normally dual-hatted as the
CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary.
ACC-gained—AFRC and ANG units that are allocated to ACC when activated to federal
service.
AEF Life Cycle—A cycle consisting of a training period, preparation period, and deployment
period.
Air Bridge—The process of establishing staging bases and aerial tankers to support deployment
of CAF fighter and/or bomber aircraft.
ARC Rainbow—A grouping of several Reserve Component units to fill a single event.
Aviation Schedule—The master schedule of events for the Combat Air Forces; maintained in
electronic form, the schedule is created, maintained, and updated using the aviation scheduling
software program located on the classified SIPRNET.
Aviation Schedule Build—Used as a noun in the Aviation Scheduling context, it is the periodic
scheduling package that commits Combat Air Forces in 120-day blocks of time. Each build
contains contingency tasking 20-24 months in the future and training events 8-12 months in the
future.
CAF Aviation Scheduling Cycle—A scheduling cycle that overlays the nominal AEF life cycle
and consists of training, preparation, and deployment periods. For CAF aviation scheduling
purposes, the training period is further segmented into three phases: recovery (if required), basic
training, and advanced training.
CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary—The Colonel-level leader of the CAF Aviation
SIPT.
Combat Air Forces—Air forces that are directly engaged in combat operations. Examples
include fighters; bombers; command and control; combat search and rescue; and intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft.
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                                  23


Deployment Eligibility Period— The recurring time period where AEF forces are either
deployed or at home station waiting employment tasking. Those forces remaining at home
station will continue routine training tasks to remain mission ready for any potential tasking.
Event OPR—Typically an officer at a MAJCOM who manages all details of a particular event.
FORTRESS—A scheduling information management system; designed to support the CAF
Aviation SIPT; leverages commercially available software development tools to perform
scheduling, tracking, and reporting for CAF aviation assets to build the Aviation Schedule;
provides remote, real-time, read-only access to the Aviation Schedule database through
SIPRNET; system resides at ACC.
Global Force Management Allocation Plan—A SecDef-approved document that allocates
specific units to support rotational requirements of the combatant commanders.
High Demand/Low Supply (HD/LS)—Weapon systems that possess specialized attributes or
capabilities that have historically been called upon by combatant commanders to execute
operations at a rate that degrades their near- to mid-term readiness. The primary differentiating
characteristics of these assets are the unique capabilities and an unusually high demand relative
to availability in the force.
Mobility Air Forces (MAF)—Air Force Forces that provide airlift, air refueling, special air
mission, and aeromedical evacuation.
Preparation Period—A two-month period that begins 60-days prior to AEF employment and
focuses on preparations specific to scheduled deployments, theater specific training, and any
anticipated tasking. The Aviation Schedule schedulers will reduce taskings at this time to allow
the unit to concentrate on its preparation tasks.
Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory—Aircraft assigned to a unit for performance of its
wartime mission.
Recovery Phase—A two-week phase immediately after deployment that allows redeploying
units to reunite with families and to complete hot wash/lessons learned reports. Units that do not
deploy do not receive a Recovery Phase.
Rotational Tasking—The AEF uses rotational tasking to support known steady state
contingency commitments with unit deployment intervals sequenced to provide continuous
coverage. An AEF squadron can support a single requirement at one location or, based on
prepositioned support, several requirements at multiple locations.
Split Operations—Flying operations conducted from two or more deployed locations. For
scheduling purposes, conducting flying operations from home station and a single deployed
location is not considered split operations.
Surge—For non-HD/LS assets, tasking in excess of that available in a single AEF pair.
Training Period—The time period of the AEF life cycle immediately following the AEF
deployment period and ending two months prior to the next AEF deployment. The first 4-month
portion of this period is structured to regain lost currencies, mission qualifications, and upgrades
and may be shortened by 15 days to enable a recovery phase for deploying forces. The latter
months focus on advanced training that allows AEF team members opportunities to participate
together in exercise events.
24   AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                     25


                                    Attachment 2
                    AVIATION SCHEDULE BUILD TIMELINE.

Figure A2.1. AVIATION SCHEDULE BUILD TIMELINE
                              Contingency Build Timeline
        For the Contingency Build xx inclusive dates dd mmm yyyy to dd mmm yyyy
                              Tan = CAF MAJCOM Actions
  DAY           OPR                              REQUIREMENT
            Aviation SIPT
                          Develop and initiate internal SIPT coordination on the Quick
    1        Executive
                          Look Contingency Schedule.
             Secretariat
            Aviation SIPT
                          Analysts load the Quick Look Contingency Schedule into the
    5        Executive
                          main Aviation Schedule database after internal SIPT review.
             Secretariat
            Aviation SIPT
                          Release the Quick Look Contingency Schedule for CAF Aviation
             Executive
                          SIPT coordination.
             Secretariat
   14       Aviation SIPT
                                      Quick Look Contingency Schedule Review
              members
                            Review and provide feedback to the CAF Aviation SIPT
             (MAJCOM
                            Executive Secretariat.
           representatives)
            Aviation SIPT
                          Receive CAF Aviation SIPT coordination on the Quick Look
   27        Executive
                          Contingency schedule.
             Secretariat
            Aviation SIPT
                          Release MAJCOM/CC approval package for the Contingency
   40        Executive
                          portion of the Aviation Schedule.
             Secretariat
            Aviation SIPT
                                           CAF MAJCOM/CC Approval
              members
   53                       Submit approval of the Contingency Aviation Schedule to the
             (MAJCOM
                            CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat.
           representatives)
            Aviation SIPT Release MAJCOM/CC approved Contingency Aviation Schedule
   58        Executive    package in order to obtain COMACC approval to release the
             Secretariat  JFCOM Contingency Aviation Schedule Memo.
            Aviation SIPT
                          Release Contingency Aviation Schedule Approval Package to
   67        Executive
                          JFCOM.
             Secretariat
    1                      Next Contingency Schedule Build Begins
                                 Training Build Timeline
         For the Training Build xx inclusive dates dd mmm yyyy to dd mmm yyyy
26                                                   AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


           Tan = CAF MAJCOM Actions                   Blue = Significant Notices Changes
     DAY          OPR                               REQUIREMENT
                                             Start Call for Requirements
                            Release Call for Requirements asking for validated CAF,
              Aviation SIPT Numbered Air Force (NAF), and ACC Functional Manager
      1        Executive    (FM)/Event OPR Requirements via the ACTS Call for
               Secretariat Requirements link.
                            Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page stating the Call for
                            Requirements has been released.
              Aviation SIPT
                  members
               (event OPRs/                 End Call for Requirements
                Functional Submit Call for Requirements responses via the ACTS system
               Managers via from scheduling POCs throughout the CAF - validated CAF
     14          respective MAJCOM, Event OPR Requirements.
                MAJCOM
              representative)
              Aviation SIPT
                            Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page to close the Call for
               Executive
                            Requirements
               Secretariat
                                            Start Initial Executability Review
                             Freeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule.
              Aviation SIPT Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page.
     40        Executive
                            Release CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary Initial
               Secretariat
                            Executability Review message with the Training/Exercise
                            Aviation Schedule to CAF Aviation SIPT / ACC Wings /
                            Functional Managers / Event OPRs.
              Aviation SIPT                End Initial Executability Review
               Executive    Unfreeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule.
               Secretariat Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page.
              Aviation SIPT
                  members
     53
               (event OPRs/
                Functional Submit Initial Executability Review comments via ACTS from
               Managers via respective Wings / functional managers and event OPRs
                 respective
                MAJCOM
              representative)
              Aviation SIPT
     61        Executive    Complete work on Initial Executability Reclamas
               Secretariat
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                        27


                                          Start Final Executability Review
                          Freeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule in preparation
                          for the Final Executability Review.
           Aviation SIPT
    66      Executive    Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page.
            Secretariat Release Final Executability Review Message. Wings, functional
                         managers, and event OPRs review scheduled tasks and may
                         request the CAF SIPT to elevate concerns for general officer
                         decision.
           Aviation SIPT
               members
            (event OPRs/               End Final Executability Review
             Functional Submit Final Executability Review comments (by exception) via
            Managers via ACTS from respective wings / functional managers and event
    72        respective OPRs.
             MAJCOM
           representative)
           Aviation SIPT Unfreeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule.
            Executive
            Secretariat Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page.
          FINAL TRAINING APPROVAL PACKAGE COORDINATION
                        Release CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Training Aviation
          Aviation SIPT
                        Schedule Approval Package for MAJCOM/CC approval.
    74      Executive
            Secretariat   Freeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule.
           Aviation SIPT
              members      Submit CAF MAJCOM/CC approval of the Training Aviation
    90
             (MAJCOM Schedule to the SIPT Executive Secretariat.
           representative)
           Aviation SIPT
                         Release final Training Aviation Schedule Package for COMACC
   100      Executive
                         approval of the Training Aviation Schedule.
            Secretariat
           Aviation SIPT
   107      Executive    Unfreeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule.
            Secretariat
           Aviation SIPT
   120      Executive    Receive COMACC approval of the Training Aviation Schedule.
            Secretariat
    1                     Next Training Schedule Build Begins
 28                                                       AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


                                           Attachment 3
                     CAF AVIATION SIPT SCHEDULING PRIORITIES.

Figure A3.1. CAF AVIATION SIPT SCHEDULING PRIORITIES.
Priority*    Event
      1      Contingencies, operations
      2      AEF Spin-up Events (includes AEF tasking specific training events and LFEs)
             Inspector General (IG) Inspections or North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
      3
             Evaluations
             Weapon System Evaluation Program; Close Air Support (CAS) exercises and
      4
             training
      5      ORI Support, USAF Weapons School
      6      Service and Joint Exercises
      7      MAJCOM Tests, demonstrations, and aerial events
      8      Unit-generated events (i.e., OREs, air-shows)
* Priorities are not an inviolate sequential order of assigning tasks. The priorities provide a basic
reference for event deconfliction.
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                              29


                                        Attachment 4
                   CONSOLIDATED PLANNING SCHEDULES (CPS)

A4.1. Introduction.     The CPS is a collection of schedules for various dissimilar AF
communities. CPS provides users with a common access point for viewing schedules while also
providing schedulers with independent management ability. The CPS construct provides a
method to accommodate different schedules that was not possible through the exclusive, aviation
only Consolidated Planning Order (CPO). Participation in the CPS is voluntary.
A4.2. CAF Aviation SIPT Facilitation. Administration of the CPS web site is a peripheral
duty of the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat facilitated by its information technology
function. The CAF Aviation SIPT does not provide scheduling functions for the aggregate CPS.
The CAF Aviation SIPT has full management and scheduling responsibility for only the CAF
Aviation Schedule portion of the CPS.
A4.3. Schedule Modules Methodology. The modular approach involves the establishment of
independent data structures for each unique entity (i.e., aviation, virtual, PJ, IW Aggressors,
DATCALS, Space Aggressors, DCGS, AOCs, military working dogs, etc). The individual
schedules are capable of stand-alone management and operation. The modular design with
separate and distinct schedule coordination management is the standard used for all schedules
requesting CPS inclusion. The modular structure accommodates the desire to access various
schedules from a single web site reference point.
   A4.3.1. The modular approach allows program managers to maintain control and
   responsibility for their own data, and provides for schedule management independent from
   other schedules. Program managers are permitted to adapt their unique scheduling processes
   independent from constraints of other communities’ systems. Functional managers may
   choose an appropriate mechanism necessary to process schedule changes. The mechanism
   can range from an automated system with rigid, detailed processes or a simple phone call,
   email method.
   A4.3.2. Separate data maintains the integrity of each community’s schedule.The modular
   approach does not impact outside agencies currently using the aviation database. Users only
   concerned with aviation and those data mining the aviation database will not be confused
   with additional material.
   A4.3.3. Each schedule module is named according to the information it contains to
   accurately identify and reference a particular schedule.
       A4.3.3.1. The aviation schedule database (formerly CPO) is renamed Aviation Schedule
       to better describe its content. The CPO name is discontinued to eliminate confusion. The
       Aviation Schedule may be referenced as the ―Aviation CPS‖.
   A4.3.4. Users (wings, staff agencies, etc.) have a single point access to multiple schedules.
   Schedule viewing access is provided through the common web site.
       A4.3.4.1. A SIPRNET web page serves as a central point for hosting functional manager
       provided links for each new schedule.
       A4.3.4.2. The classification of schedule data makes an unclassified web site impractical.
       Only the SIPRNET can provide visibility of a complete schedule having classified data.
 30                                                     AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


A4.4. Responsibilities. Information technology personnel of the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive
Secretariat will provide web site management for CPS. The scheduling expertise of the CAF
Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat is exclusive to aviation scheduling and only has the
requisite subject matter expertise to actively maintain the Aviation Schedule. A functional
manager is defined as an individual or organization that has the requisite subject matter expertise
to maintain their respective schedule in the CPS. The CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat
is the functional manager for only the Aviation Schedule portion of the CPS.
   A4.4.1. CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat will:
       A4.4.1.1. Create and maintain a SIPRNET web page to serve as a point for hosting
       functional manager provided links for each schedule.
       A4.4.1.2. Copies of the aviation scheduling software source code and web site may be
       provided to those scheduling communities that want to modify and adapt it for their use.
       Software programming code modifications will not be accomplished for agencies other
       than the CAF Aviation SIPT.
       A4.4.1.3. Provide day-to-day schedule management and change coordination functions
       only for the Aviation Schedule as expertise and processes are limited to aviation matters.
   A4.4.2. Functional Managers will:
       A4.4.3.1. Maintain their independent schedule content using any web supportable
       software format that meets their community’s need. The format may be, but is not
       exclusive to, spreadsheet, text document, or adapted aviation scheduling software.
       A4.4.3.2. Use a schedule change coordination system to best meet their communities’
       needs. Each individual schedule manager may use whatever mechanism necessary to
       process schedule changes. Only Aviation Schedule changes will be made through the
       ACTS. However, a copy of the ACTS software may be adapted for use. Software
       modification is the responsibility of the particular schedule data manager.
       A4.4.3.3. Be responsible for the coordination and approval of their respective schedule
       data.
           A4.4.3.3.1. Coordination processes will be separate from the Aviation Schedule
           coordination process. Separate schedule change coordination eliminates confusion
           and maintains the integrity of each schedule.
           A4.4.3.3.2. Approval processes will be separate from the Aviation Schedule approval
           process. Separate approval allows focused emphasis and appropriate functional
           manager recognition. The Aviation CPS has two approval processes that allow for
           concentrated attention on specific event types - one for the contingency schedule and
           one for training.
           A4.4.3.3.3. To efficiently use general officer time, schedules having exclusive A3
           purview may be considered for inclusion with the Aviation Schedule approval
           package as long as the timing and format meets the Aviation Schedule process.
           Functional managers will officially coordinate with the CAF SIPT each time they
           desire their schedule to be included with the Aviation Schedule approval package.
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                                  31


                                  Attachment 5 (Added-ACC)
                                     ACC AVIATION SIPT

1. Mission Statement. The ACC Aviation Scheduling Integrated Product Team (SIPT) is a
cross-functional team established to serve as the central focal point for scheduling and tasking of
ACC aviation units (3-series UTCs that contain aircraft) to support contingency and training
requirements of the AEF. Additionally, the ACC Aviation SIPT will prioritize, deconflict, and
source only aircraft for other training requirements or requests for ACC aircraft to support JCS,
combatant commands, HQ USAF, and ACC events and exercises (to include NAF events). The
ACC Aviation SIPT will maintain ACC data in the electronic Combat Air Forces (CAF)
Aviation Schedule that depicts the HHQ directed master schedule for ACC operational, combat-
coded aviation units. The ACC Aviation SIPT, acting through the SIPT Chief, will be the
primary vehicle for interacting with the CAF Aviation SIPT on aviation unit scheduling actions.

2. Organization. The ACC Aviation SIPT operates under the sponsorship of the Director of
Operations (HQ ACC/A3), Operations Division (HQ ACC/A3O). The SIPT has a self-contained
core organized into functional scheduling teams. Additional associate members from ACC
directorates are matrixed into the organization. No relocations or additional manpower positions
are required to execute the responsibilities of the SIPT. The SIPT uses the tasking and
coordination procedures outlined in ACCI 90-101, Headquarters Air Combat Command
Integrated Product Teams (IPT), Attachment 1. Formal meetings will be scheduled when
required in conjunction with the CAF Aviation Schedule build process.

3. Membership:

3.1. Self-Contained Core Membership. The core members consist of the ACC Aviation SIPT
Chief from A3O along with contingency, training, HD/LS, exercise, and database administration
representatives from the CAF Aviation Scheduling Branch (A3OS). The core membership is an
impartial scheduling body for the assignment of HHQ requirements. To maintain impartiality
and positive working relationship with ACC wings, the Core Membership does not create,
submit, or manage event requirements.

3.1.1. The O-6 leader of the ACC Aviation SIPT is normally the Chief of the Operations
Division (ACC/A3O).

3.2. Associate Members. ACC directorates will appoint an associate member for each unique
training/operational event that generates requirements for aviation forces. All functional MDS
managers are automatically an associate member. The following divisions contain event OPRs
or MDS functional managers and will provide matrix support to ACC Aviation SIPT
deliberations: HQ ACC/A3C, A3F, A3G, A3H, A3I, A3J, A3T, A3Y, A10A, and IGI. The
event OPR list located on the CAF Aviation SIPT website identifies the associate member with
their assigned event.

3.3. Advisors. In addition to the core and associate members, the following organizations will
provide support as required to facilitate the ACC Aviation SIPT mission:
 32                                                      AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012


3.3.1. A3A. Range and airspace issues.

3.3.2. A3R. Funding issues.

3.3.3. A5P. Force structure changes that affect unit availability.

3.3.4. A8A/F/I/R/Q/Y. Programmed depot maintenance (PDM) schedules, significant aircraft
modification schedules, etc.

3.3.5. A8T. Test & Evaluation and range issues.

4. Authority. The ACC Aviation SIPT Chief is authorized direct coordinating authority among
all core and associate membership to facilitate rapid decision making and information flow.
Associate members are responsible for informing or securing the coordination of their respective
division leadership (normally an O-6) as appropriate.

5. Objectives/Measures:

5.1. The primary objective of the ACC Aviation SIPT is to be a single point of contact to
provide a cross-functional framework for identifying requirements and scheduling combat-
coded, operational ACC aviation units in support of JCS, combatant commands, HQ USAF, and
ACC-validated requirements. ACC event OPRs and MDS functional managers remain
responsible for their individual programs. The ACC Aviation SIPT will streamline the
scheduling process for aviation assets by providing scheduling guidelines, priorities, and data to
the CAF Aviation SIPT for inclusion in the CAF Aviation Schedule, a secure web-accessible
electronic database containing the HHQ directed master schedule of aviation package taskings.

5.1.1. Enhance stability and predictability for operational aviation units through long-range and
accurate identification of all aviation requirements.

5.1.2. Coordinate ACC data in the development of the CAF Aviation Schedule. Optimize the
use of limited assets to support JCS, combatant commands, HQ USAF, and ACC-validated
requirements for ACC aviation forces. Ensure the best available unit is scheduled to meet force
requirements, training, or test objectives within the operations tempo (OPTEMPO) constraints of
an AEF Schedule.

5.1.3. Ensure tasking priority for all HQ ACC directed aviation events requiring operational
aircraft comply with CAF Aviation SIPT Scheduling Priorities. ACCI 99-101, ACC Test and
Evaluation, provides guidance on tasking operational aircraft for test and evaluation.

5.1.4. Maximize available training with limited funding. Identify opportunities to combine
deployments and exercises whenever possible to optimize available funding and reduce
OPTEMPO.

5.1.5. Maintain a history of schedule changes. Enhance stability and predictability by
minimizing scheduling conflicts resulting from requirement changes that occur after publication
AFI10-420_ACCSUP_I 27 JUNE 2012                                                               33


of the initial schedule.

5.1.6. Ensure ACC aviation data in the CAF Aviation Schedule database is updated upon official
notification. The CAF Aviation Schedule is the single source document to reflect all HHQ
directed aviation requirements and sourcing.

5.2. Internal SIPT measures of effectiveness include, but are not limited to, the following
metrics. Metric data is concurrently updated with the CAF Aviation Schedule build updates.

5.2.1. Scheduling effectiveness:

5.2.1.1. Number of total requirements submitted during the build period.

5.2.1.2. Percentage of requirements filled.

5.2.2. Leveling of OPTEMPO across like weapon systems during an AEF Schedule.

5.2.3. Number of scheduling rule set violations.

6. Parameters:

6.1. The ACC Aviation SIPT is a coordinating organization empowered to make scheduling
inputs and tasking recommendations for combat-coded, operational ACC aviation units only.
Incremental CAF Aviation Schedule build updates will be reviewed by HQ ACC/A3 and
approved by COMACC. The change authority for COMACC-approved CAF Aviation Schedule
build tasks is the HQ ACC/A3 as delegated by COMACC.

6.2. The ACC Aviation SIPT Chief has tasking authority over all core, associate, and advisory
team members with respect to identification of contingency, training, and exercise requirements,
and any subsequent unit scheduling or tasking issues.

6.3. Functional programs (e.g., Weapon System Evaluation Program, JCS exercises, Flag
exercises, etc.) remain the responsibility of their respective functional managers who are
responsible for providing the ACC Aviation SIPT with a timely and complete listing of
validated, aviation requirements associated with their program.

6.4. The ACC Aviation SIPT is accountable to COMACC and the senior staff for accomplishing
objectives outlined in paragraph 5, as well as other tasks directed from internal or external
tasking sources.


6.5. All ACC Aviation SIPT members will keep their respective directors and division chiefs
informed of issues being worked by the team and associated progress.
