BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-3501
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                             9 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                                   Certified Current, 5 March 2012
                                                                                      Operations

                                                           AIR FORCE DIVING PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and form s are available on the e-P ublishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A3O-AS                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O (Maj Gen Gibson)
                                                                                 Pages: 26

This instruction implements DoD Directive 5100.1, Functions of the Department of Defense and
Its Major Components DoD Instruction 3224.04, Single Manager Responsibility for Joint Service
Military Diving Technology and Training (MDT&T), and AFPD 10-35, Battlefield Airmen. This
instruction establishes the Air Force Diving Program. It applies to Air National Guard and
United States Air Force Reserve units or members. Lead MAJCOMs and Component
MAJCOMs will send one copy of their printed supplement to HQ AF/A3O-AS; other
organizations send one copy of each supplement to the next higher headquarters functional OPR
for review and coordination before publishing. Send recommended changes, additions, deletions,
and any conflict or duplication of other reports on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication to HQ AF/A3O-AS, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC
20330-1480, or e-mail a3o.as.workflow@pentagon.af.mil.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and maintain records and the systems of records that
affect this instruction are 37 United States Code (USC) 301a, 10 USC 8013, Incentive Pay –
Public Law (PL) 92-204 (Appropriations Act for 1973)/PL 93-570 (Continuing Appropriation
Resolution) and Privacy Act system notices F036 AF PC Q - Personnel Data System (PDS) and
F036 AF PC C - Military Personnel Records System. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of a name of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the USAF or the
Department of Defense.
2                                                           AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009


                                            Chapter 1
                                        INTRODUCTION
1.1. Purpose. Establishes the Director of Operations, Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for
Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3O), as the Air Force (AF) proponent for AF diving
matters and provides broad administrative, management and operational guidance for the AF
diving program and subordinate command level diving programs to standardize dive
qualification/requalification standards, increase mission effectiveness and safety, and ensure
compliance with DoD activity reporting and incident reporting requirements.
1.1.1. The Secretary of the Navy, as the Department of Defense (DoD) Executive Manager for
Joint Military Diving Technology and Training (MDT&T), has primary responsibility for
developing dive procedures and equipment that are of common interest to the DoD. The basic
guidance for dive operations is contained in SS521-AG-PRO-010, United States (U.S.) Navy
Diving Manual, and Operational Navy Instruction (OPNAVINST) 3150.27B, Navy Diving
Program.

1.1.2. AF approved deviations to the U.S. Navy Diving Manual and Navy Diving Program are
contained in this instruction. Lead MAJCOM (L-MAJCOM) commanders have authority and
responsibility for diving operations under their control to include the development of service-
unique tactics, techniques, procedures, and equipment for subsurface diving that are not provided
for elsewhere.
NOTE: For the purposes of this publication, the term Lead Major Command (L-MAJCOM)
applies to Air Education and Training Command (AETC), Air Combat Command (ACC), Air
National Guard (ANG), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), and Air Force Special Operations
Command (AFSOC).
1.1.3. All AF diving operations will be conducted in accordance with (IAW) published
procedures and utilizing equipment that has been approved IAW this AFI.

1.2. Scope. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) applies to all military-trained divers, active duty
AF, AFRC, NGB, and USAF civilian personnel involved in the training, operational or
administrative aspects of diving operations. This instruction does not address aircrew personnel
who undergo emergency underwater egress training, personnel working in medical hyperbaric
treatment facilities, firefighters conducting surface water rescue (not to include dive recovery) at
water depths of less than 10 feet or off-duty recreational diving by Air Force military or civilian
personnel.
NOTE: The Fire Emergency Services Program provides guidance for water rescue (not to
include dive recovery or use of Self-Contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus (SCUBA)
conducted by firefighters at depth of less than 10 feet).
1.3. Definitions. For the purpose of this instruction, diving is defined as any underwater activity
or operation in which personnel are subject to elevated ambient pressure and use of equipment
such as SCUBA, including open circuit, semi-closed circuit, and closed circuit designs using any
breathing medium. Additionally, diving includes undersea habitats, diver propulsion vehicles and
their life support systems, diving simulators such as diver support systems for aviation escape
trainers, diver tool systems whether pneumatically, electronically, hydraulically driven or
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                      3

explosively actuated, and other diving life support or diving equipment not specified above. The
following terms are defined as they relate to the Air Force diving program
1.3.1. System Certification. System certification is the procedure for independent technical
review, survey, test, and approval to ensure material and procedural adequacy of diving
equipment or systems to perform safely within specified operational limits.
1.3.2. Diving Equipment, Tools, and Accessories: Air Force divers will use only Authorized for
Navy Use (ANU) equipment, tools, and accessories. The ANU designation is applied by the
Navy Supervisor of Diving and Salvage (NAVSEA-000C3B) to selected commercially available
diving equipment, tools and accessories, and hyperbaric system components, after they have
undergone design safety reviews, test and evaluation, or both to ensure diver safety. AF diving
units should forward equipment not on the ANU list to the Supervisor of Diving and Salvage
(NAVSEA-000C3B) prior to use for an independent review of documentation. The ANU
process addresses three basic categories of equipment.
1.3.2.1. Category I. Life support diving equipment (e.g. regulators, cylinders, manifolds,
buoyancy compensators, compressors, etc).
1.3.2.2. Category II. Non-life support equipment that is potentially hazardous to the diver (e.g.
explosively actuated tools, surface powered electrical tools, and hydraulic chain saws).
1.3.2.3. Category III. Non-life support accessory equipment that enhances mission
accomplishment (e.g. wet/dry suit, mask, fin, snorkel, watch, cameras, hand tools)
1.3.3. Air Force Diver. Active duty and reserve component military members, and civilian
employees of the Air Force who have successfully completed formal training at a Department of
Defense operated diving school (approved by the Chief of Naval Education and Training) and
who maintain qualification. For the purpose of this instruction, any U.S. Air Force personnel
who have completed formal training at either a U.S. Navy or other Chief of Naval Education and
Training-approved DoD-operated dive school, and who maintains qualifications for the
equipment trained on, are considered to be “Qualified Air Force Divers”.
1.3.4. Diving Supervisor. An individual who has graduated a formal DoD Dive Supervisor
qualification course (approved by Chief of Naval Education and Training) and Air Force Combat
Search and Rescue and Special Activities Division, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans,
and Requirements (AF/A3O-AS)-approved L-MAJCOM Program of Instruction (POI) and is
designated in writing by the commander. Diving supervisors should be selected based on
knowledge, experience, level of training, and competence. There is no minimum rank
requirement for diving supervisors.
1.3.5. Unit Diving Officer. Designated in writing by unit commander, the diving officer is
responsible for the safe conduct of all diving operations within the unit. This individual must be
thoroughly familiar with all unit diving techniques and have a detailed knowledge of all
applicable regulations and is responsible for all operational, logistical, and administrative duties
associated with the unit diving program. The Unit Diving Officer must be a qualified diver. A
SNCO qualified as a Diving Supervisor may be assigned as the Unit Diving Officer if no diving
officer is assigned to the unit.
1.3.6. L-MAJCOM Chief Diver. Principle diving subject matter expert responsible for diving
standardization, evaluation, and diving-related activities to include logistics designated in writing
by the Lead MAJCOM/A3 or equivalent. The L-MAJCOM Chief Diver must have a minimum
4                                                           AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

of 10 years operational diving experience, be a qualified Diving Supervisor, and hold a 9-skill
level or higher in an operational diving career-field (1T2/1C2) or be civilian, military-certified
Master Diver.
NOTE: USAF Divers do not normally meet the requirements of a military-certified “Master
Diver”. If a military-certified Master Diver (government civilian or contractor) can be added to
the staff, they will provide a valuable source of expertise particularly in terms of diving systems
certification, maintenance, and logistics and interface with the Navy Diving program.
1.3.7. L-MAJCOM Diving Officer. A field grade officer, or equivalent, designated in writing by
the MAJCOM/A3 or equivalent to oversee the MAJCOM Diving Program. The L-MAJCOM
Diving Officer is responsible for all programmatic aspects of L-MAJCOM Diving Program. L-
MAJCOM Diving Officer must be a qualified diver.
1.3.8. Medical Personnel. Diving Medical Officers and Diving Medical Technicians/Special
Operations Technician are given special training in hyperbaric medicine and in diving. They
participate in diving operations when the presence of diving medical personnel is indicated IAW
the U.S. Navy Diving Manual.
1.3.8.1. Diving Medical Officer (DMO). A physician trained specifically in diving medicine and
physiology. The DMO shall be a graduate of the Diving Medical Officer course taught at the
Naval Diving and Salvage Training Center (NDSTC) or the nine-week diving medicine course
taught at the NDSTC. Graduates of the diving medicine course are considered to have the same
privileges as graduates of the Diving Medical Officer course, with the exception that they are not
granted the privilege of modifying treatment protocols. They may assist and advise treatment and
care of diving casualties but may not modify recompression procedures.
NOTE: USAF Flight Surgeons and Physicians do not normally meet the requirements of a
Diving Medical Officer. Units should coordinate with the Navy for DMO support when
required.
 1.3.8.2. Diving Medical Technician (DMT)/ Special Operations Technician (SOT). A DMT/
SOT is a graduate from the Navy DMT or Special Operations SOT course where they receive
specialized training in hyperbaric and diving medicine. A DMT/SOT is required for all closed-
circuit dive operations. Military members must hold a military diver qualification before
attending Navy DMT course.
1.4. Policy. Only properly qualified USAF divers using approved and/or certified equipment
systems and procedures will conduct Air Force diving.
1.4.1. Research, Development, Testing, and Evaluation (RDT&E). All dive equipment RDT&E
must be requested by L-MAJCOM through Supervisor of Diving NAVSEA/OOC3 for
coordination with Naval Experimental Dive Unit (NEDU) and ANU processes.
1.4.2. Diving with Joint or Foreign Units. Divers will observe strict compliance with all
established DoD diving policies and tactics, techniques and procedures (TTP) and this
instruction when training or conducting operations with other Services or foreign forces. USAF
divers will only use ANU approved, certified equipment, and systems.
1.4.2.1. When conducting training or operations with foreign forces OCONUS, divers may use
partner nation procedures if they do not conflict with DoD diving polices and TTP or this AFI.
1.4.2.2. If a foreign unit has equipment that is not on the ANU approved for use list, an L-
MAJCOM/A3 approved waiver is required to use those specific items. If waiver is approved, the
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                     5

USAF senior diver participating in diving evolutions shall ensure that no undue safety hazards
exist before allowing the participation of USAF personnel in diving operations.
1.5. Waiver Authority and Exceptions to Policy. L-MAJCOM commanders have authority
and responsibility for diving operations under their control. L-MAJCOMs will coordinate
waivers of system certifications, safety, and operational procedures, personnel qualifications
(except physical standards), and materials related to USAF diving IAW OPNAVINST 3150.27B.
For waivers to exceed operational limits or deviate from established procedures during
contingencies waiver authority is the L-MAJCOM/A3, Air Component/A3, or the Special
Operations Component/J3 (or their designated representatives) as applicable. For exercises and
training, waiver authority will be retained at the L-MAJCOM/A3 or their designated
representative except where specifically identified in this instruction. Procedures, checklists, and
record traffic published at L-MAJCOM level and on record with HQ AF/A3O-AS constitute
authorization to deviate from standard guidance in paragraph 1.2. Deviations occurring during
operational mission execution (to include contingencies) will be reported to the MAJCOM/Dive
Program Manager (DPM) within 24 hours or as soon as feasible.
1.5.1. Physical standard waivers will be submitted IAW AFI 48-123 Vol 3, Medical
Examinations and Standards Volume 3-Flying and Special Operational Duty.
1.5.2. Operational or procedural waiver requests must substantiate the urgent or unusual
circumstances that justify their approval and will include the following:
1.5.2.1. Procedure or item to be deviated from.
1.5.2.2. Specific unit and by-name individuals requiring the waiver.
1.5.2.3. Inclusive dates of the waiver period.
1.5.2.4. Specific location the waiver is to be granted for.
1.5.2.5. Circumstances that necessitate the requirement for the waiver.
1.5.2.6. Impact of the denial of the waiver.
6                                                          AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009


                                            Chapter 2
    AIR FORCE DIVING PROGRAM RESPONSIBILITIES AND MANAGEMENT


2.1. USAF Diving Program Management and Responsibilities. The Secretary of the Air
Force responsibilities under DoDI 3224.4 are executed through the Director of Operations, Air
Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements, (USAF/A3O).
USAF/A3O executes diving policy through the USAF/A3O-AS. USAF/A3O-AS acts as the
USAF subject matter expert and coordinates all diving policy matters and waivers for
USAF/A3O.
2.2. HQ USAF/A3O-AS will:
2.2.1. Provide O-6 level representative and subject matter expert(s) to Military Diving
Technology and Training (MDT&T) Program Board IAW DoDI 3224.04.
2.2.2. Designate military or civilian representatives to represent the AF as members of the
Military Technical Acceptance Board (MTAB) and/or Technical Training Acceptance Board
(TTAB) IAW DoDI 3224.4.
2.2.3. Execute the Air Force Diving Program by appointing an Air Force Diving Program
Manager. The Air Force Diving Program Manager will be an Air Force Diver and should hold
open and closed circuit qualifications and meet all qualification requirements of an Air Force L-
MAJCOM Chief Diver.
2.2.4. Provide Air Force Diving Program guidance.
2.2.5. Be the final authority on all requests for waiver of system certification, safety and
operational procedures, personnel qualifications (except physical standards), and materials
related to USAF diving.
2.2.6. Provide consolidated reports to the Naval Safety Center regarding Air Force diving
statistics, and periodic safety surveys of MAJCOMs with diving systems.
2.2.7. In coordination with L-MAJCOMs and USAF/SG, develop and promulgate individual
physical standard requirements for divers.
2.2.8. In coordination with L-MAJCOMs establish qualification and re-qualification criteria and
administrative procedures for documentation in training records and diving logs for Air Force
diving personnel.
2.2.9. Advise AF/A3O on all Air Force diving operational matters.
2.2.10. Brief/coordinate with Headquarters Air Force directorates and other officials or
organizations on diving operations, equipment and training matters.
2.2.11. Monitor L-MAJCOM dive training programs.
2.2.12. Assist AETC in formulating, implementing, and evaluating formal training programs for
Air Force diving personnel.
2.2.13. Convene and chair DPM Executive Committee meeting annually (or more frequently
when required by AF/A3O). The Executive Committee discusses and reviews L-MAJCOM
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                        7

diving program efforts. The DPM Executive Committee membership consists of L-MAJCOM
DPM and Career Field Managers from 1C2, 1T2, and 13D AFSC.
2.2.14. Participate in or send a representative to other joint and sister service diving program
conferences, as needed.
2.2.15. Review all reported diving incidents and accidents. Recommend/direct coordinated
changes to training and procedures, where appropriate.
2.2.16. Assist AETC/A2/3, in the allocation of formal diving program training quotas.
2.2.17. Maintain USAF master listing (for messages, e-mails, FAX numbers, etc.) of all DPM
and disseminate information periodically to promote communication.
2.3. AF/SE (Chief of Safety) will: Through the Air Force Safety Center, Ground Safety
Division:
2.3.1. Upon request, provide statistical data analysis on all diving related mishaps or events.
2.3.2. Upon request, provide technical assistance to diving related investigation boards and other
safety matters.
2.3.3. Coordinate with sister service safety offices as appropriate.
2.3.4. Incorporate one or more divers into any safety investigation involving diving operations.
2.3.5. Through management of the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) ensure USAF
and/or MAJCOM DPM are provided an opportunity to submit comments on safety investigation
reports.
2.4. HQ USAF/SG (Surgeon General) will: Through the Air Force Medical Operations
Agency:
2.4.1. Designate an Air Force physician to provide recommendations on medical requirements
and qualifications for divers.
2.4.2. Coordinate and review all diving mishap reports before forwarding to Air Force Safety
Center.
2.5. HQ AETC/A2/3 through HQ AETC/A3T (Technical Training Division) will:
2.5.1. Oversee the formal training aspects of the Diving Program.
2.5.2. Manage USAF quota policy for all DoD diver courses and other formal training as
required.
2.5.3. Provide oversight of USAF instructor requirements at DoD formal diving schools.
2.6. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will:
2.6.1. Designate a single EEHS
(SPO) to serve as the Air Force lead for acquisition, certification, and coordinating ANU
designation for all Air Force-unique diving life support systems and equipment not currently
listed in the ANU. Air Force-unique diving related equipment should be forwarded for testing
and evaluation at NEDU for addition to the ANU diving equipment list. AFMC SPO acquires
standard diving systems for USAF dive operations.
8                                                         AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

2.6.2. Provide an item manager for all diving and diving related equipment items utilized by
MAJCOMs.
2.6.3. Coordinate operational test and evaluation of standard diving equipment as required.
2.6.4. SPO will designate a program manager to serve as the technical authority for Air Force
diving and coordinate acquisition, operation, and maintenance of diver life support equipment
and diving tools and equipment.
2.6.5. Coordinate with Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) to procure maritime and diving related
products through the Prime Vendor Program as required.
2.7. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM): All 1T2, 1C2, and 13D must maintain diving
qualification to maintain AFSC. Career field Managers will update AFI 36-2108 / 36-2105 and
AFSC specific Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) with requirements for
conducting dive operations and supporting education and training plans. Coordinate these
updates through AF/A3O-AS for standardization and program oversight.
2.8. L-MAJCOM Diving Program Management and Responsibilities.
2.8.1. Each L-MAJCOM will send a memorandum of appointment from L-MAJCOM/A3 or
equivalent to HQ USAF/A3O-AS appointing a Chief Diver and Dive Officer. Either the L-
MAJCOM Chief Diver or Dive Officer can serve as the L-MAJCOM DPM. Dive Program
Managers will:
2.8.1.1. Establish command-specific diving programs according to operational need, through
supplements, applicable Instructions, and Joint References.
2.8.1.2. Publish L-MAJCOM policy and guidance for gained Component (C)-MAJCOM, DRU,
and FOA diving programs. Coordinate requirements for gained C-MAJCOMs and manage
diving systems and equipment. Monitor L-MAJCOM gained C-MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA dive
training programs.
2.8.1.3. Coordinate (as required) with Air Staff/MAJCOM functional area managers to establish
directives, procedures, and requirements consistent with the MAJCOM mission to evaluate
training programs and capability of assigned or attached divers to perform their assigned duties.
2.8.1.4. Participate in DPM Executive Committee and send a representative to other joint and
sister service diving program conferences, as needed.
2.8.1.5. Attend Air Force, joint agency, industry group meetings, boards, task forces,
committees, and conferences that deal with developing, modifying, or researching operational
diving matters.
2.8.1.6. Coordinate with C-MAJCOM functional area managers and training POCs for formal
training requirements, and as required, submit class quota requests for initial and upgrade
training.
2.8.1.7. Maintain copies of diving Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and Program/Syllabus
of Instruction (POI/SOI) developed by activities under their purview.
2.8.1.8. Establish the frequency and standards for program evaluations and Staff Assistance
Visits. In coordination with MAJCOM functional area managers, conduct evaluations during
staff assistance visits, or as needed.
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                     9

2.8.1.9. Compile a comprehensive master list of items used by MAJCOM divers.
2.8.1.10. Identify operational requirements and prepare Mission Needs Statements and
Operational Requirements Documents as required, and participate in the MAJCOM Mission
Area Plans process.
2.8.1.11. Process requests for waiver of system certification, safety and operational procedures,
personnel qualifications (except physical standards), and materials related to USAF diving.
2.8.1.12. Provide units with dive program/safety evaluation checklists, prior to unit dive program
inspections
2.8.1.13. Document deviation from inter-service references and this instruction and review
annually. Every three years review roles and missions requiring exception from standard
procedures and equipment, and submit to AF/A3O-AS on an AF Form 847 for inclusion in this
instruction. Include:
2.8.1.13.1. Roles and missions requiring exceptions to policy.
2.8.1.13.2. Procedural guidance used by assigned personnel during such operations, to include
checklists.
2.8.1.13.3. Training/upgrade/documentation requirements and lesson plans to be used to train
personnel in such operations.
2.8.1.13.4. Currency criteria and refresher training specifications for inclusion in to Duty Air
Force Specialty Code (DAFSC) specific instructions.
2.8.1.14. Participate in dive incident investigations as required.
2.8.1.15. Review all dive incident reports and accidents ensuring all required follow-up actions
are accomplished. Manage safety recommendations IAW AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and
Reports, using the AFSAS (https://afsas.kirtland.af.mil). Forward reports of completed action to
AF/A3O-AS to ensure cross-tell of lessons learned.
2.8.1.16. Review and archive all operational dive mission reports, forward copies to AF/A3O-
AS.
2.8.1.17. Ensure accurate and timely submission by subordinate units of electronic Dive Log
Reports using the Navy Dive/Jump Reporting System (DJRS) to Commander, Naval Safety
Center, Attn: (C-37), 375 A Street, Norfolk, VA 23511-4399 within 10 days of each dive via
web, e-mail, or diskette.
2.8.18. Provide consolidated command Smooth Logs to the AF/A3O-AS regarding Air Force
diving statistics, and periodic safety surveys of MAJCOMs with diving systems.
2.8.19. Review and validate the L-MAJCOM Dive Program annually.
2.8.20. Coordinate with Navy Safety Center to schedule biennial safety center dive locker
inspections. Forward results to Air Force Safety Center, Ground Safety Division and AF/A3O-
AS.
2.9. Diving Unit or Activity Commander will:
2.9.1 Appoint a unit Diving Officer to oversee all unit diving related areas. L-MAJCOM DPM
will disseminate safety information, tactics and procedures through the unit Diving Officer.
10                                                          AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

2.9.2. Forward memorandum of appointment of unit Diving Officer to L-MAJCOM DPM.
2.9.3. Implement higher headquarters policies and procedures.
2.9.4. Ensure unit dive program, training, and currency are IAW AFSC requirements and L-
MAJCOM directives.
2.9.5. Ensure all written guidance (i.e. instructions, regulations, manuals, technical orders)
pertaining to diving operations is maintained.
2.9.6. Ensure unit level Diving Supervisor is trained and certified.
2.9.7. Implement dive related Operational Risk Management program.
2.9.8. Forward operational dive mission reports through chain of command to L-MAJCOM DPM
NLT seven days post mission completion.
2.10. Divers will:
2.10.1. Monitor their diving qualifications to ensure proper record entries in Navy Safety
Centers, Dive/Jump Reporting System, personal diving logs, OJT records, and Aviation
Resource Management System (ARMS) or other MAJCOM or AFSC specific formats.
2.10.2. Perform diving only when a current AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendation for Flying
or Special Operational Duty is on file at host base flight management office. Grounding from
flight or jump duties applies to dive duties unless specifically identified by flight surgeon in
writing on an AF Form 1042.
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                 11


                                           Chapter 3
                                     ADMINISTRATION
3.1. General. This instruction provides guidelines for compliance with legislative and executive
directives. All aspects of diving training and qualification must be accurately administered to
assure the legality, safety, and effectiveness of dive operations.
3.2. Dive Duty Authorization. All units with a diving mission will provide their L-MAJCOM
with a copy of their MAJCOM/FOA approved Designed Operational Capability (DOC)
Statement or equivalent validating their military dive mission
3.2.1. Diving qualification and dive status are awarded based on mission/DAFSC requirement
and will not be used as part of an incentive or recognition program. The following authorities
may enter or withdraw divers from dive status:
3.2.1.1. AF/A3O-AS for management of the AF diving program.
3.2.1.2. Commanders of Air Force units that conduct approved diving activities validated by L-
MAJCOM IAW this AFI.
3.3. Diving Position Validation. Do not assign members to diving duty unless the member
designated requires active dive status and is assigned to an L-MAJCOM approved diving activity
or holds DAFSC 1C2, 1T2, or 13D. Forward requests for new dive duty positions with diving
duty justification through L-MAJCOM channels to a3o.as.workflow@pentagon.af.mil .
USAF/A3O-AS will coordinate validated L-MAJCOM requirements with respective functional
area managers for final review and authorization.
3.4. Funding for Diving Requirements. The Air Force budgets funds as a result of validation of
dive requirements. The number of dive positions authorized determines the incentive pay
allocation. HQ USAF/A3O-AS, through SAF/FMBO, is responsible for developing the dive pay
budget. Only qualified members on diving duty orders (assigned to dive inherent DAFSC or
MAJCOM-validated position numbers), requiring frequent and regular dives, are entitled to
Diving Duty Pay (DDP). DDP requirements are prescribed in DoD FMR 7000.14-R,
Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMR), Chapter 11, Special Pay –
Diving Duty, Vol 7A Military Pay Policy and Procedures - Active Duty and Reserve Pay. Unit
commanders are responsible for validating requirements and ensuring they are IAW DoD and
Air Force guidance.
3.5. Preparing Diving Duty Orders. USAF personnel will be placed on Diving Duty Orders
before engaging in diving operations (initial AETC training and re-qualification training). Unit
Commander’s Support Staff will submit a memorandum for Diving Duty Orders to the host base
Finance Office along with a DD Form 114, Military Pay Order. Commanders must recertify
eligibility for diving duty this includes: verification of medical clearance, (AFI 48-123, Volume
3, see Marine Diving Duty section) and verification that member is current and qualified and
holds DAFSC 1T2, 1C2, or 13D or is assigned to a position number approved and on file with
the L-MAJCOM Diving Program Manager. By 1 Oct of each calendar year L-MAJCOMs will
provide AF A3O-AS with a list of all active Air Force Divers outside DAFSC 1T2, 1C2, and
13D, their position numbers, and PAS code for budgeting and program oversight management.
3.6. Dive Duty Re-qualification. Divers who are disqualified for non-permanent reasons may
be re-qualified when their impediment to diving is removed.
12                                                        AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

3.7. Removal from Dive Duty. When a member is no longer assigned to position that requires
active diving due to PCS, PCA or other circumstances the unit commander will submit a DD
Form 114, Military Pay Order, to stop diving duty incentive pay and remove the individual from
diving duty. Commanders will not remove members assigned to DAFSC 1T2, 1C2, or 13D from
diving duty when they are moving from one assignment to another assignment within their career
field.
3.8. Dive Qualification Badges.
3.8.1. USAF members are authorized to wear the diving badge when awarded, IAW AFI 36-
2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
3.8.2. Personnel attending foreign dive schools or who are awarded foreign diver qualification
badges are not authorized to wear these badges IAW AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal
Appearance of Air Force Personnel and are not qualified as Air Force Divers, unless they also
meet all the requirements set forth in paragraph 1.3.3 of this AFI.
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                   13


                                                Chapter 4
       DIVING QUALIFICATION TRAINING & CURRENCY REQUIREMENTS

4.1. General Training Requirements. Air Force training dives are those conducted under the
supervision of qualified military divers using only equipment approved or certified IAW this
instruction. Dives conducted during off duty hours (i.e., recreational dives using personal dive
equipment) do not satisfy military dive requirements for foundational or continuation training.
4.1.1. Only current and qualified USAF divers will be allowed to use Air Force diving equipment
for dive activities. All diving will be in strict compliance with NAVSEA 0910-LP-106-0957,
U.S. Navy Diving Manual and this AFI.
4.1.2. Upon graduation from a DoD approved diving course, divers are authorized to use those
types of systems on which they have been qualified (i.e., SCUBA, LAR-V)
4.1.3. Air Force civil service personnel are governed by the provisions of the U.S. Navy Diving
Program, yet they must also comply with the US Government Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) diving standards, delineated in 29 CFR Part 1910 Subpart T; SUBJ:
Commercial Diving Operations. U.S. Air Force civilian divers are identified as permanent Air
Force employees who have been formally trained at an approved U.S. Navy diving school as a
SCUBA diver, Second Class Diver, or First Class Diver. Commercial divers contracted by the
Air Force who are not permanent government employees are not subject to these provisions.
Civil service personnel who have successfully completed training at an approved diving school
may conduct USAF diving. Civilian divers must be graduates of a formal course IAW paragraph
2.4. of this instruction Civilian divers will possess the same qualifications as those required for
their military counterparts and must meet the same physical requirements as outlined in AFI 48-
123, Volume 3, (see Marine Diving Duty section). Commercial contractor diving conducted by
the Air Force in support of training and operations will be conducted in accordance with the
accepted commercial safe diving practices and will be clearly stated on all purchase orders and
statements of work. Contractor use of USAF or Department of Defense diving personnel, USAF
supplied diving equipment, breathing air or other diving services during contracted activities is
prohibited.
4.1.4. Physical Standards for Air Force divers are established in AFI 48-123, Volume 3, (see
Marine Diving Duty section). All USAF divers (including civil service personnel) must receive
annual flight/diving physicals to remain qualified. Divers are also subject to specific
performance standards required by Joint, MAJCOM, and unit guidance.
4.2. Currency and Refresher Requirements.
4.2.1. All USAF divers will accomplish a minimum of two dives annually (per calendar year) to
qualify for diving duty pay (i.e., 1 Jan to 31 Dec). Dives may be performed at any time during
the currency period to include multiple dives on the same day. Additionally, Diving Supervisors
will oversee one dive per annual period. Dives are based on mission profile or objectives, there
are no minimum depth requirements to accomplish a successful dive. Training and currency
documentation will include Command Smooth Diving Log (Diver Reporting System software;
maintained by the Diving Unit for three years), Individual Dive Log, and Aviation Resource
Management System (ARMS) or other MAJCOM or AFSC specific formats.
14                                                        AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

4.2.2. Unit commanders are responsible for validating Diving Duty Pay entitlement for all
assigned divers.
4.2.3. All USAF divers will accomplish a diving procedures review annually. Document this
review on an AF 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training and maintain in
individuals OJT record or equivalent. This review will include:
4.2.3.1. Buoyancy control, buddy breathing, and mask clearing procedures
4.2.3.2. Review of hand signals, and diver rescue procedures.
4.2.3.3. Review of use of unit specific equipment procedures (i.e.; communications, lift bags, dry
suits, full face mask, camera…)
4.2.3.4. L-MAJCOMs, AFSC FAM, and unit commanders may establish additional currency
requirements to suit mission needs. Currency requirements outlined in AFSC/L-MAJCOM
specific instructions will be identified through an L-MAJCOM supplement to this AFI.
4.3. Diver Re-qualification
4.3.1. Diver Re-qualification requirements must be evaluated jointly by the unit diving officer
and the senior diving supervisor based on the individuals past diving experience. Factors such as
the total number of dives or advanced qualifications may be used as a guide for the level of re-
qualification training needed.
4.3.2. If diving currency or qualification has lapsed for more than one year but less than three
years, the diver must have commander approval, a current physical examination for diving duty
IAW AFI 48-123 Vol 3, and perform four re-qualification dives. All dives shall be conducted in
IAW U.S. Navy Diving Manual. Dives should be completed IAW Command Required
Operational Capabilities and Projected Operational Environments (ROC/POE) or Mission
Essential Task List (METL). The diver shall be considered qualified for the calendar year the re-
qualification is accomplished based on a 1 Jan – 31 Dec unqualified period. All requalification
dives will be documented IAW Attachment 3 of this instruction and placed in members OJT
record or equivalent.
4.3.3. If diving qualification has lapsed for more than three years, the L-MAJCOM diving officer
and L-MAJCOM chief diver must review the individuals diving qualifications and history to
determine what training is required. As a minimum the diver must successfully accomplish the
following academics (prior to and in addition to requirement outlined in paragraph 4.3.2.) under
the direct supervision of a diving supervisor.
4.3.3.1. Diving physics
4.3.3.2. General diving procedures
4.3.3.3. Diving medicine
4.3.3.4. Recompression chamber operations review
NOTE: Contact AF Combat Dive Course, Panama City, FL for academic Plan of Instruction.
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                    15


                                            Chapter 5
                             RESTRICTIONS & PROCEDURES

5.1. Ascent to Altitude After Diving / Flying After Diving Air Force personnel must delay
altitude chamber and aerial flight exposures for at least 24 hours following compressed air
diving. This includes SCUBA diving, surface supplied diving, or hyperbaric chamber exposure.
If the dive requires a decompression stop, 48 hours must elapse prior to aerial flight or altitude
chamber exposure. The following are exceptions to this policy.
5.1.1. Aircrew members will not fly within 24 hours of compressed gas diving (including
SCUBA/Helicopter Emergency Egress Deployment System (HEEDS) training, surface supplied
diving, or hyperbaric (compression) chamber exposure and aircraft pressurization checks that
exceed 10 minutes duration.
5.1.2. Pararescue, Combat Control, Combat Rescue Officers, and Special Tactics Officers will
follow guidelines IAW U.S. Navy Diving Manual Volumes 2, Paragraph 9-14 and Table 9-6 on
accent to altitude and flying after diving restrictions. Flying is permitted immediately after 100
percent oxygen diving.
5.2. OSHA Restrictions for Civilian / Government Contract Divers. DoD Civilian Divers are
governed by the provisions of the USAF/Navy Diving Programs, yet they must also comply with
U.S. Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) diving standards,
delineated in 29 CFR Part 1910 Subpart T; Subject: Commercial Diving Operations. Civilian
Divers are identified as all permanent DoD employees who have formally trained at an approved
DoD diving school as either a SCUBA diver, Second Class diver, or First Class diver.
Commercial divers contracted by the AF who are not permanent government employees are not
subject to these provisions. Most directives parallel requirements, or are similar enough not to be
considered of substantive difference. Several requirements of OSHA do, however, exceed those
delineated for U.S. AF divers and must be identified to ensure compliance by civilian divers to
both standards. Therefore, the following restrictions, in addition to all other requirements
addressed in this instruction, apply to civilian divers.
5.2.1. Civilian Diver SCUBA Diving (Air) Restriction
5.2.1.1. SCUBA diving shall not be conducted.
5.2.1.1.1. To depths deeper than 190 feet sea water (fsw).
5.2.1.1.2. To depths deeper than 130 fsw unless a recompression chamber is on station.
5.2.1.2. All SCUBA cylinder manifolds shall be equipped with a manual reserve (J valve), or an
independent reserve cylinder gas supply with a separate regulator.
5.2.1.3. A SCUBA cylinder submersible pressure gauge shall be worn by each diver.
5.2.2. Civilian Diver Surface Supplied Air Diving Restrictions.
5.2.2.1. Surface Supplied air diving shall not be conducted to depths greater than 190 fsw.
5.2.2.2. Dives shall be limited to in-water decompression times of less than 120 minutes.
5.2.2.3. An emergency gas supply (come-home bottle) is required for any dive greater than 60
fsw planned decompression dives or for which direct access to the surface is not available.
16                                                           AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

5.2.3. Civilian Diver Mixed Gas Diving Restrictions. All mixed gas diving shall be limited to:
5.2.3.1. A maximum depth of 220 fsw.
5.2.3.2. Less than 120 minutes total in-water decompression time.
5.2.3.3. Having a recompression chamber on station.
5.3. Dive Profile Limitations. Divers will only use the dive tables contained in U.S. Navy Dive
Manual.
5.3.1. Divers will not perform planned “decompression” dives except in cases of operational
necessity after using ORM. Wing commander or equivalent written approval is required for
planned decompression dives.
5.3.2. Divers may be required to dive in bodies of water at higher altitudes. Planning shall
address the effects of the atmospheric pressures that may be much lower than those at sea level.
Standard Air Decompression Tables are authorized for use at altitudes up to 1000 feet above sea
level, without corrections, as long as the dive is shallower than 145 feet actual depth. Dives
conducted between 1000 and 10,000 feet MSL, regardless of depth, must utilize equivalent depth
altitude tables, and requires additional training documented in the individuals training folder.
WARNING: Altitudes above 10,000 feet can impose serious stress on the body resulting in
significant medical problems while the acclimatization process takes place. Ascents to these
altitudes must be slow to allow acclimatization to occur and prophylactic drugs may be required.
These exposures should always be planned in consultation with a Diving Medical Officer.
Commands conducting diving operations above 10,000 feet may obtain the appropriate
decompression procedures from NAVSEA 00C. For any training dive above 10,000 ft MSL L-
MAJCOM/A3 is the approval authority. Additional training and certification is required to be
documented in the individuals training folder. Units performing altitude dives must follow Sea
Level Equivalent Depth (fsw) tables from most current U.S. Navy Dive Manual.
5.3.3. Free Swimming Ascent (FSA) to include underwater de-rigging is considered emergency
procedures and is not to be planned into a diving evolution. Approval in writing from L-
MAJCOM/A3 is required prior to any FSA training and must meet the following conditions;
5.3.3.1. The sole purpose of the evolution is to train divers in FSA.
5.3.3.2. Properly trained instructors are on station and in control of the divers situation from air
source to the surface and certified recompression chamber is on station and immediately
available for use.
5.3.3.3. Diving Medical Officer is readily available to the recompression chamber within 5
minutes and a diving medical technician is present and can immediately check divers upon
surfacing.
5.3.3.4. Exception: Divers may perform underwater de-rigging under the direct supervision of a
diving supervisor provided it is part of the briefed dive training plan and they continue to breath
off their SCUBA air source. In this case they will either continue to re-rig their equipment or
ascend to the surface while breathing with SCUBA. Written approval is not required.
5.4. Corrective lenses. Personnel whose vision is cleared for diving duty do not require waivers
for corrective lenses. Prescription mask lenses will be purchased at unit expense using the
International Merchant Purchase Card (IMPAC) for those individuals who require prescription
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                   17

lenses. All divers who desire to wear contact lenses while diving must be enrolled into the Air
Force, Aircrew Contact Lens Program.
5.5. Nitrogen-Oxygen (NITROX) Diving Procedures
5.5.1. The use of NITROX is covered in the US Navy Diving Manual, Vol 2 Air Diving
Operations, Chapter 10. NITROX diving is unique and uses increased levels of oxygen
between 25-40% to significantly increase bottom time without decompressing and decrease
decompression time compared to similar dives with standard air. NITROX may be used in all
diving operations suitable for air.
5.5.2. NITROX operations must utilize Equivalent Air Depth Tables for the specific oxygen
percentage used.
5.5.3. NITROX diving requires additional training; qualification will be documented in the
individuals training folder.
5.5.4. NITROX Diving must be approved by L-MAJCOM DPM
5.6. Closed Circuit Diving Procedures. Closed circuit dive operations will only be performed
by personnel specifically trained at a formal, Chief of Naval Education and Training approved
DoD operated dive school. Refer to the U.S. Navy Diving Manual, Volume 4, Closed Circuit and
Semi-closed Circuit Diving Operations.
5.6.1. Only units identified by their L-MAJCOM to AF/A3O-AS may maintain mission ready
closed circuit diving equipment. Unit commanders may allow qualified personnel to participate
in closed circuit operations sponsored by units that are authorized to maintain closed circuit
equipment.
5.6.2. Closed circuit diving operations must be under the direct oversight of a current and
qualified closed circuit diving supervisor, and a DMO or DMT must be present for all closed
circuit operations.
5.7. AF Operational Deviations to U.S. Navy Diving Manual. Sub-surface swift water rescue /
recovery and limited enclosed space diving are competencies required by AF Combat Rescue
Officers and Pararescue Airmen. Rescue and Special Tactics unit commanders may waive the 1
knot current and limited enclosed space diving limitations established in the U.S. Navy Diving
Manual following a thorough Operational Risk Management assessment for operational missions
or specific tactical scenarios.
5.8. Ship/Boat Operations.
5.8.1. Personnel performing training dive operations using boats will comply with United States
Coast Guard and applicable state requirements for flotation equipment, life vests, dive
flags/markers and signal equipment.
5.8.2. A Personal Flotation Device (PFD) with marine whistle attached should be available for
all personnel. All Air Force divers must use the minimum “Required Equipment for SCUBA
Operations” listed in the USN Dive Manual, Volume 2, Air Diving Operations, para 7-2, except
as follows. “Air Force divers must use octopus regulators and submersible pressure gauges on
their primary air source during SCUBA operations. Unit commanders may waive the octopus
requirement following a thorough Operational Risk Management assessment for operational
18                                                           AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

missions or specific tactical scenarios.” Exception: Octopus regulators and integrated
submersible pressure gauges are not required for SCUBA jumps or on pony bottles.
5.9. Mishap and Event Reporting. Dive related events or mishaps must be reported through
OPREP-3 or Safety channels within 24 hours or as soon as feasible. Investigations are second in
priority only to medical care for injured personnel. The primary purpose of an investigation is to
rapidly identify safety related factors that have bearing on the conduct of USAF parachute
operations and to consider changes to administration, qualifications, standards, requirements,
currency, training, and procedures, when appropriate. Mishap and incident reporting is a unit-
level responsibility, and timely reporting of mishaps and incidents is essential. A mishap is
defined as an unplanned occurrence, or series of occurrences, that result in damage or injury.
Mishaps exceeding the minimum damage or injury thresholds in AFI 91-204, Safety
Investigations and Reports, require safety reports. Major mishaps, especially those involving
fatalities, may also require legal investigation and reporting per AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident
Investigations. An event is an unplanned occurrence, or series of occurrences, that does not meet
mishap reporting criteria, but require safety investigations IAW AFI 91-204, Safety
Investigations and Reports. On direction from the MAJCOM DPM, and in coordination with
MAJCOM/Safety, diving equipment that may have contributed to an accident must be
impounded, secured, un-tampered, and shipped by fastest traceable means to NEDU for analysis.
The equipment will not be dismantled, cleaned, or altered in any way prior to shipment to
NEDU.

5.10. Medical Support Procedures: Prior to conducting dive operati ons the diving supervisor
will develop a plan to establish and maintain communication capability/medical evacuation plan
with a hyperbaric facility and verify they are capable of treating dive casualties. In addition, it is
the Diving Supervisor’ s responsibility to ensure that every member of the diving team is familiar
with recompression procedures, knows the loc ation and contact procedures fo r recompression
facility/Diving Medical Officer, and is current on Basic Life Support training.

5.10.1. An emergency medical transport plan must be arranged in advance of diving operations.
A DMO or DMT as defined in this instruction is mandatory for all closed-circuit dive operations.
Diagnosis and treatment of diving injuries covers disorders ranging from mild pain to life-threatening
injuries a minimum, of a EMT-Basic under the m edical control of a physician is required for all
open circuit diving. This is due to the degree of medical expertise and special training necessary to
carry out proper treatm ent of diving injuries, su ch as starting intravenous (IV) fluid lines and
inserting chest tubes.
5.10.2. Use of the Emergency Evacuation Hyperbaric Stretcher (EEHS) for diving support,
treatment, and transport of casualties requires specialized training and certification IAW AFI 48-
112, Hyperbaric Chamber Program. Training and certification are the responsibility of the
Hyperbaric Medicine Division, USAF School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM/FEH). Only
personnel appropriately trained and certified by USAFSAM/FEH will operate the EEHS.
5.10.2.1. All Air Force decompression sickness and arterial gas embolism cases must be
promptly reported to USAFSAM/FEH at Wilford Hall Medical Control Center phone numbers
(210) 292-5990, DSN 554-5990.
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                 19


                                             Chapter 6
                           DIVING EQUIPMENT AND LOGISTICS

6.1. General Logistics. The Battlefield Airmen SPO is the single AF item manager for all diving
and maritime related supplies and equipment. The National Stock System does not list all diving
and maritime related supplies and equipment. If local purchase of equipment is authorized;
follow ANU guidance (www.supsalv.org, Diving, 00C3 ANU List) to purchase diving
equipment through industry sources. The Battlefield Airmen SPO through the Prime Vendor
Program coordinates contracts for the purchase of many maritime supply and equipment items.
6.2. Maintenance and Material Management (3M)/”Dive Locker.” The use of the Navy’s
Ships Maintenance and Material Management (3M) equipment documentation program outlined
in OPNAVINST 4790.4D/NAVSEA INST 4790.8B Ships’ Maintenance and Material
Management (3-M) Manual, ensures diving equipment functions safely and meets Navy diving
equipment inspection and certification criteria. When maintenance and material management
conflict between Air Force and Navy directives (i.e. breathing air sampling frequency), use the
most restrictive. Dive Locker personnel are key advisors to the unit Diving Officer and
Commander about unit dive program equipment readiness. Military personnel must be trained
and certified before performing maintenance on any diving systems. Units may contract out
Dive Locker support; however, Commanders must understand the Dive Locker Technical
Support Statement of Work. If units contract diving maintenance through commercial dive
vendors, ensure the contract stipulates all requirements necessary to meet standards established
by the Navy Planned Maintenance System, USAF, and DOT. Commanders must ensure Diving
Officers and/or Diving Supervisors are trained and certified to carry on basic equipment
maintenance duties when deployed.
6.3. Divers’ Breathing Gas.
6.3.1. Breathing Air. Follow most restrictive guidelines in U.S. Navy Diving Manual sections 4-
3, 4-4 and T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air
6.3.2. Oxygen. Follow most restrictive guidelines in Navy Diving Manual sections 4-3, 4-4 and
T.O. 42B6-1-1, Quality Control of Aviator’s Breathing Oxygen
6.3.3 NITROX. Open-circuit SCUBA systems for NITROX are identical to open-circuit
standard air SCUBA systems. However, logistics for mixing gases, DOT certification, and
NITROX diving may require specialized equipment and training (see U.S. Navy Diving Manual
for specific information).
6.3.3.1. NITROX cylinders must be identified with DOT NITROX markings, mixing or blending
NITROX will only be done by certified individuals, and contract purchase of premixed NITROX
must meet DOT purity standards.
6.4. Specialized Equipment Definitions:
6.4.1. Octopus Regulator: A standard SCUBA regulator with an additional second stage attached
to allow two divers to breathe off the same air cylinder. The octopus second stage should be
equipped with a 39 inch Low Pressure (LP) hose.
6.4.2. Contingency Cylinder: A standard air cylinder (usually 80 CU FT) equipped with an
octopus regulator with or without a diving harness. Positioned on the dive platform, this cylinder
20                                                         AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

can be taken by the stand-by diver to entangled or trapped divers, or lowered below the dive
platform for unplanned decompression stops.
6.4.3. Pony Bottle: A DOT approved SCUBA cylinder smaller than 50 CU FT capacity carried
by a diver that provides a totally redundant breathing source in case of an out of air emergency.
Pony bottles do not require an octopus regulator configuration. The Single Para-SCUBA
Deployment System (SPUDS) and other similar systems are authorized for para-SCUBA
deployments.
NOTE: Cylinders smaller than 15cu ft will not be utilized as a redundant breathing source due to
the low air volume capacity.
6.4.4. Tank Holders and Brackets: Various systems installed on small craft to secure air cylinders
in-place vertically, usually against the gunnels, and prevent rolling. Holders and brackets aid in
keeping the work area clear and provide added safety during transit to the dive site regardless of
the operation being supported.
6.4.5. Dry Suits and Full Face Mask. Dry suits and full-face mask are used to provide increased
thermal and environmental protection; only ANU approved full-face masks are authorized. L-
MAJCOMs are authorized to approve for purchase commercially available or standard stock dry
suits and accessories to best meet their operational needs. In-unit user certification requires a
familiarization dive in a controlled environment with documentation in the individuals OJT
training folder or equivalent.
6.5. Information Collection, Records, and Forms.
6.5.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
6.5.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
6.5.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed):
6.5.3.1. Adopted Forms.
DD Form 114, Military Pay Order
AF Form 1042, Medical Recommendation for Flying or Special Operational Duty
AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2554, Diving Log.
6.5.3.2. Prescribed Forms.
No forms are prescribed by this publication.




         DANIEL                         J. DARNELL, Lt Gen, USAF
                              DCS, Air, Space and Information Operations, Plans & Requirements
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                             21


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personnel Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 Aug 2006
AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 20 Feb 2001
AFI 48-112, Hyperbaric Chamber Program, 1 May 1998
AFI 48-123 Vol 3, Medical Examinations and Standards Volume 3-Flying and Special
Operational Duty, 5 Jun 2006
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDI 3224.4, Single Manager Responsibility for Joint Service Military Diving Technology and
Training (MDT&T), 23 May 2008
DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMR),
Chapter 11, Special Pay – Diving Duty, Vol 7A Military Pay Policy and Procedures - Active
Duty and Reserve Pay, Nov 2008
NAVSEA, SS521-AG-PRO-010 / 0910-LP-106-0957, US Navy Diving Manual, Revision 6,
Volume 1-5, 15 Apr 2008
OPNAV 4790.4 series / NAVSEA INST 4790.8B Ships’ Maintenance and Material
Management (3-M) Manual, 13 Nov 2003
OPNAVINST 3150.27B, Navy Diving Program, 17 Mar 2005
T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air, 18 Apr 2008
T.O. 42B6-1-1, Quality Control of Aviator’s Breathing Oxygen, 30 Apr 2004


Abbreviations and Acronyms

AETC— Air Education and Training Command

ACC— Air Combat Command

AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager

AFI—Air Force Instruction

AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command

AFSAS—Air Force Safety Automated System

AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
22                                               AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009



AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command

ANG—Air National Guard

ANU—Approved for Navy Use

ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System

CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan

C-MAJCOM—Component Major Command

DAFSC—Duty Air Force Specialty Code

DJRS—Dive/Jump Reporting System

DLA—Defense Logistics Agency

DMO—Diving Medical Officer

DMT—Diving Medical Technician

DOC—Designed Operational Capability

DoD—Department of Defense

DPM—Diving program Manager

EEHS—Emergency Evacuation Hyperbaric Stretcher

FSA—Free Swimming Ascent

FSW—Feet Sea Water

HEEDS—Helicopter Emergency Egress Deployment System

L-MAJCOM—Lead Major Command

METL—Mission Essential Task List

MTAB—Military Technical Advisory Board

NEDU—Naval Experimental Dive Unit

NITROX—Nitrogen and Oxygen
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                   23



OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration

ORM—Operational Risk Management

IAW—In Accordance With

PFD—Personal Flotation Device

POE—Projected Operational Environments

POI/SOI—Program/Syllabus of Instruction

RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

ROC—Required Operational Capabilities

SCUBA—Self Contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus

SOP—Standard Operating Procedures

SOT—Special Operations Technician

SPO—Special Program Office

TTAB—Technical Training Acceptance Board

TTP—Tactic, Technique, or Procedure

U.S. —United States


Terms
Diving— Any underwater activity or operations in which personnel are subject to elevated
ambient pressure and use of equipment such as SCUBA, including open circuit, semi-closed
circuit, and closed circuit designs using any breathing medium. Additionally, diving includes
undersea habitats, diver propulsion vehicles and their life support systems, diving simulators
such as diver support systems for aviation escape trainers, diver tool systems whether
pneumatically, electronically, hydraulically driven or explosively actuated, and other diving life
support or diving equipment not specified above.
System Certification— System certification is the procedure for independent technical review,
survey, test, and approval to ensure material and procedural adequacy of diving equipment or
systems to perform safely within specified operational limits.
Air Force Diver— Active duty and reserve component military members, and civilian
employees of the Air Force who have successfully completed formal training at a Department of
24                                                          AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009

Defense operated diving school (approved by the Chief of Naval Education and Training) and
who maintain qualification. For the purpose of this instruction, any U.S. Air Force personnel
who have completed formal training at either a U.S. Navy or other Chief of Naval Education and
Training approved DoD operated dive school, and who maintains qualifications for the
equipment trained on, are considered to be “Qualified Air Force Divers”.
Diving Supervisor— An individual who has graduated a formal DoD Dive Supervisor
qualification course (approved by Chief of Naval Education and Training) or a Air Force Combat
Search and Rescue and Special Activities Division, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans,
and Requirements (AF/A3O-AS) approved L-MAJCOM Program of Instruction (POI) and is
designated in writing by the commander. Diving supervisors should be selected based on
knowledge, experience, level of training, and competence. There is no minimum rank
requirement for diving supervisors.
Unit Diving Officer— Designated in writing by unit commander, the diving officer is
responsible for the safe conduct of all diving operations within the unit. This individual must be
thoroughly familiar with all unit diving techniques and have a detailed knowledge of all
applicable regulations and is responsible for all operational, logistical, and administrative duties
associated with the unit diving program. The Unit Diving Officer must be a qualified diver. A
SNCO qualified as a Diving Supervisor may be assigned as the Unit Diving Officer if no diving
officer is assigned to the unit.
L-MAJCOM Chief Diver— Principle diving subject matter expert responsible for diving
standardization, evaluation, and diving related activities to include logistics designated in writing
by the Lead MAJCOM/A3 or equivalent. The L-MAJCOM Chief Diver must have a minimum
of 10 years operational diving experience, be a qualified Diving Supervisor, and hold a 9-skill
level or higher in an operational diving career-field (1T2/1C2) or be civilian, military-certified
Master Diver.
L-MAJCOM Diving Officer— A field grade officer, or equivalent, designated in writing by
the MAJCOM/A3 or equivalent to oversee the MAJCOM Diving Program. The L-MAJCOM
Diving Officer is responsible for all programmatic aspects of L-MAJCOM Diving Program. L-
MAJCOM Diving Officer must be a qualified diver.
Diving Medical Officer (DMO) — A physician trained specifically in diving medicine and
physiology. The DMO shall be a graduate of the Diving Medical Officer course taught at the
Naval Diving and Salvage Training Center (NDSTC) or the nine-week diving medicine course
taught at the NDSTC. Graduates of the diving medicine course are considered to have the same
privileges as graduates of the Diving Medical Officer course, with the exception that they are not
granted the privilege of modifying treatment protocols. They may assist and advise treatment and
care of diving casualties but may not modify recompression procedures.
Diving Medical Technician (DMT)/ Special Operations Technician (SOT) — A DMT/ SOT
is a graduate from the Navy DMT or Special Operations SOT course where they receive
specialized training in hyperbaric and diving medicine. A DMT/SOT is required for all closed-
circuit dive operations. Military members must hold a military diver qualification before
attending Navy DMT course
AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009                              25


                                     Attachment 2
             SAMPLE MEMORANDUM FOR DIVING DUTY ORDERS

Figure A2.1. Sample Memorandum for Diving Duty Orders
26                                                         AFI10-3501 9 FEBRUARY 2009


                                              Attachment 3
                            Diver Qualification/Requalification Charts
A3.1. Diver Qualifications and Requalification. Diving requalification will be recorded using
this sample format and made a part of the member's OJT record.

Table A3.1. Driver Qualifications and Requalifications

DATE OF         DIVER’S         LEVEL OF              DEPTH            DIVER’S          INITIALS
 ENTRY          GRADE         QUALIFICATION          ALLOWED          COMMAND




A3.2. Instructions for Completing Diver Qualifications/ Requalifications Charts

A3.2.1. Date of Entry: Enter the date the service record entry was made.

A3.2.2. Diver's Rank: Enter the rank of the diver at the time of the requalification dives.

A3.2.3. Level of Qualification: Enter the level of qualification to which the diver is
requalifying, not the level of dive completed. Example: If a diver requalified using SCUBA,
record "SCUBA" in the block.

A3.2.4. Depth Allowed: Enter the depth to which the diver is authorized to dive, not the depth
of the qualification dive. Example: If a diver requalified using SCUBA at a depth of 40 feet,
record the depth qualified for a Compressed Air diver (i.e., 130 feet).

A3.2.5. Diver's Command: Enter the command where the diver is assigned.

A3.2.6. Initial: The individual making the record entry should initial in this block.
