BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-126
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               14 MARCH 2013

                                                                                     Intelligence

                                                   TARGET COORDINATE MENSURATION
                                                        TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION
                                                                          PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A2CG                                                              Certified by: AF/A2C
                                                                        (Maj Gen Eugene Haase)
                                                                                      Pages: 10
Supersedes:    AFI 14-126,
               16 November 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations and is consistent with AFPD
36-26, Total Force Development, Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3115.15,
Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT), DoDI 3305.10, DoD Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT)
Training, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3505.01A, Target
Coordinate Mensuration Certification and Program Accreditation, and the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency (NGA) Concept of Operations (CONOPS) National System for Geospatial
Intelligence Concept of Operations for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Target
Coordinate Mensuration Program Accreditation. This publication defines Air Force (AF) target
coordinate mensuration training and certification processes and requirements for Target Material
Production (TMP) certification using the AF/A2 precise point mensuration (PPM) program of
record (POR). This publication applies to Active Duty, AF Reserve, Air National Guard, and
Department of the Air Force Civilians. This publication requires the collection or maintenance
of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to maintain the records
prescribed in this publication are Title 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System and Executive Order 9397,
Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating To Individual Persons, as amended by
Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use
of Social Security Numbers. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
 2                                                                     AFI14-126 14 March 2013


located      in    Air     Force      Records    Information     Management      System     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           This publication may be
supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the
OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The Deputy Chief of
Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities Directorate (AF/A2C) is the
waiver authority for this publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed completely. It eliminates
the terms PPM qualification, Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
(MQT), and Continuation Training (CT). It also directs minimum requirements for PPM
certification; and updates terminology. The wavier authority for this publication has changed.
1. OVERVIEW. This publication establishes guidance and procedures for AF PPM training
and certification. It defines the responsibilities of organizations involved in the certification of
individuals and units that perform TMP using the Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) PPM POR. The training requirements outlined in
this document are consistent with the NGA CONOPS and define minimum trainee requirements
of the TMP certification program. The certification process described in this publication is
consistent with CJCSI 3505.01A and applies to intelligence personnel, units, and work-centers.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
     2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) is
     responsible for the establishment, implementation, oversight, policy, and guidance of the AF
     PPM program.
     2.2. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities
     Directorate (AF/A2C):
        2.2.1. Serves as the AF GEOINT functional manager; the lead AF GEOINT
        representative within the Intelligence Community and the National System for Geospatial
        Intelligence (NSG); and is the primary AF interface with National Geospatial-Intelligence
        Agency (NGA).
        2.2.2. Is the waiver authority for individuals or units that wish to train with, or utilize a
        coordinate mensuration program, other than the AF/A2 program of record.
        2.2.3. Provides policy and guidance for the management and fielding of geopositioning
        (target coordinate mensuration) technology, tools, and applications; and the related
        GEOINT databases and products that are required for accurate and precise
        geopositioning, IAW AFI 14-117, Air Force Targeting.
     2.3. Deputy Chief of Staff, ISR Strategy, Integration, and Doctrine Directorate
     (AF/A2D): Provides policy and guidance for the force development of the Geospatial
     Intelligence Career Field (1N1X1X) and coordinates with AF/A2C on matters pertaining to
     target coordinate and point mensuration training.
     2.4. Air Combat Command Director of Intelligence (ACC/A2):
AFI14-126 14 March 2013                                                                            3


   2.4.1.   Oversees all training and certification matters for individuals and units performing
   TMP.
      2.4.2. Organizes, trains, and equips the NGA-accredited training and certification team.
   2.5. Air Force Targeting Center:
   2.5.1. Maintains the AF Precise Point Positioning Program (AFP4) and Target Coordinate
   Mensuration Program accreditation.
   2.5.2. Ensures TMP trainers have completed an instructor-training course.
      2.5.3. Ensures trainers and certifiers maintain their certification with the AF/A2 PPM
      program of record. Should certification lapse, trainers and certifiers will not perform
      AFP4 training or certification duties. Trainers and certifiers may be removed from
      training and certifying positions for failure to maintain individual PPM certification.
      2.5.4. Develops and maintains standardized training material for Initial Training, On-the-
      Job Training (OJT), and Proficiency Maintenance training that are consistent with NGA
      CONOPS.
      2.5.5. Provides training on the AF/A2 target coordinate mensuration program of record
      to target coordinate mensuration program personnel.
      2.5.6. Reviews, tests, and evaluates unit personnel to determine individual certification.
      2.5.7. Reviews, tests, and evaluates unit processes to determine unit certification.
      2.5.8. Reports TMP certification results to Joint Staff Targeting (JCS/J26) for inclusion
      in the joint registry IAW CJCSI 3505.01A.
   2.6. Major Command Directors of Intelligence (MAJCOM/A2):
      2.6.1. Validates requirements and billets for target coordinate mensuration training
      and/or certification.
      2.6.2. Coordinates with Air Combat Command ISR Forces Training Branch
      (ACC/A2FT) to schedule PPM training.
      2.6.3. Submits requests for approval, to AF/A2C, to use a coordinate mensuration
      program other than the AF/A2 program of record.
2.7. Unit Commanders will appoint a Unit TMP Point of Contact (POC) to oversee the
unit TMP program and coordinate with AFP4 Certification Team.
   2.8. TMP Unit POC:
      2.8.1. Maintains TMP certification and proficiency in Geospatial Exploitation Products
      and Common Geopositioning Services.
      2.8.2. Develops programs to train personnel on unit-specific processes and procedures.
      2.8.3. Submits requests for individual and unit certifications to AFP4.
      2.8.4. Ensures unit personnel are trained, proficient, and certified to perform mensuration
      duties.
4                                                                   AFI14-126 14 March 2013


       2.8.5. Ensures any changes to unit processes are coordinated with AFP4 and, if required,
       recertification is accomplished before implementation.
       2.8.6. Notifies AFP4 when certified personnel are reassigned to another unit.
       2.8.7. Coordinates with the unit training mangers to request Initial Training class seats
       through the command Training Requestor Quota Identifier Managers.
3. TARGET MATERIAL PRODUCTION TRAINING PROGRAM.
    3.1. TMP Training Program. The TMP training program is considered Specialized
    Training IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training. This training program consists
    of three levels (Initial, Training, OJT, and Proficiency Maintenance Training) to further
    develop an individual’s point mensuration analytical skills. Successful completion of Initial
    Training and OJT does not constitute certification.
    3.2. AFP4 Training Program. AFP4 training will be developed using the Instructional
    System Development process IAW AFPD 36-26; AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System
    Development; Air Force Handbook (AFH) 36-2235V1, Information For Designers of
    Instructional Systems - ISD Executive Summary For Commanders And Managers, AFH 36-
    2235V2, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems, AFH 36-2235V4, Manager's
    Guide to New Education and Training Technologies, AFH 36-2235V5, Information for
    Designers of Instructional Systems Advanced Distributed Learning: Instructional Technology
    and Distance Learning, AFH 36-2235V6, Informational for Designers of Instructional
    Systems Guide to Needs Assessment, AFH 36-2235V9, Information for Designers of
    Instructional Systems Application to Technical Training, AFH 36-2235V10, Information for
    Designers of Instructional Systems Application to Education, AFH 36-2235V12, Information
    for Designers of Instructional Systems Test and Measurement Handbook, and AFI 36-2201,
    Air Force Training Program.
    3.3. Initial Training is the first required step toward AFP4 certification. At a minimum,
    training will cover the topics established by NGA as Major Graded Areas, Target Coordinate
    Mensuration Training Program defined in NGA CONOPS. This training exposes an
    individual to general target coordinate mensuration methods without regard to unit-specific
    mission or processes.
       3.3.1. Trainees will attend an Initial Training course held by the AFP4 Training Team at
       the 20th Intelligence Squadron. A Mobile Training Team (MTT) is available primarily
       for overseas units. MTT requests must be submitted by the MAJCOM training manager
       to AFP4 via ACC/A2FT.
       3.3.2. Initial Training Completion consists of the student successfully generating
       practical datasets and passing a written exam covering the training objectives.
       3.3.3. Personnel are required to successfully complete Initial Training at least once in
       their career. If a significant lapse in certification occurs and the unit POC determines
       retraining is necessary, an individual may be required to repeat the Initial Training
       course.
    3.4. On the Job Training (OJT) provides the repetition, variety, and in-depth training
    necessary to prepare individuals for AFP4 certification in TMP. OJT is typically completed
AFI14-126 14 March 2013                                                                         5


   at an individual’s unit and consists of AFP4-supplied datasets and unit-specific training
   focused on local procedures.
      3.4.1. All students must successfully complete Initial Training prior to starting the OJT
      program.
      3.4.2. OJT involves processing additional training datasets, as well as training on unit-
      specific procedures, tools, and processes.
      3.4.3. Individuals must remain in the OJT program for at least two months and complete
      all training requirements prior to attempting TMP certification. If a unit commander
      deems warranted and all OJT training requirements have been completed, early
      certification may be requested by having the MAJCOM A2 Training Manager submit a
      justification memorandum to the AFP4 Certification Team for scheduling.
      3.4.4. To recertify, individuals do not need to re-accomplish OJT. However, repeating
      the OJT training is recommended if there is a major difference in operational software or
      the individual cannot demonstrate TMP proficiency.
   3.5. Proficiency Maintenance Training will be conducted post certification and is designed
   to expose the trainee to a variety of AFP4-provided data sets to maintain competence.
      3.5.1. Individuals must accurately derive coordinates and elevation data for four points,
      in each certified method, and create one graphic on a monthly basis. The unit will
      maintain copies of the target reports and graphics as documentation of Proficiency
      Maintenance Training completion.
      3.5.2. Normal work center target coordinate mensuration duties may be credited toward
      monthly proficiency. Optionally, AFP4 Certification Team may maintain proficiency
      maintenance datasets that also may be used to satisfy the monthly proficiency training
      requirement. Either option, or a combination, is acceptable.
4. TARGET MATERIAL PRODUCTION CERTIFICATION.
   4.1. The AFP4 Certification Team will perform all individual and work center certifications
   for TMP. Individual certification ensures that individuals possess a high level of technical
   skill and proficiency. Work center certification ensures that units have the necessary tools,
   procedures, training programs, production capability, and quality control processes in place
   to assure mission accomplishment. Only certified individuals will mensurate or quality
   control the coordinates used to support employment of coordinate-seeking kinetic weapons.
   Only TMP-certified individuals, using a certified unit process, may produce target materials,
   to include: mensurated coordinates used for planned/operational targeting or live-drop
   training; assign Joint Desired Point of Impact (JDPI) IDs; and/or include targeting data in the
   Modernized Integrated Data Base (MIDB). Additionally, the production or upload of
   associated JDPI Graphics must meet established joint target materials standards in order to be
   used in Joint Targeting Toolbox Electronic Target Folders or NGA's Target Management
   System.
   4.2. Individual TMP Certification. TMP-certified individuals should be proficient in unit
   processes, quality review processes, and fulfill all requirements necessary in order to
   maintain certification. Only certified Individuals may conduct target coordinate mensuration.
   This certification requirement cannot be waived. While certification in all NGA-validated
6                                                                    AFI14-126 14 March 2013


    methods is ideal, at a minimum, individuals must successfully demonstrate proficiency in the
    Direct Stand Alone/Digital Point Positioning Database (DPPDB) Direct method. Refer to the
    NGA Exploitation Tool Validation Program website on the Secret Internet Protocol Router
    Network (SIPRNet) for specific information regarding validated process scenarios and
    imagery      requirements      associated     with      each     mensuration       process:
    http://www.geoint.nga.smil.mil/programs/validation/index.php.
       4.2.1. Certification Prerequisites.     Individuals must successfully complete Initial
       Training and OJT prior to certification.
       4.2.2. Certification. TMP Certification consists of a written pre-test, an “over-the-
       shoulder” evaluation, and a written or oral test covering topics necessary for mission
       accomplishment. If assigned to a unit, individuals pursuing certification will also be
       evaluated on knowledge of their unit’s local procedures, as well as their ability to
       perform TMP processes that pertain to PPM. At the conclusion of the evaluation AFP4
       will determine if individuals meet certification requirements or require further training
       and assessment. At AFP4 discretion, individuals who do not present acceptable
       proficiency on a task may be provided on-the-spot remedial training and immediate
       reevaluation or be required to reschedule certification. If a subsequent individual
       certification visit is required, a waiting period of at least 60 days must be observed. The
       following methods will be evaluated during TMP certification:
           4.2.2.1. Direct Stand Alone/DPPDB Direct derives precise and accurate coordinate
           and elevation data directly from DPPDB.
           4.2.2.2. Registration derives precise and accurate coordinate and elevation data via
           the use of tie points to register a mono image with support data to stereo DPPDB.
           4.2.2.3. Multiple Image Geopositioning derives precise and accurate coordinate and
           elevation data by correlating multiple images without the use of DPPDB.
       4.2.3. Out-of-cycle certification.   In response to deployment tasks or special
       circumstances, units may require that individuals certify or recertify outside of their
       normal cycle. Out-of-cycle certification requirements are submitted to the AFP4
       Certification Team and are approved on a case-by-case basis to ensure that scheduling
       and funding are coordinated. Out-of-cycle certifications are typically unit funded.
       4.2.4. Proficiency Maintenance Training. To avoid decertification, individuals must
       complete monthly PPM Proficiency Maintenance Training.               Individuals with a
       proficiency gap of two months but less than twelve months will be restricted from
       performing mensuration duties and must be evaluated by the TMP unit POC to determine
       the appropriate course of action to regain proficiency. Individuals with a proficiency gap
       of more than twelve months must re-complete the certification process.
       4.2.5. Individual Certification Status. TMP certification is valid for two years.
       4.2.6. Certification Extensions. TMP-certified individuals may be granted a certification
       extension in the event their certification would expire during an extended absence from
       duty station or due to permanent change of station. Extensions may only be granted for
       the duration that would reasonably be required to make up the biennial certification and
       may not exceed one year. Certification Extensions will only be granted if proficiency
AFI14-126 14 March 2013                                                                          7


      maintenance training is current. Certification extensions will not to be used to cover
      lapses in unit execution of periodic certifications.
      4.2.7. Certification is not required for individuals who perform aimpoint verification or
      combat aviation unit-level targeteers who derive points for training and exercise purposes
      (does not include live drops on range targets). Non-certified individuals may also verify
      coordinates but may not derive mensurated coordinates for use in the employment of
      coordinate-seeking weapons, contingency operations, or for inclusion in the MIDB.
      4.2.8. Pending supervisor approval and system availability, certified individuals at non-
      certified units may maintain certification if they complete the required proficiency
      maintenance. Individuals should contact the AFP4 Certification Team for further
      guidance.
   4.3. TMP Work Center Certification. Work center certification is designed to promote
   work center proficiency through adherence to approved methods and the application of
   established standards to ensure the accuracy of target coordinates.
      4.3.1. Requirements. Organizations requesting certification must have documented
      processes in place that meet the standards set by NGA and the AFP4 Certification Team.
      4.3.2. Certification Process. Units requiring initial TMP certification will coordinate
      with the AFP4 Certification Team to review unit PPM processes and training tools. After
      AFP4 review and approval, units will request that AFP4 conduct a site visit in order to
      validate proper program employment. The AFP4 Certification Team reviews applicable
      unit programs and provides feedback. Unit certification will only be granted when AFP4
      is satisfied that all TMP requirements are being fulfilled.
      4.3.3. Unit Recertification. Units renew their certification when individuals assigned to
      the unit certify or recertify using that unit’s process. If no individuals certify using unit
      work-center processes for two years, the unit certification will become inactive. If a
      work-center process changes significantly, the unit may be required to recertify.




                                            LARRY D. JAMES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                            Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 8                                                               AFI14-126 14 March 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFI 14-117, Air Force Targeting, 13 May 2009
AFI 14-202V1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 8 March 2011
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System 30 Aug 2006
AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 November 1993
AFMAN 36-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFH 36-2235V1, Information For Designers of Instructional Systems - ISD Executive Summary
For Commanders And Managers, 2 Sep 2002
AFH 36-2235V2, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems, 2 September 2002
AFH 36-2235V4, Manager's Guide to New Education and Training Technologies, 1 November
2002
AFH 36-2235V5, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Advanced Distributed
Learning: Instructional Technology and Distance Learning, 1 November 2002
AFH 36-2235V6, Informational for Designers of Instructional Systems Guide to Needs
Assessment, 1 November 2002
AFH 36-2235V9, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Application to Technical
Training, 1 November 2002
AFH 36-2235V10, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Application to Education,
1 November 2002
AFH 36-2235V12, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems Test and Measurement
Handbook, 1 November 2002
DoDI 3115.15, Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT), December 6, 2011
DoDI 3305.10, DoD Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) Training, December 22, 2006
CJCSI 3505.01A, Target Coordinate Mensuration Certification and Program Accreditation, 11
March 2009
Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating To Individual Persons,
November 22, 1943
Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use
of Social Security Numbers November 18, 2008
AFI14-126 14 March 2013                                                                9


Joint Publication (JP) 3-60, Joint Targeting, 13 April 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC/A2—Air Combat Command Director of Intelligence
ACC/A2FT—Air Combat Command ISR Forces Training Branch
AF—Air Force
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AF/A2C—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities
Directorate
AF/A2D—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Strategy,
Integration, and Doctrine Directorate
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFP4—Air Force Precise Point Positioning Program
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CT—Continuation Training
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DPPDB—Digital Point Positioning Database
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
JCS/J26—Joint Staff Targeting
JDPI—Joint Desired Point of Impact
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM/A2—Major Command Director of Intelligence
MIDB—Modernized Integrated Database
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MTT—Mobile Training Team
 10                                                                   AFI14-126 14 March 2013


NGA—National Geospatial Intelligence Agency
NSG—National System for Geospatial Intelligence
OJT—On-the-Job Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
POR—Program of Record
PPM—Precise Point Mensuration
SIPRNet—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
TMP—Target Material Production

Terms
Accreditation—The formal declaration to operate at an acceptable level of risk, based on the
implementation of an approved set of technical, instructional, managerial, and procedural
safeguards. (CJCSI 3505.01A)
Certification—A comprehensive evaluation of both an individual and a process that establishes
compliance with a set of standards. (CJCSI 3505.01A).
Instructional System Development—is a systematic, flexible, proven process for determining
whether instruction is necessary in a given situation, for defining what instruction is needed, and
for ensuring development of effective, cost-efficient instruction.
Mensuration—The process of measurement of a feature or location on the earth to determine an
absolute latitude, longitude, and elevation. For targeting applications, the errors inherent in both
the source for measurement as well as the measurement processes must be understood and
reported. (JP 3-60)
Proficiency—The quality of having competence and a command of the fundamentals derived
from practice and familiarity. A measure of how well a task is completed. An individual is
considered proficient when he/she can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed,
accuracy, and safety. (AFI 14-202V1)
Specialized Training—Is additional training geared toward selected personnel whose position
requires them to perform tasks above and beyond baseline Combat Mission Ready duties in order
to perform their unit’s mission. ST is accomplished after mission qualification, and is in addition
to Combat Mission Ready or Basic Mission Capable requirements. (AFI 14-202V1)
