BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-130
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 18 MAY 2012
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 2 APRIL 2014

                                                                                     Intelligence

                                                                  AIR FORCE OPEN SOURCE
                                                                    INTELLIGENCE (OSINT)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A2CH                                                               Certified by: AF/A2C
                                                                      (Maj Gen Morris E. Haase)
                                                                                         Pages: 6


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning Resources and Operations and is consistent with
Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 3115.12, Open Source Intelligence (OSINT). This
publication establishes standards and procedures for the operational-level conduct of OSINT
training and operations for all major commands (MAJCOMs) within the Department of the Air
Force (AF). This publication applies to Regular Component, Air Force Reserve (AFR), Air
National Guard (ANG), and Department of the Air Force (DAF) Civilians. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval
authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                       AFI14-130 18 May 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
MAJCOM level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance and updates the certifying official.
A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. Overview. This publication provides guidance for successfully accomplishing the AF
OSINT activities. It details guidance and fundamentals, provides an overview of organizational
responsibilities, and establishes a framework within which to generate requirements for the
acquisition and exploitation of open source material. The Air Force Office of Special
Investigation (AFOSI) should comply with this instruction except when the instruction conflicts
with the legal governance of AFOSI law enforcement and counterintelligence activities.
Provisions of this publication do not apply to persons performing open source activities
conducted for law enforcement and/or counterintelligence as part of AFOSI missions.
     1.1. Title 50, USC, Section 403-5, defines Open Source Information as "publicly, available
     information that anyone can lawfully obtain by request, purchase, or observation" and
     defines Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) as "produced from publicly available information
     that is collected, exploited, and disseminated in a timely manner to an appropriate audience
     for the purpose of addressing a specific intelligence requirement.
     1.2. In addition to the definition in Title 50, USC, Section 403-5, OSINT is defined by the
     AF as intelligence obtained from publicly, privately, or commercially available information.
     OSINT is also the process of applying tradecraft in the collection or acquisition of open
     source information and in the exploitation of open source information. OSINT tradecraft
     includes but is not limited to the application of appropriate Operational Security (OPSEC)
     when using the internet and other digital sources, the use of non-attribution software, and the
     use of a variety of search techniques and software to translate and analyze open source
     information.
     1.3. The AF shall conduct OSINT activities in a coordinated, collaborative manner, and
     pursue full integration and exploitation of open sources for intelligence purposes. (T-2)
     1.4. OSINT collection, acquisition, exploitation, analysis, and dissemination will support
     prioritized specific intelligence requirements. Requirements will be entered into the
     intelligence community’s formal OSINT requirement system, Open Source Collection &
     Acquisition Requirements-Management System (OSCAR-MS) or the current system of
     record. (T-2)
     1.5. Intelligence Oversight Compliance. All OSINT activities will be conducted in
     compliance with applicable laws, policies, and directives. They will be conducted in a
     manner that ensures legality and propriety and that preserves and respects privacy and civil
     liberties. All personnel involved in the conduct of OSINT activities will comply with
     intelligence oversight procedures IAW DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities
     of DoD Intelligence Components That Affect United States Persons and AFI 14-104,
     Oversight of Intelligence Activities. (T-1)
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) will:
AFI14-130 18 May 2012                                                                          3


      2.1.1. Program funds through the Department of Defense (DoD) Intelligence Planning,
      Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (IPPBE) process to support AF OSINT
      requirements. This will include, but is not limited to, the baseline funding to support the
      open source collection platforms, open source material data acquisition, analytical tool
      development, and support resources as required.
      2.1.2. Designate the appropriate staff element to oversee development, coordination, and
      implementation of fiscal and information support plans and programs supporting OSINT
      activities.
      2.1.3. Be responsible for the effective integration of intelligence oversight into OSINT
      activities.
  2.2. Director, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Capabilities (AF/A2C)
  will:
      2.2.1. Maintain oversight of the AF OSINT capability and OSINT activities across the
      AF.
      2.2.2. Execute AF OSINT funds in acquiring content, developing analytical tools, and
      producing OSINT with the goal of minimizing duplication of effort and streamlining
      activities across the AF.
      2.2.3. Provide appropriate AF representation to the National Open Source Committee
      (NOSC) and the DoD Open Source Council (DOSC).
      2.2.4. Conduct surveys, as needed, of all AF units acquiring open source material for
      intelligence purposes, producing OSINT based on specific intelligence requirements, or
      developing tools that facilitate discovering, analyzing, disseminating, or exploiting open
      source material.
      2.2.5. Designate National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) the AF/A2C agent
      on all matters related to the execution of the OSINT activities.
  2.3. MAJCOMs, Field Operating Agencies, and Direct Reporting Units will:
      2.3.1. Ensure that collection, acquisition and exploitation of open sources, to include
      searches of the open internet, are accomplished IAW the constraints of this Instruction.
      2.3.2. Reach back to NASIC for support including but not limited to OSINT tradecraft
      training and access to distributed OSINT products. (T-2)
      2.3.3. Establish, as required, OSCAR-MS accounts on their own behalf for the purpose
      of submitting OSINT requirements. (T-2)
   2.4. Units conducting OSINT operations will:
      2.4.1. Coordinate with NASIC prior to executing funds to acquire open source content,
      develop analytical tools, or conduct OSINT research or production in order to increase
      efficiencies. (T-2)
      2.4.2. Submit OSINT requirements via OSCAR-MS, or the current system of record, as
      appropriate and available. (T-2)
4                                                                 AFI14-130 18 May 2012


    2.4.3. Execute assigned OSINT activities IAW Director of National Intelligence, DoD,
    and AF established OSINT tradecraft standards. (T-2)
    2.4.4. Assess facilities, IAW AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements, to ensure they
    adequately support the assigned OSINT activities. Identify and correct deficiencies by
    submitting an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to the host base. All
    facility requirements will be tracked according to local command procedures and funding
    allocated. (T-2)




                                        LARRY D. JAMES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                        Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance,
                                        and Reconnaissance
AFI14-130 18 May 2012                                                                    5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning Resources and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 23 April 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 20 April 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFH 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 1 September 1996
DoDI 3115.12, Open Source Intelligence (OSINT), August 24, 2010
DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components That
Affect United States Persons, December 1, 1982
Title 50, United States Code, Section 403-5, January 7, 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, 1 January 1991
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
AF—Air Force
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AF/A2C—Director, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOSC—DoD Open Source Council
IPPBE—Intelligence Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
 6                                                                    AFI14-130 18 May 2012


ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
NOSC—National Open Source Committee
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operational Security
OSCAR—MS—Open Source Collection and Acquisition Requirements-Management System
OSINT—Open Source Intelligence
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
T-1—Tier 1
T-2—Tier 2
USC—United States Code

Terms
Open Source Information—Publicly available information that anyone can lawfully obtain by
request, purchase, or observation.
Open Source Intelligence (OSINT)—As defined by Title 50, United States Code. Intelligence
that is produced from publicly available information and is collected, exploited, and
disseminated in a timely manner to an appropriate audience for the purpose of addressing a
specific intelligence requirement.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
T-1 waiver requests may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower
than MAJCOM Director, with the concurrence of the publication's approving official. (AFI 33-
360)
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director. (AFI 33-360)
