BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-606
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            21 JANUARY 2011



                                                                            Operations Support

                                                        FOREIGN CLEARANCE PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Pulication and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A5XP                                                           Certified by: AF/A5X
                                                              (Maj Gen Richard T. Devereaux)

Supersedes: AFI24-405, 6 May 1994                                                      Pages: 5


This Instruction implements AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation
Agreements, and The DOD Foreign Clearance Program, 29 December 2010. It provides
guidance for the Foreign Clearance Program and applicability and availability guidance for the
Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG). This Instruction applies to all military
and civilian personnel in the United States Air Force, Air Force Reserve (AFR), and Air National
Guard (ANG). It also applies to USAF personnel assigned to international staffs or organizations
and personnel traveling under USAF sponsorship, except for members and employees of
Congress. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at ttps://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims
 2                                                                  AFI16-606 21 JANUARY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This issuance replaces AFI 24-405, 6 May 1994. It realigns guidance under AFPD 16-6, which
highlights the Department of Defense (DOD) designation of the Secretary of the Air Force as the
Executive Agent for the DOD Foreign Clearance Program.
1. Overview.
     1.1. Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG). The FCG describes the
     information required and procedures used by DOD units and personnel to obtain permission
     to enter or overfly foreign territories. It lists other clearance requirements established by
     international and US Government agencies that coordinate and regulate international travel
     as well as DOD policies and procedures relating to travel or transit of aircraft, aircrews,
     cargo, and personnel into or through the territory of a foreign country.
     1.2. The FCG applies to the following
        1.2.1. USAF Components.
        1.2.2. USAF personnel assigned to international staffs or organizations.
        1.2.3. Personnel traveling under USAF sponsorship, except for members and employees
        of Congress.
        1.2.4. All AF offices that plan, brief, or process and clear:
            1.2.4.1. Aircraft entering or overflying foreign nations and aircraft reentering the
            continental United States (CONUS).
            1.2.4.2. Cargo for transport by DOD aircraft operating between foreign areas.
            1.2.4.3. Personnel for official temporary duty travel between foreign areas or US
            controlled areas outside the CONUS, and leave travel.
2. Accessibility.
     2.1. FCG.
        2.1.1. The unclassified publication           is    available        on    the   NIPRNet   at
        https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil.
        2.1.2. The    publication   is    also          available       on        the    SIPRNet   at
        http://www.fcg.pentagon.smil.mil.
        2.1.3. The   Classified  Supplement     is  available    on    the  SIPRNet                at
        http://www.fcg.pentagon.smil.mil/fcgsupplement/classified-supplement.html.
     2.2. The Aircraft and Personnel Automated Clearance System (APACS) is the web-based
     application for requesting approval for DOD-sponsored overseas travel and aircraft
     diplomatic clearances to or through foreign territory. Alternate clearance processes may be
     used with the concurrence of the aircraft requestor, aircraft approver, and AF/A5XP.
     APACS is located:
        2.2.1. The unclassified system is available on the NIPRNet at https://apacs.dtic.mil.
        2.2.2. The classified system is available on the SIPRNet at https://apacs.dtic.smil.mil.
AFI16-606 21 JANUARY 2011                                                                         3


3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Strategic Plans and Policy Division (AF/A5XP), through the Deputy Chief of Staff
   for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5), shall:
       3.1.1. Manage all aspects of the DOD Foreign Clearance Program for the Air Force and
       for the SECAF, the DOD Executive Agent for the FCP.
       3.1.2. Coordinate with Major Commands and applicable Headquarters Air Force offices
       to develop Air Force positions on Foreign Clearance Program proposals and negotiating
       positions, and to not interfere with current informal agreements with host nations.
       Provide Air Force input into developing Department of Defense negotiating positions.
       3.1.3. Inform and advise senior Air Force leadership on Foreign Clearance Program
       issues.
       3.1.4. Answer congressional requests about Foreign Clearance Program impacts on Air
       Force operations.
       3.1.5. Provide guidance on interpreting international agreements pertaining to the foreign
       clearance program and establish plans and procedures for implementing and ensuring
       compliance with such agreements, both formal and informal.
       3.1.6. Represent the Air Force, as required, on appropriate Department of Defense
       working groups.
       3.1.7. Manage implementation of overall education and training for Foreign Clearance
       Program activities within the Air Force.
       3.1.8. Provide guidance on implementation and compliance with Air Force Policy
       regarding payment of aviation-related fees levied against Air Force missions operating
       over or within foreign territories.
       3.1.9. Provide guidance on implementation and compliance with international
       sovereignty policy with respect to U.S. Air Force aircraft transiting international airspace,
       foreign territorial airspace or landing in a foreign territory.
   3.2. Major Commands will:
       3.2.1. Establish a Foreign Clearance Program point of contact to deal specifically with
       issues applicable to each Major Command.
       3.2.2. Ensure that the Major Command, in concert with AF/A5XP, educates those
       personnel directly involved with Foreign Clearance Program activities and raises
       awareness of foreign clearance throughout the command.
       3.2.3. Request AF/A5XP guidance, as appropriate, when any foreign clearance concerns
       arise.
   3.3. The Office of the General Counsel (SAF/GC) is responsible, within the Department of
   the Air Force, for legal interpretation of foreign clearance agreements as they pertain to the
   DOD Foreign Clearance Program. SAF/GC shall provide advice and assistance for
   negotiation of, implementation of, and compliance with, foreign clearance agreements
   affecting global access and the implementation of the DOD Foreign Clearance Program.
4                                                             AFI16-606 21 JANUARY 2011


    3.4. All Air Force organizations will:
       3.4.1. Refer questions related to international aircraft sovereignty, access to foreign
       airspace, and foreign clearance agreements pertaining to the DOD Foreign Clearance
       Program to AF/A5XP.
       3.4.2. Implement relevant agreement provisions and ensure their programs/activities are
       in full compliance with the agreements and with foreign clearance policy.
       3.4.3. Ensure that the implementation of foreign clearance agreements shall be carried
       out so as to avoid the compromise of classified information.
    3.5. Adopted Forms: AF For 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             JOHNNY A. WEIDA, Maj Gen, USAF
                                             Asst DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
AFI16-606 21 JANUARY 2011                                                            5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 4500.54E, DOD Foreign Clearance Program, December 28, 2009
AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreements, and The DOD
Foreign Clearance Program, 29 December 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
ANG— Air National Guard
APACS— Aircraft and Personnel Automated Clearance System
CONUS— Continental United States
DOD— Department of Defense
DODD— Department of Defense Directive
FCG— Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide
FCP— Foreign Clearance Program
GC— General Counsel
HQ USAF— Headquarters United States Air Force
NIPRNet— Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SAF— Secretary of the Air Force
SIPRNet— Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
US— United States
USAF— United States Air Force
