BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2 FT
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                        VOLUME 2
                                                           Certified Current, 22 MARCH 2011
                                                                              12 MARCH 2007
                                                              Incorporating Through Change 2,
                                                                              29 MARCH 2010

                                                                              Flying Operations

                                                    FLIGHT TEST AIRCREW EVALUATION
                                                                           CRITERIA

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATIONS IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at: www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFMC/A3V                                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O
Supersedes: AFI11-2FTV2, 14 July 2004                                 Brig Gen Robert C. Kane)
                                                                                     Pages: 95


This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures; AFPD 11-4, Aviation
Service; and AFI 11-202V2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program. The purpose of this
publication is to provide evaluation criteria for Flight Test Aircrew to be used during required
evaluations. It applies to all AFMC units and AFMC gained flying units and personnel. This
supplement does not apply to the Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units and
members except those under AFMC OPCON. Field units below MAJCOM level will forward
copies of their proposed supplements to this publication to AFMC/ A3V for review and approval
prior to publication. Keep supplements current by complying with AFI 33-360, Publications
Management Program. See paragraph 1.2 of this instruction for guidance on submitting waivers
to this publication. See paragraph 1.2 of this instruction for guidance on submitting comments
and suggesting improvements to this publication. This instruction is affected by the Paperwork
Reduction Act as amended in 1996. The Privacy Act of 1974 affects this instruction. The Privacy
Act System Number F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS) covers
required information. The authority for maintenance of the system is Title 37 U.S.C. 301a
(Incentive Pay), Public Law 92-204, Section 715 (Appropriations Act for 1973), Public Laws 93-
570 (Appropriations Act for 1974), 93-294 (Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974), and
Executive Order 9397. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
2                                                                                           AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds low visibility landings and spatial disorientation to Emergency
Procedures Evaluations, clarifies Precision Approach and Instructor Evaluation requirements,
clarifies Nav/WSO instrument exam requisite for qualification evaluation, changes the definition
of ―Time Out‖, adds Fuel Conservation evaluation criteria to several crew positions, and adds
Nav/WSO/EWO qualification standards. A margin bar indicates a revision from the previous
edition.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                                4
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    4
       1.2.   Recommended Changes/Waivers. .........................................................................                         4
       1.3.   Procedures: .............................................................................................................      4
       1.4.   Grading Instructions. .............................................................................................            4
Table 1.1.    General Criteria. .....................................................................................................        5
       1.5.   Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE). .............................................................                           6
       1.6.   Publications. ...........................................................................................................      7

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            8
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   Instrument Evaluation. ...........................................................................................             8
       2.3.   Qualification Evaluation. .......................................................................................              9
       2.4.   Mission Evaluation. ...............................................................................................            9
       2.5.   Instructor Evaluation. .............................................................................................          10
       2.6.   Spot Evaluation. .....................................................................................................        10
       2.7.   Evaluation Instructions. .........................................................................................            10
       2.8.   Forms Adopted. .....................................................................................................          10

ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              11

ATTACHMENT 2—PILOT EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                      22

ATTACHMENT 3—WSO/NAVIGATOR/OSO/EWO/DSO EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                  40

ATTACHMENT 4—CAREER ENLISTED AVIATOR (CEA) AIRCREW GRADING CRITERIA
                                                                  48

ATTACHMENT 5—UAS PERSONNEL EVALUATION CRITERIA PILOT (ALL), RQ-4 AND
         MQ1/9 SENSOR OPERATOR                                       63
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                        3


ATTACHMENT 6—AIR BATTLE MANAGER/MISSION CREW COMMANDER/AIR
         SURVEILLANCE OFFICER/SENIOR DIRECTOR (ABM/MCC/ASO/SD)
         EVALUATION CRITERIA                                     86

ATTACHMENT 7—ACTIVE NON-RATED AIRCREW EVALUATION CRITERIA        91
4                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007



                                           Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. AFMC/A3V is the OPR for the three-volume set of Flight Test (FT) instructions
containing attachments for each weapon system flown in AFMC. These instructions are
numbered AFI 11-2FT Volume 1, 2, and 3, and will contain the training, evaluation criteria, and
operations procedures, respectively, for each weapon system. AFMC uses these instructions in
lieu of AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific Volumes for flying operations. In the absence of published
guidance AFMC units will coordinate with HQ AFMC/A3V for approval of locally developed
guidelines. These guidelines should be consistent with similar guidance specified in the
appropriate AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific volumes. In addition, aircraft on loan to AFMC undergoing
short-term flight test programs will be flown according to the lead MAJCOM guidance if no
AFMC AFI 11-2FT-series or other guidance exists.
    1.1.1. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 11-202, Volume 2 and
    this instruction. Information gathering documents will be established as forms in accordance
    with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
1.2. Recommended Changes/Waivers. Recommendations for improvements to this instruction
will be submitted on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to AFMC/A3V.
IAW AFPD 11-2, AF/XO is approval authority for interim changes/revisions to this instruction.
Waiver authority for this instruction is AFMC/A3V. Waivers will be requested through
AFMC/A3V.
1.3. Procedures:
    1.3.1. Stan/Eval Flight Examiners (SEFE) will use the evaluation criteria contained in
    Attachment 2 through Attachment 7 for conducting all flight evaluations and paragraph 1.5
    for all emergency procedures evaluations. To ensure standard and objective evaluations,
    SEFEs will be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation criteria. If guidance
    published in this volume is not sufficient or does not apply (for example; U-2), follow lead
    MAJCOM guidance.
    1.3.2. Unless specified, the examinee or SEFE may fly in any flight position (to include
    chase) which will best enable the SEFE to conduct a thorough evaluation.
    1.3.3. The SEFE will brief the examinee on the purpose of the evaluation and how it will be
    conducted prior to flight. The examinee will accomplish required flight planning in
    accordance with the flight position during the evaluation. Flight Examiners will be furnished
    a copy of necessary mission data, and mission materials.
    1.3.4. The SEFE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the flight. This debrief will include
    the examinee's overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
    qualified) and any required additional training.
1.4. Grading Instructions. This instruction and its attachments contain the standards and
criteria for conducting evaluations in AFMC aircraft. These standards when applied with SEFE
judgement are the determining factor in awarding subarea and overall evaluation grades.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                            5


     1.4.1. The SEFE will evaluate flight parameters based on conditions of smooth air and a
     stable aircraft. Do not consider momentary deviations from tolerances, provided the
     examinee applies prompt corrective action and such deviations do not jeopardize flying
     safety. The SEFE will consider cumulative deviations when determining the overall grade.
     1.4.2. The SEFE will evaluate each area accomplished during the evaluation using the
     standards provided in this instruction and assign an appropriate grade for the area. Derive the
     overall flight evaluation grade from a composite of the area grades. SEFE judgment must be
     exercised when the wording of areas is subjective and when specific situations are not
     covered. SEFE judgment will be the determining factor in arriving at the overall grade.
     1.4.3. If the examinee receives an unqualified grade in any critical area, an overall
     unqualified grade will be assigned.
     1.4.4. The following general criteria apply during all phases of flight except as noted for
     specific events and on instrument final approaches:

Table 1.1. General Criteria.

                            Fixed Wing Pilot Helicopter Pilot Navigator/WSO UAS Pilot (1)

Q          Altitude         +/- 200 Feet        +/- 100 Feet       +/- 150 Feet        +/- 200 Feet

           Airspeed         +/- 5%              +/- 10 KIAS        +/- 5%              +10/-5 KIAS

           Course           +/- 5 degrees/3  +/- 5 degrees/3       +/- 5 degrees/3     +/-20 degrees/1.5
                            NM (Whichever is NM (Whichever         NM (Whichever       NM (Whichever is
                            greater)         is greater)           is greater)         greater

           TACAN Arc        +/- 2 NM            +/- 2 NM           +/- 2 NM            N/A

Q-         Altitude         +/- 300 feet        +/- 300 feet       +/- 250 feet        +/-300 feet

           Airspeed         +/- 10 %            +/- 20 KIAS        +/- 10 %            +15/-7 KIAS

           Course           +/- 10 degrees/5 +/- 10 degrees/5      +/- 10 degrees/5    +/-30 degrees/3
                            NM (Whichever is NM (Whichever         NM (Whichever       NM (Whichever is
                            greater)         is greater)           is greater)         greater)

           TACAN Arc        +/- 3 NM            +/- 2 NM           +/- 3 NM            N/A

U                           Exceeded Q-         Exceeded Q-        Exceeded Q-         Exceeded Q-
                            Tolerances          Tolerances         Tolerances          Tolerances
NOTE: 1: This table is not applicable to RQ-4A/B evaluations.
6                                                               AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


1.5. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE). Aircrew will be administered EPEs. Use an
ATD to perform EPEs (when available and properly configured) to the maximum extent
possible. If an ATD is not used, the EPE will be conducted in an appropriate unit training device
(UTD) or cockpit procedures trainer (CPT), in order of preference. If a CPT is not used, the EPE
will be an oral evaluation.
    1.5.1. The following items, as applicable, will be included on all emergency procedures
    evaluations:
       1.5.1.1. Aircraft General Knowledge.
       1.5.1.2. Emergency Procedures. Evaluate a minimum of two emergency procedures per
       phase of flight (i.e., pre-takeoff, takeoff, cruise and landing). All Bold Face/CAPS will be
       evaluated (if applicable).
       1.5.1.3. Crew Resource Management (CRM).
       1.5.1.4. Unusual attitude recoveries will be evaluated IAW AFMAN 11-217, Instrument
       Flight Procedures, during all EPEs. If performed in an ATD, this fulfills the requirement
       for Unusual Attitude Recoveries on Pilot Instrument/Qualification evaluations.
    1.5.2. The following additional items will be included on EPEs as a requisite for the
    instrument and/ or qualification evaluation (if applicable):
       1.5.2.1. Evaluate use of standby/emergency instruments.
       1.5.2.2. Alternate/Divert Airfields. Evaluate a minimum of one approach at an airfield
       other than the base/airfield of assignment, mission & conditions permitting
       1.5.2.3. Evaluate loss of visual references in close proximity to the runway (low
       visibility landings) including use of night vision devices during takeoff/landing, if
       authorized.
       1.5.2.4. Evaluate transition to instruments in a spatial disorientation incident.
    1.5.3. EPE scenarios should be tailored to unit tasking and should include emergencies
    occurring during situations an aircrew might encounter while flying the unit’s mission
    (Functional Check Flight, Weapon Delivery, etc).
    1.5.4. Examinees receiving an overall unqualified grade will be placed in supervised status
    until a re-evaluation is successfully accomplished. Examinees receiving an overall
    unqualified grade because of an unsatisfactory Bold Face/CAPS evaluation will not be
    permitted to fly in their aircrew position until a successful re-evaluation is accomplished. If
    examinee receives a grade of qualified with additional training required for an EPE, the
    SEFE will indicate if the additional training will be accomplished before the flight
    evaluation. Additional training and reevaluations will be accomplished IAW AFI 11-202,
    Vol 2.
    1.5.5. The following grading criteria will be used to grade individual items on EPE’s:
    Q: Performance is correct. Quickly recognizes and corrects errors.
    Q-: Performance is safe, with limited proficiency. Makes errors of omission or commission.
    U: Performance is unsafe or indicates lack of knowledge or ability.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    7


1.6. Publications. The examinee will submit their issued copy of required publications for
evaluation. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members. Maintain one copy
of the designated digital media per individual IAW AFI 11-215. Units that fly multiple variants
of an MDS (ie AC-130H; MC-130H; HC-130P; C-130E) will declare one variant (ie C-130H) as
the primary weapon system. Issue individual publications based on this determination.
8                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


                                            Chapter 2

                              EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General.
    2.1.1. All evaluations will follow the guidelines set in AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Chapter 4. The
    procedures outlined in this chapter apply to all flying units.
    2.1.2. Required evaluation areas are contained in forms specified in AFMC Supplement to
    AFI 11-202V2. When it is impossible to evaluate a required area in flight, it will be evaluated
    by an alternate method (i.e., in an UTD/ATD/CPT or by oral examination). Document the
    reason a required area was not evaluated in-flight. Document method of evaluation in the
    Section D of the AF IMT 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification. If the SEFE determines the
    required item cannot be adequately evaluated by an alternate method, the examinee will
    require an additional flight to complete the evaluation.
    2.1.3. Evaluate all issued flight publications for currency and accuracy on all flight
    evaluations. Units may specify additional publications to be evaluated in the unit supplement
    to AFI 11-202V2.
2.2. Instrument Evaluation. A mission flown according to instrument flight rules (to the
maximum extent practical) best fulfills the objective of the instrument evaluation. This
evaluation will include approaches at airfields other than the base of assignment or deployed
locations if possible. This evaluation may be administered on any compatible mission with the
approval of the unit Chief of Stan/Eval and Commander's concurrence.
    2.2.1. The minimum ground phase requisite is the instrument examination.
    2.2.2. UAS Instrument Qualifications. R/MQ-1/9 pilots are required to take an instrument
    check utilizing their assigned aircraft. RQ-4 pilots will maintain instrument currency and
    rating in either an Air Force aircraft or a civil commercial instrument rating.
    2.2.3. Minimum In-Flight Events.
       2.2.3.1. Precision Approach. One precision instrument approach must be flown. An
       Instrument Landing System (ILS)/Microwave Landing System (MLS); PAR or GPS
       approach may fulfill this requirement. Any aircraft compatible precision approach type
       (ILS/MLS, PAR, or GPS) which is not executed during the flight evaluation will be
       evaluated via the ground evaluation.
       2.2.3.2. Non-precision Approach. Accomplish at least one non-precision approach.
       2.2.3.3. Holding and Fix to Fix. Every attempt should be made to accomplish the events.
       However, if mission constraints prevent accomplishment, this may be evaluated on the
       ground.
       2.2.3.4. Instrument Penetration. Every attempt should be made to accomplish the events.
       However, if mission constraints prevent accomplishment, this may be evaluated on the
       ground
       2.2.3.5. Circling Approach Every attempt should be made to accomplish this event. It
       may be combined, as appropriate, with the Non-precision approach requirement.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                         9


   2.2.4. Unusual Attitudes. Do not perform unusual attitude recoveries in single seat aircraft.
   They will be evaluated during EPEs or if evaluated in dual-seat aircraft in-flight, will be
   performed with a SEFE in the aircraft.
2.3. Qualification Evaluation. Requirements for a pilot qualification evaluation are the same
as an instrument evaluation with the following exceptions and requirements:
   2.3.1. Minimum ground phase requisites are closed and open book examinations, EPE, and
   Bold Face/CAPS Written Exam. Answers must contain all Bold Face/CAPS items in proper
   sequence. Abbreviations are allowed.
   2.3.2. No instrument approaches or procedures (holding, fix-to-fix, instrument penetration)
   are required. A full flap (normal) pattern and landing is required. Emergency pattern work
   (engine out, no flap, partial flap, SFO) as applicable is also required. VFR traffic patterns are
   required (weather permitting).
   2.3.3. Navigators and WSOs with a set of flight controls or flight instruments at their crew
   position will complete the instrument exam as a requisite for the qualification evaluation.
   2.3.4. Pilots and WSOs/navigators will be evaluated on compliance with National Airspace
   System Rules and procedures. Particularly, evaluate compliance with minimum safe
   maneuvering airspeeds below 10,000 feet MSL using criteria in Table 1.1, as well as using
   all means available to ensure safe operations (e.g., Flight following during VFR operations).
   Mission planning will also be graded for adequate consideration of potential hazards during
   low level operations including, but not limited to: high traffic areas, other military training
   route crossing points/deconfliction, noise sensitive areas, no-fly areas and abort
   considerations.
   2.3.5. Electronic Warfare Officer grading criteria may be supplemented and published in the
   unit supplement to this Instruction.
   2.3.6. Qualifications in the MQ-1 and MQ-9 will count as one qualification due to their
   similarities. If an initial qual was received in the MQ-1, conversion training in the MQ-9 may
   be initiated after 100 hours have been accumulated in the MQ-1. If an initial qual was
   received in the MQ-9, conversion training in the MQ-1 may be initiated after 100 hours have
   been accumulated in the MQ-9.
   2.3.7. Nav/WSO/EWO: Qualification is gained by completion of QUAL evaluation which
   consists of MQF closed book exam only, IRC, instrument exam, boldface/CAPS, EPE, and
   flight evaluation. The closed book exam is from the full ―pilot‖ MQF (applicable
   blocks/MDS flight qual). Open book exam requirements are at unit discretion. The
   boldface/CAPS are for the rear cockpit only station (F-16/T-38) and appropriate aft cabin
   boldface for the C-12. The EPE is to emphasize normal/emergency procedures and
   notes/warning/cautions associated with normal/emergency procedures found in sections 2, 3,
   and 5 of the flight manual.
2.4. Mission Evaluation. The requirement for a mission evaluation for AFMC aircrews is
waived according to the provisions of AFI 11-202V2, Chapter 4. However, evaluators should
attempt to include mission type events on a qualification evaluation. Mission type events include
any Phase II area such as: aerobatics; confidence maneuvers; safety chase; approaches to stalls;
BFM; flight test techniques; formation; basic weapons deliveries; and functional checks. The
10                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


mission section of the evaluation sheets contains four areas to be evaluated if mission type events
are accomplished on a qualification evaluation.
2.5. Instructor Evaluation. Initial Instructor and Instructor Requalification evaluations will be
conducted IAW AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program. Flight
evaluations will include a thorough evaluation of the examinee's instructor knowledge and
ability. The instructor candidate will also demonstrate to the evaluator the ability to instruct
ground training of Emergency Procedures. This is a one-time check in which the examinee must
demonstrate the ability to instruct in various phases of the unit’s mission. Except for
requirements detailed on AFMC Evaluation Sheets, specific profiles and/or events will be
determined by the SEFE. All subsequent periodic evaluations (for example, Instrument,
Qualification, Mission) will include instructor portions during the evaluations. For units whose
instructor pilots (IP) normally instruct from a chase aircraft, the examinee should fly a portion of
the mission in the chase position, if feasible. Initial and Requal Instructor Evaluations will
include the applicable portions of the following sections: General; Ground; Qualification; and
Instructor.
2.6. Spot Evaluation. Spot evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Chapter 4.
A SPOT evaluation is an evaluation not intended to satisfy the requirements of a periodic (i.e.,
INSTM, QUAL, MSN, INSTR) evaluation. A spot has no particular requisites or requirements,
but may be converted into a periodic evaluation if all of the requirements for that evaluation are
met. SEFE objectivity evaluations will be documented as SPOT evaluations.
2.7. Evaluation Instructions. Requirements for all aircrew evaluations are identified in forms
as specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-202V2. Each crew position has specific section C
requirements and evaluation criteria. Use forms specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-
202V2 for conducting all aircrew evaluations. To conserve flying resources, units should make
every attempt to combine evaluations (for example INSTM/QUAL examinations should be
combined to the maximum extent possible).
2.8. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, AF Form 8,
Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, AF Form 8a, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification (Multiple
Aircraft).




                                              CARROL H. CHANDLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                          11


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 Jan 2005
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 Sep 2004
AFI 11-2FT-Volume 1, Flight Test Aircrew Training, 19 Sep 2005
AFI 11-2FT- Volume 3, Flight Test Operations Procedures, 28 May 2005
AFMCI 11-201, Supervision of Flight Operations, 15 Dec 1999
AFI 11-202V1, Aircrew Training, 23 Nov 2005
AFI 11-202V2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 8 Dec 2006
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 5 Apr 2006
AFH 11-203V1, Weather for Aircrews, 1 Mar 1997
AFI 11-205, Aircraft Cockpit and Formation Flight Signals, 19 May 1994
AFI 11-207, Combat Aircraft Delivery, 6 Oct 2004
AFI 11-209, Aerial Event Policy and Procedures, 4 May 2006
AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Program (IRP), 3 Feb 2005
AFI 11-214, Air Operations Rules and Procedures,22 Dec 2005
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP, 6 Apr 2005
AFPAM 11-216, Air Navigation, 1 Mar 2001
AFI 11-217 V1, Instrument Flight Procedures, 3 Jan 2005
AFI 11-217 V2, Instrument Flight Procedures, 6 Aug 1998
AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground, 11 May 2005
AFMAN 11-226, US Standard for Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPS), 1 Nov 1999
AFI 11-230, Instrument Procedures, 6 Apr 2006
AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, 11 Apr 2001
AFI 11-301, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, 19 Jul 2002
AFI 33-360 Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 15 Dec 2004
AFI 11-410, Personnel Parachute Operations, 20 May 2004
AFPAM 11-419, G-Awareness for Aircrew, 1 Dec 1999
AFI 13-202, Overdue Aircraft, 18 Mar 1994
AFI 13-212V1, Range Planning & Operations, 7 Aug 2001
12                                                            AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 29 Mar 2006
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 Aug 94
T.O. 1-1-300, Functional Check Flight Procedures, 1 Aug 2004
FAAH 7610.4K, Special Military Operations, 19 Feb 2004
NOTES:
1.The entire AFTTP3-1 and 3-3 series of instructions contains useful reference information for
areas not specifically covered in the instruction and may be used to enhance safe operations.
2.Guidance in aircraft Flight Manuals, performance manuals, weapons delivery manuals, air
refueling manuals and Technical Orders are the primary references for operation of the
corresponding aircraft.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AGL—above ground level
AGM—Air to Ground Missile
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AOA—Angle of Attack
APU—auxiliary power unit
ASR—Airport Surveillance Report
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATD—aircrew training device
BFM—Basic Fighter Maneuver
CAPS—Critical Action Procedures
CC—Commander
COMSEC—Communications Security
CPT—cockpit procedures trainer
CRM—Crew Resource Management
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                        13


DH—decision height
DO—Director of Operations
DR—dead reckoning
DSO—Defensive Systems Officer
DZ—Drop Zone
ECM—Electronic Countermeasures
EP—Evaluator Pilot/emergency procedure
EPE—Emergency Procedures Evaluation
ETA—Expected Time of Arrival
EVS—Electro-Optical Viewing System
EWO—Electronic Warfare Officer
FAAH—Federal Aviation Administration Handbook
FAR—Federal Aviation Regulation
FCIF—Flight Crew Information File
FLIP—Flight Information Publications
GPS—Global Positioning System
HF—high frequency
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—in accordance with
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
ILS—Instrument Landing System
IP—Instructor Pilot or Initial Point
IR—IFR Military Training Route
IRC—Instrument Refresher Course
KIAS—knots indicated airspeed
LZ—Landing Zone
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAP—Missed Approach Point
MC—Mission Capable/Mission Commander
MDS—Mission Design Series
MDA—Minimum Descent Altitude
14                                                           AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


MSA—Minimum Safe Altitude
MSL—mean sea level
N/A—Not Applicable
NM—nautical miles
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSO—Offensive Systems Officer
PAR—Precision Approach Radar
RDT&E— Research Developmental Test and Evaluation
RPM—revolutions per minute
SAR—synthetic aperture radar
SD—Senior Director
SEFE—Stan/Eval Flight Examiner
SFO—simulated flame out
STAN/EVAL—Standardization & Evaluation
TA—terrain avoidance
TACAN—Tactical Air Navigation
TERPS—Terminal Instrument Procedures
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
USAF—United States Air Force
UTD—unit training device
VDP—Visual Descent Point
VOR—VHF Omni Range
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
VHF—Very High Frequency
VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions
WSO—Weapons Systems Officer

Terms
Airlift—Aircraft is considered to be performing airlift when manifested passengers or cargo are
carried.
Allowable Cabin Load (ACL)—The maximum payload that can be carried on an individual
sortie.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                        15


Alternate Entry Control Point (Alternate Entry Fix)—The route point(s) upon which a
control time for an alternate entry into the route is based.
Assault Landing Zone (ALZ)—A paved or semi-prepared (unpaved) airfield used to conduct
operations in an airfield environment similar to forward operating locations. ALZ runways are
typically shorter and narrower than standard runways.
Augmented Crew—Basic aircrew supplemented by additional qualified aircrew members to
permit in-flight rest periods.
Bingo Fuel—The computed fuel remaining at a point in flight that will allow safe return to the
point of intended landing with required fuel reserve.
Block Time—Time determined by the scheduling agency responsible for mission
accomplishment for the aircraft to arrive at (block in) or depart from (block out) the parking spot.
Category I Route—Any route that does not meet the requirements of a category II route,
including tactical navigation and over-water routes.
Category II Route—Any route on which the position of the aircraft can be accurately
determined by the overhead crossing of a radio aid (NDB, VOR, TACAN) at least once each
hour with the positive course guidance between such radio aids.
Circular Error Average (CEA)—Indicator of the accuracy of an airdrop operation. It is the
radius of a circle within which half of the air-dropped personnel and items or material have
fallen.
Combat Control Team (CCT)—A small task organized team of Air Force parachute and
combat diver qualified personnel trained and equipped to rapidly establish and control drop,
landing, and extraction zone air traffic in austere or hostile conditions. They survey and establish
terminal airheads as well as provide guidance to aircraft for airlift operation. They provide
command and control, and conduct reconnaissance, surveillance, and survey assessments of
potential objective airfields or assault zones. They also can perform limited weather observations
and removal of obstacles or unexploded ordinance with demolitions. Also called CCT.
Command Chief Pilot—An aircrew assigned to HQ AFMC/A3V or an appointee that assists the
HQ Stan/Eval team and conducts flight evaluations on behalf of the headquarters
Conference SKYHOOK—Communication conference available to help aircrews solve in-flight
problems that require additional expertise.
Critical Phase of Flight—Takeoff, low level (below MSA), airdrop, weapon delivery, air
refueling, approach, and landing.
Deadhead Time—Duty time for crewmembers positioning or de-positioning for a mission or
mission support function and not performing crew duties. Crewmembers will by listed on the
flight authorization, but will log ―other‖ time IAW AFI11-401. See AFI 11-202Vol 3 Chap 9 for
further restrictions.
Deviation—A deviation occurs when takeoff time is not within –20/+14 minutes of scheduled
takeoff time.
Difference (conversion) Evaluation—An evaluation administered to an aircrew qualified in a
variant of a particular aircraft. For example, variants of the B-707 airframe, different series of a
16                                                               AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


particular M/D, or different block versions. Difference training is considered Phase I (initial
qualification) training.
Direct Instructor Supervision—Supervision by an instructor of like specialty with immediate
access to controls (for pilots, the instructor must occupy either the pilot or copilot seat).
Drop Zone (DZ)—A specified area upon which airborne troops, equipment, or supplies are air-
dropped.
Due Regard—Operational situations that do not lend themselves to International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO) flight procedures, such as military contingencies, classified missions,
politically sensitive missions, or training activities. Flight under ―Due Regard‖ obligates the
military aircraft commander to be his or her own air traffic control (ATC) agency and to separate
his or her aircraft from all other air traffic. (See FLIP General Planning, section 7)
DZ Entry Point—A fixed point on DZ run-in course where an aircraft or formation or aircraft
may safely begin descent from IFR en route altitude to IFR drop altitude. The DZ entry point is a
maximum of 40 NM prior to the DZ exit point according to Federal Aviation Administration
FAR exemption 4371C. Formation descent will not begin until the last aircraft in formation is at
or past the DZ entry point.
DZ Exit Point—A fixed point on the DZ escape flight path centerline, established during pre-
mission planning, at which the formation will be at the minimum IFR en route altitude. Calculate
the exit point based upon three-engine performance at airdrop gross weight. This point will be
planned no less than four NM track distance beyond the DZ trailing edge.
Earliest Descent Point (EDP)—Earliest point in the DZ run-in course where the lead aircraft
may begin IFR descent to IFR drop altitude and be assured of terrain clearance for the entire
formation. Compute EDP by subtracting formation length from the computed DZ entry point.
Equal Time Point—Point along a route at which an aircraft may either proceed to destination or
first suitable airport or return to departure base or last suitable airport in the same amount of time
based on all engines operating.
End Maneuver Area (EMA)—A control point terminating the bomb run area.
Entry Control Time—The scheduled time over the Primary/Alternate Entry Control Point.
Entry Track—A track, usually associated with a bomber IR and beginning at the Primary or
alternate Entry Point, along which descent is made to the low altitude portion of the route.
Estimated Time In Commission (ETIC)—Estimated time required to complete required
maintenance. Used by maintenance in increments up to mission cancel time.
Evaluation Form—Worksheet used to document any evaluation to prepare the AF Form 8.
Execution—Command-level approval for initiation of a mission or portion thereof after due
consideration of all pertinent factors. Execution authority is restricted to designated command
authority.
Familiar Field—An airport in the local flying area at which unit assigned aircraft routinely
perform transition training. Each operations group commander will designate familiar fields
within their local flying area.
Fix—A position determined from terrestrial, electronic, or astronomical data.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                        17


Fuel—Normal Fuel-Fuel state on initial or at the final approach fix such that the aircraft can
land with the fuel reserves specified in 11-2FT Vol. 3.
Minimum Fuel—Fuel state, where, upon reaching the destination, the aircraft can accept little or
no delay. This is not an emergency situation but merely indicates an emergency situation is
possible should any undue delay occur.
Emergency Fuel—Fuel state requires immediate traffic priority to safely recover the aircraft. An
emergency will be declared and the aircraft immediately recovered at the nearest suitable field.
Global Decision Support System (GDSS)—AMC primary execution command and control
system. GDSS is used to manage the execution of AMC airlift and tanker missions.
Hazardous Cargo or Materials (HAZMAT)—Articles or substances that are capable of posing
significant risk to health, safety, or property when transported by air and classified as explosive
(class 1), compressed gas (class 2), flammable liquid (class 3), flammable solid (class 4) oxidizer
and organic peroxide (class 5), poison and infectious substances (class 6), radioactive material
(class 7), corrosive material (class 8), or miscellaneous dangerous goods (class 9). Classes may
be subdivided into divisions to further identify hazard (i.e., 1.1, 2.3, 6.1, etc.).
Initial Cadre—Those personnel assigned to conduct flight testing of experimental,
developmental, or new aircraft for which there are no established formal training programs nor
standardized evaluation criteria. Initial Cadre designations are appropriate through Initial
Operational Capability.
Instructor Supervision—Supervision by an instructor of like specialty (see also Direct
Instructor Supervision).
Inter—fly-The exchange and/or substitution of aircrews and aircraft between Mobility Air
Forces (MAF) including crewmembers and/or aircraft from AETC, ACC, PACAF, USAFE,
AMC, ANG and AFRC forces not gained by AFMC.
Jumpmaster—The assigned airborne qualified individual who controls parachutists from the
time they enter the aircraft until they exit.
Knock—it-Off-A term any crewmember may call to terminate a training maneuver. Upon
hearing ―knock-it-off‖ the crew should establish a safe altitude, airspeed and return the aircraft
power and flight controls to a normal configuration.
Landing Zone (LZ)—An area of sufficient size to allow discharge or pickup of passengers or
cargo by touchdown or low hover.
Latest Descent Point—Latest planned point on the DZ run-in course where the formation plans
to initiate descent to drop altitude. This is planned to ensure all aircraft in the formation are
stabilized (on altitude and airspeed) prior to the drop.
Lead Crew—A crew consisting of a lead qualified aircraft commander and a lead qualified
navigator.
Letter of ―X‖s—A document used in AFMC, signed by appropriate authority, that lists each
assigned/attached aircrew’s aircraft designation, crew position, and mission qualifications.
Local Training Mission—A mission scheduled to originate and terminate at home station (or an
off-station training mission), generated for training or evaluation and executed at the local level.
18                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


Low Altitude Navigation Leg—The route segments of a bomber IR between the TA Initiation
Point and TA Termination Point. For non-bomber IR, the low altitude navigation leg is that
portion of the route designed primarily for low altitude flight; does not include segments
intended for descent into and climb-out from the route.
Maintenance Status—Code 1 - No maintenance required.
Code 2 (Plus Noun)—-Minor maintenance required, but not serious enough to cause delay. Add
nouns that identify the affected units or systems, i.e. hydraulic, ultra high frequency (UHF) radio,
radar, engine, fuel control, generator, etc. Attempt to describe the nature of the system
malfunction to the extent that appropriate maintenance personnel will be available to meet the
aircraft. When possible, identify system as mission essential (ME) or mission contributing (MC).
Code 3 (Plus Noun)—- Major maintenance. Delay is anticipated. Affected units or systems are
to be identified as in Code 2 status above.
Manmade Obstructions—Structures that present a hazard to flight. Structure height is
measured from the ground-base.
Mark—The time when an aircraft passes over the landing zone or ground party.
Military Airspace Management System (MASMS)—The term MASMS in this instruction
refers to Detachment 1, HQ ACC/DOR, the Military Airspace Management System Office at
Offutt AFB, NE.
MASMS IR Route—A route scheduled through Det 1, HQ ACC/DOSR using the MASMS
scheduling system.
Mission—1. The task, together with the purpose, that clearly indicates the action to be taken and
the reason therefore. 2. In common usage, especially when applied to lower military units, a duty
assigned to an individual or unit; a task. 3. The dispatching of one or more aircraft to accomplish
one particular task.
Mission Contributing (MC)—Any degraded component, system, or subsystem which is
desired, but not essential to mission accomplishment.
Mission Essential (ME)—A degraded component, system, or subsystem which is essential for
safe aircraft operation or mission completion.
Modified Contour—Flight in reference to base altitude above the terrain with momentary
deviations above and below the base altitude for terrain depressions and obstructions to permit a
smooth flight profile.
Non—MASMS IR Route-A route in which scheduling activity in AP/1B is other than Det 1,
HQ ACC/DOSR.
Off Station Training Flight—A training flight that originates or terminates at other than home
station that is specifically generated to provide the aircrew experience in operating away from
home station. Off station trainers will not be generated solely to transport passengers, cargo, or
position/deposition crewmembers.
Operational Risk Management (ORM)—A logic-based common sense approach to making
calculated decisions on human, material, and environmental factors before, during, and after Air
Force operations. It enables commanders, functional managers and supervisors to maximize
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      19


operational capabilities while minimizing risks by applying a simple systematic process
appropriated for all personnel and Air Force functions.
Operational Site—An LZ that has (1) been surveyed by an instructor pilot (IP) experienced in
remote operations to ensure no hazards exist, (2) a photograph available for aircrews to study the
site prior to landing and (3) approval from the OG/CC to be designated an operational site.
Whenever practical, operational sites should have permanently installed and properly maintained
wind indicators (wind sock, streamer, etc.).
Opportune Airlift—Transportation of personnel, cargo, or both aboard aircraft with no
expenditure of additional flying hours to support the airlift.
Originating Station—Base from which an aircraft starts on an assigned mission. May or may
not be the home station of the aircraft.
Over Water Flight—Any flight that exceeds power off gliding distance from land.
Primary /Alternate Exit Point—The final way-point published in FLIP for the primary or
alternate exit route. For bomber IR, the final point on the climb-out track. For other routes, may
coincide with the final TA Termination Point.
Primary/Alternate TA Initiation Point (Initial/Start TA)—The way-point at which aircrew
are authorized to begin TA operations.
Primary/Alternate TA Termination Point (Final/End TA)—The point which denotes the end
of TA operations.
Primary Entry Control Point (PECP)—Referred to as the Entry Fix. The route point upon
which a control time for route entry is based.
Provisions—A statement on the front of the AF Form 8 indicating conditions for which the
evaluation may satisfy recurring evaluation requirements, usually used for no-notice or out-of-
the-eligibility-period evaluation. For example: ―Provision: Open and closed book exams due
NLT 30 Apr 97.‖
Reentry Track—A track, commencing at the end of a Maneuver Area, on which low altitude re-
entry to the route can be achieved to execute additional bomb/ECM/AGM runs.
Restriction—A statement on the front of the AF Form 8 that places limitations on the duties that
may be performed by an aircrew, usually as a result of a failed ground or flight phase event. For
example, ―Restriction: Examinee will not fly unless under the supervision of an instructor pilot,
Day Only, Conus Only‖.
Route Width (Route Perimeter)—The route boundary limits within which aircraft are
restricted to conduct operations.
Senior Flight Examiner—A commander authorized to conduct SPOT evaluations for
assigned/attached aircrews.
Significant Meteorological Information (SIGMET)—Area weather advisory issued by a
civilian ICAO meteorological office. These advisories are issued at very high frequency omni-
directional range (VOR) facilities and may also be available via local Weather Flight,
Operational Weather Squadron or Air Force Weather Agency web pages. SIGMET advisories
are issued for tornadoes, lines of thunderstorms, embedded thunderstorms, large hail, severe and
20                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


extreme turbulence, severe icing, volcanic ash, and widespread dust or sand storms. SIGMET
reports frequently covers a large geographical area and vertical thickness. They are prepared for
general aviation and may not consider aircraft type or capability.
Squadron Top 3—Squadron ADO, DO, CC.
Stabilization Point—Point on the DZ run-in course at which the lead aircraft should plan to be
stabilized at drop altitude and airspeed. This point will be planned to be at least 6 NM prior to the
point of impact.
Station Time—In air transport operations, the time at which crews, passengers, and cargo are to
be on board and ready for the flight.
Start Maneuver Area (SMA)—The point that defines the start of the bomb run area. Timing
control must be within applicable tolerances.
Suitable Airfield (C—130) Normally-suitable airfields are those which meet C-130 weather,
fuel, and runway requirements (chapter 6) are within 50 NM of flight plan course centerline.
Temporary— 2 (T-2) Modification-T-2 modifications are temporary modification required to
support research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E), in service testing of potential
replacement items (form, fit, and function), and for aircraft/stores compatibility testing.
Tactical Event (C—130)-Airdrop, low level, formation, and threat avoidance approaches/
departures.
TA Visual Conditions (B—52)-Weather conditions that permit aircraft operations clear of
clouds, provide the pilots visual contact with the ground, and three miles forward visibility.
Terminal Fuel Flow (TFF) (C—130)-The fuel flow rate expected during the last hour at cruise
altitude. It is the difference between the fuel required for en-route time plus one hour and fuel
required for en-route time. TFF may also be computed using the T.O. 1C-130X-1-1 fuel flow
table and the estimated aircraft weight at destination. Estimated gross weight is determined by
subtracting fuel burn off from takeoff gross weight.
Terrain Avoidance (TA) (B—52)-Method of maintaining ground clearance by Terrain Trace,
EVS, or Radarscope Interpretation as close the terrain as equipment, command directives, and
crew judgment allow.
Time Out—Common assertive statement used to voice crewmember concern when safety may
be jeopardized. The term is generally used as an internal CRM assertion within multi-place
aircraft.
Training Mission—Mission executed at the unit level for the sole purpose of aircrew training
for upgrade or proficiency. Does not include operational missions as defined in this AFI.
Unilateral—Operations confined to a single service.
Visual Contour Flight—Operation at a predetermined altitude above the ground, following
contours visually using the radar altimeter to crosscheck altitude. An operating radar altimeter is
required.
Visual Reconnaissance—Aerial survey of areas, routes, or LZs.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                     21


Zero Fuel Weight—Weight, expressed in pounds, of a loaded aircraft not including wing and
body tank fuel. All weight in excess of the maximum zero fuel weight will consist of usable fuel.
22                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


                                       ATTACHMENT 2
                              PILOT EVALUATION CRITERIA

A2.1. General Grading Standards.
     A2.1.1. The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into six sections: Ground Phase,
     General, Qualification, Instrument, Instructor, and Mission. These areas match the graded
     areas for pilots found in forms specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-202V2.
     A2.1.2. If published guidance is not sufficient or does not apply, with concurrence form
     AFMC/DOV, follow lead MAJCOM criteria.
A2.2. Area A: Ground Phase.
     A2.2.1. Area A-1: Publications.
        A2.2.1.1. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members.
        A2.2.1.2. Q. Assigned flight publications were current, complete, and usable for any of
        the unit’s tasking.
        A2.2.1.3. Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions, and/or errors;
        however, contained everything necessary to effectively accomplish the mission and did
        not compromise safety of flight.
        A2.2.1.4. U. Contained major deviations, omissions, and/or errors which compromise
        safety of flight
     A2.2.2. Area A-2: Emergency Procedures Evaluation.
        A2.2.2.1. Q. Displayed correct, immediate response to Bold Face and non-Bold Face
        emergency situations. Effectively used checklist.
        A2.2.2.2. Q-. Response to Bold Face emergencies 100% correct. Response to certain
        areas of non-Bold Face emergencies or follow-on steps to Bold Face procedures was
        slow/confused. Used the checklist when appropriate, but slow to locate required data.
        A2.2.2.3. U. Incorrect response for Bold Face emergency. Unable to analyze problems or
        take corrective action. Did not use checklist, or lacks acceptable familiarity with its
        arrangement or contents.
A2.3. Area B: General.
     A2.3.1. Area B-1: Safety (Critical).
        A2.3.1.1. Q. Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft
        operation and mission accomplishment.
        A2.3.1.2. U. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe
        operation or mission accomplishment. Did not adequately clear. Operated the aircraft in a
        dangerous manner.
     A2.3.2. Area B-2: Judgement (Critical).
        A2.3.2.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the
        flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      23


     A2.3.2.2. U. Decisions or lack thereof resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned
     mission. Demonstrated poor judgment to the extent that safety could have been
     compromised.
  A2.3.3. Area B-3: Flight Discipline (Critical).
     A2.3.3.1. Q. Demonstrated strict professional flight and crew discipline throughout all
     phases of the mission.
     A2.3.3.2. U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules or
     instructions.
  A2.3.4. Area B-4: Briefings.
     A2.3.4.1. Q. Presented briefing in a professional manner. Briefing was well organized
     and in a logical sequence. Established objectives for the mission. Effective use of training
     aids. Concluded briefing in time to allow for element/crew briefing (if applicable) and
     preflight of personal equipment, aircraft and ordnance. Flight members clearly
     understood mission requirements. Considered the abilities of all flight members. Briefed
     corrective action from previous mission and probable problem areas when appropriate.
     A2.3.4.2. Q-. Events out of sequence, hard to follow, some redundancy. Did not make
     effective use of available training aids. Dwelled on non-essential mission items. Limited
     discussion of techniques. Did not consider all flight members' abilities. Did not identify
     probable problem areas.
     A2.3.4.3. U. Confusing presentation. Did not allow time for element/crew briefing (if
     applicable) and preflight of personal equipment, aircraft and ordnance. Did not use
     training aids. Redundant throughout briefing. Lost interest of flight members.
     Presentation created doubts or confusion. Did not establish objectives for the mission.
     Omitted major training events or did not discuss techniques. Ignored flight members'
     abilities and past problem areas.
  A2.3.5. Area B-5: Personal Equipment.
     A2.3.5.1. Q. Thoroughly familiar with personal equipment requirements, usage, and
     preflight.
     A2.3.5.2. Q-. Possessed required personal equipment items and was familiar with most
     of the preflight and usage procedures.
     A2.3.5.3. U. Unfamiliar with required personal equipment preflight and usage.
  A2.3.6. Area B-6: Forms, Reports, Logs.
     A2.3.6.1. Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required forms without
     significant error.
     A2.3.6.2. Q-. Completed or supervised completion of all required forms with some errors
     or omissions that had to be corrected.
     A2.3.6.3. U. Forms were incomplete, improperly filled out. Data on forms inaccurate
     detracting from recording the mission data.
  A2.3.7. Area B-7: Flight Planning.
24                                                           AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A2.3.7.1. Q. Developed a sound plan to accomplish the mission. Checked all factors
        applicable to flight in accordance with applicable directives. Aware of alternatives
        available, if flight cannot be completed as planned. Read and initialed all items in the
        Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)/Read Files. Prepared at briefing time. Required
        flight publications are current.
        A2.3.7.2. Q-. Same as above, except minor error(s) or omission(s) that did not detract
        from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities
        or approved operating procedures/rules in some areas.
        A2.3.7.3. U. Made major error(s) or omission(s) that would have prevented a safe or
        effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating data or procedures. Did not
        review or initial Go/No-Go items. Not prepared at briefing time.
     A2.3.8. Area B-8: Use of Checklists.
        A2.3.8.1. Q. Used current checklist and accomplished all items in proper sequence with
        no deviations or omissions.
        A2.3.8.2. Q-. Only minor deviations from checklist procedures were noted.
        A2.3.8.3. U. Failed to use current checklist or deviated from checklist procedures
        resulting in the mission being compromised.
     A2.3.9. Area B-9: Crew Resource Management.
        A2.3.9.1. Q. Coordinated effectively with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions.
        A2.3.9.2. Q-. Coordinated satisfactorily with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Some instructions were not clear and concise.
        A2.3.9.3. U. Failed to coordinate with crewmembers/mission personnel. Did not give
        clear and concise instructions. Failed to utilize resources causing degradation of the
        mission or safety of flight.
     A2.3.10. Area B-10: Communication Procedures.
        A2.3.10.1. Q. Radio and intra-cockpit communications were concise, accurate and
        effectively used to direct maneuvers or describe the tactical situation.
        A2.3.10.2. Q-. Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not significantly
        detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission accomplishment.
        Extraneous comments presented minor distractions.
        A2.3.10.3. U. Radio communications were inadequate or excessive. Inaccurate or
        confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual support, situational awareness
        or mission accomplishment.
     A2.3.11. Area B-11: Knowledge of Directives.
        A2.3.11.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations and
        performance characteristics.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    25


      A2.3.11.2. Q-. Knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance
      characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Demonstrated deficiencies either
      in depth of knowledge or comprehension.
      A2.3.11.3. U. Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations or
      performance characteristics.
   A2.3.12. Area B-12: Fuel Conservation
      A2.3.12.1. Q. Possessed a high level of knowledge of all applicable aircraft publications
      and other governing directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel
      conservation. Successfully applied fuel conservation procedures during mission planning
      and through-out the mission execution.
      A2.3.12.2. Q-. Possessed some knowledge of applicable aircraft publications and other
      governing directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel conservation.
      Successfully applied some fuel conservation procedures, but failed to apply fuel
      conservation procedures during mission planning or during some phases of the mission.
      A2.3.12.3. U. Unaware of fuel conservation procedures. Failed to apply any fuel
      conservation procedures in any area of the mission.
A2.4. Area C: Qualification (Fixed Wing).
   A2.4.1. Area C-1: Performance Data.
      A2.4.1.1. Q. Accurately computed/reviewed all required takeoff and landing data.
      Ensured all flight members were prepared. Aware of abort considerations, runway
      condition, weather, impact of weather on mission accomplishment.
      A2.4.1.2. Q. Computed/reviewed required takeoff data with minor omissions or errors
      which did not detract from mission accomplishment or safety.
      A2.4.1.3. U. Major errors or omissions which compromise safety. Faulty or improper
      knowledge of performance data.
   A2.4.2. Area C-2: Preflight Inspection.
      A2.4.2.1. Q. Established and adhered to station, engine start, taxi and take-off times to
      assure thorough preflight, check of personal equipment, crew briefing, etc. Accurately
      determined readiness of aircraft for flight.
      A2.4.2.2. Q-. Minor procedural deviations which did not detract from the overall
      mission.
      A2.4.2.3. U. Major deviations in procedure which would preclude safe mission
      accomplishment. Failed to accurately determine readiness of aircraft for flight. Crew
      errors directly contributed to a late takeoff which degraded the mission or made it non-
      effective.
   A2.4.3. Area C-3: Engine Start.
      A2.4.3.1. Q. Accomplished engine start IAW flight manual procedures and checklists.
      Used correct hand signals.
26                                                           AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A2.4.3.2. Q-. Accomplished engine start with significant omissions or deviations from
        flight manual checklist procedures that did not affect safety.
        A2.4.3.3. U. Omitted required procedures. Deviations to flight manual which could
        potentially damage aircraft or mission equipment.
     A2.4.4. Area C-4: Taxi.
        A2.4.4.1. Q. Ensured adequate maneuvering space for aircraft. Satisfactorily used power,
        steering, rudder, or brakes. Taxi speed was adequate for existing conditions. Displayed
        satisfactory knowledge of marshaling signals.
        A2.4.4.2. Q-. Taxi speed was erratic. Taxi was safe but over-controlled and rough when
        turning or using brakes. Deviations or omissions from flight manual procedures that did
        not affect safety or mission accomplishment.
        A2.4.4.3. U. Taxi speed dangerous to aircraft control or systems. Overused brakes
        causing hot brakes or tire damage. Intervention required to prevent further damage to
        aircraft.
     A2.4.5. Area C-5: Takeoff.
        A2.4.5.1. Q. Maintained smooth aircraft control throughout takeoff. Performed takeoff
        IAW flight manual procedures and techniques.
        A2.4.5.2. Q-. Minor flight manual procedural or technique deviations. Control was rough
        or erratic.
        A2.4.5.3. U-. Takeoff potentially dangerous. Exceeded aircraft systems limitations.
        Raised gear too early/late. Failed to establish proper climb attitude. Over-controlled
        aircraft resulting in excessive deviations from intended flight path.
     A2.4.6. Area C-6: Climb Procedures.
        A2.4.6.1. Q. Climb was IAW the applicable flight manual.
        A2.4.6.2. Q-. Some under or over-control. Flight manual deviations significant but did
        not affect safety of flight or mission accomplishment.
        A2.4.6.3. U. Failed to comply with flight manual procedures. Major deviation affecting
        safety and mission accomplishment.
     A2.4.7. Area C-7: Traffic Pattern.
        A2.4.7.1. Q. Performed patterns/approaches IAW procedures and techniques outlined in
        the flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Aircraft control was
        smooth and positive. Accurately aligned with runway. Maintained proper/briefed
        airspeed/AOA. Airspeed -5/+10 knots.
        A2.4.7.2. Q-. Performed patterns/approaches with minor deviations to procedures and
        techniques outlined in the flight manual, operational procedures and local directives.
        Aircraft control was not consistently smooth, but safe. Alignment with runway varied.
        Slow to correct to proper/briefed airspeed/AOA/ Airspeed -5/+15 knots.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    27


     A2.4.7.3. U. Approaches not performed IAW procedures and techniques outlined in the
     flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Erratic aircraft control. Large
     deviations in runway alignment. Exceeded Q- parameters.
  A2.4.8. Area C-8: Full Flap/Partial Flap Landing (Fighter/Attack/Trainer, if applicable).
     A2.4.8.1. Applicable to normal VFR approaches. Where runway configuration, arresting
     cable placement or flight manual limitations require an adjustment to the desired
     touchdown point, a simulated runway threshold will be identified and the grading criteria
     applied accordingly. For instrument approaches, the examinee should utilize a normal
     glide slope from either the decision height or from a point where visual acquisition of the
     runway environment is made.
     A2.4.8.2. Q. Performed landings IAW procedures and techniques outlined in the flight
     manual, operational procedures and local directives. Touchdown Point: 150' to 1000'
     from the runway threshold (Fighters, Attack, Trainers).
     A2.4.8.3. Q-. Performed landings with minor deviations to procedures and techniques
     outlined in the flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Touchdown
     Point: 0' to 149' or 1001' to 1500' from the runway threshold.
     A2.4.8.4. U. Landing not performed IAW procedures and techniques outlined in the
     flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Touchdown Point exceeded Q-
     criteria.
  A2.4.9. Area C-8: Full Flap/Partial Flap Landing (Bomber/Tanker/Transport, if
  applicable).
     A2.4.9.1. Where runway configuration, arresting cable placement or flight manual
     limitations require an adjustment to the desired touchdown point, a simulated runway
     threshold will be identified and the grading criteria applied accordingly. Flight manual or
     other regulatory guidance that is more restrictive than the criteria detailed below should
     be used for touchdown point criteria.
     A2.4.9.2. Q. Performed landings IAW procedures and techniques outlined in the flight
     manual, operational procedures and local directives. Touchdown Point: Not more than
     3,000’ from the threshold or 1/3 of runway, whichever is less, and within stopping
     distance for runway available.
     A2.4.9.3. Q-. Performed landings with minor deviations to procedures and techniques
     outlined in the flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Touchdown
     Point: Outside of Q criteria but within stopping distance for runway available.
     A2.4.9.4. U. Landing not performed IAW procedures and techniques outlined in the
     flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Touchdown Point not within
     stopping distance for runway available.
  A2.4.10. Area C-9: No Flap Landing.
     A2.4.10.1. Q. Used sound judgment. Configured at the appropriate position/altitude.
     Flew final based on recommended procedures, airspeed/AOA and glide path. Smooth,
     positive control of aircraft. Set parameters for ejection if necessary. Touchdown point
     was IAW criteria detailed in paragraph A.2.4.8.
28                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A2.4.10.2. Q-. Safety not compromised. Configured at a position and altitude which
        allowed for a safe approach. Minor deviations from recommended procedures, airspeed/
        AOA and altitudes. Unnecessary maneuvering due to minor errors in planning or
        judgment. Touchdown point was IAW criteria detailed in paragraph A2.4.8
        A2.4.10.3. U. Major deviations from recommended procedures, airspeed/AOA and
        altitudes. Required excessive maneuvering due to inadequate planning or judgment. Did
        not set parameters for ejection if approach was unsuccessful. Touchdown point was IAW
        criteria detailed in paragraph A.1.4.8.
     A2.4.11. Area C-10: Engine Out Pattern/Landing/SFO: Includes simulated engine out
     varied flap settings, SFO, as appropriate. In addition to the criteria below, criteria from
     A2.4.10 also applies to this area if applicable. C-130 IP/EP Only: Grade simulated two-
     engine out approach, conditions/mission permitting.
        A2.4.11.1. Q. Complied with all flight manual and operational procedures. Maintained
        safe maneuvering airspeed/AOA. Flew approach compatible with the situation. Adjusted
        approach for type emergency simulated.
        A2.4.11.2. Q-. Minor procedural errors. Erratic airspeed/ AOA control. Errors did not
        detract from safe handling of the situation.
        A2.4.11.3. U. Did not comply with applicable procedures. Erratic airspeed/AOA control
        compounded problems associated with the emergency. Flew an approach which was
        incompatible with the simulated emergency. Did not adjust approach for simulated
        emergency.
     A2.4.12. Area C-11: Engine Out Go-Around (If applicable).
        A2.4.12.1. Q. Initiated and performed go-around promptly in accordance with flight
        manual and operational procedures and directives.
        A2.4.12.2. Q-. Slow to initiate go-around or procedural steps.
        A2.4.12.3. U. Did not self-initiate go-around when appropriate or directed. Techniques
        inappropriate or applied incorrect procedures.
     A2.4.13. Area C-12: Full Stop Landing.
        A2.4.13.1. Q. Landing accomplished IAW flight manual procedures. Aircraft control
        throughout the landing was smooth and positive using proper braking, steering, and flight
        control inputs.
        A2.4.13.2. Q-. Landing accomplished with significant deviations to established
        procedures but safety was not affected. Aircraft control to include braking, steering, and
        flight control inputs was erratic, but safe.
        A2.4.13.3. U. Airspeed, alignment, or sink rate limitations exceeded. Landing unsafe,
        inappropriate control inputs jeopardized safety.
     A2.4.14. Area C-13: After Landing.
        A2.4.14.1. Q. Appropriate after landing checks and aircraft taxi procedures were
        accomplished.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    29


       A2.4.14.2. Q-. Significant deviations or omissions from established procedures but
       safety and mission effectiveness were not affected.
       A2.4.14.3. U. Checks were not accomplished in timely manner. Errors of omission
       committed without correction.
   A2.4.15. Area C-14: Systems Knowledge.
       A2.4.15.1. Q. Thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance
       characteristics.
       A2.4.15.2. Q-. Knowledge of aircraft systems, limitation, and performance
       characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Deficiencies either in depth of
       knowledge or comprehension.
       A2.4.15.3. U. Unfamiliar with systems operation. Unable to recall details, ops limits, or
       operational processes.
   A2.4.16. Area C-15: National Airspace System (NAS) Rules and Procedures.
       A2.4.16.1. Q. Complied with NAS rules/requirements and airspeed restrictions or
       potential traffic conflicts within NAS. When descending VFR took appropriate
       precautions to avoid traffic conflicts.
       A2.4.16.2. Q-. Same as above but minor deviations detracted from safe accomplishment
       of the mission.
       A2.4.16.3. U. Unfamiliar with NAS rules and procedures. Unaware of potential traffic
       conflicts. Did not use appropriate risk mitigating tools such as flight following during
       VFR operations in high traffic areas.
A2.5. Section C: Qualification (Helicopter Pilot).
   A2.5.1. Area C-1: Performance Data.
       A2.5.1.1. Q. Accurately computed/reviewed all required takeoff and landing data.
       Ensured all flight members were prepared. Individual was aware of abort considerations,
       runway condition, weather, impact of weather on mission accomplishment.
       A2.5.1.2. Q-. Computed/reviewed required takeoff data with minor omissions or errors,
       which did not detract from mission accomplishment or safety.
       A2.5.1.3. U. Major errors or omissions which compromise safety. Individual
       demonstrated faulty or improper knowledge of performance data.
   A2.5.2. Area C-2: Preflight Inspection.
       A2.5.2.1. Q. Established and adhered to station, engine start, taxi and take-off times to
       assure thorough preflight, check of personal equipment, crew briefing, etc. Accurately
       determined readiness of aircraft for flight.
       A2.5.2.2. Q-. Minor procedural deviations, which did not detract from the overall
       mission.
       A2.5.2.3. U. Individual committed major deviations in procedure which would preclude
       safe mission accomplishment. Failed to accurately determine readiness of aircraft for
30                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        flight. Crew errors directly contributed to a late takeoff, which degraded the mission or
        made it non-effective.
     A2.5.3. Area C-3: Engine Start.
        A2.5.3.1. Q. Accomplished engine start IAW flight manual procedures and checklists.
        Used correct hand signals.
        A2.5.3.2. Q-. Accomplished engine start with significant omissions or deviations from
        flight manual checklist procedures that did not affect safety.
        A2.5.3.3. U. Omitted required procedures. Individual committed deviations to flight
        manual, which could potentially damage aircraft or mission equipment.
     A2.5.4. Area C-4: Taxi.
        A2.5.4.1. Q. Ensured adequate maneuvering space for aircraft. Satisfactorily used power,
        steering, rudder, or brakes. Taxi speed was adequate for existing conditions. Displayed
        satisfactory knowledge of marshaling signals.
        A2.5.4.2. Q-. Taxi speed was erratic. Taxi was safe but over-controlled and rough when
        turning or using brakes. Deviations or omissions from flight manual procedures that did
        not affect safety or mission accomplishment.
        A2.5.4.3. U. Taxi speed dangerous to aircraft control or systems. Overused brakes
        causing hot brakes or tire damage. Intervention required to prevent further damage to
        aircraft.
     A2.5.5. Area C-5: Takeoff.
        A2.5.5.1. Q. Maintained smooth aircraft control throughout takeoff. Performed takeoff
        IAW flight manual procedures and techniques.
        A2.5.5.2. Q-. Minor flight manual procedural or technique deviations. Control was rough
        or erratic.
        A2.5.5.3. U-. Individual performed a potentially dangerous takeoff. Exceeded aircraft
        systems limitations. Raised gear too early/late. Failed to establish proper climb attitude.
        Over-controlled aircraft resulting in excessive deviations from intended flight path.
     A2.5.6. Area C-6: Climb Procedures.
        A2.5.6.1. Q. Climb was IAW the applicable flight manual.
        A2.5.6.2. Q-. Some under or over-control. Flight manual deviations significant but did
        not affect safety of flight or mission accomplishment.
        A2.5.6.3. U. Failed to comply with flight manual procedures. Major deviation affecting
        safety and mission accomplishment.
     A2.5.7. Area C-7: Traffic Pattern.
        A2.5.7.1. Q. Performed patterns/approaches IAW procedures and techniques outlined in
        the flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Aircraft control was
        smooth and positive. Accurately aligned with runway. Maintained proper/briefed
        airspeed/AOA. Airspeed +/-10 knots. Altitude +/- 50 feet.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                31


     A2.5.7.2. Q-. Performed patterns/approaches with minor deviations to procedures and
     techniques outlined in the flight manual, operational procedures and local directives.
     Aircraft control was not consistently smooth, but safe. Alignment with runway varied.
     Slow to correct to proper/briefed airspeed/AOA. Airspeed +/-20 knots. Altitude +/- 100
     feet.
     A2.5.7.3. U. Approaches not performed IAW procedures and techniques outlined in the
     flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Erratic aircraft control.
     Individual committed large deviations in runway alignment. Exceeded Q- parameters.
  A2.5.8. Area C-8: Hovering Maneuvers.
     A2.5.8.1. Q. Examinee demonstrated precise, smooth control while following all
     procedures and directives. Accurately anticipates wind correction requirements and
     applies accordingly.
     A2.5.8.2. Q-. Hovering altitude, speed, and direction erratic. Was safe, but over-
     controlled and/or rough.
     A2.5.8.3. U. Unable to maintain altitude, speed, or direction. Control inputs
     inappropriate for wind conditions. Unsafe control inputs caused major deviations.
  A2.5.9. Area C-9: Autorotation – Straight-In.
     A2.5.9.1. Q. Smooth, positive control of airspeed and rotor RPM throughout the
     maneuver. Flare and recovery were precise, allowing for a smooth power-on recovery
     IAW flight manual procedure.
     A2.5.9.2. Q-. Minor deviation from flight manual procedures, but did not compromise
     safety of flight. Slow in recognizing and controlling airspeed, rotor RPM, and throttle
     inputs.
     A2.5.9.3. U. Major deviations from flight manual procedures. Rough, imprecise control
     caused unsafe airspeed, altitude, and rotor RPM deviations.
  A2.5.10. Area C-10: Autorotation – Turning.
     A2.5.10.1. Q. Smooth, positive control of airspeed and rotor RPM throughout the
     maneuver. Flare and recovery were precise, allowing for a smooth power-on recovery
     IAW flight manual procedure.
     A2.5.10.2. Q-. Minor deviation from flight manual procedures, but did not compromise
     safety of flight. Slow in recognizing and controlling airspeed, rotor RPM, and throttle
     inputs.
     A2.5.10.3. U. Major deviations from flight manual procedures. Rough, imprecise control
     caused unsafe airspeed, altitude, and rotor RPM deviations.
  A2.5.11. Area C-11: Approach/Landing.
     A2.5.11.1. Q. Approach flown IAW flight manual procedures. Aircraft control was
     positive, alignment with the intended touchdown area was maintained. Airspeed and
     altitude maintained +/- 10 KIAS, +/- 50 feet. Maintained 90 KIAS and 500 feet AGL on
     downwind, and 70 KIAS and 300 feet AGL on base leg. Conducted level turn to final.
     Cleared the aircraft.
32                                                            AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A2.5.11.2. Q-. Approach and/or aircraft control rough and erratic. Deviations to flight
        manual guidelines significant but did not affect safety or mission accomplishment.
        Airspeed and altitude maintained +/- 20 KIAS, +/- 100 feet.
        A2.5.11.3. U. Approaches procedurally unsafe. Major airspeed, heading, and altitude
        deviations resulting in failure to accomplish a safe landing. Did not clear the aircraft.
        Exceeded Q- criteria.
     A2.5.12. Area C-12: Remote Ops/Site Evaluation.
        A2.5.12.1. Q. Familiar with procedures and able to execute appropriate maneuvers IAW
        the flight manual. Examinee was thoroughly aware of power requirements and
        limitations. Effectively assessed landing risk. Evaluated and communicated landing area
        obstacles, size, and topography, winds and turbulence.
        A2.5.12.2. Q-. Missed minor factors pertinent to the approach. Evaluation not tailored to
        the situation or excessively detailed and time consuming. Confused or disorganized
        communication with crew.
        A2.5.12.3. U. Major deviations from Q criteria. Errors or omissions precluded safe and
        effective maneuvers/effectiveness. Failed to consider pertinent details. Examinee was
        unable to clearly communicate with crew.
     A2.5.13. Area C-13: After Landing.
        A2.5.13.1. Q. Appropriate after landing checks and aircraft taxi procedures were
        accomplished.
        A2.5.13.2. Q-. Significant deviations or omissions from established procedures but
        safety and mission effectiveness were not affected.
        A2.5.13.3. U. Checks were not accomplished in timely manner. Errors of omission
        committed without correction.
     A2.5.14. Area C-14: Systems Knowledge.
        A2.5.14.1. Q. Examinee possessed a thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations,
        and performance characteristics.
        A2.5.14.2. Q-. Examinee possessed knowledge of aircraft systems, limitation, and
        performance characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Deficiencies either
        in depth of knowledge or comprehension.
        A2.5.14.3. U. Examinee was unfamiliar with systems operation. Unable to recall details,
        ops limits, or operational processes.
     A2.5.15. Area C-15: Boldface Emergencies.
        A2.5.15.1. Q. Properly analyzed the situation without undue delay and demonstrated
        adequate knowledge of procedures to effectively handle the emergency. Boldface/Critical
        Action Procedures (CAPs) required by applicable flight manuals were accomplished
        without omission and in the proper sequence. Unnecessary procedures did not preclude
        satisfactory control of the emergency or further complicate the situation. Effective and
        timely use made of other crewmembers, the flight manual, and checklist. Positive control
        of the aircraft existed at all times.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                     33


      A2.5.15.2. U. Examinee committed incorrect response(s) to Boldface/CAPs. Unable to
      analyze problems or take corrective action. Did not use checklist, flight manual, or other
      crewmembers even though it was a procedural requirement. Did not maintain positive
      control of the aircraft at all times.
   A2.5.16. Area C-16: Non-Critical Emergencies.
      A2.5.16.1. Q. Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of non-critical emergency
      procedures. Properly analyzed the situation and demonstrated or explained the
      appropriate procedures as outlined in the flight manual. Examinee was thoroughly
      familiar with flight manual and checklist arrangement and contents.
      A2.5.16.2. Q-. Examinee response to presented situation was slow or confused. Slow to
      use checklist, flight manual, and other crewmembers when appropriate. Slow to locate
      required data in checklist or flight manual.
      A2.5.16.3. U. Unable to analyze the problem and formulate a solution. Examinee was
      unfamiliar with checklists and flight manual data. Failed to utilize crewmembers when
      appropriate.
   A2.5.17. Area C-17: NAS Rules and Procedures.
      A2.5.17.1. Q. Complied with NAS rules/requirements and airspeed restrictions or
      potential traffic conflicts within NAS. When descending VFR took appropriate
      precautions to avoid traffic conflicts.
      A2.5.17.2. Q-. Same as above but minor deviations detracted from safe accomplishment
      of the mission.
      A2.5.17.3. U. Unfamiliar with NAS rules and procedures. Unaware of potential traffic
      conflicts. Did not use appropriate risk mitigating tools such as flight following during
      VFR operations in high traffic areas.
A2.6. Section D: Instrument.
   A2.6.1. Area D-1: Instrument Takeoff.
      A2.6.1.1. Q. Maintained smooth aircraft control throughout takeoff. Performed takeoff
      IAW flight manual procedures and AFMAN 11-217.
      A2.6.1.2. Q-. Minor procedural deviations. Control was rough or erratic.
      A2.6.1.3. U-. Examinee executed a potentially dangerous takeoff. Exceeded aircraft
      systems limitations. Raised gear too early/late. Failed to establish proper climb attitude.
      Over controlled aircraft resulting in excessive deviations from intended flight path.
   A2.6.2. Area D-2: Instrument Departure.
      A2.6.2.1. Q. Performed departure as published/directed and complied with all
      restrictions.
      A2.6.2.2. Q-. Minor deviations in airspeed and navigation occurred during completion of
      departure.
      A2.6.2.3. U. Failed to comply with published/directed departure instructions.
   A2.6.3. Area D-3: Climb/Level off.
34                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A2.6.3.1. Q. Climb IAW flight manual. Accomplished required checks. Leveled off
        smoothly. Promptly established proper cruise airspeed.
        A2.6.3.2. Q-. Climb airspeed deviations. Level-off was erratic. Slow in establishing
        proper cruise airspeed.
        A2.6.3.3. U. Level-off was grossly erratic. Exceeded Q- limits. Excessive delay or failed
        to establish proper cruise airspeed. Failed to reset altimeter, as required.
     A2.6.4. Area D-4: Unusual Attitudes (May be evaluated during EPE).
        A2.6.4.1. Q. Smooth, positive recovery to level flight with correct recovery procedures.
        A2.6.4.2. Q-. Slow to analyze attitude, or erratic in recovery to level flight. Correct
        recovery procedures used.
        A2.6.4.3. U. Unable to determine attitude. Improper recovery procedures were used.
     A2.6.5. Area D-5: Holding.
        A2.6.5.1. Q. Examinee entered Holding and used procedures IAW applicable directives.
        Made appropriate wind drift and timing adjustments. Leg timing +/- 15 seconds, TACAN
        +/- 2 nm.
        A2.6.5.2. Q-. Examinee had difficulty in entering the holding pattern and/or establishing
        correct inbound leg time. Inadequate wind drift correction prevented expeditious inbound
        course interception; course intercepted prior to holding fix. Leg timing +/- 20 seconds,
        TACAN +/- 3 nm.
        A2.6.5.3. U. Unable to determine direction of turn or timing criteria. Disoriented; unable
        to intercept inbound course prior to holding fix. Exceeded Q- timing and TACAN
        criteria.
     A2.6.6. Area D-6: Descent/Arrival:
        A2.6.6.1. Q. Performed descent as directed, complied with all restrictions. Planned ahead
        for altitude restrictions.
        A2.6.6.2. Q-. Performed descent as directed with minor deviations. Difficulty achieving
        altitude restrictions. Slow to respond to controller instructions.
        A2.6.6.3. U. Examinee performed descent with major deviations. Ignored controller
        instructions. Violated altitude restrictions.
     A2.6.7. Area D-7: Instrument Traffic Pattern.
        A2.6.7.1. Q. Performed procedures as published or directed and IAW flight manual.
        Examinee executed smooth and timely response to controller instruction.
        A2.6.7.2. Q-. Examinee performed procedures with minor deviations. Slow to respond to
        controller instruction.
        A2.6.7.3. U. Examinee performed procedures with major deviations/ erratic corrections.
        Failed to comply with controller instruction.
     A2.6.8. Area D-8: Precision Approach (ILS/MLS)
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                        35


     A2.6.8.1. Q. Examinee performed procedures as published and IAW applicable flight
     manual. Smooth and timely corrections to azimuth and glide slope. Complied with
     decision height and position would have permitted a safe landing. Maintained
     proper/briefed AOA. Approach was within the following parameters:
         A2.6.8.1.1. Airspeed +10/-5 kts. (N/A Helicopters; use general airspeed criteria)
         A2.6.8.1.2. Glide Slope/Azimuth within one dot.
         A2.6.8.1.3. Initiated missed approach (if applicable) at decision height, +50/-0 ft.
     A2.6.8.2. Q-. Examinee performed procedures with minor deviations. Slow to make
     corrections or initiate procedures. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Slow to
     correct to proper/briefed AOA. Approach exceeded Q parameters but was within the
     following parameters:
         A2.6.8.2.1. Airspeed +15/-5 kts. (N/A Helicopters; use general airspeed criteria)
         A2.6.8.2.2. Glide Slope within one dot low/two dots high.
         A2.6.8.2.3. Azimuth within two dots.
         A2.6.8.2.4. Initiated missed approach (if applicable) at decision height, +100/-0 ft.
     A2.6.8.3. U. Examinee performed procedures with major deviations. Examinee made
     erratic corrections. Exceeded Q- limits. Did not comply with decision height or position
     at Decision Height (DH) would not have permitted a safe landing.
  A2.6.9. Area D-9: Precision Approach (PAR). NOTE: Both an ILS/MLS and PAR must
  be evaluated if facilities are available. If facilities are not available, the evaluation can be
  completed if one precision and one non-precision approach are evaluated.
     A2.6.9.1. Q. Examinee performed procedures as directed and IAW applicable flight
     manual. Examinee performed smooth and timely responses to controller instruction.
     Complied with decision height. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Maintained
     proper/briefed AOA. Maintained glide path with only minor deviations. Approach was
     flown within the following parameters:
         A2.6.9.1.1. Airspeed +10/-5 kts. (N/A Helicopters; use general airspeed criteria)
         A2.6.9.1.2. Heading within 5 degrees of controller instruction.
         A2.6.9.1.3. Initiated missed approach (if applicable) at decision height, +50/-0 ft.
     A2.6.9.2. Q-. Examinee performed procedures with minor deviations. Slow to respond to
     controller's instructions. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Slow to correct to
     proper/ briefed AOA. Improper glide path control. Approach was flown outside of Q
     standards but within the following parameters:
         A2.6.9.2.1. Airspeed N/A Helicopters; use general airspeed criteria
         A2.6.9.2.2. Heading within 10 degrees of controller instruction.
         A2.6.9.2.3. Initiated missed approach (if applicable) at decision height, +100/-0 ft.
     A2.6.9.3. U. Examinee performed procedures with major deviations. Examinee made
     erratic corrections. Did not respond to controller instruction. Exceeded Q- limits. Did not
36                                                            AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        comply with decision height and/or position would not have permitted a safe landing.
        Erratic glide path control.
     A2.6.10. Area D-10: Non-Precision Approach.
        A2.6.10.1. Q. Examinee adhered to all published/directed procedures and restrictions.
        Used appropriate descent rate to arrive at Minimum Descent Altitude (MDA) at or before
        Visual Descent Point (VDP)/ Missed Approach Point (MAP). Position would have
        permitted a safe landing. Maintained proper/briefed AOA. Approach was flown within
        the following parameters:
           A2.6.10.1.1. Airspeed +10/-5 kts. (N/A Helicopters; use general airspeed criteria)
           A2.6.10.1.2. Heading +5 degrees (ASR).
           A2.6.10.1.3. Course +5 degrees at MAP.
           A2.6.10.1.4. Localizer course guidance less than one dot deflection.
           A2.6.10.1.5. Minimum Descent Altitude +100/-0 feet.
        A2.6.10.2. Q-. Examinee performed approach with minor deviations. Arrived at MDA at
        or before the MAP, but past the VDP. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Slow
        to correct to proper/ briefed AOA. Approach was flown outside of Q parameters, but
        within the following parameters:
           A2.6.10.2.1. Airspeed +15/-5 kts. (N/A Helicopters; use general airspeed criteria)
           A2.6.10.2.2. Heading +10 degrees (ASR).
           A2.6.10.2.3. Course +10 degrees at MAP.
           A2.6.10.2.4. Localizer course guidance within two dots deflection.
           A2.6.10.2.5. Minimum Descent Altitude +150/-50 feet.
        A2.6.10.3. U. Examinee did not comply with published/directed procedures or
        restrictions. Exceeded Q- limits. Maintained steady-state flight below the MDA, even
        though the -50 foot limit was not exceeded. Could not land safely from the approach.
        NOTE: The -50 foot tolerance applies only to momentary excursions.
     A2.6.11. Area D-11: Circling
        A2.6.11.1. Q. Examinee executed circling approach as published/directed. Completed all
        procedures IAW applicable flight manual.
        A2.6.11.2. Q-. Examine executed circling approach with minor deviations. Slow to
        comply with published procedures, controller’s instructions or flight manual procedures.
        A2.6.11.3. U. Examinee executed circling approach with major deviations or did not
        comply with applicable directives.
     A2.6.12. Area D-12: Missed Approach/Climb Out.
        A2.6.12.1. Q. Examinee executed missed-approach/climb-out as published/directed.
        Completed all procedures IAW applicable flight manual.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                     37


      A2.6.12.2. Q-. Examinee executed missed approach/climb-out with minor deviations.
      Slow to comply with published procedures, controller's instructions or flight manual
      procedures.
      A2.6.12.3. U. Examinee executed missed-approach/climb-out with major deviations, or
      did not comply with applicable directives.
A2.7. Section E: Instructor.
   A2.7.1. Area E-1: Instructional Ability.
      A2.7.1.1. Q. Examinee demonstrated excellent instructor/evaluator ability. Clearly
      defined all mission requirements and any required additional training/corrective action.
      Instruction/evaluation was accurate, effective and timely. Was completely aware of
      aircraft/mission situation at all times.
      A2.7.1.2. Q-. Examinee had problems with communication or analysis which degraded
      effectiveness of instruction/evaluation.
      A2.7.1.3. U. Examinee demonstrated inadequate ability to instruct/evaluate. Unable to
      perform, teach or assess techniques, procedures, systems use or tactics. Did not remain
      aware of aircraft/mission situation at all times.
   A2.7.2. Area E-2: Briefing/Debriefing.
      A2.7.2.1. Q. Examinee conducted a well-organized briefing and debriefing which
      analyzed mission requirements, identified significant discrepancies and presented the
      correct procedure. Adequately briefed and instructed the student on specific mission
      requirements. Did not overwhelm the upgrading aircrew with a long and detailed
      discussion of minor discrepancies.
      A2.7.2.2. Q-. Examinee conducted an acceptable debriefing. Omitted some items that
      were important to completing the student’s mission. Analyzed most significant
      discrepancies and presented the correct procedures with minor deviations or omissions.
      A2.7.2.3. U. Examinee failed to instruct required mission items. Examinee was unable to
      analyze deviations and present corrections. Did not notice or debrief major deviations.
      Mission non-effective for planning and instruction reasons.
   A2.7.3. Area E-3: Demonstration and Performance. For instructor evaluations where the
   IP normally instructs from a chase aircraft, the examinee will fly a portion of the mission in
   the chase position.
      A2.7.3.1. Q. Examinee performed required maneuvers within prescribed parameters.
      Provided concise, meaningful in-flight commentary. Demonstrated excellent instructor
      proficiency.
      A2.7.3.2. Q-. Examinee performed required maneuvers with minor deviations from
      prescribed parameters. In-flight commentary was sometimes unclear.
      A2.7.3.3. U. Examinee was unable to properly perform required maneuvers. Made major
      procedural errors. Did not provide in-flight commentary. Demonstrated below-average
      instructor proficiency.
   A2.7.4. Area E-4: Conduct of the Mission.
38                                                               AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A2.7.4.1. Q. Examinee executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner.
        Conducted the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
        A2.7.4.2. Q-. Examinee made untimely or inappropriate decisions degraded or prevented
        accomplishment of a portion of the mission. Resources were not effectively used to the
        extent specific mission objectives were not achieved.
        A2.7.4.3. U. Examinee’s unacceptable or unsafe decisions compromised safety.
        Undisciplined actions violated training rules repeatedly.
     A2.7.5. Area E-5: Touch and Go Landings (Fixed Wing).
        A2.7.5.1. Q. Examinee demonstrated thorough knowledge of safety emergency
        contingencies during touch and go landings. Performed maneuver IAW established
        procedures accomplishing all checklist items in a timely manner.
        A2.7.5.2. Q-. Examinee made minor deviations or omissions from established
        procedures but safety and mission accomplishment not affected. Limited knowledge of
        safety/emergency contingencies during touch and go landings.
        A2.7.5.3. U. Examinee improperly configured the aircraft for landing or procedures
        compromised safety. Examinee was unprepared for contingencies.
A2.8. Section F: Mission.
     A2.8.1. Area F-1: Knowledge.
        A2.8.1.1. Q. Examinee was fully knowledgeable in mission requirements, test plan
        directives, aircraft limitations, and partial flight manual. Examinee effectively
        coordinated with other crew members and project personnel.
        A2.8.1.2. Q-. Examinee demonstrated a limited knowledge of mission requirements, test
        plan directives, aircraft limitations, or the partial flight manual which degraded a portion
        of the mission objective or CRM.
        A2.8.1.3. U. Examinee had inadequate knowledge of mission requirements, test plan
        directive, aircraft limitations, and partial flight manual. Did not effectively use resources.
        Directly affected successful mission accomplishment.
     A2.8.2. Area F-2: Planning.
        A2.8.2.1. Q. Examinee considered all factors necessary for mission accomplishment to
        include weather, mission profile, airspace utilization/restrictions, and proper
        documentation.
        A2.8.2.2. Q-. Examinee made limited consideration of all factors necessary for mission
        accomplishment. However, did not affect mission objective directly, but may have
        contributed toward lack of effective CRM.
        A2.8.2.3. U. Examinee did not consider all factors necessary for mission
        accomplishment. Lack of consideration contributed negatively towards successful
        mission completion.
     A2.8.3. Area F-3: Execution.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                               39


     A2.8.3.1. Q. Examinee accomplished major mission objectives in a timely and skillful
     manner.
     A2.8.3.2. Q-. Examinee committed errors or omission, which did not render mission
     ineffective, but indicated a definite need for additional training.
     A2.8.3.3. U. Examinee’s improper execution of duties negatively impacted mission
     accomplishment.
  A2.8.4. Area F-4: Security (Critical).
     A2.8.4.1. Q. Examinee maintained adequate security of mission information and material
     throughout preflight, flight, and post flight.
     A2.8.4.2. U. Examinee used inadequate security procedures, which would lead to the
     compromise of mission information and/or material.
40                                                               AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


                                        ATTACHMENT 3
              WSO/NAVIGATOR/OSO/EWO/DSO EVALUATION CRITERIA

A3.1. General Grading Standards.
     A3.1.1. The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into five sections: Ground Phase,
     General, Qualification, Instructor, and Mission. Use all sections for criteria applicable to the
     events performed on the evaluation. These areas match the graded areas for
     WSO/Navigator/OSO/EWO/DSOs found on forms specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI
     11-202V2
     A3.1.2. Evaluate events in Area C with respect to aircraft equipment and normal duties as it
     pertains to the applicable crew position.
A3.2. Section A: Ground Phase.
     A3.2.1. Area A-1: Publications.
        A3.2.1.1. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members.
        A3.2.1.2. Q. Assigned flight publications were current, complete, and usable for any of
        the unit’s tasking.
        A3.2.1.3. Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions, and/or errors;
        however, contained everything necessary to effectively accomplish the mission and did
        not compromise safety of flight.
        A3.2.1.4. U. Contained major deviations, omissions, and/or errors which compromise
        safety of flight.
     A3.2.2. Area A-2: Emergency Procedures Evaluation.
        A3.2.2.1. Q. Displayed correct, immediate response to Bold Face and non-Bold Face
        emergency situations. Effectively used checklist.
        A3.2.2.2. Q-. Response to Bold Face emergencies 100% correct. Response to certain
        areas of non-Bold Face emergencies or follow-on steps to Bold Face procedures was
        slow/confused. Used the checklist when appropriate, but slow to locate required data.
        A3.2.2.3. U. Incorrect response for Bold Face emergency. Unable to analyze problems or
        take corrective action. Did not use checklist, or lacks acceptable familiarity with its
        arrangement or contents.
A3.3. Section B: General.
     A3.3.1. Area B-1: Safety (Critical):
        A3.3.1.1. Q. Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft
        operation and mission accomplishment.A3.3.1.2. U. Was not aware of or did not comply
        with all safety factors required for safe operation or mission accomplishment. Did not
        adequately clear. Operated aircraft equipment in a dangerous manner.
     A3.3.2. Area B-2: Judgement (Critical):
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      41


     A3.3.2.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the
     flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
     A3.3.2.2. U. Decisions or lack thereof resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned
     mission. Demonstrated poor judgment to the extent that safety could have been
     compromised.
  A3.3.3. Area B-3: Flight Discipline (Critical).
     A3.3.3.1. Q. Demonstrated strict professional flight and crew discipline throughout all
     phases of the mission.
     A3.3.3.2. U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules or
     instructions.
  A3.3.4. Area B-4: Briefings.
     A3.3.4.1. Q. Well organized and presented in a logical sequence. Concluded briefing in
     time to allow for element/crew briefing (if applicable) and preflight of personal
     equipment, aircraft and ordnance. Presented briefing in a professional manner. Effective
     use of training/visual aids. Flight members clearly understood mission requirements.
     Established objectives for the mission. Presented all training events and effective
     technique discussion for accomplishing the mission. Considered the abilities of all flight
     members. Briefed corrective action from previous mission and probable problem areas
     when appropriate.
     A3.3.4.2. Q-. Events out of sequence, hard to follow, some redundancy. Did not make
     effective use of available training/visual aids. Dwelled on non-essential mission items.
     Omitted some minor training events. Limited discussion of techniques. Did not consider
     all flight members' abilities. Did not identify probable problem areas.
     A3.3.4.3. U. Confusing presentation. Did not allow time for element/crew briefing (if
     applicable) and preflight of personal equipment, aircraft and ordnance. Did not use
     training aids. Redundant throughout briefing. Lost interest of flight members.
     Presentation created doubts or confusion. Did not establish objectives for the mission.
     Omitted major training events or did not discuss techniques. Ignored flight members'
     abilities and past problem areas.
  A3.3.5. Area B-5: Personal Equipment.
     A3.3.5.1. Q. Thoroughly familiar with personal equipment requirements, usage, and
     preflight.
     A3.3.5.2. Q-. Possessed required personal equipment items and was familiar with most
     of the preflight and usage procedures.
     A3.3.5.3. U. Unfamiliar with required personal equipment preflight and usage.
  A3.3.6. Area B-6: Forms, Reports, Logs.
     A3.3.6.1. Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post flight
     forms and documentation without significant error.
     A3.3.6.2. Q-. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post
     flight forms and documentation with some errors or omissions that had to be corrected.
42                                                            AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A3.3.6.3. U. Forms were incomplete, improperly filled out. Data on forms inaccurate
        detracting from recording the mission data.
     A3.3.7. Area B-7: Flight Planning.
        A3.3.7.1. Q. Developed a sound plan to accomplish the mission. Checked all factors
        applicable to flight in accordance with applicable directives. Had thorough understanding
        of computerized mission planning software and was able to produce accurate, complete
        mission materials. Considered NAS rules and requirements such as VFR/IFR and
        IFR/VFR transition, airspeed restrictions and potential traffic conflicts. Developed
        contingencies to mitigate potential risks. Produced an effective alternate mission if
        available, when primary mission cannot be completed as planned. Read and initialed for
        all items in the Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)/Read Files. Prepared at briefing
        time.
        A3.3.7.2. Q-. Same as above, except minor error(s) or omission(s) that did not detract
        from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities
        or approved operating procedures/ rules in some areas.
        A3.3.7.3. U. Made major error(s) or omission(s) that would have prevented a safe or
        effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating data or procedures. Did not
        review or initial Go/No-Go items. Not prepared at briefing time.
     A3.3.8. Area B-8: Use of Checklists.
        A3.3.8.1. Q. Used current checklist and accomplished all items in proper sequence with
        no deviations or omissions.
        A3.3.8.2. Q-. Only minor deviations from checklist procedures were noted.
        A3.3.8.3. U. Failed to use current checklist or deviated from checklist procedures
        resulting in the mission being compromised.
     A3.3.9. Area B-9: Crew Resource Management.
        A3.3.9.1. Q. Coordinated effectively with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions.
        A3.3.9.2. Q-. Coordinated satisfactorily with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Some instructions were not clear and concise.
        A3.3.9.3. U. Failed to coordinate with crewmembers/mission personnel. Did not give
        clear and concise instructions. Failed to utilize resources causing degradation of the
        mission.
     A3.3.10. Area B-10: Communication Procedures.
        A3.3.10.1. Q. Radio and intra-cockpit communications were concise, accurate and
        effectively used to direct maneuvers or describe the tactical situation.
        A3.3.10.2. Q- Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not significantly
        detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission accomplishment.
        Extraneous comments over primary or secondary radios presented minor distractions.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    43


      A3.3.10.3. U. Radio communications over primary/secondary radios were inadequate or
      excessive. Inaccurate or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual
      support, situational awareness or mission accomplishment.
   A3.3.11. Area B-11: Knowledge of Directives.
      A3.3.11.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations and
      performance characteristics.
      A3.3.11.2. Q-. Knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance
      characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Demonstrated deficiencies either
      in depth of knowledge or comprehension.
      A3.3.11.3. U. Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations or
      performance characteristics.
   A3.3.12. Area B-12: Fuel Conservation
      A3.3.12.1. Q. Possessed a high level of knowledge of all applicable aircraft publications
      and other governing directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel
      conservation. Successfully applied fuel conservation procedures during mission planning
      and through-out the mission execution.
      A3.3.12.2. Q-. Possessed some knowledge of applicable aircraft publications and other
      governing directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel conservation.
      Successfully applied some fuel conservation procedures, but failed to apply fuel
      conservation procedures during mission planning or during some phases of the mission.
      A3.3.12.3. U. Unaware of fuel conservation procedures. Failed to apply any fuel
      conservation procedures in any area of the mission.
A3.4. Section C: Qualification.
   A3.4.1. Area C-1: Pre-takeoff, Departure, Level Off (WSO/NAV/OSO).
      A3.4.1.1. Q. Completed checklist items in accordance with applicable flight manual.
      Accurately copied clearance and understood ATC instructions. Ensured compliance with
      NAS rules and procedures. Monitored aircraft position throughout departure and
      provided headings and ETAs as required. Ensured safe terrain clearance. Accomplished
      calibration checks and position fixing/system updates as required for the mission or by
      the evaluator.
      A3.4.1.2. Q-. Same as above, except made minor error(s) or omissions(s) that did not
      detract from safety or mission accomplishment. Deficiencies indicated a definite need for
      study and/or additional training.
      A3.4.1.3. U. Major error(s) or omission(s) that would preclude safe/effective mission
      accomplishment.
   A3.4.2. Area C-1: Pretakeoff, Departure, and Level-Off. (EWO/DSO).
      A3.4.2.1. Q. Adhered to station, start, engine, taxi, and takeoff times to assure thorough
      preflight, check of personal equipment, crew briefing, etc. Performed all checks and
      procedures through level-off in accordance with approved checklists and applicable
      directives.
44                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A3.4.2.2. Q-. Same as above, except procedural deviations which did not detract from
        mission effectiveness but indicated a definite need for study and/or additional training.
        A3.4.2.3. U. Omitted major item(s) of the appropriate checklist. Major deviations in
        procedures which would preclude safe mission accomplishment. Errors directly
        contributed to mission degradation or made it ineffective.
     A3.4.3. Area C-2: Navigation (WSO).
        A3.4.3.1. Q. Demonstrated satisfactory capability to navigate using all available means.
        Used appropriate navigation procedures. Complied with clearance instructions. Aware of
        position at all times. Remained within the confines of assigned airspace. Notified pilot of
        airspeed restrictions or potential traffic conflicts within NAS.
        A3.4.3.2. Q-. Minor errors in procedures/use of navigation equipment. Some deviations
        in tuning, identifying, and monitoring NAVAIDs. Slow to comply with clearance
        instructions. Had some difficulty in establishing exact position and course.
        A3.4.3.3. U. Major errors in procedures/use of equipment. Could not establish position.
        Failed to recognize checkpoints or adjust for deviations in time and course. Did not
        remain within the confines of assigned airspace.
     A3.4.4. Area C-2: Navigation (NAV/OSO).
        A3.4.4.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual and governing directives were
        accomplished with no more than minor discrepancies that did not adversely affect the
        mission. Demonstrated satisfactory capability to navigate using DR procedures. At no
        time allowed the airplane to deviate more than 6 nautical miles from the
        planned/replanned course or to deviate outside ATC assigned/protective lateral airspace.
        ETAs (if applicable) were revised as necessary and were accurate within 3 minutes.
        Notified pilot of airspeed restrictions or potential traffic conflicts within NAS.
        A3.4.4.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual and governing directives were
        accomplished with deviations, omissions, or errors which indicated a definite need for
        study and/or additional training. Slow to recognize airplane course deviation, but at no
        time allowed the airplane to deviate more than 10 nautical miles from the
        planned/replanned course. ETAs were not accurate within 3 minutes when reporting
        procedures did not apply. Information obtained was not always accurate and complete,
        but was sufficient to allow reconstruction of the mission. Performance was the minimum
        acceptable.
        A3.4.4.3. U. Not up to standards of Qualified with Training. Allowed the airplane to
        deviate outside of the ATC assigned/perspective lateral airspace. ETAs were not accurate
        within 3 minutes when reporting procedures apply.
     A3.4.5. Area C-3: Instrument Interpretation (Navigator/OSO/WSO/DSO).
        A3.4.5.1. Q. Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of basic instrument procedures,
        penetration, and approach procedures. Can quickly analyze flight instruments, determine
        aircraft attitude, and is knowledgeable of required action to correct the aircraft to level
        flight. Effectively monitored energy levels to ensure parameters were not exceeded.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    45


     A3.4.5.2. Q-. Limited knowledge of instrument procedures. Slow to recognize aircraft
     attitudes and corrective actions required, but did determine proper corrections within a
     safe time period.
     A3.4.5.3. U. Faulty or insufficient knowledge of instrument procedures. Unable to
     properly interpret instruments or recognize aircraft attitude.
  A3.4.6. Area C-4: Fuel Management (WSO/NAV/OSO). (IF APPLICABLE).
     A3.4.6.1. Q. Fuel planning and enroute fuel management procedures required by the
     flight manual and governing directives were accomplished with no more than minor
     discrepancies that did not adversely affect the safety or effectiveness of the mission.
     A3.4.6.2. Q-. Knowledge of procedures required by the flight manual and governing
     directives was marginal. Deficiencies indicated a definite need for study and/or additional
     training.
     A3.4.6.3. U. Not up to standards of Qualified with Training.
  A3.4.7. Area C-5: Equipment Operation.
     A3.4.7.1. Q. Equipment was operated in accordance with prescribed procedures and with
     no more than minor deviations or omissions. Satisfactory results were obtained consistent
     with existing conditions. Equipment malfunctions were properly analyzed and corrected
     when possible for satisfactory equipment capability. Equipment crosschecks and data
     collection were effectively integrated with flight navigation.
     A3.4.7.2. Q-. Equipment was not operated in accordance with prescribed procedures, but
     the mission was not adversely affected and equipment could not have been damaged.
     Variations and omissions in prescribed procedures, erroneous data insertion, or faulty
     techniques indicated a definite need for study and/or additional training.
     A3.4.7.3. U. Unfamiliar with equipment operations, damaged or destroyed equipment.
     Mission accomplishment compromised.
  A3.4.8. Area C-6: Descent and Landing.
     A3.4.8.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklists, and governing
     directives were accomplished with no more than minor deviations, omissions, or errors
     that did not effect the mission. Monitored aircraft position throughout arrival and
     provided heading and altitude as required. Ensured safe terrain clearance. Understood
     approach control instructions. Appropriate FLIP publications were correctly used.
     A3.4.8.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist, and governing
     directives were accomplished with deviations, omissions, or errors which indicated a
     definite need for study and/or additional training. Performance or knowledge was the
     minimum acceptable.
     A3.4.8.3. U. Lack of knowledge and situational awareness caused major deviations to
     safety and mission accomplishment.
  A3.4.9. Area C-7: Post flight.
     A3.4.9.1. Q. Checklists, forms, and reports were accomplished with no more than minor
     deviations, omissions, or errors that did not adversely affect their intent.
46                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A3.4.9.2. Q-. Checklists, forms, and reports were accomplished in a manner that
        indicated a definite need for study and/or additional training. Performance or knowledge
        was the minimum acceptable.
        A3.4.9.3. U. Failed to accomplish post flight duties, forms were unacceptable, post flight
        reports improperly filled out.
A3.5. Area D: Instructor.
     A3.5.1. Area D-1: Instructional Ability.
        A3.5.1.1. Q. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate
        corrective guidance when necessary.
        A3.5.1.2. Q-. Instruction was essentially correct with some deviations or omissions.
        Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instructions.
        A3.5.1.3. U. Inability to effectively communicate with the upgradee. Did not provide
        corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate upgradee problems.
     A3.5.2. Area D-2: Briefing/Debriefing.
        A3.5.2.1. Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate and thorough. Reviewed student’s
        present level of training and defined mission events to be performed. Excellent ability
        during critique to reconstruct the flight, offer mission analysis, and provide corrective
        guidance where appropriate. Completed all training documents in accordance with
        prescribed directives. Training syllabi reflected actual performance of student relative to
        standard. Briefed the student’s requirements for the next mission.
        A3.5.2.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefing, critique, and/or training documents
        that did not affect students progress.
        A3.5.2.3. U. Briefings were marginal or non-existent. Did not review student’s training
        folder or past performance. Failed to adequately critique the student or provide complete
        mission analysis. Training syllabi grade did not reflect actual performance of student.
        Comments in training folder were incomplete. Strengths and weaknesses were not
        identified. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Incomplete briefing of student’s
        training requirements/objectives for mission.
     A3.5.3. Area D-3: Demonstration and Performance
        A3.5.3.1. Q. Effectively demonstrated procedures and techniques on the ground and in-
        flight. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, procedures, and all
        applicable publications and regulations.
        A3.5.3.2. Q-. Minor discrepancies in the above criteria that did not affect safety or
        adversely affect student performance.
        A3.5.3.3. U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Insufficient knowledge
        about aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper source material.
     A3.5.4. Area D-4: Conduct of the Mission
        A3.5.4.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the
        flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      47


      A3.5.4.2. Q-. Untimely or inappropriate decisions degraded or prevented
      accomplishment of a portion of the mission. Resources were not effectively used to the
      extent specific mission objectives were not achieved.
      A3.5.4.3. U. Mission execution prevented accomplishment of a major portion of the
      mission. Undisciplined actions violated training rules repeatedly.
A3.6. Area E: Mission.
   A3.6.1. Area E-1: Knowledge.
      A3.6.1.1. Q. Fully knowledgeable in mission requirements, test plan directives, aircraft
      limitations, and partial flight manual. Effectively coordinated with other crew members
      and project personnel.
      A3.6.1.2. Q-. Demonstrated a limited knowledge of mission requirements, test plan
      directives, aircraft limitations, or the partial flight manual which degraded a portion of
      the mission objective or CRM.
      A3.6.1.3. U. Inadequate knowledge of mission requirements, test plan directive, aircraft
      limitations, and partial flight manual. Did not effectively use resources. Directly affected
      successful mission accomplishment.
   A3.6.2. Area E-2: Planning.
      A3.6.2.1. Q. Considered all factors necessary for mission accomplishment to include
      weather, mission profile, airspace utilization/restrictions, and proper documentation.
      A3.6.2.2. Q-. Limited consideration of all factors necessary for mission accomplishment.
      However, did not affect mission objective directly, but may have contributed toward lack
      of effective CRM.
      A3.6.2.3. U. Did not consider all factors necessary for mission accomplishment. Lack of
      consideration contributed negatively towards successful mission completion.
   A3.6.3. Area E-3: Execution.
      A3.6.3.1. Q. Accomplished major mission objectives in a timely and skillful manner.
      A3.6.3.2. Q-. Errors or omission were made which did not render mission ineffective,
      but indicated a definite need for additional training.
      A3.6.3.3. U. Improper execution of duties negatively impacted mission accomplishment.
   A3.6.4. Area E-4: Security (Critical).
      A3.6.4.1. Q. Adequate security of mission information and material was maintained
      throughout preflight, flight, and post flight.
      A3.6.4.2. U. Inadequate security procedures were carried out which would lead to the
      compromise of mission information and/or material.
48                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


                                        ATTACHMENT 4
        CAREER ENLISTED AVIATOR (CEA) AIRCREW GRADING CRITERIA

A4.1. General Grading Standards. This chapter contains the criteria for administering initial
qualification, qualification, requalification, and instructor enlisted aircrew evaluations.
Evaluation criteria consists of four sections: Ground, General, Qualification, and Instructor.
     A4.1.1. The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into four sections: Ground Phase,
     General, Qualification, and Instructor. Use all sections for criteria applicable to the events
     performed on the evaluation. These areas match the graded areas for enlisted aircrew found
     on forms specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-202V2.
     A4.1.2. Grading criteria for every situation could not possibly be covered in this attachment.
     The evaluator’s experience and good judgment are relied upon to provide a sensible analysis
     of the applicable items evaluated. Where more restrictive flight manual procedures are
     established they will take precedence.
A4.2. Area A: Ground Phase.
     A4.2.1. Area A-1: Publications.
        A4.2.1.1. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members.
        A4.2.1.2. Q. Assigned flight publications were current, complete, and usable for any of
        the unit’s tasking.
        A4.2.1.3. Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions, and/or errors;
        however, contained everything necessary to effectively accomplish the mission and did
        not compromise safety of flight.
        A4.2.1.4. U. Contained major deviations, omissions, and/or errors which compromise
        safety of flight
     A4.2.2. Area A-2: Emergency Procedures Evaluation.
        A4.2.2.1. Q. Displayed correct, immediate response to Bold Face and non-Bold Face
        emergency situations. Effectively used checklist.
        A4.2.2.2. Q-. Response to Bold Face emergencies 100% correct. Response to certain
        areas of non-Bold Face emergencies or follow-on steps to Bold Face procedures was
        slow/confused. Used the checklist when appropriate, but slow to locate required data.
        A4.2.2.3. U. Incorrect response for Bold Face emergency. Unable to analyze problems or
        take corrective action. Did not use checklist, or lacks acceptable familiarity with its
        arrangement or contents.
A4.3. Area B: General.
     A4.3.1. Area B-1: Safety (Critical):
        A4.3.1.1. Q. Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft
        operation and mission accomplishment.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      49


     A4.3.1.2. U. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe
     operation or mission accomplishment. Did not adequately clear. Operated the aircraft in a
     dangerous manner.
  A4.3.2. Area B-2: Judgement (Critical):
     A4.3.2.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the
     flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
     A4.3.2.2. U. Decisions or lack thereof resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned
     mission. Demonstrated poor judgment to the extent that safety could have been
     compromised.
  A4.3.3. Area B-3: Flight Discipline (Critical).
     A4.3.3.1. Q. Demonstrated strict professional flight and crew discipline throughout all
     phases of the mission.
     A4.3.3.2. U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules or
     instructions.
  A4.3.4. Area B-4: Briefings.
     A4.3.4.1. Q. Presented briefing in a professional manner. Briefing was well organized
     and in a logical sequence. Effective use of training aids. Concluded briefing in allotted
     time. Flight members clearly understood briefing. Briefed corrective action from previous
     mission and probable problem areas when appropriate.
     A4.3.4.2. Q-. Events out of sequence, hard to follow, some redundancy. Did not make
     effective use of available training aids. Dwelled on non-essential items. Briefed longer
     than allotted time. Limited discussion of techniques. Did not identify probable problem
     areas.
     A4.3.4.3. U. Confusing presentation. Did not use training aids. Redundant throughout
     briefing. Lost interest of flight members. Presentation created doubts or confusion.
     Omitted major training events or did not discuss techniques. Ignored past problem areas.
  A4.3.5. Area B-5: Personal Equipment.
     A4.3.5.1. Q. Thoroughly familiar with personal equipment requirements, usage, and
     preflight.
     A4.3.5.2. Q-. Possessed required personal equipment items and was familiar with most
     of the preflight and usage procedures.
     A4.3.5.3. U. Unfamiliar with required personal equipment preflight and usage.
  A4.3.6. Area B-6: Forms, Reports, Logs (As Applicable).
     A4.3.6.1. Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post flight
     forms and documentation without significant error.
     A4.3.6.2. Q-. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post
     flight forms and documentation with some errors or omissions that had to be corrected.
     A4.3.6.3. U. Forms were incomplete, improperly filled out. Data on forms inaccurate
     detracting from recording the mission data.
50                                                            AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


     A4.3.7. Area B-7: Mission/Flight Planning.
        A4.3.7.1. Q. Checked all factors applicable to flight in accordance with applicable
        directives. Aware of mission and alternate mission requirements and planned
        accordingly. Read and initialed all items in the Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)/Read
        Files. Prepared at briefing time.
        A4.3.7.2. Q-. Same as above, except minor error(s) or omission(s) that did not detract
        from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities
        or approved operating procedures/ rules in some areas.
        A4.3.7.3. U. Made major error(s) or omission(s) that would have prevented a safe or
        effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating data or procedures. Did not
        review or initial FCIF items. Not prepared at briefing time.
     A4.3.8. Area B-8: Use of Checklists/Test Cards.
        A4.3.8.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with no omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission.
        A4.3.8.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
        acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
        A4.3.8.3. U. Procedures required by the flight manual checklist, and applicable
        directives were accomplished with major omissions or deviations, which detracted from
        the overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was
        unacceptable.
     A4.3.9. Area B-9: Crew Coordination.
        A4.3.9.1. Q. Coordinated effectively with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions.
        A4.3.9.2. Q-. Coordinated satisfactorily with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Some instructions were not clear and concise.
        A4.3.9.3. U. Failed to coordinate with crewmembers/mission personnel. Did not give
        clear and concise instructions. Failed to utilize resources causing degradation of the
        mission.
     A4.3.10. Area B-10: Communication Procedures.
        A4.3.10.1. Q. Radio and intra-cockpit communications were concise, accurate and
        effectively used to direct maneuvers or describe the tactical situation.
        A4.3.10.2. Q- Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not significantly
        detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission accomplishment.
        Extraneous comments over primary or secondary radios presented minor distractions.
        A4.3.10.3. U. Radio communications over primary/secondary radios were inadequate or
        excessive. Inaccurate or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual
        support, situational awareness or mission accomplishment.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    51


   A4.3.11. Area B-11: Knowledge of Directives/Mission Systems.
      A4.3.11.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations and
      performance characteristics.
      A4.3.11.2. Q-. Knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance
      characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Demonstrated deficiencies either
      in depth of knowledge or comprehension.
      A4.3.11.3. U. Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations or
      performance characteristics.
   A4.3.12. Area B-12: Fuel Conservation (Boom Operator, Flight Engineer, and
   Loadmaster)
      A4.3.12.1. Q. Possessed a high level of knowledge of all applicable aircraft publications
      and other governing directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel
      conservation. Successfully applied fuel conservation procedures during mission planning
      and through-out the mission execution.
      A4.3.12.2. Q-. Possessed some knowledge of applicable aircraft publications and other
      governing directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel conservation.
      Successfully applied some fuel conservation procedures, but failed to apply fuel
      conservation procedures during mission planning or during some phases of the mission.
      A4.3.12.3. U. Unaware of fuel conservation procedures. Failed to apply any fuel
      conservation procedures in any area of the mission.
A4.4. Area C: Qualification (Loadmaster).
   A4.4.1. Area C-1: Preflight.
   A4.4.2. Area C-2: Aircraft Configuration.
   A4.4.3. Area C-3: Load Planning/Inspection.
   A4.4.4. Area C-4: Hazardous Material.
   A4.4.5. Area C-5: Onload/Offload Procedures.
   A4.4.6. Area C-6: Winching Procedures.
   A4.4.7. Area C-7: Tiedown/Restraint.
   A4.4.8. Area C-8: Passenger Handling/Briefing.
   A4.4.9. Area C-9: Weight and Balance.
   A4.4.10. Area C-10: Anti-Hijacking.
   A4.4.11. Area C-11: Border Clearance.
   A4.4.12. Area C-12: Predeparture and In-flight Duties.
   A4.4.13. Area C-13: Scanner Duties.
   A4.4.14. Area C-14: Engine Running Onload/Offload.
52                                                           AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


     A4.4.15. The following criteria must be used in determining a grade for operation of
     applicable aircraft procedures (A4.4.1-A4.4.14) as prescribed in the flight manual,
     supplementary/partial manuals, and other governing directives.
        A4.4.15.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist, and applicable
        directives were accomplished without omissions or deviations which would detract from
        the overall efficient conduct of the mission.
        A4.4.15.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist, and applicable
        directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
        acceptable and indicated a need for additional training.
        A4.4.15.3. U. Procedures or checklist items required by the flight manual or applicable
        directives were accomplished with major omission, deviations, or errors. Performance or
        knowledge was unacceptable.
     A4.4.16. Area C-15: Post Mission Duties.
     A4.4.17. Area C-16: Oxygen.
     A4.4.18. Area C-17: Ramp and Door.
     A4.4.19. Area C-18: Restraint Rail/Roller Conveyor.
     A4.4.20. Area C-19: APU/External Power (If Applicable.)
     A4.4.21. Area C-20: Aircraft Loading Limitations.
     A4.4.22. Area C-21: Emergency Equipment.
     A4.4.23. The following criteria must be used in determining a grade for operation of
     applicable aircraft systems and equipment (A4.4.15-A4.4.21) as prescribed in the flight
     manual, supplementary/partial manuals, and other governing directives. This includes the
     individual’s knowledge and analysis of equipment malfunctions with proper corrective
     action.
        A4.4.23.1. Q. Demonstrated and/or verbally explained system equipment operation,
        component location, and limitations with only minor discrepancies which did not detract
        from mission effectiveness.
        A4.4.23.2. Q-. Demonstration and/or explanation of system/equipment adequate but
        indicated a definite need for additional study and training.
        A4.4.23.3. U. Knowledge of system/equipment was unacceptable.
A4.5. Area C: Qualification (Boom Operator).
     A4.5.1. Area C-1: Preflight.
        A4.5.1.1. Q. Examinee reported with a complete and current flight manual and all
        professional equipment. Complied with command and local directives. No deviations
        from flight manual were noted. Fully knowledgeable of aircraft weight and balance and
        pertinent aircraft forms. Accurately completed and recorded aircraft data.
        A4.5.1.2. Q-. Made errors when computing weight and balance. No errors great enough
        to preclude safe mission accomplishment.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                 53


     A4.5.1.3. U. Made significant errors in computing weight and balance. Not
     knowledgeable of aircraft forms and aircraft data.
  A4.5.2. Area C-2: Pretakeoff.
     A4.5.2.1. Q. Followed current flight manual procedures with no discrepancies or
     omissions.
     A4.5.2.2. Q-. Deviations from current flight manual procedures were noted.
     A4.5.2.3. U. Flight manual not used. Numerous errors jeopardizing safety observed.
  A4.5.3. Area C-3: Takeoff and Climb.
     A4.5.3.1. Q. Coordinated, smooth operation. Followed all procedures as outlined in the
     flight manual.
     A4.5.3.2. Q-. Moderate knowledge of all procedures. Deviations to flight manual
     procedures were observed.
     A4.5.3.3. U. Poor knowledge of procedures. Unaware of flight manual procedures.
  A4.5.4. Area C-4: Preparation for Contact.
     A4.5.4.1. Q. Followed flight manual procedures. Demonstrated complete knowledge of
     refueling system configuration. Completed all checklist items.
     A4.5.4.2. Q-. Followed established procedures with deviations which would not or did
     not affect the operation.
     A4.5.4.3. U. Failed to accomplish required procedures. Unaware or unable to prepare for
     contact.
  A4.5.5. Area C-5: Normal Refueling Procedures.
     A4.5.5.1. Q. Smooth, positive control of the boom. Adhered to flight manual procedures.
     Examinee was constantly aware of operating limitations.
     A4.5.5.2. Q-. Operation with deviations. Allowed receiver to approach the operating
     limit, but did not exceed the limit.
     A4.5.5.3. U. Unable to operate boom. Damaged receiver aircraft. Unable to deliver fuel
     to receivers due to operator error.
  A4.5.6. Area C-6: Post Refueling.
     A4.5.6.1. Q. Accomplished all checks according to flight manual procedures.
     A4.5.6.2. Q-. Accomplished checks with deviations from established procedures.
     A4.5.6.3. U. Failed to accomplish required checks. Omitted required procedures.
  A4.5.7. Area C-7: Descent and Landing.
     A4.5.7.1. Q. Coordinated, smooth operation. Followed all procedures as outlined in the
     flight manual.
     A4.5.7.2. Q-. Deviations of procedures prescribed in the flight manual were noted.
     Individual requires training to return to qualified standards.
54                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A4.5.7.3. U. Significant deviations from required procedures. Unaware of need to
        accomplish procedures.
     A4.5.8. Area C-8: Emergency Equipment.
        A4.5.8.1. Q. Demonstrated and/or verbally explained system equipment operation,
        component location, and limitations with only minor discrepancies which did not detract
        from mission effectiveness.
        A4.5.8.2. Q-. Demonstration and/or explanation of system/equipment adequate but
        indicated a definite need for additional study and training.
        A4.5.8.3. U. Knowledge of system/ equipment was unacceptable.
A4.6. Area C: Qualification (Flight Engineer).
     A4.6.1. Area C-1: Exterior inspection.
     A4.6.2. Area C-2: Interior inspection.
     A4.6.3. Area C-3: Weight and Balance
     A4.6.4. Area C-4: TOLD
     A4.6.5. Area C-5: Before start/starting engines checks.
     A4.6.6. Area C-6: Before taxi/taxi checks.
     A4.6.7. Area C-7: Engine run-up/before takeoff checks.
     A4.6.8. Area C-8: Lineup/takeoff.
     A4.6.9. Area C-9: After takeoff/climb.
     A4.6.10. Area C-10: Cruise.
     A4.6.11. Area C-11: Descent and Landing.
     A4.6.12. Area C-12: After Landing/Post flight.
     A4.6.13. The following criteria will be used to evaluate qualification procedures identified in
     paragraph A4.6.1 – A4.6.12
        A4.6.13.1. Q. Procedure required by the flight manual, checklist, and applicable
        directions were accomplished with no omissions or deviations which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission.
        A4.6.13.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklists, and applicable
        directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
        acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
        A4.6.13.3. U. Procedures or checklist items required by the flight manual or applicable
        directives were accomplished with major omissions, deviations, or errors. Performance or
        knowledge was unacceptable.
     A4.6.14. Area C-13: Engines/auxiliary power unit.
     A4.6.15. Area C-14: Fuel.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                  55


   A4.6.16. Area C-15: Electric.
   A4.6.17. Area C-16: Hydraulic.
   A4.6.18. Area C-17: Flight controls.
   A4.6.19. Area C-18: Air conditioning/pressurization.
   A4.6.20. Area C-19: Anti-ice/de-ice.
   A4.6.21. Area C-20: Windows/doors/hatches.
   A4.6.22. Area C-21: Radar.
   A4.6.23. Area C-22: Oxygen.
   A4.6.24. Area C-22: Fire protection/detection.
   A4.6.25. Area C-23: Radios/communications.
   A4.6.26. Area C-24: Instruments/lighting.
   A4.6.27. Area C-25: Miscellaneous equipment.
   A4.6.28. Area C-26: Emergency equipment.
   A4.6.29. The following criteria will be used to evaluate operation and knowledge of system
   equipment. This includes general knowledge of use, location, and required operational
   procedures identified in paragraphs A4.6.14 - A4.6.28
      A4.6.29.1. Q. Demonstrated and/or verbally explained system equipment operation,
      component location, and limitations with only minor discrepancies which did not detract
      from mission effectiveness.
      A4.6.29.2. Q-. Demonstration and/or explanation of system/equipment adequate but
      indicated a definite need for additional study and training.
      A4.6.29.3. U. Knowledge of system/ equipment was unacceptable.
A4.7. Area C: Qualification (Communication Systems Operator)
   A4.7.1. Area C-1: Emergency Equipment
      A4.7.1.1. Q. Demonstrated and/or verbally explained system equipment operation,
      component location, and limitations with only minor discrepancies, which did not detract
      from, mission effectiveness.
      A4.7.1.2. Q-. Demonstrated and/or explanation of system equipment adequate but
      indicated a definite need for additional study and training.
      A4.7.1.3. U. Knowledge of system/equipment unacceptable.
   A4.7.2. Area C-2: Emergency Communication
      A4.7.2.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist, and applicable
      directives were accomplished with no omissions or deviations which detracted from
      situation.
      A4.7.2.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklists and applicable
      directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations which detracted from the
56                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        overall efficient conduct of the situation. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
        acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
        A4.7.2.3. U. Procedures or checklist items required by the flight manual or applicable
        directives were accomplished with major omissions, deviations, or errors. Performance or
        knowledge was unacceptable.
     A4.7.3. Area C-3: Anti-Hijack/Aircraft Security (N/A E-3)
        A4.7.3.1. Q. Procedures required by the checklist, and/or applicable directives were
        demonstrated and/or verbally explained with no omissions or deviations which detracted
        from situation.
        A4.7.3.2. Q-. Procedures required by the checklists and/or applicable directives were
        accomplished with omissions or deviations which detracted from the overall efficient
        conduct of the situation. Performance or knowledge was the minimum acceptable and
        indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
        A4.7.3.3. U. Procedures or checklist items required by applicable directives were
        accomplished with major omissions, deviations, or errors. Performance or knowledge
        was unacceptable
     A4.7.4. Area C-4: Voice Communication Procedures
     A4.7.5. Area C-5: Data Communication Procedures
     A4.7.6. Area C-6: SATCOM Communication Procedures
     A4.7.7. The following criteria will be used to evaluate qualification procedures identified in
     paragraph A4.7.4-A4.7.6
        A4.7.7.1. Q. Established communications, and maintained and monitored
        communications with all appropriate agencies IAW procedures and directives with no
        deviations which detracted from mission effectiveness. Identified and troubleshot system
        problems IAW applicable procedures and directives no distraction to overall mission
        effectiveness.
        A4.7.7.2. Q-. Established communications, and maintained and monitored
        communications with all appropriate agencies IAW procedures and directives with
        omissions or deviations which detracted from mission effectiveness. Identified and
        troubleshot system problems IAW applicable procedures and directives with omissions or
        deviations which distracted from overall mission effectiveness.
        A4.7.7.3. U. Procedures required by applicable directives were accomplished with major
        omissions, deviations, or errors. Performance or knowledge was unacceptable.
     A4.7.8. Area C-7: (Critical) COMSEC Procedures
        A4.7.8.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of COMSEC requirements and
        procedures IAW applicable directives and procedures. Demonstrated responsible
        handling of classified information and/or equipment.
        A4.7.8.2. U. Procedures required by applicable directives were accomplished with major
        omissions, deviations, or errors. Performance or knowledge was unacceptable.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      57


   A4.7.9. Area C-8: ARC 210 UHF/VHF Radio Equipment (N/A E-3)
   A4.7.10. Area C-9: HF Radio Equipment (N/A E-3)
   A4.7.11. Area C-10: SATCOM Communication Equipment (N/A E-3)
   A4.7.12. Area C-11: Facsimile Equipment (N/A E-3)
   A4.7.13. Area C-12: KY-58 Communication Equipment (N/A E-3)
   A4.7.14. Area C-13: KITIC Equipment (N/A E-3)
   A4.7.15. Area C-14: STU-IIIR (N/A E-3)
   A4.7.16. Area C-15: GPS (N/A E-3)
   A4.7.17. The following criteria will be used to evaluate qualification procedures identified in
   paragraph A4.7.9-A4.7.16
      A4.7.17.1. Q. Demonstrated and/or verbally explained system equipment operation,
      component location, and limitations with only minor discrepancies which did not detract
      from mission effectiveness.
      A4.7.17.2. Q-. Demonstrated and/or explanation of system equipment adequate but
      indicated a definite need for additional study and training.
      A4.7.17.3. U. Knowledge of system/equipment unacceptable.
   A4.7.18. Area C-16: Post-flight Procedures
      A4.7.18.1. Q. Procedures required by the checklist, and/or applicable directives were
      demonstrated and/or verbally explained with no omissions or deviations which detracted
      from mission completion.
      A4.7.18.2. Q-. Procedures required by the checklists and/or applicable directives were
      accomplished with omissions or deviations which detracted from the overall efficient
      conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum acceptable and
      indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
      A4.7.18.3. U. Procedures or checklist items required by applicable directives were
      accomplished with major omissions, deviations, or errors. Performance or knowledge
      was unacceptable
A4.8. Area C: Qualification (Airborne Operations Technician/Air Battle Management
Specialist)
   A4.8.1. Area C-1: Preflight Inspection
   A4.8.2. Area C-2: Console Operations and Displays
   A4.8.3. Area C-3: Mission Execution
   A4.8.4. The following criteria will be used to evaluate qualification procedures identified in
   paragraph A4.8.1 – A4.8.3
      A4.8.4.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
      directives were accomplished with no omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
      overall efficient conduct of the mission.
58                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A4.8.4.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
        acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
        A4.8.4.3. U. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist, and applicable
        directives were accomplished with major omissions or deviations, which detracted from
        the overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was
        unacceptable.
A4.9. Area C: Qualification (Communications System Technician/Computer Display
Maintenance Technician)
     A4.9.1. Area C-1: Preflight Inspection
     A4.9.2. Area C-2: Console Operations and Displays
     A4.9.3. Area C-3: Malfunction Analysis/In-flight Repair
     A4.9.4. Area C-4: Communication Systems (N/A E-3)
     A4.9.5. Area C-6: Mission Execution
     A4.9.6. The following criteria will be used to evaluate qualification procedures identified in
     paragraph A4.9.1 – A4.9.5
     A4.9.7. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable directives were
     accomplished with no omissions or deviations, which detracted from the overall efficient
     conduct of the mission.
        A4.9.7.1. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
        acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
        A4.9.7.2. U. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with major omissions or deviations, which detracted from
        the overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was
        unacceptable.
     A4.9.8. Area C-8: (Critical) COMSEC Procedures (N/A E-3)
        A4.9.8.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of COMSEC requirements and
        procedures IAW applicable directives and procedures. Demonstrated responsible
        handling of classified information and/or equipment.
        A4.9.8.2. U. Procedures required by applicable directives were accomplished with major
        omissions, deviations, or errors. Performance or knowledge was unacceptable.
A4.10. Area C: Qualification (Airborne RadarTechnician) (E-8 Only)
     A4.10.1. Area C-1: Preflight Inspection
     A4.10.2. Area C-2: Console Operations and Displays
     A4.10.3. Area C-3: Malfunction Analysis /In-flight Repair
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      59


   A4.10.4. Area C-4: Mission Execution
   A4.10.5. The following criteria will be used to evaluate qualification procedures identified in
   paragraph A4.10.1 – A4.10.4
      A4.10.5.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
      directives were accomplished with no omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
      overall efficient conduct of the mission.
      A4.10.5.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
      directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
      overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
      acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
      A4.10.5.3. U. Procedures required by the flight manual checklist, and applicable
      directives were accomplished with major omissions or deviations, which detracted from
      the overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was
      unacceptable.
A4.11. Area C: Qualification (Airborne Maintenance Technician (AMT)/Scanner (EC-
130H only)
   A4.11.1. Area C-1. Anti-Hijack/Aircraft Security
      A4.11.1.1. Q. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate
      corrective guidance when necessary. Planned ahead and made timely decisions.
      A4.11.1.2. Q-. Instruction was essentially correct with some deviations or omissions.
      Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instruction.
      A4.11.1.3. U. Inability to effectively communicate with the student. Did not provide
      corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems.
   A4.11.2. Area C-2 Aircraft/Mission System Preflight
      A4.11.2.1. Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate, and thorough. Reviewed
      student’s present level of training and defined mission events to be performed. Excellent
      ability during critique to reconstruct the flight, and provide corrective guidance where
      appropriate. Completed all training documents in accordance with prescribed directives.
      Training syllabi grade reflected actual performance of student relative to standard.
      Briefed the student’s requirements for next mission.
      A4.11.2.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefings, critique, and/or training
      documents that did not affect student progress.
      A4.11.2.3. U. Briefings were marginal or nonexistent. Did not review student’s training
      folder or past performance. Failed to adequately critique student or provide complete
      mission analysis. Training syllabi grade did not reflect actual performance of student.
      Comments in training folder were incomplete. Strengths and weaknesses were not
      identified. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies.
   A4.11.3. Area C-3. Pre-Takeoff (Before Taxi-Lineup)
60                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A4.11.3.1. Q. Effectively demonstrated procedure and techniques on the ground and in-
        flight. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, procedures, and all
        applicable publications and regulations.
        A4.11.3.2. Q-. Minor discrepancies in the ―Q.‖ criteria that did not affect safety or
        adversely affect student progress.
        A4.11.3.3. U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Examinee
        demonstrated insufficient knowledge about aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper
        source material.
     A4.11.4. Area C-4. After Takeoff
     A4.11.5. Area C-5. Cruise/En-route
     A4.11.6. Area C-6. Console Operation and Displays
     A4.11.7. Area C-7. Mission Execution
     A4.11.8. Area C-8. Malfunction Analysis/In flight Repair
     A4.11.9. Area C-9. System Shutdown/Descent
     A4.11.10. Area C-10. Before Landing
     A4.11.11. Area C-11. After Landing/Engine Shutdown
     A4.11.12. Area C-12. Debriefing
     A4.11.13. Area C-13. COMSEC/Security Procedures (Critical)
     A4.11.14. Area C-14. Passenger Handling
     A4.11.15. Area C-15. Scanner Duties
     A4.11.16. The following criteria will be used to evaluate qualification procedures identified
     in paragraphs A4.11.1 – A4.6.15
        A4.11.16.1. Q. Procedure required by the flight manual, checklist, and applicable
        directions were accomplished with no omissions or deviations which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission.
        A4.11.16.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklists, and applicable
        directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
        acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
        A4.11.16.3. U. Procedures or checklist items required by the flight manual or applicable
        directives were accomplished with major omissions, deviations, or errors. Performance or
        knowledge was unacceptable.
     A4.11.17. Area C-16. Emergency Equipment
     A4.11.18. Area C-17. General Aircraft Systems (Non-PME)
     A4.11.19. Area C-18. Prime Mission Equipment (PME)
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                   61


   A4.11.20. The following criteria will be used to evaluate operation and knowledge of system
   equipment. This includes general knowledge of use, location, and required operational
   procedures identified in paragraphs A4.11.17 - A4.11.19
      A4.11.20.1. Q. Demonstrated and/or verbally explained system equipment operation,
      component location, and limitations with only minor discrepancies which did not detract
      from mission effectiveness.
      A4.11.20.2. Q-. Demonstration and/or explanation of system/equipment adequate but
      indicated a definite need for additional study and training.
      A4.11.20.3. U. Knowledge of system/ equipment was unacceptable.
A4.12. Area D: Instructor (All crew positions).
   A4.12.1. Area D-1: Instructional Ability.
      A4.12.1.1. Q. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate
      corrective guidance when necessary. Planned ahead and made timely decisions.
      A4.12.1.2. Q-. Instruction was essentially correct with some deviations or omissions.
      Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instruction.
      A4.12.1.3. U. Inability to effectively communicate with the student. Did not provide
      corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems.
   A4.12.2. Area D-2: Briefing/Debriefing.
      A4.12.2.1. Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate, and thorough. Reviewed
      student’s present level of training and defined mission events to be performed. Excellent
      ability during critique to reconstruct the flight, and provide corrective guidance where
      appropriate. Completed all training documents in accordance with prescribed directives.
      Training syllabi grade reflected actual performance of student relative to standard.
      Briefed the student’s requirements for next mission.
      A4.12.2.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefings, critique, and/or training
      documents that did not affect student progress.
      A4.12.2.3. U. Briefings were marginal or nonexistent. Did not review student’s training
      folder or past performance. Failed to adequately critique student or provide complete
      mission analysis. Training syllabi grade did not reflect actual performance of student.
      Comments in training folder were incomplete. Strengths and weaknesses were not
      identified. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies.
   A4.12.3. Area D-3: Demonstration and Performance.
      A4.12.3.1. Q. Effectively demonstrated procedure and techniques on the ground and in-
      flight. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, procedures, and all
      applicable publications and regulations.
      A4.12.3.2. Q-. Minor discrepancies in the ―Q.‖ criteria that did not affect safety or
      adversely affect student progress.
62                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A4.12.3.3. U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Examinee
        demonstrated insufficient knowledge about aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper
        source material.
     A4.12.4. Area E-3: Engine shutdown procedures.
        A4.12.4.1. Q. Accomplished engine shutdown IAW flight manual procedures and
        applicable checklists.
        A4.12.4.2. Q-. Accomplished engine shutdown with significant omissions or deviations
        from flight manual checklists procedures that did not affect safety.
        A4.12.4.3. U. Omitted required procedures. Deviations to flight manual which
        couldpotentially damage aircraft or mission equipment.
A4.13. Area E: Taxi (C-135 Speckled Trout Flight Engineer).
     A4.13.1. This portion of the flight engineer qualification evaluation will be administered by
     a current and qualified evaluator pilot. See AFI 11-202 Volume 2 for instructions to complete
     the AF Form 8 when multiple evaluators are used.
     A4.13.2. Area E-1: Engine start procedures
        A4.13.2.1. Q. Accomplished engine start IAW flight manual procedures and checklists.
        Used correct hand signals.
        A4.13.2.2. Q-, Accomplished engine start with omissions or deviations from flight
        manual checklists procedures that did not affect safety.
        A4.13.2.3. U. Omitted required procedures. Deviations to flight manual could potentially
        damage aircraft or mission equipment
     A4.13.3. Area E-2: Taxi procedures.
        A4.13.3.1. Q. Ensured adequate maneuvering space for aircraft. Taxi speed was adequate
        for existing conditions. Satisfactorily used brakes. Displayed satisfactory knowledge of
        marshaling signals.
        A4.13.3.2. Q-. Failed to advise pilot that taxi speed was erratic. Deviations or omissions
        from flight manual procedures but did not affect safety or mission accomplishment.
        A4.13.3.3. U. Failed to advise pilot that taxi speed was dangerous to aircraft control or
        systems.
     A4.13.4. Area E-3: Engine shutdown procedures.
        A4.13.4.1. Q. Accomplished engine shutdown IAW flight manual procedures and
        applicable checklists.
        A4.13.4.2. Q-. Accomplished engine shutdown with significant omissions or deviations
        from flight manual checklists procedures that did not affect safety.
        A4.13.4.3. U. Omitted required procedures. Deviations to flight manual which
        couldpotentially damage aircraft or mission equipment.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                       63


                                      ATTACHMENT 5
   UAS PERSONNEL EVALUATION CRITERIA PILOT (ALL), RQ-4 AND MQ1/9
                       SENSOR OPERATOR

A5.1. General Grading Standards (PILOT).
   A5.1.1. The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into five sections: Ground Phase,
   General, Qualification, Instructor, and Mission. Use all sections for criteria applicable to the
   events performed on the evaluation. These sections match the sections of the UAS Pilot flight
   evaluation worksheet specified in the AFMC Supplement to AFI 1120V2. NOTE: Deleted
   A5.1.2. Evaluate events in Section C with respect to aircraft equipment and normal duties as
   it pertains to the applicable crew position.
A5.2. Section A: Ground Phase.
   A5.2.1. Area A-1: Publications.
      A5.2.1.1. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members.
      A5.2.1.2. Q. Assigned flight publications were current, complete, and usable for any of
      the unit’s tasking.
      A5.2.1.3. Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions, and/or errors;
      however, contained everything necessary to effectively accomplish the mission and did
      not compromise safety of flight.
      A5.2.1.4. U. Contained major deviations, omissions, and/or errors which compromise
      safety of flight.
   A5.2.2. Area A-2: Emergency Procedures Evaluation.
      A5.2.2.1. Q. Displayed correct, immediate response to Boldface and non-Boldface
      emergency situations. Effectively used checklist.
      A5.2.2.2. Q-. Response to Boldface emergencies 100% correct. Response to certain areas
      of non-Boldface emergencies or follow-on steps to Boldface procedures was
      slow/confused. Used the checklist when appropriate, but slow to locate required data.
      A5.2.2.3. U. Incorrect response for Boldface emergency. Unable to analyze problems or
      take corrective action. Did not use checklist, or lacks acceptable familiarity with its
      arrangement or contents.
A5.3. Section B: General.
   A5.3.1. Area B-1: Safety (Critical).
      A5.3.1.1. Q. Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft
      operation and mission accomplishment.
      A5.3.1.2. U. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe
      operation or mission accomplishment. A. clear lack of judgment hampered or precluded
      mission accomplishment. Allowed a dangerous situation to develop without taking proper
      corrective action or notifying other crew members.
64                                                               AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


     A5.3.2. Area B-2: Judgement (Critical).
        A5.3.2.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the
        flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
        A5.3.2.2. U. Decisions or lack thereof resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned
        mission. Demonstrated poor judgment to the extent that safety could have been
        compromised.
     A5.3.3. Area B-3: Flight Discipline (Critical).
        A5.3.3.1. Q. Demonstrated strict professional flight and crew discipline throughout all
        phases of the mission.
        A5.3.3.2. U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules or
        instructions.
     A5.3.4. Area B-4: Briefings.
        A5.3.4.1. Q. Well organized and presented in a logical sequence. Concluded briefing in a
        timely manner for the circumstances given and the mission profile. Presented briefing in
        a professional manner. Effective use of training/visual aids. Flight members clearly
        understood mission requirements. Established objectives for the mission. Presented all
        training events and effective technique discussion for accomplishing the mission.
        Considered the abilities of all flight members. Briefed corrective action from previous
        mission and probable problem areas when appropriate.
        A5.3.4.2. Q-. Events out of sequence, hard to follow, some redundancy. Did not make
        effective use of available training/visual aids. Dwelled on non-essential mission items.
        Omitted some minor training events. Limited discussion of techniques. Did not consider
        all flight members' abilities. Did not identify probable problem areas.
        A5.3.4.3. U. Confusing presentation. Did not allow time for element/crew briefing (if
        applicable) and preflight of personal equipment, aircraft and ordnance. Did not use
        training aids. Redundant throughout briefing. Lost interest of flight members.
        Presentation created doubts or confusion. Did not establish objectives for the mission.
        Omitted major training events or did not discuss techniques. Ignored flight members'
        abilities and past problem areas.
     A5.3.5. Area B-5: Personal Equipment.
        A5.3.5.1. Q. Thoroughly familiar with personal equipment requirements, usage, and
        preflight.
        A5.3.5.2. Q-. Possessed required personal equipment items and was familiar with most
        of the preflight and usage procedures.
        A5.3.5.3. U. Unfamiliar with required personal equipment preflight and usage.
     A5.3.6. Area B-6: Forms, Reports, Logs.
        A5.3.6.1. Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post flight
        forms and documentation without significant error.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                     65


     A5.3.6.2. Q-. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post
     flight forms and documentation with some errors or omissions that had to be corrected.
     A5.3.6.3. U. Forms were incomplete, improperly filled out. Data on forms inaccurate
     detracting from recording the mission data.
  A5.3.7. Area B-7: Flight Planning (If applicable).
     A5.3.7.1. Q. Developed a sound plan to accomplish the mission. Checked all factors
     applicable to flight in accordance with applicable directives. Considered NAS rules and
     requirements such as VFR/IFR and IFR/VFR transition, airspeed restrictions and
     potential traffic conflicts. Developed contingencies to mitigate potential risks. Aware of
     alternatives available, if flight cannot be completed as planned. Read and initialed for all
     items in the Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)/Read Files. Prepared at briefing time.
     A5.3.7.2. Q-. Same as above, except minor error(s) or omission(s) that did not detract
     from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities
     or approved operating procedures/ rules in some areas.
     A5.3.7.3. U. Made major error(s) or omission(s) that would have prevented a safe or
     effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating data or procedures. Did not
     review or initial Go/No-Go items. Not prepared at briefing time.
  A5.3.8. Area B-8: Use of Checklists.
     A5.3.8.1. Q. Used current checklist and accomplished all items in proper sequence with
     no deviations or omissions.
     A5.3.8.2. Q-. Only minor deviations from checklist procedures were noted.
     A5.3.8.3. U. Failed to use current checklist or deviated from checklist procedures
     resulting in the mission being compromised.
  A5.3.9. Area B-9: Crew Resource Management.
     A5.3.9.1. Q. Coordinated effectively with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
     Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions.
     A5.3.9.2. Q-. Coordinated satisfactorily with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
     Some instructions were not clear and concise.
     A5.3.9.3. U. Failed to coordinate with crewmembers/mission personnel. Did not give
     clear and concise instructions. Failed to utilize resources causing degradation of the
     mission.
  A5.3.10. Area B-10: Communication Procedures.
     A5.3.10.1. Q. Radio and intra-cockpit communications were concise, accurate and
     effective.
     A5.3.10.2. Q- Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not significantly
     detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission accomplishment.
     A5.3.10.3. U. Radio communications over primary/secondary radios were inadequate or
     excessive. Inaccurate or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual
     support, situational awareness or mission accomplishment.
66                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


     A5.3.11. Area B-11: Knowledge of Directives.
        A5.3.11.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations and
        performance characteristics.
        A5.3.11.2. Q-. Knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance
        characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Demonstrated deficiencies either
        in depth of knowledge or comprehension.
        A5.3.11.3. U. Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations or
        performance characteristics.
     A5.3.12. Area B-12: Fuel Conservation
        A5.3.12.1. Q. Possessed a high level of knowledge of all applicable aircraft publications
        and other governing directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel
        conservation. Successfully applied fuel conservation procedures during mission planning
        and through-out the mission execution.
        A5.3.12.2. Q-. Possessed some knowledge of applicable aircraft publications and other
        governing directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel conservation.
        Successfully applied some fuel conservation procedures, but failed to apply fuel
        conservation procedures during mission planning or during some phases of the mission.
        A5.3.12.3. U. Unaware of fuel conservation procedures. Failed to apply any fuel
        conservation procedures in any area of the mission.
A5.4. Section C: Qualification (MQ-1/9 ―Predator‖ Pilot).
     A5.4.1. Area C-1: Performance Data.
        A5.4.1.1. Q. Accurately computed/reviewed all required takeoff and landing data. Aware
        of abort considerations and runway condition.
        A5.4.1.2. Q-. Computed/reviewed required takeoff data with minor omissions or errors
        which did not detract from mission accomplishment or safety.
        A5.4.1.3. U. Major errors or omissions which compromise safety. Faulty or improper
        knowledge of performance data.
     A5.4.2. Area C-2: Preflight Inspection.
        A5.4.2.1. Q. Accurately determined readiness of aircraft for flight. Used proper T.O.
        checklist to conduct preflight. Properly determined aircraft and GCS forms were in order
        and properly signed.
        A5.4.2.2. Q-. Minor procedural deviations which did not detract from the overall
        mission.
        A5.4.2.3. U. Major deviations in procedure which would preclude safe mission
        accomplishment. Failed to accurately determine readiness of aircraft for flight. Crew
        errors directly contributed to a late takeoff which degraded the mission or made it non-
        effective.
     A5.4.3. Area C-3: Engine Start.
        A5.4.3.1. Q. Accomplished engine start IAW flight manual procedures and checklists.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                     67


     A5.4.3.2. Q-. Accomplished engine start with significant omissions or deviations from
     flight manual checklist procedures that did not affect safety.
     A5.4.3.3. U. Omitted required procedures. Deviations to flight manual which could
     potentially damage aircraft or mission equipment.
  A5.4.4. Area C-4: Taxi.
     A5.4.4.1. Q. Ensured adequate maneuvering space for aircraft. Satisfactorily used power,
     steering, or brakes. Taxi speed was adequate for existing conditions. Displayed
     satisfactory knowledge of marshaling signals.
     A5.4.4.2. Q-. Taxi speed was erratic. Taxi was safe but over-controlled and rough when
     turning or using brakes. Deviations or omissions from flight manual procedures that did
     not affect safety or mission accomplishment.
     A5.4.4.3. U. Taxi speed dangerous to aircraft control or systems. Overused brakes
     causing hot brakes or tire damage. Intervention required to prevent further damage to
     aircraft.
  A5.4.5. Area C-5: Takeoff.
     A5.4.5.1. Q. Maintained smooth aircraft control throughout takeoff. Performed takeoff
     IAW flight manual procedures.
     A5.4.5.2. Q-. Minor flight manual procedural or technique deviations. Control was rough
     or erratic.
     A5.4.5.3. U-. Takeoff potentially dangerous. Exceeded aircraft systems limitations.
     Raised gear too early/late. Failed to establish proper climb attitude. Over-controlled
     aircraft resulting in excessive deviations from intended flight path.
  A5.4.6. Area C-6: Climb Procedures.
     A5.4.6.1. Q. Climb was IAW the applicable flight manual.
     A5.4.6.2. Q-. Some under or over-control. Flight manual deviations significant but did
     not affect safety of flight or mission accomplishment.
     A5.4.6.3. U. Failed to comply with flight manual procedures. Major deviation affecting
     safety and mission accomplishment.
  A5.4.7. Area C-7: Traffic Pattern.
     A5.4.7.1. Q. Performed patterns/approaches IAW procedures outlined in the flight
     manual, operational procedures and local directives. Aircraft control was smooth and
     positive. Accurately aligned with runway. Maintained proper/briefed airspeed/AOA.
     Airspeed -5/+10 knots.
     A5.4.7.2. Q-. Performed patterns/approaches with minor deviations to procedures
     outlined in the flight manual, operational procedures and local directives. Aircraft control
     was not consistently smooth, but safe. Alignment with runway varied. Slow to correct to
     proper/briefed airspeed/AOA/ Airspeed -5/+15 knots.
68                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A5.4.7.3. U. Approaches not performed IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual,
        operational procedures and local directives. Erratic aircraft control. Large deviations in
        runway alignment. Exceeded Q- parameters.
     A5.4.8. Area C-8--Go-Around:
        A5.4.8.1. Q. Initiated and performed go-around promptly IAW flight manual and
        operational procedures and directives.
        A5.4.8.2. Q-. Slow to initiate go-around or procedural steps.
        A5.4.8.3. U. Did not self-initiate go-around when appropriate. Techniques unsafe or
        applied incorrect procedures. Erratic aircraft control. Large deviations in runway
        alignment.
     A5.4.9. Area C-9--Engine-Out Traffic Pattern. Evaluate actions taken in response to
     actual or simulated emergencies that occur during the flight check (in-flight or on the ground)
     until the flight examiner declares the evaluation of the emergency procedure terminated.
        A5.4.9.1. Q. Performed emergency procedures IAW applicable directives. Used sound
        judgment. Configured at the appropriate position/altitude. Smooth positive control of
        aircraft. Able to prioritize actions to safely recover the aircraft. Maintained aircraft
        control within appropriate standards.
        A5.4.9.2. Q-. Performed emergency procedures with minor deviations, omissions, and/or
        errors from applicable directives. Configured at a position and altitude, which allowed for
        a safe approach. Minor deviations from procedures and altitudes/unnecessary
        maneuvering due to minor errors in planning or judgment; however, did not jeopardize
        the safe recovery of the aircraft.
        A5.4.9.3. U. Judgment unsafe. Did not comply with applicable procedures. Erratic
        airspeed control compounded problems associated with the emergency. Performed
        emergency procedures with major deviations, omissions, and/or errors from
        recommended procedures and altitudes. Required excessive maneuvering due to
        inadequate planning or judgment. Unable to safely recover the aircraft.
     A5.4.10. Area C-10 Landing: Applicable to normal VFR approaches.
        A5.4.10.1. Q. Performed landings IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual,
        operational procedures and local directives. Aircraft control was smooth and positive.
        Accurate runway alignment.
        A5.4.10.2. Q-. Performed landings IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual,
        operational procedures and local directives with minor deviations, omissions, and/or
        errors which did not jeopardize safety of flight. Aircraft control was rough; however,
        accomplished runway alignment.
        A5.4.10.3. U. Landing not performed IAW procedures outlined in the flight manual,
        operational procedures and local directives. Exceeded Q- criteria.
     A5.4.11. Area C-11: After Landing.
        A5.4.11.1. Q. Appropriate after landing checks and aircraft taxi procedures were
        accomplished.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                   69


      A5.4.11.2. Q-. Significant deviations or omissions from established procedures but
      safety and mission effectiveness were not affected.
      A5.4.11.3. U. Checks were not accomplished in timely manner. Errors of omission
      committed without correction.
   A5.4.12. Area C-12: Systems Knowledge.
      A5.4.12.1. Q. Thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance
      characteristics.
      A5.4.12.2. Q-. Knowledge of aircraft systems, limitation, and performance
      characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Deficiencies either in depth of
      knowledge or comprehension.
      A5.4.12.3. U. Unfamiliar with systems operation. Unable to recall details, ops limits, or
      operational processes.
   A5.4.13. Area C-13: NAS Rules and Procedures.
      A5.4.13.1. Q. Complied with NAS rules/requirements.
      A5.4.13.2. Q-. Same as above but minor deviations detracted from safe accomplishment
      of the mission.
      A5.4.13.3. U. Unfamiliar with NAS rules and procedures. Unaware of potential traffic
      conflicts.
A5.5. Section C: Qualification (RQ-4A ―Global Hawk‖ Pilot).
   A5.5.1. The Global Hawk qualification evaluation may be accomplished in the simulator.
   A5.5.2. Area C-1: Performance Data.
      A5.5.2.1. Q. Accurately computed/reviewed all required takeoff and landing data.
      Ensured all flight members were prepared. Aware of abort considerations, runway
      condition, weather, impact of weather on mission accomplishment.
      A5.5.2.2. Q-. Computed/reviewed required takeoff data with minor omissions or errors
      which did not detract from mission accomplishment or safety.
      A5.5.2.3. U. Major errors or omissions which compromise safety. Faulty or improper
      knowledge of performance data.
   A5.5.3. Area C-2: Preflight Inspection.
      A5.5.3.1. Q. Established and adhered to station, engine start, taxi and take-off times to
      assure thorough preflight, check of personal equipment, crew briefing, etc. Accurately
      determined readiness of aircraft for flight.
      A5.5.3.2. Q-. Minor procedural deviations which did not detract from the overall
      mission.
      A5.5.3.3. U. Major deviations in procedure which would preclude safe mission
      accomplishment. Failed to accurately determine readiness of aircraft for flight. Crew
      errors directly contributed to a late takeoff which degraded the mission or made it non-
      effective.
70                                                               AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


     A5.5.4. Area C-3: Engine Start.
        A5.5.4.1. Q. Accomplished engine start IAW flight manual procedures and checklists.
        A5.5.4.2. Q-. Accomplished engine start with significant omissions or deviations from
        flight manual checklist procedures that did not affect safety.
        A5.5.4.3. U. Omitted required procedures. Deviations to flight manual which could
        potentially damage aircraft or mission equipment.
     A5.5.5. Area C-4: Taxi (Critical).
        A5.5.5.1. Q. Coordinated all checks correctly in accordance with flight manual and local
        procedures. Operated aircraft safely. Performed takeoff IAW flight manual procedures
        and techniques.
        A5.5.5.2. U. Failed to coordinate with ground crew and safety observer prior to aircraft
        movement. Failed to adequately monitor taxi route operation. Intervention required to
        prevent damage to aircraft.
     A5.5.6. Area C-5: Takeoff (Critical).
        A5.5.6.1. Q. Complete all checks correctly in accordance with flight manual and local
        procedures. Operated aircraft safely. Performed takeoff in accordance with flight manual
        procedures and techniques.
        A5.5.6.2. U. Failed to coordinate with ground crew and safety observer prior to aircraft
        movement. Takeoff potentially dangerous. Exceeded aircraft systems limitations. Failed
        to adequately monitor takeoff operation.
     A5.5.7. Area C-6: Basic Control.
        A5.5.7.1. Q. Monitored basic aircraft control within specified tolerances dictated by the
        software and mission plan. Promptly reacted to flight deviations as a result of anomalies,
        contingency reaction triggered by software and aircraft conditions, manual initiated
        overrides, etc.
        A5.5.7.2. Q-. Minor procedural deviations, which did not detract from the overall
        mission.
        A5.5.7.3. U. Failed to anticipate vehicle actions dictated by the software and mission
        plan. Failed to monitor basic aircraft control. Failed to promptly react to flight deviations.
     A5.5.8. Area C-7: In-flight Planning.
        A5.5.8.1. Q. Effectively performed in-flight planning, including changing profile by
        adding or deleting route segments or collections. Effectively adapted to dynamic changes
        in mission plan. Demonstrated ability to adjust mission profile to comply with time/fuel
        limitations, weather, area limits, mission constraints and objectives.
        A5.5.8.2. Q-. In-flight planning included minor deviations, which did not compromise
        safety, or significantly detract from the mission.
        A5.5.8.3. U. Unable to replan in-flight, or adapt to changing mission requirements.
        Consistently behind the aircraft. Action or inaction compromised safety and successful
        mission accomplishment.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                 71


   A5.5.9. Area C-8: Override Commands
      A5.5.9.1. Q. Concise operation of override commands including Full Override, On-
      Track, GOTO and Suspend. Successfully recognized actual or potential conflicts, and
      adjusted aircraft performance to safely avoid these conflicts.
      A5.5.9.2. Q-. Operation of override commands included minor deviations which did not
      compromise safety or significantly detract from successful mission accomplishment.
      A5.5.9.3. U. Improper or inappropriate operation of override commands which
      compromised safety of significantly detracted from successful mission accomplishment.
   A5.5.10. Area C-9: Crosscheck.
      A5.5.10.1. Q. Performed proper crosscheck of aircraft instruments during all phases of
      flight. Maintained situational awareness as necessary to comply with ATC instructions
      and mission plan changes.
      A5.5.10.2. Q-. Minor deviations in crosscheck which did not compromise safety or
      significantly detract from successful mission accomplishment.
      A5.5.10.3. U. Improper or ineffective crosscheck. Unable to maintain situational
      awareness. Failed to recognize actual or potential conflicts or system faults.
   A5.5.11. Area C-10: Descent, Approach, and Landing.
      A5.5.11.1. Includes Suspend command holding, enroute descent and GPS aided
      approach.
      A5.5.11.2. Q. Preformed correct procedures and maintained pattern to comply with ATC
      instructions and procedures. Maintained basic control and position orientation within
      aircraft performance limitations. Complied with mission plan approach and flight manual
      standards. Appropriate after landing checks and aircraft taxi procedures were
      accomplished.
      A5.5.11.3. Q-. Landing accomplished with significant deviations to established
      procedures but safety was not affected.
      A5.5.11.4. U. Failed to monitor landing and ground operations. Incorrect or
      inappropriate procedures. Unable to maintain position orientation or ATC assigned
      airspace. Unsafe control inputs jeopardized safety.
   A5.5.12. Area C-12: NAS Rules and Procedures.
      A5.5.12.1. Q. Complied with NAS rules/requirements and airspeed restrictions or
      potential traffic conflicts within NAS. .
      A5.5.12.2. Q-. Same as above but minor deviations detracted from safe accomplishment
      of the mission.
      A5.5.12.3. U. Unfamiliar with NAS rules and procedures. Unaware of potential traffic
      conflicts. Did not use appropriate risk mitigating tools.
A5.6. Section D: Instrument.
   A5.6.1. Area D-1 – Instrument Patterns (Downwind/Base Leg).
72                                                           AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A5.6.1.1. Q. Performed procedures as published or directed and IAW flight manual.
        Smooth and timely response to controller instruction.
        A5.6.1.2. Q-. Performed procedures with minor deviations. Slow to respond to controller
        instruction
        A5.6.1.3. U. Performed procedures with major deviations/erratic corrections. Failed to
        comply with controller instruction.
     A5.6.2. Area D-2 – Precision Approach (PAR or GLS ).
        A5.6.2.1. Q. Performed procedures as directed and IAW applicable flight manual.
        Smooth and timely response to controller instruction. Complied with decision height.
        Position permitted a safe landing. Maintained proper/briefed airspeed. Maintained glide
        path with only minor deviations. Airspeed within +10/-5 KIAS. Heading within 5 degrees
        of controller instruction (PAR). Glide Slope/Azimuth within one dot (GLS).
        A5.6.2.2. Q-. Performed procedures with minor deviations. Slow to respond to
        controller's instructions. Position permitted a safe landing. Slow to correct to
        proper/briefed airspeed. Improper glide path control. Airspeed within +15/-7 KIAS.
        Heading within 10 degrees of controller instruction (PAR). Glide Slope within one dot
        low or two dots high/Azimuth within two dots (GLS). Initiated missed approach (if
        applicable) at decision height, +50/-25 ft.
        A5.6.2.3. U. Performed procedures with major deviations. Erratic corrections. Did not
        respond to controller instruction. Exceeded Q- limits. Did not comply with decision
        height and/or position did not permit a safe landing. Erratic glide path control.
     A5.6.3. Area D-3– Missed Approach/Climb Out.
        A5.6.3.1. Q. Executed missed approach/climb out as published/directed. Completed all
        procedures IAW applicable flight manual.
        A5.6.3.2. Q-. Executed missed approach/climb out with minor deviations. Slow to
        comply with published procedures, controller instructions or flight manual procedures.
        A5.6.3.3. U. Executed missed approach/climb out with major deviations, or did not
        comply with applicable directives
     A5.6.4. Area D-4 – Instrument Cross Check.
        A5.6.4.1. Q. Effective instrument cross-check. Smooth and positive aircraft control
        throughout flight.
        A5.6.4.2. Q-. Slow instrument cross-check. Aircraft control occasionally abrupt to
        compensate for recognition of errors.
        A5.6.4.3. U. Inadequate instrument cross-check. Erratic aircraft control. Exceeded Q-
        limits.
A5.7. Section E: Instructor.
     A5.7.1. Area E-1: Instructional Ability.
        A5.7.1.1. Q. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate
        corrective guidance when necessary.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      73


       A5.7.1.2. Q-. Instruction was essentially correct with some deviations or omissions.
       Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instructions.
       A5.7.1.3. U. Inability to effectively communicate with the student. Did not provide
       corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems.
   A5.7.2. Area E-2: Briefing/Debriefing.
       A5.7.2.1. Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate and thorough. Reviewed student’s
       present level of training and defined mission events to be performed. Excellent ability
       during critique to reconstruct the flight, offer mission analysis, and provide corrective
       guidance where appropriate. Completed all training documents in accordance with
       prescribed directives. Training syllabi reflected actual performance of student relative to
       standard. Briefed the student’s requirements for the next mission.
       A5.7.2.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefing, critique, and/or training documents
       that did not affect student progress.
       A5.7.2.3. U. Briefings were marginal or non-existent. Did not review student’s training
       folder or past performance. Failed to adequately critique student or provide complete
       mission analysis. Training syllabi grade did not reflect actual performance of student.
       Comments in training folder were incomplete. Strengths and weaknesses were not
       identified. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Incomplete briefing of student’s
       training requirements/objectives for mission.
   A5.7.3. Area E-3: Demonstration and Performance.
       A5.7.3.1. Q. Effectively demonstrated procedures and techniques on the ground and in-
       flight. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, procedures, and all
       applicable publications and regulations.
       A5.7.3.2. Q-. Minor discrepancies in the above criteria that did not affect safety or
       adversely affect student performance.
       A5.7.3.3. U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Insufficient knowledge
       about aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper source material.
   A5.7.4. Area E-4: Conduct of the Mission.
       A5.7.4.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the
       flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
       A5.7.4.2. Q-. Untimely or inappropriate decisions degraded or prevented
       accomplishment of a portion of the mission. Resources were not effectively used to the
       extent specific mission objectives were not achieved.
       A5.7.4.3. U. Mission execution prevented accomplishment of a major portion of the
       mission. Undisciplined actions violated training rules repeatedly.
A5.8. Section F: Mission (If applicable).
   A5.8.1. Area F-1: Knowledge.
74                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A5.8.1.1. Q. Fully knowledgeable in mission requirements, test plan directives, aircraft
        limitations, and partial flight manual. Effectively coordinated with other crew members
        and project personnel.
        A5.8.1.2. Q-. Demonstrated a limited knowledge of mission requirements, test plan
        directives, aircraft limitations, or the partial flight manual which degraded a portion of
        the mission objective or CRM.
        A5.8.1.3. U. Inadequate knowledge of mission requirements, test plan directive, aircraft
        limitations, and partial flight manual. Did not effectively use resources. Directly affected
        successful mission accomplishment.
     A5.8.2. Area F-2: Planning.
        A5.8.2.1. Q. Considered all factors necessary for mission accomplishment to include
        weather, mission profile, airspace utilization/restrictions, and proper documentation.
        A5.8.2.2. Q-. Limited consideration of all factors necessary for mission accomplishment.
        However, did not affect mission objective directly, but may have contributed toward lack
        of effective CRM.
        A5.8.2.3. U. Did not consider all factors necessary for mission accomplishment. Lack of
        consideration contributed negatively towards successful mission completion.
     A5.8.3. Area F-3: Execution.
        A5.8.3.1. Q. Accomplished major mission objectives in a timely and skillful manner.
        A5.8.3.2. Q-. Errors or omission were made which did not render mission ineffective,
        but indicated a definite need for additional training.
        A5.8.3.3. U. Improper execution of duties negatively impacted mission accomplishment.
     A5.8.4. Area F-4: Security (Critical).
        A5.8.4.1. Q. Adequate security of mission information and material was maintained
        throughout preflight, flight, and post flight.
        A5.8.4.2. U. Inadequate security procedures were carried out which would lead to the
        compromise of mission information and/or material.
A5.9. General Grading Standards (RQ-4 Sensor Operator)
     A5.9.1. The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into four sections: Ground Phase,
     General, Qualification, and Instructor. Use all sections for criteria applicable to the events
     performed on the evaluation. These areas match the graded areas for enlisted aircrew found
     on forms specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-202V2.
     A5.9.2. Grading criteria for every situation could not possibly be covered in this attachment.
     The evaluator’s experience and good judgment are relied upon to provide a sensible analysis
     of the applicable items evaluated. Where more restrictive flight manual procedures are
     established they will take precedence.
A5.10. Area A: Ground Phase.
     A5.10.1. Area A-1: Publications.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                     75


      A5.10.1.1. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members.
      A5.10.1.2. Q. Assigned flight publications were current, complete, and usable for any of
      the unit’s tasking.
      A5.10.1.3. Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions, and/or
      errors; however, contained everything necessary to effectively accomplish the mission
      and did not compromise safety of flight.
      A5.10.1.4. U. Contained major deviations, omissions, and/or errors which compromise
      safety of flight
   A5.10.2. Area A-2: Emergency Procedures Evaluation.
      A5.10.2.1. Q. Displayed correct, immediate response to Bold Face and non-Bold Face
      emergency situations. Effectively used checklist.
      A5.10.2.2. Q-. Response to Bold Face emergencies 100% correct. Response to certain
      areas of non-Bold Face emergencies or follow-on steps to Bold Face procedures was
      slow/confused. Used the checklist when appropriate, but slow to locate required data.
      A5.10.2.3. U. Incorrect response for Bold Face emergency. Unable to analyze problems
      or take corrective action. Did not use checklist, or lacks acceptable familiarity with its
      arrangement or contents.
A5.11. Area B: General.
   A5.11.1. Area B-1: Safety (Critical):
      A5.11.1.1. Q. Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft
      operation and mission accomplishment.
      A5.11.1.2. U. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for
      safe operation or mission accomplishment. Did not adequately clear. Operated the aircraft
      in a dangerous manner.
   A5.11.2. Area B-2: Judgement (Critical):
      A5.11.2.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted
      the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
      A5.11.2.2. U. Decisions or lack thereof resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned
      mission. Demonstrated poor judgment to the extent that safety could have been
      compromised.
   A5.11.3. Area B-3: Flight Discipline (Critical).
      A5.11.3.1. Q. Demonstrated strict professional flight and crew discipline throughout all
      phases of the mission.
      A5.11.3.2. U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules
      or instructions.
   A5.11.4. Area B-4: Briefings.
      A5.11.4.1. Q. Presented briefing in a professional manner. Briefing was well organized
      and in a logical sequence. Effective use of training aids. Concluded briefing in allotted
76                                                            AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        time. Flight members clearly understood briefing. Briefed corrective action from previous
        mission and probable problem areas when appropriate.
        A5.11.4.2. Q-. Events out of sequence, hard to follow, some redundancy. Did not make
        effective use of available training aids. Dwelled on non-essential items. Briefed longer
        than allotted time. Limited discussion of techniques. Did not identify probable problem
        areas.
        A5.11.4.3. U. Confusing presentation. Did not use training aids. Redundant throughout
        briefing. Lost interest of flight members. Presentation created doubts or confusion.
        Omitted major training events or did not discuss techniques. Ignored past problem areas.
     A5.11.5. Area B-5: Personal Equipment.
        A5.11.5.1. Q. Thoroughly familiar with personal equipment requirements, usage, and
        preflight.
        A5.11.5.2. Q-. Possessed required personal equipment items and was familiar with most
        of the preflight and usage procedures.
        A5.11.5.3. U. Unfamiliar with required personal equipment preflight and usage.
     A5.11.6. Area B-6: Forms, Reports, Logs (As Applicable).
        A5.11.6.1. Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post
        flight forms and documentation without significant error.
        A5.11.6.2. Q-. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post
        flight forms and documentation with some errors or omissions that had to be corrected.
        A5.11.6.3. U. Forms were incomplete, improperly filled out. Data on forms inaccurate
        detracting from recording the mission data.
     A5.11.7. Area B-7: Mission/Flight Planning.
        A5.11.7.1. Q. Checked all factors applicable to flight in accordance with applicable
        directives. Aware of mission and alternate mission requirements and planned
        accordingly. Read and initialed all items in the Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)/Read
        Files. Prepared at briefing time.
        A5.11.7.2. Q-. Same as above, except minor error(s) or omission(s) that did not detract
        from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities
        or approved operating procedures/ rules in some areas.
        A5.11.7.3. U. Made major error(s) or omission(s) that would have prevented a safe or
        effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating data or procedures. Did not
        review or initial FCIF items. Not prepared at briefing time.
     A5.11.8. Area B-8: Use of Checklists/Test Cards.
        A5.11.8.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with no omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission.
        A5.11.8.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    77


      overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
      acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
      A5.11.8.3. U. Procedures required by the flight manual checklist, and applicable
      directives were accomplished with major omissions or deviations, which detracted from
      the overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was
      unacceptable.
   A5.11.9. Area B-9: Crew Coordination.
      A5.11.9.1. Q. Coordinated effectively with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
      Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions.
      A5.11.9.2. Q-. Coordinated satisfactorily with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
      Some instructions were not clear and concise.
      A5.11.9.3. U. Failed to coordinate with crewmembers/mission personnel. Did not give
      clear and concise instructions. Failed to utilize resources causing degradation of the
      mission.
   A5.11.10. Area B-10: Communication Procedures.
      A5.11.10.1. Q. Radio and intra-cockpit communications were concise, accurate and
      effectively used to direct maneuvers or describe the tactical situation.
      A5.11.10.2. Q- Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not significantly
      detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission accomplishment.
      Extraneous comments over primary or secondary radios presented minor distractions.
      A5.11.10.3. U. Radio communications over primary/secondary radios were inadequate
      or excessive. Inaccurate or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual
      support, situational awareness or mission accomplishment.
   A5.11.11. Area B-11: Knowledge of Directives/Mission Systems.
      A5.11.11.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations and
      performance characteristics.
      A5.11.11.2. Q-. Knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance
      characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Demonstrated deficiencies either
      in depth of knowledge or comprehension.
      A5.11.11.3. U. Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations
      or performance characteristics.
A5.12. Area C Qualification
   A5.12.1. Area C-1 (SO) – Air Vehicle Launch (SO): Includes all activity from GCS
   configuration up to and including established climb configuration.
      A5.12.1.1. Q. Accomplished procedures and checklists required by the flight manual,
      governing directives and published unit procedures without omissions or errors. Copied
      the clearance, and if applicable, coordinated with the pilots on the procedures to be
      followed.
78                                                               AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A5.12.1.2. Q-. Deviations from published standards occurred, detracting from overall
        mission efficiency or deviations, omissions, or errors occurred which unnecessarily
        delayed takeoff without rendering the mission ineffective.
        A5.12.1.3. U. Not up to "Q-" standards. Errors or omissions could have jeopardized
        mission accomplishment or flight safety .
     A5.12.2. Area C-2 (SO)--Payload Operation. This area includes knowledge and function
     of the heads-up display, tracker display, and pedestal controls.
        A5.12.2.1. Q. Demonstrated satisfactory capability to collect imagery using all available
        sensors. Used appropriate focus, iris, and zoom settings. Satisfactory knowledge of menu
        buttons. Correctly prioritized multiple tasks. Able to identify target's position at all times
        A5.12.2.2. Q-. Minor errors in procedures/equipment use in collecting imagery. Slow to
        focus or zoom. Had some problems locating correct menu buttons. Did not consistently
        or correctly prioritize multiple tasks. Had some difficulty or could not determine exact
        position of targets.
        A5.12.2.3. U. Major errors in procedures/equipment use in collecting imagery. Could not
        locate target position. Could not focus. Inadvertently selected a critical menu button.
        Unable to correctly prioritize multiple tasks. Failed communicate or acknowledge
        workload and task distribution.
     A5.12.3. Area C-3 --Ku-Band Data Link Operation.
        A5.12.3.1. Q. Demonstrated satisfactory capability to configure and collect stationary
        and mobile targets using Ku mode. Followed approved checklist/procedures to configure
        payload rack for Ku operations. Aware of target's position at all times. Correctly
        prioritized multiple tasks.
        A5.12.3.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in using approved checklists/procedures to
        configure Pilot/ Sensor Operator (PSO) rack for Ku operations. Had some difficulty in
        establishing exact position of targets or tracking mobile targets. Did not consistently or
        correctly prioritize multiple tasks.
        A5.12.3.3. U. Major errors in procedures/equipment use in configuring and/or collecting
        targets. Failed to use approved checklist/procedures to configure payload rack for Ku
        operations. Could not establish target position, unable to maintain mobile target track.
        Could not focus. Selected a critical menu button. Unable to correctly prioritize multiple
        tasks. Failed communicate or acknowledge workload and task distribution.
     A5.12.4. Area C-4 – Air Vehicle Recovery (SO): This area includes all activity from start
     of the Descent through the Before Landing checklist. Sensor Operator must observe a full
     stop or touch and go landing or low approach from the right seat. Required for all initial
     QUAL evaluations, optional for periodic evaluations.
        A5.12.4.1. Q. Accomplished procedures and checklists required by the flight manual and
        governing directives accurately and effectively. Monitored aircraft position and approach
        instructions and notified pilots of deviation. Monitored Tracker display and ensured
        terrain clearance. Gathered and cross checked all available data in a timely manner, and
        appropriately identified contingencies and alternatives.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      79


      A5.12.4.2. Q-. Accomplished procedures and checklists required by the flight manual
      and governing directives with minor omissions, deviations or errors. Monitored aircraft
      position and approach instructions and notified pilots of deviations. Failed to monitor
      Tracker
      A5.12.4.3. U. Not up to "Q-" standards. Errors or omissions could have jeopardized
      mission accomplishment or flight safety. Made no effort to effort to gather and cross
      check available data before identifying any contingencies or alternatives.
A5.13. General Grading Standards (MQ-1/9 Sensor Operator).
   A5.13.1. The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into five sections: Ground Phase,
   General, Qualification, Instructor and Mission. Use all sections for criteria applicable to the
   events performed on the evaluation. These areas match the graded areas for enlisted aircrew
   found on forms specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-202V2.
   A5.13.2. Grading criteria for every situation could not possibly be covered in this
   attachment. The evaluator’s experience and good judgment are relied upon to provide a
   sensible analysis of the applicable items evaluated. Where more restrictive flight manual
   procedures are established they will take precedence.
A5.14. Area A: Ground Phase.
   A5.14.1. Area A-1: Publications.
      A5.14.1.1. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members.
      A5.14.1.2. Q. Assigned flight publications were current, complete, and usable for any of
      the unit’s tasking.
      A5.14.1.3. Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions, and/or
      errors; however, contained everything necessary to effectively accomplish the mission
      and did not compromise safety of flight.
      A5.14.1.4. U. Contained major deviations, omissions, and/or errors which compromise
      safety of flight
   A5.14.2. Area A-2: Emergency Procedures Evaluation.
      A5.14.2.1. Q. Displayed correct, immediate response to Bold Face and non-Bold Face
      emergency situations. Effectively used checklist.
      A5.14.2.2. Q-. Response to Bold Face emergencies 100% correct. Response to certain
      areas of non-Bold Face emergencies or follow-on steps to Bold Face procedures was
      slow/confused. Used the checklist when appropriate, but slow to locate required data.
      A5.14.2.3. U. Incorrect response for Bold Face emergency. Unable to analyze problems
      or take corrective action. Did not use checklist, or lacks acceptable familiarity with its
      arrangement or contents.
A5.15. Area B: General.
   A5.15.1. Area B-1: Safety (Critical):
      A5.15.1.1. Q. Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft
      operation and mission accomplishment.
80                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A5.15.1.2. U. Not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe
        aircraft operation or mission accomplishment. A clear lack of judgment hampered or
        precluded mission accomplishment. Allowed a dangerous situation to develop without
        taking proper corrective action or notifying other crew members.
     A5.15.2. Area B-2: Judgement (Critical):
        A5.15.2.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted
        the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
        A5.15.2.2. U. Decisions or lack thereof resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned
        mission. Demonstrated poor judgment to the extent that safety could have been
        compromised.
     A5.15.3. Area B-3: Flight Discipline (Critical).
        A5.15.3.1. Q. Demonstrated strict professional flight and crew discipline throughout all
        phases of the mission.
        A5.15.3.2. U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules
        or instructions.
     A5.15.4. Area B-4: Briefings.
        A5.15.4.1. Q. Presented briefing in a professional manner. Briefing was well organized
        and in a logical sequence. Effective use of training aids. Concluded briefing in allotted
        time. Flight members clearly understood briefing. Briefed corrective action from previous
        mission and probable problem areas when appropriate.
        A5.15.4.2. Q-. Events out of sequence, hard to follow, some redundancy. Did not make
        effective use of available training aids. Dwelled on non-essential items. Briefed longer
        than allotted time. Limited discussion of techniques. Did not identify probable problem
        areas.
        A5.15.4.3. U. Confusing presentation. Did not use training aids. Redundant throughout
        briefing. Lost interest of flight members. Presentation created doubts or confusion.
        Omitted major training events or did not discuss techniques. Ignored past problem areas.
     A5.15.5. Area B-5: Personal Equipment.
        A5.15.5.1. Q. Thoroughly familiar with personal equipment requirements, usage, and
        preflight.
        A5.15.5.2. Q-. Possessed required personal equipment items and was familiar with most
        of the preflight and usage procedures.
        A5.15.5.3. U. Unfamiliar with required personal equipment preflight and usage.
     A5.15.6. Area B-6: Forms, Reports, Logs (As Applicable).
        A5.15.6.1. Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post
        flight forms and documentation without significant error.
        A5.15.6.2. Q-. Completed or supervised completion of all required preflight and post
        flight forms and documentation with some errors or omissions that had to be corrected.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                  81


     A5.15.6.3. U. Forms were incomplete, improperly filled out. Data on forms inaccurate
     detracting from recording the mission data.
  A5.15.7. Area B-7: Mission/Flight Planning.
     A5.15.7.1. Q. Checked all factors applicable to flight in accordance with applicable
     directives. Aware of mission and alternate mission requirements and planned
     accordingly. Read and initialed all items in the Flight Crew Information File (FCIF)/Read
     Files. Prepared at briefing time.
     A5.15.7.2. Q-. Same as above, except minor error(s) or omission(s) that did not detract
     from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of performance capabilities
     or approved operating procedures/ rules in some areas.
     A5.15.7.3. U. Made major error(s) or omission(s) that would have prevented a safe or
     effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating data or procedures. Did not
     review or initial FCIF items. Not prepared at briefing time.
  A5.15.8. Area B-8: Use of Checklists/Test Cards.
     A5.15.8.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
     directives were accomplished with no omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
     overall efficient conduct of the mission.
     A5.15.8.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
     directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
     overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
     acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
     A5.15.8.3. U. Procedures required by the flight manual checklist, and applicable
     directives were accomplished with major omissions or deviations, which detracted from
     the overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was
     unacceptable.
  A5.15.9. Area B-9: Crew Coordination.
     A5.15.9.1. Q. Coordinated effectively with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
     Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions.
     A5.15.9.2. Q-. Coordinated satisfactorily with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
     Some instructions were not clear and concise.
     A5.15.9.3. U. Failed to coordinate with crewmembers/mission personnel. Did not give
     clear and concise instructions. Failed to utilize resources causing degradation of the
     mission.
  A5.15.10. Area B-10: Communication Procedures.
     A5.15.10.1. Q. Radio and intra-cockpit communications were concise, accurate and
     effectively used to direct maneuvers or describe the tactical situation.
     A5.15.10.2. Q- Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not significantly
     detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission accomplishment.
     Extraneous comments over primary or secondary radios presented minor distractions.
82                                                               AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A5.15.10.3. U. Radio communications over primary/secondary radios were inadequate
        or excessive. Inaccurate or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual
        support, situational awareness or mission accomplishment.
     A5.15.11. Area B-11: Knowledge of Directives/Mission Systems.
        A5.15.11.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations and
        performance characteristics.
        A5.15.11.2. Q-. Knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations, and performance
        characteristics sufficient to perform the mission safely. Demonstrated deficiencies either
        in depth of knowledge or comprehension.
        A5.15.11.3. U. Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft systems, limitations
        or performance characteristics.
A5.16. Area C Qualification.
     A5.16.1. Area C-1 (SO) – Air Vehicle Launch (SO): Includes all activity from GCS
     configuration up to and including established climb configuration.
        A5.16.1.1. Q. Accomplished procedures and checklists required by the flight manual,
        governing directives and published unit procedures without omissions or errors. Copied
        the clearance, and if applicable, coordinated with the pilots on the procedures to be
        followed.
        A5.16.1.2. Q-. Deviations from published standards occurred, detracting from overall
        mission efficiency or deviations, omissions, or errors occurred which unnecessarily
        delayed takeoff without rendering the mission ineffective.
        A5.16.1.3. U. Not up to "Q-" standards. Errors or omissions could have jeopardized
        mission accomplishment or flight safety .
     A5.16.2. Area C-2 (SO)--Payload Operation. This area includes knowledge and function
     of the heads-up display, tracker display, and pedestal controls.
        A5.16.2.1. Q. Demonstrated satisfactory capability to collect imagery using all available
        sensors. Used appropriate focus, iris, and zoom settings. Satisfactory knowledge of menu
        buttons. Correctly prioritized multiple tasks. Able to identify target's position at all times
        A5.16.2.2. Q-. Minor errors in procedures/equipment use in collecting imagery. Slow to
        focus or zoom. Had some problems locating correct menu buttons. Did not consistently
        or correctly prioritize multiple tasks. Had some difficulty or could not determine exact
        position of targets.
        A5.16.2.3. U. Major errors in procedures/equipment use in collecting imagery. Could not
        locate target position. Could not focus. Inadvertently selected a critical menu button.
        Unable to correctly prioritize multiple tasks. Failed communicate or acknowledge
        workload and task distribution.
     A5.16.3. Area C-3 --Ku-Band Data Link Operation.
        A5.16.3.1. Q. Demonstrated satisfactory capability to configure and collect stationary
        and mobile targets using Ku mode. Followed approved checklist/procedures to configure
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    83


      payload rack for Ku operations. Aware of target's position at all times. Correctly
      prioritized multiple tasks.
      A5.16.3.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in using approved checklists/procedures to
      configure Pilot/ Sensor Operator (PSO) rack for Ku operations. Had some difficulty in
      establishing exact position of targets or tracking mobile targets. Did not consistently or
      correctly prioritize multiple tasks.
      A5.16.3.3. U. Major errors in procedures/equipment use in configuring and/or collecting
      targets. Failed to use approved checklist/procedures to configure payload rack for Ku
      operations. Could not establish target position, unable to maintain mobile target track.
      Could not focus. Selected a critical menu button. Unable to correctly prioritize multiple
      tasks. Failed communicate or acknowledge workload and task distribution.
   A5.16.4. Area C-4 – Air Vehicle Recovery (SO): This area includes all activity from start
   of the Descent through the Before Landing checklist. Sensor Operator must observe a full
   stop or touch and go landing or low approach from the right seat. Required for all initial
   QUAL evaluations, optional for periodic evaluations.
      A5.16.4.1. Q. Accomplished procedures and checklists required by the flight manual and
      governing directives accurately and effectively. Monitored aircraft position and approach
      instructions and notified pilots of deviation. Monitored Tracker display and ensured
      terrain clearance. Gathered and cross checked all available data in a timely manner, and
      appropriately identified contingencies and alternatives.
      A5.16.4.2. Q-. Accomplished procedures and checklists required by the flight manual
      and governing directives with minor omissions, deviations or errors. Monitored aircraft
      position and approach instructions and notified pilots of deviations. Failed to monitor
      Tracker
      A5.16.4.3. U. Not up to "Q-" standards. Errors or omissions could have jeopardized
      mission accomplishment or flight safety. Made no effort to effort to gather and cross
      check available data before identifying any contingencies or alternatives.
A5.17. Section D: Instructor.
   A5.17.1. Area D-1: Instructional Ability.
      A5.17.1.1. Q. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate
      corrective guidance when necessary.
      A5.17.1.2. Q-. Instruction was essentially correct with some deviations or omissions.
      Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instructions.
      A5.17.1.3. U. Inability to effectively communicate with the student. Did not provide
      corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems.
   A5.17.2. Area D-2: Briefing/Debriefing.
      A5.17.2.1. Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate and thorough. Reviewed student's
      present level of training and defined mission events to be performed. Excellent ability
      during critique to reconstruct the flight, offer mission analysis, and provide corrective
      guidance where appropriate. Completed all training documents in accordance with
84                                                              AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        prescribed directives. Training syllabi reflected actual performance of student relative to
        standard. Briefed the student's requirements for the next mission.
        A5.17.2.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefing, critique, and/or training documents
        that did not affect student progress.
        A5.17.2.3. U. Briefings were marginal or non-existent. Did not review student's training
        folder or past performance. Failed to adequately critique student or provide complete
        mission analysis. Training syllabi grade did not reflect actual performance of student.
        Comments in training folder were incomplete. Strengths and weaknesses were not
        identified. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Incomplete briefing of student's
        training requirements/objectives for mission.
     A5.17.3. Area D-3: Demonstration and Performance.
        A5.17.3.1. Q. Effectively demonstrated procedures and techniques on the ground and in-
        flight. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of aircraft systems, procedures, and all
        applicable publications and regulations.
        A5.17.3.2. Q-. Minor discrepancies in the above criteria that did not affect safety or
        adversely affect student performance.
        A5.17.3.3. U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Insufficient
        knowledge about aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper source material.
     A5.17.4. Area D-4: Conduct of the Mission.
        A5.17.4.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted
        the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
        A5.17.4.2. Q-. Untimely or inappropriate decisions degraded or prevented
        accomplishment of a portion of the mission. Resources were not effectively used to the
        extent specific mission objectives were not achieved.
        A5.17.4.3. U. Mission execution prevented accomplishment of a major portion of the
        mission. Undisciplined actions violated training rules repeatedly.
A5.18. Section E: Mission (If Applicable).
     A5.18.1. Area E-1: Knowledge.
        A5.18.1.1. Q. Fully knowledgeable in mission requirements, test plan directives, aircraft
        limitations, and partial flight manual. Effectively coordinated with other crew members
        and project personnel.
        A5.18.1.2. Q-. Demonstrated a limited knowledge of mission requirements, test plan
        directives, aircraft limitations, or the partial flight manual which degraded a portion of
        the mission objective or CRM.
        A5.18.1.3. U. Inadequate knowledge of mission requirements, test plan directive, aircraft
        limitations, and partial flight manual. Did not effectively use resources. Directly affected
        successful mission accomplishment.
     A5.18.2. Area E-2: Planning.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                   85


     A5.18.2.1. Q. Considered all factors necessary for mission accomplishment to include
     weather, mission profile, airspace utilization/restrictions, and proper documentation.
     A5.18.2.2. Q-. Limited consideration of all factors necessary for mission
     accomplishment. However, did not affect mission objective directly, but may have
     contributed toward lack of effective CRM.
     A5.18.2.3. U. Did not consider all factors necessary for mission accomplishment. Lack
     of consideration contributed negatively towards successful mission completion.
  A5.18.3. Area E-3: Execution.
     A5.18.3.1. Q. Accomplished major mission objectives in a timely and skillful manner.
     A5.18.3.2. Q-. Errors or omission were made which did not render mission ineffective,
     but indicated a definite need for additional training.
     A5.18.3.3. U. Improper       execution   of   duties   negatively   impacted   mission
     accomplishment.
  A5.18.4. Area E-4: Security (Critical).
     A5.18.4.1. Q. Adequate security of mission information and material was maintained
     throughout preflight, flight, and post flight.
     A5.18.4.2. U. Inadequate security procedures were carried out which would lead to the
     compromise of mission information and/or material.
86                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


                                       ATTACHMENT 6
 AIR BATTLE MANAGER/MISSION CREW COMMANDER/AIR SURVEILLANCE
  OFFICER/SENIOR DIRECTOR (ABM/MCC/ASO/SD) EVALUATION CRITERIA

A6.1. General Grading Standards.
     A6.1.1. The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into four sections: Ground Phase,
     General, Qualification and Instructor. Use all sections for criteria applicable to the events
     performed on the evaluation. These areas match the graded areas for ABMs found on forms
     specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-202V2.
A6.2. Area A: Ground Phase.
     A6.2.1. Area A-1: Publications.
        A6.2.1.1. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members.
        A6.2.1.2. Q. Assigned flight publications were current, complete and usable for any of
        the unit’s taskings.
        A6.2.1.3. Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions and/or errors;
        however, contained everything necessary to effectively accomplish the mission and did
        not compromise safety of flight.
        A6.2.1.4. U. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions and/or errors
        compromised safety of flight.
     A6.2.2. Area A-2: Emergency Procedures Evaluation.
        A6.2.2.1. Q. Displayed correct and timely response to emergency situation. Effectively
        used checklist.
        A6.2.2.2. Q-. Response to emergency situation was slow/confused. Used checklist when
        appropriate, but slow to locate required action.
        A6.2.2.3. U. Incorrect response to emergency situation. Unable to analyze problem or
        take corrective action. Did not use checklist, or lacks acceptable familiarity with its
        arrangement or content.
A6.3. Area B: General.
     A6.3.1. Area B-1: Safety (Critical).
        A6.3.1.1. Q. Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft
        operation and mission accomplishment.
        A6.3.1.2. U. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe
        aircraft operation and mission accomplishment. Operated aircraft equipment in a
        dangerous manner.
     A6.3.2. Area B-2: Judgment (Critical).
        A6.3.2.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely efficient manner. Conducted the
        mission with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                      87


     A6.3.2.2. U. Decisions or lack thereof resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned
     mission. Demonstrated poor judgment to the extent that safety could have been
     compromised.
  A6.3.3. Area B-3: Flight Discipline (Critical).
     A6.3.3.1. Q. Demonstrated strict professional flight and crew discipline throughout all
     phases of the mission.
     A6.3.3.2. U. Failed to exhibit strict flight or crew discipline. Violated or ignored rules or
     instructions.
  A6.3.4. Area B-4: Briefings.
     A6.3.4.1. Q. Well organized and presented in a logical, professional fashion.
     Crewmembers clearly understood mission requirements.
     A6.3.4.2. Q-. Events out of sequence, hard to follow, some redundancy. Dwelled on non-
     essential mission items.
     A6.3.4.3. U. Confusing presentation. Redundant throughout the briefing. Lost interest of
     crewmembers. Presentation created doubts or confusion. Omitted major mission
     requirements.
  A6.3.5. Area B-5: Personal Equipment.
     A6.3.5.1. Q. Thoroughly familiar with personal equipment requirements, usage and
     preflight.
     A6.3.5.2. Q-. Possessed required personal equipment and was familiar with most
     requirements, usage, and preflight procedures.
     A6.3.5.3. U. Unfamiliar with personal equipment requirements, usage and preflight.
  A6.3.6. Area B-6: Forms, Reports, Logs (as applicable).
     A6.3.6.1. Q. Completed or supervised completion of all required forms without
     significant error.
     A6.3.6.2. Q-. Completed or supervised completion of all required forms with some errors
     or omissions that had to be corrected.
     A6.3.6.3. U. Forms were incomplete, improperly filled out. Data on forms inaccurate,
     detracting from recording the mission data.
  A6.3.7. Area B-7: Mission/Flight Planning.
     A6.3.7.1. Q. Developed a sound plan to accomplish the mission. Checked all factors
     applicable to mission in accordance with applicable directives. Aware of alternatives
     available, if mission cannot be completed as planned. Prepared at briefing time.
     A6.3.7.2. Q-. Same as above, except minor error(s) or omission(s) that did not detract
     from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of capabilities or operating
     procedures/rules in some areas.
88                                                          AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A6.3.7.3. U. Made major error(s) or omission(s) that would have prevented a safe or
        effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating procedures. Not prepared at
        briefing time.
     A6.3.8. Area B-8: Use of Checklists.
        A6.3.8.1. Q. Used current checklist and accomplished all items in proper sequence with
        no deviations or omissions.
        A6.3.8.2. Q. Only minor deviations from checklist procedures were noted.
        A6.3.8.3. U. Failed to use current checklist or deviated from checklist procedures
        resulting in the mission being compromised.
     A6.3.9. Area B-9: Crew Resource Management.
        A6.3.9.1. Q. Coordinated effectively with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions.
        A6.3.9.2. Q-. Coordinated satisfactorily with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Some instructions were not clear and concise.
        A6.3.9.3. U. Failed to coordinate with crewmembers/mission personnel. Did not give
        clear and concise instructions. Failed to utilize resources causing degradation of the
        mission.
     A6.3.10. Area B-10: Communication Procedures.
        A6.3.10.1. Q. Operated communication equipment           correctly. Radio   and   ICS
        communications were concise, accurate and effective.
        A6.3.10.2. Q- Operated communication equipment with delays or errors that did not
        affect mission accomplishment. Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did
        not significantly detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission
        accomplishment. Extraneous comments over primary or secondary radios presented
        minor distractions.
        A6.3.10.3. U. Failed to operate communication equipment correctly. Radio
        communications over primary/secondary radios were inadequate or excessive. Inaccurate
        or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual support, situational
        awareness or mission accomplishment.
     A6.3.11. Area B-11: Knowledge of Directives and Mission Systems.
        A6.3.11.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of applicable directives, mission
        systems, limitations and employment.
        A6.3.11.2. Q-. Minor errors in knowledge of applicable directives, mission systems,
        limitations and employment. Demonstrated deficiencies either in depth of knowledge or
        comprehension.
        A6.3.11.3. U. Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of applicable directives, mission
        systems, limitations or employment.
A6.4. Area C: Qualification.
     A6.4.1. Area C-1: Preflight Inspection
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                     89


   A6.4.2. Area C-2: Console Operations and Displays
   A6.4.3. Area C-3: Mission Execution
   A6.4.4. The following criteria will be used to evaluate qualification procedures identified in
   paragraph A6.4.1 – A6.4.3
      A6.4.4.1. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
      directives were accomplished with no omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
      overall efficient conduct of the mission.
      A6.4.4.2. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
      directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations which detracted from the
      overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
      acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
      A6.4.4.3. U. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
      directives were accomplished with major omissions or deviations, which detracted from
      the overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was
      unacceptable.
A6.5. Area D: Instructor.
   A6.5.1. Area D-1: Instructional Ability.
      A6.5.1.1. Q. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate
      corrective guidance when necessary.
      A6.5.1.2. Q-. Instruction was essentially correct with some deviations or omissions.
      Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instructions.
      A6.5.1.3. U. Inability to effectively communicate with the student. Did not provide
      corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems.
   A6.5.2. Area D-2: Briefing/Debriefing.
      A6.5.2.1. Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate and thorough. Reviewed student’s
      present level of training and defined mission events to be performed. Excellent ability
      during critique to reconstruct the flight, offer mission analysis, and provide corrective
      guidance where appropriate. Completed all training documents in accordance with
      prescribed directives. Training syllabi reflected actual performance of student relative to
      standard. Pre-briefed the student’s requirements for the next mission.
      A6.5.2.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefing, critique, and/or training documents
      that did not affect student progress.
      A6.5.2.3. U. Briefings were marginal or non-existent. Did not review student’s training
      folder or past performance. Failed to adequately critique student or provide complete
      mission analysis. Training syllabi grade did not reflect actual performance of student.
      Comments in training folder were incomplete. Strengths and weaknesses were not
      identified. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Incomplete pre-briefing of
      student’s training requirements/ objectives for mission.
   A6.5.3. Area D-3: Demonstration and Performance
90                                                           AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A6.5.3.1. Q. Effectively demonstrated procedures and techniques on the ground and in-
        flight. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of mission systems, procedures and all
        applicable publications and regulations.
        A6.5.3.2. Q-. Minor discrepancies in the above criteria that did not affect safety or
        adversely affect student performance.
        A6.5.3.3. U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Insufficient knowledge
        about mission systems, procedures, and/or proper source material.
     A6.5.4. Area D-4: Conduct of the Mission
        A6.5.4.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the
        flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
        A6.5.4.2. Q-. Untimely or inappropriate decisions degraded or prevented
        accomplishment of a portion of the mission. Resources were not effectively used to the
        extent specific mission objectives were not achieved.
        A6.5.4.3. U. Mission execution prevented accomplishment of a major portion of the
        mission. Undisciplined actions violated training rules repeatedly.
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                    91


                                     ATTACHMENT 7
             ACTIVE NON-RATED AIRCREW EVALUATION CRITERIA

A7.1. General Grading Standards.
   A7.1.1. The grading criteria in this attachment are divided into four sections: Ground Phase,
   General, Qualification and Instructor. Use all sections for criteria applicable to the events
   performed on the evaluation. These areas match the graded areas for Active Non-Rated
   Aircrew found on forms specified in AFMC Supplement to AFI 11-202V2.
A7.2. Area A: Ground Phase.
   A7.2.1. Area A-1: Publications (as assigned/issued).
      A7.2.1.1. Digital TO’s are approved for use by individual aircrew members.
      A7.2.1.2. Q. Assigned flight publications were current, complete and usable for any of
      the unit’s taskings.
      A7.2.1.3. Q-. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions and/or errors;
      however, contained everything necessary to effectively accomplish the mission and did
      not compromise safety of flight.
      A7.2.1.4. U. Assigned flight publications contained deviations, omissions and/or errors
      compromised safety of flight.
A7.3. Area B: General.
   A7.3.1. Area B-1: Safety (Critical).
      A7.3.1.1. Q. Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft
      operation and mission accomplishment.
      A7.3.1.2. U. Was not aware of or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe
      aircraft operation and mission accomplishment. Operated aircraft equipment in a
      dangerous manner.
   A7.3.2. Area B-2: Judgment (Critical).
      A7.3.2.1. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely efficient manner. Conducted the
      mission with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
      A7.3.2.2. U. Decisions or lack thereof resulted in failure to accomplish the assigned
      mission. Demonstrated poor judgment to the extent that safety could have been
      compromised.
   A7.3.3. Area B-3: Briefings (if applicable).
      A7.3.3.1. Q. Well organized and presented in a logical, professional fashion.
      Crewmembers clearly understood mission requirements.
      A7.3.3.2. Q-. Events out of sequence, hard to follow, some redundancy. Dwelled on non-
      essential mission items.
92                                                           AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


        A7.3.3.3. U. Confusing presentation. Redundant throughout the briefing. Lost interest of
        crewmembers. Presentation created doubts or confusion. Omitted major mission
        requirements.
     A7.3.4. Area B-4: Personal Equipment.
        A7.3.4.1. Q. Thoroughly familiar with personal equipment requirements, usage and
        preflight.
        A7.3.4.2. Q-. Possessed required personal equipment and was familiar with most
        requirements, usage, and preflight procedures.
        A7.3.4.3. U. Unfamiliar with personal equipment requirements, usage and preflight.
     A7.3.5. Area B-5: Mission Planning (if applicable).
        A7.3.5.1. Q. Developed a sound plan to accomplish the mission. Checked all factors
        applicable to mission in accordance with applicable directives. Aware of alternatives
        available, if mission cannot be completed as planned. Prepared at briefing time.
        A7.3.5.2. Q-. Same as above, except minor error(s) or omission(s) that did not detract
        from mission effectiveness. Demonstrated limited knowledge of capabilities or operating
        procedures/rules in some areas.
        A7.3.5.3. U. Made major error(s) or omission(s) that would have prevented a safe or
        effective mission. Displayed faulty knowledge of operating procedures. Not prepared at
        briefing time.
     A7.3.6. Area B-6: Use of Checklists (if applicable).
        A7.3.6.1. Q. Used current checklist and accomplished all items in proper sequence with
        no deviations or omissions.
        A7.3.6.2. Q. Only minor deviations from checklist procedures were noted.
        A7.3.6.3. U. Failed to use current checklist or deviated from checklist procedures
        resulting in the mission being compromised.
     A7.3.7. Area B-7: Crew Resource Management.
        A7.3.7.1. Q. Coordinated effectively with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Effectively used all crewmembers. Gave clear, concise crew instructions.
        A7.3.7.2. Q-. Coordinated satisfactorily with other crewmembers/mission personnel.
        Some instructions were not clear and concise.
        A7.3.7.3. U. Failed to coordinate with crewmembers/mission personnel. Did not give
        clear and concise instructions. Failed to utilize resources causing degradation of the
        mission.
     A7.3.8. Area B-8: Communication Procedures.
        A7.3.8.1. Q. Operated communication equipment            correctly.   Radio   and    ICS
        communications were concise, accurate and effective.
        A7.3.8.2. Q- Operated communication equipment with delays or errors that did not affect
        mission accomplishment. Minor terminology errors or omissions occurred, but did not
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                     93


      significantly detract from situational awareness, mutual support or mission
      accomplishment. Extraneous comments over primary or secondary radios presented
      minor distractions.
      A7.3.8.3. U. Failed to operate communication equipment correctly. Radio
      communications over primary/secondary radios were inadequate or excessive. Inaccurate
      or confusing terminology significantly detracted from mutual support, situational
      awareness or mission accomplishment.
   A7.3.9. Area B-9: Knowledge of Directives and Applicable Mission Systems.
      A7.3.9.1. Q. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of applicable directives, mission
      systems, limitations and employment.
      A7.3.9.2. Q-. Minor errors in knowledge of applicable directives, mission systems,
      limitations and employment. Demonstrated deficiencies either in depth of knowledge or
      comprehension.
      A7.3.9.3. U. Demonstrated unsatisfactory knowledge of applicable directives, mission
      systems, limitations or employment.
A7.4. Area C: Qualification.
   A7.4.1. Area C-1: Preflight Inspection (if applicable)
      A7.4.1.1. Q. Completed a thorough preflight, check of personal equipment, crew
      briefing, etc. Accurately determined readiness of aircraft for flight.
      A7.4.1.2. Q-. Minor procedural deviations which did not detract from the overall
      mission.
      A7.4.1.3. U. Major deviations in procedure which would preclude safe mission
      accomplishment. Failed to accurately determine readiness of aircraft for flight. Errors
      directly contributed to a late takeoff which degraded the mission or made it non-effective.
   A7.4.2. Area C-2: Emergency Equipment.
      A7.4.2.1. Q. Demonstrated and/or verbally explained system equipment operation,
      component location, and limitations with only minor discrepancies which did not detract
      from mission effectiveness.
      A7.4.2.2. Q-. Demonstration and/or explanation of system/equipment adequate but
      indicated a definite need for additional study and training.
      A7.4.2.3. U. Knowledge of system/ equipment was unacceptable.
   A7.4.3. Area C-3: Emergency Egress.
      A7.4.3.1. Q. Demonstrated and/or verbally explained egress procedures and equipment
      operation, component location, and limitations with only minor discrepancies which did
      not detract from mission effectiveness.
      A7.4.3.2. Q-. Demonstration and/or explanation of egress procedures and/or associated
      equipment adequate but indicated a definite need for additional study and training.
      A7.4.3.3. U. Knowledge of egress procedures and/or associated equipment was
      unacceptable.
94                                                             AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007


     A7.4.4. Area C-4: Mission Execution (if applicable)
        A7.4.4.1. Mission execution may be accomplished in the aircraft or in a support facility
        (control room)
        A7.4.4.2. Q. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with no omissions or deviations, which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission.
        A7.4.4.3. Q-. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with omissions or deviations which detracted from the
        overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was the minimum
        acceptable and indicated a need for additional study and/or training.
        A7.4.4.4. U. Procedures required by the flight manual, checklist and applicable
        directives were accomplished with major omissions or deviations, which detracted from
        the overall efficient conduct of the mission. Performance or knowledge was
        unacceptable.
A7.5. Area D: Instructor.
     A7.5.1. Area D-1: Instructional Ability.
        A7.5.1.1. Q. Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate
        corrective guidance when necessary.
        A7.5.1.2. Q-. Instruction was essentially correct with some deviations or omissions.
        Problems in communications or analysis did not degrade effectiveness of instructions.
        A7.5.1.3. U. Inability to effectively communicate with the student. Did not provide
        corrective action where necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems.
     A7.5.2. Area D-2: Briefing/Debriefing.
        A7.5.2.1. Q. Briefings were well organized, accurate and thorough. Reviewed student’s
        present level of training and defined mission events to be performed. Excellent ability
        during critique to reconstruct the flight, offer mission analysis, and provide corrective
        guidance where appropriate. Completed all training documents in accordance with
        prescribed directives. Training syllabi reflected actual performance of student relative to
        standard. Pre-briefed the student’s requirements for the next mission.
        A7.5.2.2. Q-. Minor errors or omissions in briefing, critique, and/or training documents
        that did not affect student progress.
        A7.5.2.3. U. Briefings were marginal or non-existent. Did not review student’s training
        folder or past performance. Failed to adequately critique student or provide complete
        mission analysis. Training syllabi grade did not reflect actual performance of student.
        Comments in training folder were incomplete. Strengths and weaknesses were not
        identified. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Incomplete pre-briefing of
        student’s training requirements/ objectives for mission.
     A7.5.3. Area D-3: Demonstration and Performance
AFI11-2FTV2 12 MARCH 2007                                                                 95


     A7.5.3.1. Q. Effectively demonstrated procedures and techniques on the ground and in-
     flight. Demonstrated thorough knowledge of mission systems, procedures and all
     applicable publications and regulations.
     A7.5.3.2. Q-. Minor discrepancies in the above criteria that did not affect safety or
     adversely affect student performance.
     A7.5.3.3. U. Did not demonstrate correct procedure or technique. Insufficient knowledge
     about mission systems, procedures, and/or proper source material.
  A7.5.4. Area D-4: Conduct of the Mission
     A7.5.4.1. Mission execution may be accomplished in the aircraft or in a support facility
     (control room)
     A7.5.4.2. Q. Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Conducted the
     flight (if applicable) with a sense of understanding and comprehension.
     A7.5.4.3. Q-. Untimely or inappropriate decisions degraded or prevented
     accomplishment of a portion of the mission. Resources were not effectively used to the
     extent specific mission objectives were not achieved.
     A7.5.4.4. U. Mission execution prevented accomplishment of a major portion of the
     mission. Undisciplined actions violated training rules repeatedly.
