BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-418
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                      15 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 1 MARCH 2013
                                                                          AVIANO AIR BASE
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                  16 MAY 2014

                                                                             Flying Operations

                                                               OPERATIONS SUPERVISION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: ACC/A3TV                                                          Certified by: AF/A3O-A
                                                                     (Col James W. Crowhurst)
                                                                                      Pages: 65
Supersedes:AFI11-418, 21 October 2005
                                    (AVIANO)
OPR: 31 OG/OGV                                                          Certified by: 31 OG/CC
                                                                   (Col Anthony D. Abernathy)
                                                                                       Pages:32
Supersedes:   AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP,
              25 March 2014


This instruction implements AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service. It establishes the responsibilities,
requirements, procedures and training for the supervision of flying operations. This instruction
applies to all flying units, including those operating Unmanned Air Systems (UAS), of Air
Combat Command (ACC), Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), Air Education Training
Command (AETC), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), Combat Air Forces (CAF) units within United
States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE), and CAF units within Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC). This instruction applies to all Air National Guard (ANG) units with ACC, PACAF, and
AETC oversight. With the exception of Chapter 7 and Attachment 4, Conference Hotel
Procedures, this instruction does not apply to Air Force District of Washington (AFDW), Air
Force Material Command (AFMC), Mobility Air Forces (MAF) units within AFRC, MAF units
within USAFE, Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), and the United States Air
Force (USAF) Aerial Demonstration Team (Thunderbirds). These units will follow Conference
Hotel Procedures when judged necessary for safety of flight. This instruction does not apply to
 2                                                                   AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


Air Mobility Command (AMC). Civil Air Patrol (CAP) is not required to comply with this
instruction.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Recommendations for improvements
to this volume will be submitted on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through channels, to the parent MAJCOM Stan/Eval. Parent MAJCOM Stan/Eval will forward
approved recommendations to lead command OPR (ACC Standardization Branch:
ACCDOTVSRTB@langley.af.mil). This instruction requires units to issue supplements. The
requirement is discussed throughout the instruction and in detail at Chapter 8.

AF/A3/5 is the approval authority for interim changes to this instruction.

(AVIANO) This instruction implements and supplements the guidance of AFI 11-418,
Operations Supervision, dated 15 September 2011, Incorporating Change 1, dated 1 March 2013.
This supplement applies to all personnel assigned to the 31st FW and units attached to the OG,
Aviano AB, Italy. The waiver authority for this supplement is the 31st OG/CC. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Interim Change adjusts the MINIMUM FLYING UNIT SUPERVISION
REQUIREMENTS during mixed flying operations with RPA. It also updates Hotel Conference
Information in Attachment 4 by incorporating two Administrative Changes on MDS F-35 and
MDS T-6 (completely new Table A4.18.1 and replaced Table A4.27.) and replacing Table
A4.18. F-22A. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.

(AVIANO) This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
Major changes include: Update requirements for Supervisor of Flying (SOF) airfield inspection
(6.2.3.), reduction in the number of tours required for an instructor SOF (6.5.1.2.), updates to the
SOF and Top 3 upgrade checklists, and the release of a standard 31FW Top 3 Continuity Book
with checklists (Attachment 11). In addition there are minor updates to phone number,
formatting, and verbiage throughout the document.


       1.      General. ..................................................................................................................   3
       2.      Functions: ...............................................................................................................    4
       3.      Operations. .............................................................................................................     4
Table 1.       Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements. ................................................                                5
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                                                                        3


      4.      Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................       6
      5.      Handling of In-Flight Emergencies: ......................................................................                    10
      6.      SOF Guidance. .......................................................................................................        11
      7.      CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. ...................................................................                             18
      8.      Unit Supplement. ...................................................................................................         19
      9.      Special provisions for ANG/AFRC and smaller than wing-sized units (e. ............                                           20
      10.     Waivers. .................................................................................................................   20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             21

Attachment 1—(AVIANO) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION                                                                                                                   24

Attachment 2—SOF PROCEDURAL/EMERGENCY CHECKLIST                                                                                            26

Attachment 3—SUPERVISOR OF FLYING CHECKLIST GUIDE                                                                                          28

Attachment 4—CONFERENCE HOTEL PROCEDURES                                                                                                   29

Attachment 5—(Added-AVIANO) 31 FW SUPERVISOR OF FLYING REPORT                                                                              41

Attachment 6—(Added-AVIANO) 31 FW SUPERVISOR OF FLYING (SOF) UPGRADE
             CHECKLIST                                                                                                                     42

Attachment 7—(Added-AVIANO) TDY SOF INTEGRATION CHECKLIST TO 31 FW
             OPS(FOR CURRENTLY QUALIFIED SOFS IN MDS)                                                                                      45

Attachment 8—(Added-AVIANO) SOF OPENING CHECKLIST                                                                                          47

Attachment 9—(Added-AVIANO) SOF CLOSING CHECKLIST                                                                                          49

Attachment 10—(Added-AVIANO) END OF DAY FLYING REPORT                                                                                      51

Attachment 11—(Added-AVIANO) TOP 3 CONTINUITY BOOK                                                                                         53

Attachment 12—(Added-AVIANO) 31 OG OPERATIONS SUPERVISOR (TOP 3)
             UPGRADE CHECKLIST                                                                                                             63


1. General.
   1.1. The basic supervision structure for flying operations consists of the Operations Group
   Commander (OG/CC), the Supervisor of Flying (SOF) and the squadron supervisors, i.e.,
   Operations Supervisor (Ops Sup, also referred to as Top 3).
   1.2. The chain of supervision begins with the OG/CC, through the SOF, down to the
   individual squadron supervisors. The requirements for each position are specified in para 3.
   Specific duties and responsibilities are defined throughout this instruction.
 4                                                AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


     1.3. For the purpose of this instruction “experienced” is used in accordance with (IAW) the
     definition provided in the Mission Design Series (MDS) specific AFI 11-2MDS Volume 1.
        1.3.1. For the purposes of this instruction only, aircrews are also considered
        “experienced” when previously rated “experienced” in another MDS or previously rated
        “experienced” in a different crew position in the same MDS. These individuals must then
        be selected by the Squadron CC and approved by the OG/CC for operations supervision
        responsibilities.
        1.3.2. Where no definition is provided, “experienced” will be determined by the unit
        squadron commander and approved by OG/CC.
2. Functions:
     2.1. SOF. When on duty, the SOF is a group-level position and is the direct representative of
     the OG/CC. The SOF is the focal point for command and control of flight operations. OG/CC
     decision authority is delegated to this position to accomplish the mission.
     2.1. (AVIANO) The SOF will be completely knowledgeable of all factors involving 31 FW
     flying activities. Time permitting, the SOF will consult the 31 OG/CC and 31 FW/CP IAW
     the 31 FW SOF Quick Reaction Checklist (QRC).
        2.1.1. SOF is not required for rescue/weather/electronic attack/airlift/air refueling/special
        operations/deployed U-2 Ops. (For C2ISR, the OG/CC will determine if a SOF program
        is required. If a program is established this Instruction applies. At a minimum, C2ISR
        units will establish an Ops Sup/Top 3 program.)
     2.2. Ops Sup/Top 3. The squadron Ops Sup/Top 3 will only be filled by the following
     individuals: the squadron commander, the squadron operations officer, assistant operations
     officer(s), flight commanders, or other individuals deemed qualified by the squadron
     commander and approved by the OG/CC. ANG/AFRC: OG/CC or Air Operations Officer
     (AOO) will determine requirements for Ops Sup and will determine the appropriate
     personnel to fill the Ops Sup position. ANG/AFRC may combine SOF and Ops Sup duties.
        2.2.1. Squadron commander and operations officer decision authority may be delegated
        to this position to make operations-related decisions and recommendations.
        2.2.2. (Added-AVIANO) 31 OG/CC delegates approval of Squadron Top 3
        qualifications to the FS/CC. Squadrons will annotate Top-3 qualified individuals on the
        Letter of Qualification (LOX). The Top 3 upgrade program will be IAW Attachment 12
        of this publication. Each fighter squadron will document Top 3 training in the
        individual’s training grade book using Attachment 12 and annotate Top-3 qualification
        on the LOX.
        2.2.3. (Added-AVIANO) The Ops Sup duty location will be the squadron operations
        desk. The Top 3 does not have a duty day limit, currency or crew rest requirement.
3. Operations. This section identifies the minimum flying unit supervisory requirements
depending on types of operations involved. (Additional requirements can be defined in the unit
supplement).
     3.1. Types of Operations. The definitions for types of operations that are used in Table 1
     are:
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                              5


         3.1.1. Daily Flying Operations. Normal or surge operations at the unit's home station
         (this does not include other types of operations defined below).
         3.1.2. On-Going Off Station Sorties. Missions/sorties that do not takeoff or land at
         home station.
         3.1.3. Deployed Operations. Flight operations away from home station that are part of
         a deployment, exercise or contingency.
         3.1.4. Scrambles. Aircraft launched on a scramble order from an alert posture.
         3.1.5. (Added-AVIANO) When a Functional Check Flight (FCF) occurs outside the
         scheduled 31 FW flying window, only a Top 3 is required; duty location will be at the
         operations desk during the FCF. In all cases, the 31 OG/CC (or designated
         representative) will approve FCFs. For off station FCFs, a qualified SOF or Ops
         Supervisor will be present and have radio communication with the FCF aircraft.
   3.2. Minimum Supervision Requirements. These are outlined in Table 1 for each type of
   operation.

Table 1. Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements.

     Type of Operation                   SOF Location                    Ops Sup Location
                                                                   Squadron 1
                                                                   (Active Duty/AFRC)
Daily Flying Operations:          Duty Location 1                              3
                                                                   Available
                                                                   (ANG)
                                                                               3
On-Going Off-Station Sorties      N/R                              Available
Deployed Operations 2             As Required                      As Required
                                                                   N/R
                                                                   (Active Duty/AFRC)
Scrambles                         N/R
                                                                   Available 3
                                                                   (ANG)
Notes:
   1. The SOF and Ops Sup may leave the unit operations complex (as defined by the unit
      supplement to this instruction) after aircraft depart the local area, workload permitting
      and will be immediately available by telephone, pager, radio or intercom. The SOF and
      Ops Sup will be at their duty locations 45 minutes prior to the estimated time of arrival of
      unit aircraft. For reduced flying operations the OG/CC may determine if a SOF is
      required. Reduced flying operations are defined as 4 or less fighter aircraft or 2 or less of
      the same type of non-fighter aircraft or, while adhering to these limitations for fighter and
      non-fighter aircraft, 6 total aircraft if 2 or more are RPA.
   2. For deployed operations, the detachment commander will coordinate with host base
      Operations Group for supervision requirements. This may involve integrating into the
      host base SOF and/or Ops Sup program.
 6                                                AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014



     3. Must be immediately available by telephone, pager, radio, or intercom. (USAFE: Ops
        Sup for on-going off station sorties can be filled by an experienced aircrew member
        (SDO) as defined in the unit supplement.)

4. Responsibilities: Note: For the purposes of this instruction, the terms “operations group
commander” (OG/CC), “squadron commander” (SQ/CC), and “director of operations” (SQ/DO)
also refer to their designated representatives.
     4.1. OG/CC (ANG/AFRC: OG/CC or AOO) will:
        4.1.1. Be responsible for the implementation, direction and execution of the Operations
        Supervision program.
        4.1.2. Be immediately available to the SOF or Ops Sup/Top 3 (if no SOF is either
        available or required based on the type of operation) for consultation during daily flying
        operations.
        4.1.3. Ensure tenant flying units use host/tenant memorandum of agreement
        (MOA)/letter of agreement (LOA) to avoid duplication of effort.
        4.1.4. Be the final approval authority for unit supplement to this instruction.
     4.2. SQ/CC (or equivalent) and/or SQ/DO will:
        4.2.1. Ensure a SOF/Ops Sup is on duty when required by Table 1
        4.2.2. Be available to the Ops Sup/Top 3 for consultation during flying operations.
     4.3. SOF will:
        4.3.1. Be on duty when required by Table 1 or as directed by the OG/CC.
        4.3.2. Be responsible to the OG/CC for monitoring and supervising all phases of unit
        flying operations and will provide guidance, advice, assistance and recommendations to
        aircrews, unit supervisors (i.e. Ops Sup/Top 3), C2 personnel, and/or other supporting
        agencies (as required) regarding the safe and efficient conduct of flight operations.
           4.3.2.1. Ensure that in-flight emergency (IFE) recovery plans and weather related
           mission changes reflect sound airmanship, follow AFI and technical order (TO)
           guidance, and adhere to sound ORM principles (i.e. does it make sense?).
        4.3.3. Direct appropriate actions, on behalf of the OG/CC, to correct/prevent unsafe
        situations. This includes the use of any and all resources to include radios, FM nets,
        telephone hot lines and all wing-flying operations on the ground or in the air.
        4.3.4. Prior to the first launch, ensure the airfield/heliport status is suitable for safe
        operations IAW Air Force, major command (MAJCOM) and local directives.
        4.3.4. (AVIANO) The SOF will ensure all items in the SOF Opening Checklist
        (Attachment 8) are accomplished prior to the first takeoff.
        4.3.5. During an emergency or an abnormal situation, provide aircrews with guidance,
        timely advice and assistance to determine a correct course of action.
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                             7


     4.3.6. Be in a position to visually monitor the final approach and landing of IFE aircraft.
     If unable, the SOF will direct another highly qualified aircrew member to be in position
     to monitor the landing and provide needed assistance or guidance. (ANG/AFRC: Not
     required.)
     4.3.7. Monitor the status of primary and emergency airfields/heliport and inform
     aircrews of changes that may affect flight operations.
     4.3.7. (AVIANO) Coordinate with the Italian Facility Manager (through the US Tower
     Watch Supervisor) to confirm that the primary diverts are booked. Ensure at least one
     suitable alternate is available from first takeoff to 1 hour past the last scheduled 31 FW
     land time. Use Istrana, Rivolto, Cervia, Grosseto, and Ghedi as primary diverts. SOFs
     will request additional airfield bookings if necessary due to weather and availability of
     the primary diverts. Verify the availability of Search and Rescue (SAR) assets with the
     Italian Air Force (ITAF) controllers. If SAR assets are limited or unavailable, contact
     Padova Mil though the ITAF controller or at (+39) 049-822-2292 to determine what
     airspace will be affected. Contact the OG/CC and Ops Sups with updates as appropriate.
     SOFs will receive an airfield status briefing from the Tower Watch Supervisor and
     coordinate with the ITAF controllers to review ITAF Zita Notice to Airman (NOTAMs)
     and the ITAF NOTAMs for divert airfields.                   The SOF will also go to
     https://www.notams.faa.gov/dinsQueryWeb to review the most up-to-date NOTAM
     information on Defense Internet NOTAM Service (DINS). 31 FW SOFs will designate a
     divert field at all times due to single runway ops at Aviano. This field will also constitute
     an alternate as defined by AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules. In addition to the AFI
     11-202V3 alternate requirements the selected divert field must have suitable arresting
     gear IAW AFI 11-2F-16V3, F-16 - Operations Procedures for recovery of divert aircraft
     and must be free of forecast or reported heavy or moderate rain. SOFs will look over the
     exact approach that diverting aircraft will fly and provide a “common sense check” to
     ensure that the divert field is suitable. SOFs will ensure the field and fuel requirement
     status of both Aviano and the divert are passed to the squadron Ops Sup so that pilots can
     make proper fuel decisions prior to step. This information will also be passed to the
     Tower Watch Supervisor so it can be added to the Automatic Terminal Information
     System (ATIS).
     4.3.8. When deteriorating weather conditions affect flying operations, coordinate with
     wing agencies and utilize all available resources (i.e., weather, radar, tower personnel,
     pilot reports, etc.) to determine the best course of action for wing aircraft. The SOF will
     determine suitable weather alternates and inform the OG/CC accordingly.
     4.3.8. (AVIANO) SOFs will receive a current weather brief for Aviano and all possible
     divert locations, both primary and emergency. The SOF will receive a weather brief from
     weather personnel by telephone. Additionally, the SOF will utilize the internet weather
     links to continuously monitor the observations, Terminal Aerodrome Forecast (TAFS),
     satellite and radar products. SOFs will ensure they have the most current weather to aid
     in their decision-making. ITAF Weather Forecast (LIPA) determines the official field
     status (Open/Closed), ATIS, and all weather information reported by Air Traffic Control
     (ATC). USAF Aviano Weather Identifier can be used to determine required
     diverts/alternates, decisions to launch aircraft, fuel status and decisions to begin an
     approach. Authority to use USAF weather for such decisions rests with the 31 OG/CC
8                                              AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


    and is transmitted through the 31 FW SOF. Anytime that Aviano has forecast or reported
    heavy or moderate rain the SOF will direct F-16 aircrew to carry canopy sheeting fuel
    (extra 400# for A/A or 700# for A/G configurations).
    4.3.9. Coordinate with the air traffic control (ATC) watch supervisor or senior controller
    for runway changes as needed.
    4.3.10. Prepare a daily log to aid in tracking operations and major events. For units that
    do not use a SOF, this log will be filled out by the Ops Sup/Top 3 IAW paragraph 4.4.8.
    Log format and content will be defined by unit supplement.
       4.3.10.1. (Added-AVIANO) The opening SOF will generate the 31 FW SOF Daily
       Report (format found in Attachment 5). The report will include time on/off duty, any
       abnormal situations and all emergencies. The closing SOF will e-mail copies of the
       SOF Daily Report to the SOF End of Day distribution list. Do not attach the MS
       word document to the e-mail; instead copy the text from the SOF report in to the body
       of the e-mail message. If electronic means are unavailable, the SOF will call 31
       OG/OGV (x8464) with any significant events to report.
    4.3.11. The SOF will debrief the OG/CC of any aircraft involved in an unusual situation,
    IFE, weather divert or other mission change requiring SOF action or intervention. Ensure
    that the applicable Ops Sup/Top 3 has the necessary information to inform squadron
    leadership.
    4.3.11. (AVIANO) Opening and closing SOF will brief the 31 OG/CC or designated
    representative of field status IAW OG Opening and Closing brief. Reference the SOF
    QRC.
    4.3.12. (Added-AVIANO) Vault Operations. During vault operations, the SOF will
    coordinate with the watch supervisor to ensure that vault ops restrictions are put on ATIS
    (i.e. " no tactical initial, no overhead SOFs”). The SOF will also pass vault ops
    restrictions to the Squadron Top 3 to ensure restrictions are briefed to pilots before step.
    4.3.13. (Added-AVIANO) Ensure pilots are notified of divert status changes and of
    hazards such as approaching thunderstorms, imminent runway closures, uncontrolled
    aircraft in the vicinity, hazardous bird activity, inbound emergencies, priority aircraft, etc.
    SOFs will use all means necessary (guard, flight discrete frequencies, ATC, Padova Mil,
    Link-16 Text Messaging, Top 3, etc) to pass airfield status changes that affect planned
    recovery fuels. SOF will obtain positive acknowledgement (directly or via ATC) from
    all 31 FW aircraft (both airborne and on the ground) to ensure airfield status changes
    have been received. The SOF will keep squadron Top 3s informed in a timely manner of
    any changes to field status. SOFs will inform the Tower Watch Supervisor when there
    are any changes to the 31 FW divert status. Use the Status Change checklist in the SOF
    QRC as a guide.
    4.3.14. (Added-AVIANO) Monitor all locally based aircraft configurations, landings
    and pattern procedures including simulated emergency procedures. Report any hard
    landings, non-standard or unsafe patterns to the squadron Top 3 (and 31 OG/CC if
    necessary). SOF will not hesitate to direct a go-around if unsafe landing parameters are
    observed (i.e. low drug-in final).
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                            9


     4.3.15. (Added-AVIANO) Establish the bird watch condition using the SOF QRC and
     31 FW OPLAN 91-212 Aviano Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard "BASH" Reduction Plan as a
     guide. The 31 FW OPLAN 91-212 guide can be found electronically stored at
     https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/31OG/OGV%20Stan%20Eval/OGV%20Pubs%20Libra
     ry/31%20FW%20PLAN%2091-212/Aviano%20BASH%20PLAN%2091-
     212%2010March10.pdf . Advise the Tower Watch Supervisor, base ops, and Top 3s of
     the current bird watch condition. Coordinate with base ops when the bird watch
     condition is above normal, so that base ops/flight safety can help disperse birds. During
     exercises or contingency operations, the SOF will contact MadDog (x3294) prior to firing
     bird cannons.
  4.4. Ops Sup/Top 3 will:
     4.4.1. Be on duty when required by Table 1 or as directed by the SQ/CC or SQ/DO.
     4.4.2. Be immediately available to assist the SOF and aircrew.
     4.4.2. (AVIANO) 31 OG attached units will ensure that an Ops Sup is available at all
     times to assist the 31 FW SOF during their flying duty day. TDY Fighter/Attack units at
     Aviano will provide 31 OG/OGV with a name and number where the SOF may obtain
     qualified assistance on that unit’s type of aircraft prior to the first local flight.
     4.4.3. When the SOF is not qualified in the distressed aircraft or the unit does not require
     a SOF, be the primary source of technical assistance.
     4.4.4. For situations where both the SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 are not qualified to provide
     technical assistance to the type of aircraft airborne, schedule an instructor or experienced
     crewmember to be immediately available for aircraft technical assistance.
     4.4.5. Be responsible for the execution of the daily flying schedule and coordinate any
     mission changes as required (e.g. aircraft tail number changes, crew swaps, flight-plan
     and airspace changes). Note: Mission commanders/flight leads are required to coordinate
     with the Ops Sup/Top 3 prior to the flight brief when intended sortie type, profile,
     airspace, and/or aircraft configuration do not match the approved schedule.
        4.4.5.1. Ensure the SOF is advised of any changes or deviations to the squadron's
        flying schedule.
        4.4.5.2. Ensure electronic scheduling and tracking systems are updated to include
        changes to and deviations from the daily flying schedule.
        4.4.5.3. Be the primary liaison between Ops and Maintenance during the execution
        of the flying schedule.
     4.4.6. Be assisted by SARM personnel or a Duty Desk Officer (DDO) as required.
     4.4.7. Ensure crews are briefed on the following:
        4.4.7.1. Aircraft/heliport and airfield status and configuration
        4.4.7.2. Scheduled and available airspace
        4.4.7.3. Applicable weather for locations that aircrew are flying
        4.4.7.4. Significant local hazards
 10                                            AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


          4.4.7.5. Additional items as defined in the unit supplement to this instruction
      4.4.8. Prepare, at squadron commander’s discretion, a daily log to aid in tracking
      operations and major events. Log format and content will be defined by the unit
      supplement.
      4.4.8. (AVIANO) Operations Supervisors will provide an End of Day Report using the
      format found in Attachment 10.
      4.4.9. Debrief the SQ/CC and/or DO of any aircraft involved in an unusual situation,
      IFE, weather divert or other significant mission change.
   4.5. Other Key Wing Personnel:
      4.5.1. Wing (or equivalent) commanders ensure other group commanders support the
      OG/CC when and where needed in order to execute an effective program.
      4.5.2. Mission Support group commanders are responsible for the maintenance, upgrade
      and repair of the applicable SOF facilities and equipment.
      4.5.3. Mission Support group/Logistic Readiness group commanders are responsible for
      maintenance, upgrade and repair of the SOF vehicle.
5. Handling of In-Flight Emergencies:
   5.1. The primary objective during an abnormal/emergency situation is the safe recovery of
   the aircrew and aircraft. When establishing procedures, units will consider:
      5.1.1. Providing a single, discrete frequency for recovering an emergency aircraft. ATC
      and the emergency aircrew should determine when to use a single frequency approach
      (SFA). The SOF will have access to the SFA. The SFA should be available to
      crash/fire/rescue personnel to monitor the recovery.
      5.1.2. Using the command post, or other capable agency, to notify all appropriate
      agencies and key personnel of an IFE and provide situation updates.
      5.1.3. Prioritizing actions during concurrent emergencies/abnormal situations.
      5.1.4. Authorizing direct communications (over discrete SOF or squadron common
      frequency) from the Ops Sup/Top 3 to an IFE aircrew. NOTE: Only ATC personnel may
      authorize direct communication over ATC frequencies, including the SFA frequency.
      However, this does not preclude the SOF and/or Ops Sup/Top 3 from using whatever
      communication necessary, to include GUARD and SFA, to prevent an unsafe situation
      that could immediately jeopardize safe recovery.
      5.1.5. That only the ground on-scene commander, normally the fire chief, can terminate
      an emergency.
      5.1.6. That the final decision during any IFE/abnormal situation rests with the aircraft
      commander. However, SOFs may declare an IFE for any aircraft based on their
      knowledge of the aircraft and the flight and airfield environment.
      5.1.7. Obtaining a chase ship for single ship emergency aircraft if time permits.
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                               11


      5.1.8. If the SOF is not qualified in or technically knowledgeable of the aircraft with an
      IFE, then directing the Ops Sup/Top 3 or other highly experienced individual to report to
      the SOF's duty location during an abnormal situation/recovery if time permits.
   5.2. (Added-AVIANO) The SOF will not change over during an emergency or recall/divert
   situation. The current SOF will:
      5.2.1. (Added-AVIANO) Be the focal point of information during an emergency
      situation.
      5.2.2. (Added-AVIANO) Assist the pilot in determining the nature of the emergency
      and the best course of action.
      5.2.3. (Added-AVIANO) Consider current weather and any other factors which may
      affect the emergency aircraft.
      5.2.4. (Added-AVIANO) Keep the 31 OG/CC informed of the situation, when time
      permits, and closely monitor progress until the aircraft and pilot are safely recovered.
      5.2.5. (Added-AVIANO) Ensure the appropriate agencies and key personnel are
      notified of an emergency and provided with situation updates if required.
      5.2.6. (Added-AVIANO) Notify the 31 OG/CC when the emergency is terminated.
   5.3. (Added-AVIANO) Following an aircraft divert or recall, use any means available (31
   FW CP, Italian Base Operations Center [BOC]) to ensure all affected aircraft are recovered
   safely. In particular, the Italian controller in the tower can provide assistance in notifying the
   divert base of arriving aircraft and help in coordinating their recovery.
      5.3.1. (Added-AVIANO) Ensure base ops contacts the divert field’s base ops with the
      following information:
          5.3.1.1. (Added-AVIANO) Number and type of aircraft
          5.3.1.2. (Added-AVIANO) Call signs
          5.3.1.3. (Added-AVIANO) Fuel status
          5.3.1.4. (Added-AVIANO) Any other pertinent information
      5.3.2. (Added-AVIANO) Divert aircraft must have 31 OG/CC’s approval to launch
      from divert bases. The SOF/Ops Sup will obtain divert and recovery base weather and
      NOTAMs, pilot duty day limitations and flight itinerary prior to obtaining 31 OG/CC’s
      approval. The SOF is the focal point of information for the 31 OG/CC. Divert pilots will
      pass necessary information to their Ops Sup who will pass it on to the SOF. If local
      flying is complete, and the SOF is not on duty, the Ops Sup will perform SOF duties
      from their operations desk with 31 OG/CC approval. 31 OG/CC will determine if a SOF
      should be recalled to the tower.
   5.4. (Added-AVIANO) South taxiway (taxiway Bravo) activation requires 31 OG/CC’s or
   31 OG/CD’s approval for the recovery of emergency aircraft. If this occurs, the Italian Base
   Commander should be informed immediately via the Italian controller/ITAF BOC.
6. SOF Guidance. Unless noted otherwise, this guidance applies to the Ops Sup/Top 3 when a
SOF is either unavailable or not used.
12                                             AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


  6.1. SOF/ATC Relationship:
     6.1.1. The separation and sequencing of traffic are the responsibilities of ATC. Unless
     safety is an issue, the SOF will work directly with the watch supervisor. To promote
     effective and efficient flight operations, the SOF may suggest, based on knowledge of the
     flying schedule and unique circumstances of individual missions, actions that affect ATC
     concerns or desires.
     6.1.2. Except in an emergency, the SOF will not transmit over ATC frequencies without
     prior coordination with ATC (this does not apply to dedicated SOF frequencies). All
     radio transmissions to a distressed aircrew, from other than the SOF or ATC, will be
     coordinated through the SOF (this does not apply to the Ops Sup/Top3 if communicating
     to the aircrew via a squadron common frequency).
     6.1.3. (Added-AVIANO) The SOF will introduce him or herself by name to all
     controllers at the beginning of the tour. The SOF should coordinate all ATC inputs
     through the Tower Watch Supervisor instead of going directly to a particular controller.
     The Tower Watch Supervisor on duty is responsible for the overall operation of the
     facility and shall retain full authority to determine the number of non-ATC personnel
     permitted in the facility. SOF will be permitted access to the facility during local flying
     under the control of the 31 OG/CC.
  6.2. Duty Hours:
     6.2.1. Prior to beginning supervisory duties, the SOF will meet crew rest requirements as
     directed by AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, as supplemented.
     6.2.2. Maximum duty day for SOF is 16 hours with a limit of 12 hours performing SOF
     duties. The OG/CC is waiver authority and may extend a SOF duty day up to 16 hours
     on a case-by-case basis. (AFGSC Missile Wings: For alert and scramble operations, the
     SOF maximum duty day is 24 hrs as long as alert/sleeping facilities are readily available).
     6.2.2. (AVIANO) Closing SOFs will plan their pilot rest to include 30 minutes after the
     last scheduled landing.
     6.2.3. The SOF will be at the prescribed duty location IAW Table 1 NLT 30 minutes
     prior to first takeoff in order to complete required duties in paragraph 4.3
     6.2.3. (AVIANO) Opening SOFs will provide an opening status to applicable Ops Sups
     prior to the first crew step of the day. Opening SOFs will report to the tower NLT 1 hour
     prior to first takeoff of 31 FW fighter aircraft, ensure electronic products are available,
     confirm the airfield status, and if required, conduct an airfield inspection in time to return
     to the tower NLT than 40 minutes prior to the first takeoff. SOF airfield inspection is
     only required if base ops is unavailable to conduct an inspection prior to first scheduled
     takeoff. SOF may always elect to conduct an airfield inspection concurrent with the base
     ops inspection if desired. 31FW SOFs deployed to bases outside of Aviano will
     coordinate the TDY specific airfield inspection plan with the TDY Project Officer and
     Detachment Commander (DETCO). During the months of November thru February, (due
     to potential for inclement weather and/or ice Foreign Object Debris [FOD]) SOFs will
     report to the tower NLT 75 min prior to first takeoff, have airfield checks complete (if
     required), and airfield/divert status established NLT 1 hour prior to the first takeoff.
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                       13


  6.3. Duty Location:
     6.3.1. Primary Duty Location. The primary duty location for active duty units will be
     in the control tower. (AFGSC Missile Wings: the primary duty location will be
     designated by the OG/CC).
     6.3.2. Alternate Duty Location. The OG/CC will designate alternate duty locations in
     the unit supplement to this instruction. As a minimum, the location must have adequate
     communication equipment and the capability to monitor weather conditions. It is
     desirable to have a SOF duty position from which ground operations, takeoffs, landings
     and local traffic patterns can be observed. The following is a list of recommended
     alternate locations:
     6.3.2. (AVIANO) The alternate SOF location for Aviano AB is the SOF truck. The
     SOF should park on the south side of the runway, between taxiways B1 and B2. If
     unable, the SOF will choose a location where he or she can monitor aircraft on final and
     touchdown. During alert periods, the alert SOF/Ops Sup will be available for contact by
     the 31 FW CP at all times. The alert SOF/Ops Sup will respond to any situation requiring
     their presence.
        6.3.2.1. The SOF vehicle on the airfield.
        6.3.2.2. The runway monitoring unit (RMU)/runway supervisory unit (RSU).
        6.3.2.3. The unit dispatch desk.
        6.3.2.4. The command post.
     6.3.3. At both the primary and alternate duty locations the SOF will have timely access
     to a SOF vehicle and the airfield environment when required. AFRC: units are not
     required to have a dedicated vehicle for the SOF, but must be provided access to a
     vehicle to perform required duties in a timely manner.
  6.4. Equipment:
     6.4.1. The following communication equipment must be functional and immediately
     available to the SOF:
        6.4.1.1. A dedicated multi-frequency radio (UHF, VHF and/or HF, as appropriate
        based on supported aircraft capabilities).
        6.4.1.1. (AVIANO) If SOF radios are inoperative, the ATC watch supervisor on
        duty will authorize the SOF to utilize a backup ATC radio. Notify the SOF program
        manager of any SOF equipment not performing to standards. Report any equipment
        problems in the Daily SOF report.
        6.4.1.2. A telephone (land-line or cellular telephone) or FM radio to contact the
        OG/CC (or designated representative), command post, Ops Sups, weather facility and
        ATC watch supervisors. Dedicated phone lines (hot-lines) are preferred.
        6.4.1.2. (AVIANO) The SOF Land Mobile Radio (LMR) will be kept in the tower at
        the SOF desk. In the event of bugout the SOF will bring the LMR as a primary
        means of communication with base agencies.
14                                             AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


     6.4.2. Access to approved weather resources will be available (net-centric data
     dissemination system, etc).
     6.4.3. Units are required to have a dedicated SOF vehicle immediately available to the
     SOF and positioned to respond to emergencies, perform airfield inspections, or other
     official functions. This vehicle must have a flight line clearance and be equipped with a
     multi-channel radio capable of contacting unit aircraft and ATC. Waiver authority for this
     requirement is the Wing Commander or equivalent.
     6.4.4. Locally developed checklists will be available to outline procedures for normal
     and emergency situations that included, as a minimum, the items listed in Attachment 2.
     6.4.5. Dedicated binoculars will be immediately available for SOF use when either in the
     primary or alternate duty location for a clear view of the runway.
     6.4.6. A SOF library will be available (either hard copy or electronic as outlined in the
     unit supplement to this instruction) that includes applicable directives and instructions (to
     include AF, HHQ, and local guidance), aircraft TOs, checklists, in-flight guides, and SOF
     read/information file.
     6.4.6. (AVIANO) The SOF position in the tower will have the following items: Flight
     Information Handbook (FIH); Europe, North Africa, and Middle East Enroute Instrument
     Flight Rules (IFR) Supplement; Volume 6 high/low approach book; Enroute High
     Altitude Charts H3-H4, H5-H6, H7, H15-H16; and Enroute Low Altitude Charts L9-L10,
     L-11-L12, 1F-16CM-1 flight manual, 1F-16CM-1CL-1, the 31 FW Pilot Aid and the
     SOF QRC. Electronic versions of the SOF Read Files (SOFRFs), Flight Crew
     Information Files (FCIFs), and OG Read Files (OGRFs) are maintained in Patriot
     Excalibur (PEX) and electronic versions of AFI 11-2F-16V3, AFI 11-202V3 and AFI 11-
     418 are available on the SOF computer through the OGV SharePoint site.
     6.4.7. If the SOF must reposition to an alternate location, the minimum essential
     equipment outlined in this section will be available at this new location (pre-positioned or
     transported).
     6.4.7. (AVIANO) The SOF "hit-and-run" kit and one LMR are the minimum essential
     items to be taken to the alternate SOF location. The SOF hit and run kit will have the
     following items: FIH; Europe, North Africa, and Middle East Enroute IFR Supplement;
     Volume 6 high/low approach book; Enroute High Altitude Charts H3-H4, H5-H6, H7,
     H15-H16; and Enroute Low Altitude Charts L9-L10, L-11-L12, 1F-16CM-1 flight
     manual, 1F-16CM-1CL-1, the 31 FW Pilot Aid and the SOF QRC.
  6.5. Certification:
     6.5.1. SOF nominees will be experienced (IAW paragraph 1.3.), rated officers with
     proven maturity, judgment and supervisory ability and must be combat mission ready
     (CMR) or basic mission capable (BMC) in a unit aircraft
     6.5.1. (AVIANO) Before entering the SOF upgrade program, nominees will be 4-ship
     qualified flight leads and experienced as defined in AFI 11-2F-16V1, F-16 -- Pilot
     Training (TDY SOFs IAW their applicable MDS Vol. 1). Exceptions require a 31
     OG/CC waiver. Request waivers through 31 OG/OGV. SOFs will complete upgrade
     checklists IAW Attachment 6 or Attachment 7 (if required).
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                         15


        6.5.1.1. Non-CMR (N-CMR)/non-BMC (N-BMC) aircrew members may perform
        SOF duties at the discretion of the OG/CC on the condition that the status must be
        temporary in nature and all SOF currencies must be maintained IAW paragraph 6.7.
        6.5.1.1. (AVIANO) 31 OG/CC authorizes non-Combat Mission Ready and non-
        Basic Mission Capable aircrew to perform SOF duties as long as they have SOF
        currency.
        6.5.1.2. (Added-AVIANO) SOFs with 10 tours may be designated as “Instructor
        SOFs” by 31 OG/CC. The OG/CC will designate Instructor Supervisor of Flying
        (ISOF) qualification by signing the ISOF statement on Attachment 6. ISOFs will also
        be designated on the LOX. Previously qualified SOFs with 10 tours at another F-16
        base will be qualified to act as an Instructor SOFs after 5 tours at Aviano. Previously
        qualified SOFs will complete the entire Aviano SOF training program unless
        specifically waived by the 31 OG/CC.
     6.5.2. To gain initial certification, all SOFs will complete the SOF upgrade program
     IAW paragraph 6.6.
     6.5.3. SOFs that are currently under a Duties Not Involving Flying (DNIF) status may
     perform SOF duties when specifically cleared by a flight surgeon on an AF Form 1042.
     6.5.4. Loss of SOF certification will occur for any of the following reasons:
        6.5.4.1. PCS or 179/365 day TDYs (unless the individual is performing SOF duties
        and able to retain currency while TDY).
        6.5.4.2. Direct action by the OG/CC through a written statement in the individuals
        training folder and removal from the unit “Letter of Xs” or equivalent document. Any
        supervisor may recommend action to the OG/CC for the removal of an individual’s
        SOF certification.
     6.5.5. The source documents for certifying SOF certifications are the OG/CC-signed
     approval document in the individual’s training folder and the unit “Letter of Xs” or
     equivalent document.
     6.5.6. Units will define who is certified to upgrade other aircrew members to SOF in the
     unit supplement to this instruction.
  6.6. Certification Program:
     6.6.1. Documentation of the unit upgrade program will be described in the unit
     supplement to this instruction, but will, at a minimum, include a signed document by the
     OG/CC kept in the individuals training folder that approves him/her for SOF duties.
     Additionally, upon completion of the upgrade flow, the unit “Letter of Xs” or equivalent
     document will be updated to reflect the SOF certification.
     6.6.2. Squadron commanders will screen and review (IAW para. 6.5.) all SOF candidates
     before nominating them for entry into the upgrade program.
     6.6.3. All SOF candidates will receive an interview and briefing from the OG/CC on
     responsibilities, personal philosophy and expectations. OG/CCs will emphasize the SOFs
     position as a group level supervisor and that decision authority is delegated to the SOF
     position to ensure the safe accomplishment of the mission.
16                                           AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


     6.6.4. The SOF upgrade will consist of two supervised tours of two hours each
     (minimum of 4 hours of training time) with a current and experienced SOF, as defined in
     the unit supplement. The tours will be conducted on two different days in order to
     maximize the chances of the upgradee to observe differing wind and weather conditions.
     Upgradees will act as primary SOF on their second upgrade tour. The upgrade tours must
     include the following:
     6.6.4. (AVIANO) The SOF upgrade program is IAW attachment 6 and will include an
     emphasis on the use of the 1F-16-CM-1, 1F-16CM-1CL-1 Flight Crew Checklist, SOF
     QRC and the SOF’s back-up role during emergency procedures. The upgrade program
     will focus on disciplined use of both the QRC and -1 checklists and referencing the flight
     manual during actual and simulated emergency procedures.
        6.6.4.1. Familiarization with airfield/heliport procedures, primary and alternate duty
        locations, and local support agencies with emphasis on both unit and aircraft-specific
        operating procedures (AF, HHQ, and local), specifically capabilities and limitations.
        6.6.4.2. Operation of all SOF equipment and radios.
        6.6.4.3. Contact procedures for aircraft and support agencies.
        6.6.4.4. A review of publications and directives available to the SOF.
        6.6.4.5. Operation of SOF vehicle (requires a flight line permit/license).
        6.6.4.6. Successful handling of an IFE/PL (actual or simulated).
        6.6.4.7. Procuring/observing weather (to include forecaster duties and priorities)
        information.
        6.6.4.8. Approach/Departure control information.
        6.6.4.9. Tower operations.
     6.6.5. Additionally, prior to being certified as a SOF, upgrades will accomplish the
     following additional training/familiarization items:
        6.6.5.1. Crash/fire/rescue operations.
        6.6.5.2. Explosive ordnance disposal operations.
        6.6.5.3. Airfield Management operations.
        6.6.5.4. Command post operations.
        6.6.5.5. Airfield Drivers License. ANG/AFRC: N/A if a SOF vehicle is either not
        provided or there is not a need to drive on the actual airfield environment.
        6.6.5.6. Performance aspects and general characteristics of all base assigned aircraft.
        6.6.5.7. Accomplish a written examination containing a minimum of 25 questions on
        SOF duties, procedures and responsibilities. Minimum passing grade is 85 percent
        with all missed questions reviewed immediately following grading of the exam.
     6.6.6. The OG/CC will review upgradee training records and approve each upgradee in
     writing prior to the individual performing SOF duties.
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                         17


     6.6.7. For previously certified SOFs, the OG/CC may waive the upgrade requirements of
     these paragraphs, but at a minimum, the upgradee will perform at least one supervised
     SOF tour with an experienced SOF with emphasis on local procedures. EXCEPTION:
     SOFs who have lost certification due to N-CMR/N-BMC status IAW para. 6.5.1.2, but
     still have currency IAW para. 6.7. In this case, the SQ/CC must ensure that the unit
     “Letter of Xs” or equivalent document is updated appropriately before the individual
     performs SOF duties.
     6.6.8. (Added-AVIANO) TDY USAF units may upgrade new SOFs during their tenure
     at Aviano (see Attachments 7). Deployed/TDY Fighter/Attack units attached to the 31
     OG will provide appropriate manuals, checklists, technical orders, regulations, and letter
     of Xs to 31 OG/OGV prior to flying at Aviano.
  6.7. Currency/Recurrency.
     6.7.1. SOF currency is 90 days. ANG/AFRC: 180 days (AETC ANG/Reserve
     Associate Instructor Pilots: 90 days).
     6.7.2. Individual squadrons will track SOF currencies (Aviation Resource Management
     System [ARMS] preferred).
     6.7.3. To regain currency, as a minimum, accomplish a 1-hour supervised tour with a
     current and certified SOF.
  6.8. Continuation Training (CT):
     6.8.1. At a minimum SOF CT will involve semi-annual SOF meetings attended by all
     certified SOFs (highly encouraged for Ops Sups/Top 3s). OG/CCs will be involved in
     developing meeting agendas. If unable to attend, SOFs will review meeting minutes that
     will be posted to the SOF readfile prior to their next SOF duty.
     6.8.2. Annually, all SOFs are required to review applicable SOF guidance and directives
     as published in this instruction, unit supplement, and the SOF readfile. Additionally all
     SOFs will receive a briefing from the OG/CC on responsibilities, expectations and
     commander perspective (this briefing may be held as part of a semi-annual meeting). If
     unable to attend the OG/CC briefing, SOFs will review briefing minutes that will be
     posted to the SOF readfile prior to their next SOF duty.
  6.9. Program Administration:
     6.9.1. The OG/CC will designate an Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the
     administration of the program.
     6.9.1. (AVIANO) Assistant Chief, 31 OG/OGV is           the SOF Program Manager for
     Aviano. The SOF Program Manager is the POC for         coordinating regular maintenance
     and servicing of the SOF truck and AF Form 1800,       Operator's Inspection Guide And
     Trouble Report, tracking. Vehicle Control Officer is   listed on the top of the AF Form
     1800. Call directly with any immediate issues.
        6.9.1.1. (Added-AVIANO) Each FS/CCV is the Ops Sup program manager for their
        respective FS. The program will consist of a Top 3 continuity binder at a minimum.
        Each FS/CCV will maintain the Sq Top 3 continuity book and ensure it is organized
        and maintains the minimum information required, IAW Attachment 11.
 18                                            AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


      6.9.2. The OPR will:
          6.9.2.1. Develop and administer the SOF initial training program.
          6.9.2.2. Develop and administer the SOF certification test. This is a controlled test of
          at least 25 questions that will be updated and reviewed annually.
          6.9.2.3. If not retained by the squadron in individual training folders, the OPR will
          retain all original initial certification and continuation training records until the
          individual PCSs to their next assignment.
          6.9.2.4. Establish standardized procedures throughout the unit for monitoring SOF
          currencies and continuation training requirements (ARMS preferred).
          6.9.2.5. Schedule and give semi-annual SOF meetings.
          6.9.2.6. Post SOF meeting minutes in the SOF readfile within one week of the
          meeting.
          6.9.2.7. Develop normal and emergency SOF checklists and review/update annually
          (reference Attachment 2).
          6.9.2.8. Update the SOF library publications as required (reference para. 6.4.6.).
          6.9.2.9. Develop the unit supplement to this instruction.
          6.9.2.10. Work with all necessary base agencies to ensure SOF equipment is
          maintained in operating condition and is adequate for mission accomplishment.
          6.9.2.11. (Added-AVIANO) Maintain and publish SOFRFs in PEX. SOFRFs will
          be reviewed semi-annually by all SOFs in conjunction with the semi-annual SOF
          meeting.
7. CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. These procedures make aircraft specialists
accessible to the SOF or Ops Sup and aircrew when in-flight situations pose systems-related
questions that cannot be answered at the local level. See Attachment 4 for MDS-specific
procedures.
   7.1. Lead MAJCOMs are responsible for keeping CONFERENCE HOTEL information
   updated. As a minimum, information will be checked annually and updated as required.
   When notified that CONFERENCE HOTEL information has changed, Lead MAJCOM must
   submit the change to ACC/A3TV within 48 hours.
   7.2. Units that experience problems with CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures will report
   problems through stan/eval channels to their MAJCOM stan/eval function. The MAJCOM
   stan/eval function will ensure the Lead MAJCOM is informed so that CONFERENCE
   HOTEL information can be updated.
   7.3. If units discover updated CONFERENCE HOTEL contact information different from
   the information in this guidance, they will immediately verify the corrected information and
   forward it via email through NAF/MAJCOM stan/eval channels to ACC/A3TV (no AF Form
   847 required).
   7.4. (Added-AVIANO) Practice CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures will be conducted
   semi-annually to test connectivity and timeliness. Practice CONFERENCE HOTEL
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                           19


   procedures will only be made during normal business hours of Lockheed Martin (see SOF
   QRC). The SOF will document the practice CONFERENCE HOTEL in SOF Book #1. The
   SOF Program manager is responsible for this requirement and ensuring that it is documented.
   Reference AFI 11-418, Attachment 4, and the SOF QRC for CONFERENCE HOTEL
   procedures.
8. Unit Supplement. Each unit will provide a supplement to this instruction that, at a
minimum, includes the following items:
   8.1. Unit organization with a designated OPR of the Operations Supervision program (para.
   6.9.1.).
   8.2. Alternate SOF locations and specific equipment requirements as well as the extent of
   the unit operations complex for determining Ops Sup duty location. (para. 6.3. and Table 1,
   Note 1 & 3).
   8.3. Supervision requirements and duty locations when an FCF is airborne (para 3.2., Note
   1).
   8.4. Building and maintenance of a SOF Read File.
   8.5. Local procedures and checklists for SOFs (reference Attachment 2) to include format
   and content of the daily log (para. 4.3.10.) as well as medium (i.e. electronic, hardcopy, or
   combination) for the SOF library (para. 6.4.6.).
   8.6. Procedures for how deployed units will integrate into host unit operations supervision
   structure.
   8.7. Procedures (pager, phone, radio, etc.) for base C2 personnel to contact unit supervision
   during flying operations.
   8.8. Local CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures.
   8.9. Procedures for documenting and correcting Operations Supervision program and
   equipment deficiencies.
   8.10. Ops Sup/Top 3 qualifications, currencies, upgrade programs, crew rest and maximum
   duty period (if any).
      8.10.1. At a minimum, Ops Sup/Top 3 upgrade will consist of at least one supervised
      tour with an experience Ops Sup/Top 3 with a review of applicable AF, HHQ, and local
      published guidance relating to the daily operations and supervision of squadron aircraft.
      8.10.2. Documentation for the Ops Sup/Top 3 upgrade is at the discretion of the unit, but
      will include, as a minimum, proof of training completion that is stored in the individual’s
      training folder (as applicable).
   8.11. ANG/AFRC: Determination of who (other than the WG/CC or OG/CC), can cancel
   flying.
   8.12. ANG/AFRC: Designate both the primary and alternate SOF duty locations (para.
   6.3.2.).
 20                                              AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


   8.13. ANG/AFRC: Establish procedures for other highly qualified individuals to assist with
   SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 duties and responsibilities if required during times when one
   supervisor is covering both SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 positions.
9. Special provisions for ANG/AFRC and smaller than wing-sized units (e. g. GSUs).
   9.1. If a unit operates from a location with another organization (i.e., tenant unit), integration
   into host unit supervisory program should be attempted if operations are compatible. These
   procedures will be implemented through LOAs/MOAs.
   9.2. At the discretion of the OG/CC (or equivalent), more than one supervisory position may
   be covered by a single supervisor. The responsibilities of the SOF position take priority over
   all other duties and a single Ops Sup will be SOF certified.
   9.3. AFGSC helicopter units and missile wings are considered smaller than wing-sized units.
10. Waivers.
   10.1. Unless otherwise stated, the OG/CC is the waiver authority for this instruction.
   10.2. Waivers may be issued for a maximum of 1 year or until this instruction is superseded
   or a change is posted that affects the paragraph(s) being waived, whichever occurs first. If
   annual waivers are issued they must be reviewed semi-annually (in connection with the semi-
   annual SOF CT meeting preparation) to ensure their individual validity.
   10.3. Forward a copy of any waivers through local stan/eval channels to the MAJCOM Stan
   Eval function who will then forward a copy to the OPR for this instruction. ANG/AFRC:
   forward a copy to the Numbered Air Force /A3 with oversight responsibility. ACC-gained
   ANG units will forward a copy to ACC/A3G.




                                              HERBERT J. CARLISLE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements

                                              (AVIANO)

                                              JON A. NORMAN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                       21


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 01 Sep 2004
AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 22 Oct 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1March 2008
AFI 11-2MDS Volume 1, MDS-specific Aircrew Training
AF RDS on the AF Portal at the AFRIMS link, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A/C—Aircraft
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AFB—Air Force Base
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOO—Air operations officer
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ATC—Air traffic control
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CT—Continuation training
C2—Command and Control
 22                                       AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


DNIF—Duty not involving flying
DSN—Defense switching network
FCF—Functional check flight
FM—Frequency modulation
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HF—High frequency
IAW—In accordance with
IFE—In-flight emergency
LM—Lockheed Martin
LOA—Letter of agreement
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—-Major command
MDS—-Mission design series
MOA—Memorandum of agreement
N/A—Not applicable
N/R—Not required
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
OC-ALC—Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
OO-ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center
OG/CC—Operations group commander
OPR—Office of primary responsibility
Ops Sup—Operations supervisor
OSA—Operational Support Airlift
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PL—Precautionary Landing
POC—Point of contact
RAMC—Reliability and Maintainability Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMU—Runway monitoring unit
RSU—Runway supervisory unit
SARM—Squadron Aviation Resource Management
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014            23


SFA—Single frequency approach
SOF—Supervisor of flying
SQ/CC—-Squadron Commander
TACC—-Tanker Airlift Control Center
TO—Technical Order
Top 3—Another term for Operations Supervisor
UAS—Unmanned Air System
UHF—Ultra high frequency
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Force in Europe
VHF—Very high frequency
WG—Wing
WG/CC—Wing commander
WR-ALC—Warner Robins Air Logistics Center
 24                                          AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


                                 Attachment 1 (AVIANO)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-418, Operations Supervision, 15 September 2011
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFI 11-2F-16V3, F-16 - Operations Procedures, 18 February 2010
AFI 11-2F-16V1, F-16 - Pilot Training, 11 August 2011
T.O. 1F-16-CM-1, F-16 - Flight Manual, 1 August 2012
T.O. 1F-16CM-1CL-1 Flight Crew Checklist 15 Apr 07 (thru Change 7 1 Aug 2012)
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS – Air Force Records Information Management System
ATIS – Automatic Terminal Information System
BOC – Base Operations Center
CP – Command Post
DINS - Defense Internet NOTAM Service
FCIF - Flight Crew Information File
FIH – Flight Information Handbook
FOD – Foreign Object Debris
IFR - Instrument Flight Rules
ISOF – Instructor Supervisor of Flying
ITAF – Italian Air Force
LIPA – ITAF Weather Forecast
LMR – Land Mobile Radio
LOX - Letter of Qualification
MOC – Maintenance Operations Center
NOTAMs – Notices to Airman
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014   25


PEX – Patriot Excalibur
QRC – Quick Reaction Checklist
SAR – Search and Rescue
TAFS - Terminal Aerodrome Forecast

WX – Weather
 26                                          AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 2
                   SOF PROCEDURAL/EMERGENCY CHECKLIST

A2.1. Procedural Checklist. The SOF will have available a procedural checklist that includes
detailed instructions for the following (if applicable):

Table A2.1. SOF Procedural/Emergency Checklist.

   Item                                           Item
  Number

      1     Opening

      2     SOF changeover

      3     Closing

      4     OG/CC notification

      5     Aircraft emergency

      6     Barrier engagement

      7     Emergency divert

      8     Weather recall

      9     Change of runway

      10    Runway closure

      11    Anti-hijack

      12    Communications search

      13    Aircraft dispersal

      14    Controlled bailout
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                    27



   15    Hung ordnance

   16    Bird condition

   17    Controlled jettison

   18    Hydrazine spill/exposure

   19    Hot brakes

   20    Suspected Lasing Incident

   21    Aircraft crash

   22    Alert force exercise/scramble (if applicable)

   23    Contractor/depot emergency telephone numbers

   24    Telephone numbers for applicable regional SOFs

   25    Telephone numbers for local Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) flight service
         (if OCONUS, numbers for the associated Host Nation ATC facility), local terminal
         radar facility, and other local control towers and/or radar facilities that could
         potentially be used as alternate airfields
 28                                             AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


                                          Attachment 3
                    SUPERVISOR OF FLYING CHECKLIST GUIDE

A3.1. Normal Procedures. Note: This checklist is an example of a normal checklist. Actual
local checklist contents are at the discretion of the OG/CC.
   A3.1.1. Report to duty location 30 minutes prior to first scheduled takeoff.
   A3.1.2. Review and sign off Flight Crew Information File/SOF read file.
   A3.1.3. Review daily flying schedule.
   A3.1.4. Ensure all ramps, taxiways, runways and appropriate areas are inspected before the
   first flight of the day (visual inspection by the SOF is not required if airfield management has
   performed the inspection).
   A3.1.5. Inspect SOF kit and equipment for currency/operation.
   A3.1.6. Obtain current information on:
      A3.1.6.1. Weather:
          A3.1.6.1.1. Local
          A3.1.6.1.2. Divert bases
          A3.1.6.1.3. Operating areas and ranges
          A3.1.6.1.4. Low-level routes
      A3.1.6.2. Airfield Status (Local and Divert Bases):
          A3.1.6.2.1. Active runway
          A3.1.6.2.2. Barriers
          A3.1.6.2.3. Runway condition reading
          A3.1.6.2.4. Notices to Airman
          A3.1.6.2.5. Navigational aids
          A3.1.6.2.6. Airfield lighting
          A3.1.6.2.7. Bird activity
          A3.1.6.2.8. Emergency response vehicle status
   A3.1.7. Brief the OG/CC or his designated representative on the airfield status, weather
   conditions, divert bases, unusual events and the daily flying schedule.
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                               29


                                           Attachment 4
                            CONFERENCE HOTEL PROCEDURES

A4.1. CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures have been
established so expert technical advice is available to an aircrew, SOF or other supervisor to assist
in the recovery of a serious in-flight emergency. These procedures can put the OG/CC, SOF or
Ops Sup/Top 3 directly in contact with a representative from the Air Logistics Center (ALC), the
Wright Patterson Program Office, or the contractor.
A4.2. Emergency Assistance Numbers. The following contractor, Program Office or ALC
numbers provide a link to the most knowledgeable maintenance and engineering personnel for
each weapons system. Once the terms "placing a CONFERENCE HOTEL call" are expressed,
the person receiving the call will put the flying supervisor in contact with the appropriate experts.
A4.3. Call Initiation. To initiate CONFERENCE HOTEL, contact the appropriate facility IAW
A4.1 and provide the following information:
   A4.3.1. Indicate you are initiating a (simulated or actual) CONFERENCE HOTEL call for
   an in-flight emergency.
   A4.3.2. Caller's name and telephone number/base.
   A4.3.3. Type aircraft.
   A4.3.4. Nature of problem. In all cases, stress to the person(s) contacted that the problem
   involves an AIRBORNE EMERGENCY and technical assistance is required.
A4.4. Air Logistics Centers and Their Locations:
   A4.4.1. OC-ALC --Oklahoma City, OK (Tinker AFB)
   A4.4.2. OO-ALC --Ogden, UT (Hill AFB)
   A4.4.3. WR-ALC --Warner Robins, GA (Robins AFB)
A4.5. Specific Aircraft Paragraphs. See Table A4.1 for MDS-specific CONFERENCE
HOTEL reference paragraphs.

Table A4.1. MDS-Specific CONFERENCE HOTEL Reference Paragraphs.

 MDS                    Para        MDS                     Para          MDS            Para

 A/OA-10                A4.2.       C-20/C-37               A4.12.        10KC-135       A4.21.

 B-1                    A4.3.       CV-22                   A4.13.        MQ-1/          A4.22.
                                                                          MQ-9

 B-2                    A4.4.       E-3 / E-4 / E-8         A4.14.        R/O/W/T/       A4.23.
                                                                          C-135

 B-52                   A4.5.       F/QF-4 (all variants) A4.15.          RQ-4           A4.24.
 30                                            AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


C-5                    A4.6.     F-15 (all variants)      A4.16.         RQ-170        A4.25.

C-9                    A4.7.     F-16 (all variants)      A4.17.         T-1           A4.26.

C-12                   A4.8.     F-22A                    A4.18.         T-6           A4.27.

C-17                   A4.9.     F-35                     A4.18.         T/ AT-38      A4.28.

C-21                   A4.10.    Helicopters              A4.19.         U-2           A4.29.

C-130 (all variants)   A4.11.    KC-                      A4.20.         RC-26         A4.30.

Table A4.2. A/OA-10:

TIME        PROCEDURE                                  CONTACT                    POCs:

DUTY        Call OO-ALC                                DSN: 777-6056              Brett Hamblin
HOURS:      State: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE               DSN: 586-3265              Guy Thatcher
            HOTEL CALL FOR THE A-10                    DSN: 586-3352              Bob Anderson
            AIRCRAFT.”


NON-        Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for        DSN: 777-3007
DUTY        a phone patch to A-10 CONFERENCE           Comm:
HOURS:      HOTEL POCs. Hill Command Post
            will maintain a current listing of home     (801) 777-3007
            telephone numbers for below POCs.

Table A4.3. B-1:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                   CONTACT                    POCs:

24         Call Boeing Reliability and                 (800) 596-2951             Wilson Scott
HOURS:     Maintainability Center (RAMC)

NON-       Call Tinker RAMC                            Comm: (405) 610-3428
DUTY
HOURS:
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                     31


Table A4.4. B-2:

TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                  POCs:

24         Call B-2 Support Center               DSN: 272-7300            Jim Koharik
HOURS:                                           Comm:
                                                 Pri (661) 272-7300
                                                 Alt (661) 272-7999
                                                 Alt (661) 272-7693

Table A4.5. B-52:

TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                  POCs:

24         Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT EMERGENCY 1-800-721-0422 or              Bob Snellenberg
HOURS:                                           Comm: (206) 655-9200
                                                 or
                                                 DSN: 743-5687


           Routine, non-emergency assistance, call Comm: (316) 977-0183

Table A4.6. C-5:

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                 POCs:

24         Call Lockheed Martin                   DSN: 625-9001 or        David Ables
HOURS:                                            Comm: (770) 494-1705
                                                  Comm: (770) 494-3244


           Call WR-ALC                            DSN: 472-1207 or        Russ Alford
                                                  Comm (478) 222-1207
                                                  (478) 318-6303
 32                                           AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


NON-       Contact WR-ALC Command Post and           DSN: 497-
DUTY       ask for home phone number for above       2612/13/14/15.
HOURS:     personnel. WR-ALC Command Post            Comm: (478) 327-2612
           will maintain a current listing of home   13/14/15
           telephone numbers for POCs.

Table A4.7. C-9:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                      POCs:

DUTY       Call Boeing                               DSN: 576-6282 or             Dave
HOURS:                                                                            Williams
                                                     Comm: (618) 256-6282
                                                     Comm: (618) 420-2205 (cell
                                                     – after hours)

DUTY       Call OC-ALC/LKRE                          DSN: 336-5384 or             Tony Sitler
HOURS:                                                                            (Lead C-9
                                                     Comm: (405) 736-5384
                                                                                  Engineer)

NON-       Call TINKER Command Post, and ask         DSN: 339-2171 or
DUTY       for home phone numbers for above
HOURS      personnel. Tinker Command Post will       Comm: (405) 739-2171
           maintain a current listing of home
           telephone numbers for POCs.

Table A4.8. C-12:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                      POCs:

DUTY       Call Vertex Aerospace, Madison, MS        Comm: (601) 607-6231 or      Ron Paschal
HOURS:                                               (601) 607-6345               Mark
                                                                                  Billings

NON-       Call Vertex Aerospace, Madison, MS        Comm: (601) 856-2274         Office
DUTY       and ask for a phone patch to the POC’s    Comm:                        Ron Paschal
HOURS      home.
                                                     (601) 672-1171 (cell) or     Mark
                                                                                  Billings
                                                     (601) 672-1169(cell)
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                      33


Table A4.9. C-17:

 TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                     POCs:

 24         Call Boeing                            Comm: 562-384-3800          Mike
 HOURS:                                                                        Maidland

 24         Call Robins Command Post and ask for   DSN: 497-2612/13/14/15 or
 HOURS:     home phone numbers for above           Comm: (478) 327-2612
            personnel. Robins Command Post will
            maintain a current listing of home     /13/14/15
            telephone numbers for POCs.

Table A4.10. C-21:

 TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                     POCs:

 DUTY       Call OC-ALC/GKSS                       DSN: 336-3322 or            Bob
 HOURS:                                                                        Douglas (C-
                                                   Comm: (405) 736-3322
                                                                               21 Lead
                                                                               Engineer)

 NON-       Call Tinker Command Post, and ask for DSN: 339-2171 or
 DUTY       the C-21 Program Manager. Tinker
 HOURS      Command Post will maintain a current
            listing of home telephone numbers for Comm: (405) 739-2171
            POCs

Table A4.11. C-130 Variants (All variants).

TIME       PROCEDURE                               CONTACT                     POCs:

24         Call Lockheed Martin Technical          DSN: 625-9001 or            Steve
HOURS:     Representative:                                                     Horbath
                                                   Comm: (770) 494-1705
                                                                               Mark Neas
                                                                               Wayne
                                                                               Roberts

NON-       Call Robins Command Post and ask for    DSN: 497-2612/13/14/15 or
DUTY       home phone numbers for above            Comm: (478) 327-2612
HOURS:     personnel. Robins Command Post will
           maintain a current listing of home      /13/14/15
           telephone numbers for POCs.
 34                                         AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


Table A4.12. C-20/C-37:

 TIME        PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                   POCs:

 24          Call Gulfstream Aerospace            1-800-810-4853
 HOURS:      Corporation                          Press 0 for emergency




Table A4.13. CV-22.

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY       Contact POCs at Patuxent River Naval   Comm: (850) 881-3105/4474 Mark Whittle
HOURS:     Air Station MD                                                   (lead FST)

                                                                            Bruce
           CONTACT POCs (V-22 Fleet Support
                                                                            Ammons
           Team (FST) at NADEP Cherry Point NC
                                                                            (deputy FST)
                                                                            Eric
                                                                            Braganca

NON-                                              Comm: (252)-349-2107/2112 Mark Whittle
DUTY                                              (Cell)                    (lead FST)
HOURS
                                                                            Bruce
                                                                            Ammons
                                                                            (deputy FST)

Table A4.14. E-3 / E-4 / E-8:

 TIME        PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                   POCs:

 24          Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT                206-544-7555
 HOURS:      EMERGENCY
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                           35


Table A4.15. F/QF-4:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                  CONTACT                       POCs:

DUTY       Call OO-ALC                                DSN:               777-6056
HOURS:                                                DSN:               586-3265
           State: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE
                                                      DSN: 586-3352
           HOTEL CALL FOR THE F/QF-4
           AIRCRAFT.”

NON-       Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for a DSN: 777-3007 or                   Grant Herring
DUTY       phone patch to F/QF-4 Conference Hotel Comm: (801) 777-3007              Brett
HOURS:     POCs. Hill Command Post will maintain                                    Hamblin
           a current listing of home telephone
           numbers for listed POCs.

Table A4.16. F-15 (all Variants):

 TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                       POCs:

 24         Primary:                                  (866) 543-5444 toll free or
 HOURS:     Call Boeing in St Louis directly on the   Comm: (314) 232-9999
            dedicated CONFERENCE HOTEL
            numbers. Once connected with the
            Boeing operator, state: “THIS IS A
            CONFERENCE HOTEL CALL FOR
            THE F-15”

Table A4.17. F-16 (All Variants).

TIME       PROCEDURE                                  CONTACT                       POCs:

DUTY       (Actual emergencies only):                 DSN: 940-1284 or              Ken Worell
HOURS:     Call Lockheed Martin Aeronautics           Comm: (817) 935-5011
           Company                                                                  Davey Thorn

NON-       Ask Lockheed Martin Aeronautics            DSN: 9401284 or               Steve Jennings
DUTY       Company to patch through to POC home       Comm: (817) 935-5011 and
HOURS:     telephone numbers. Lockheed Fort
           Worth Company will maintain a current      Ask to be patched through to David
           listing of home telephone numbers for      the F-16 POC.                Vandercook
           below POCs.
 36                                         AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


Table A4.18. F-22A and F-35.

 F-22A

 TIME      PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                     POCs:

 24        Primary:                                 DSN: 625-9001 or            Tony Keith
 HOURS:    Call Lockheed Martin (LM) Aero           Comm: (770) 494-1705        Don Massett
           Marietta Company Security:               (M-F, 0600-1945 US          Bret Luedke
           State: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE             Central Time)
           HOTEL CALL.”                                                         Al Norman

 F-35

 TIME      PROCEDURE                                CONTACT            POCs:

 24        Call Lockheed F-35 ALGS Operations       888-433-5677       Buran (All)
 HOURS     Center. Once connected with the center                      Bosley (All)
           state: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE
           HOTEL CALL FOR THE F-35.”                                   Schulten (F-35A)
                                                                       VanHouten (F-35B/C)

Table A4.19. Helicopters:

 TIME      PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                     POCs:

 DUTY      Call WR-ALC GRUB.                        DSN: 468-2372               5Rotary Wing
 HOURS:                                                                         Branch

                                                    DSN: 468-7500               Joseph Jones
                                                                                (Engineering)




Table A4.20. KC-10:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                     POCs:

24         Call Boeing Operations Center            Comm: (206) 544-7500
HOURS

           Call 544th ACSS                          Comm:
                                                    (405) 414-7726
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                37


                                                 (405) 736-4978
                                                 (405) 736-4980
                                                 (405) 520-3735

NON-      Call Tinker Command Post               DSN: 339-2171
DUTY      (ask for KC-10 Program manager)
HOURS:                                           Comm: (405) 739-2171

Table A4.21. KC-135:

TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                  POCs:

24         Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT            DSN: 743-5687                 Bob
HOURS:     EMERGENCY and request connection Comm: (206) 655-9200 or       Snellenberg
           with above numbers.
                                            1-800-721-0422




                                                                          Bob Nelson
           Routine, non-emergency assistance, call Comm: (405) 200-3826
           24/7 Message Center

DUTY       Call OC-ALC/GKC                       DSN: 336-7755 or
HOURS                                            Comm: (405) 736-7755



NON-       Call 24/7 Message Center              Comm: (405) 200-3826     Bob Nelson
DUTY
HOURS

Table A4.22. MQ-1 / MQ-9.

TIME      PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                  POCs:

          Call ASC/WII Det 3, San Diego,         Comm:                    Primary: Maj
24
          CA. Ask for a POC                                               Bill Harvey
HOURS                                            858-705-2254
                                                                          Alternate:
                                                 858-774-5980             Mr. Thomas
                                                                          Kirkman
                                                                          Lt Col Power
 38                                        AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


Table A4.23. R/O/W/T/C-135:

TIME       PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                   POCs:

24         Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT                1-800-721-0422            Bob
HOURS:     EMERGENCY                                                      Snellenberg
                                                Comm: (206) 655-9200 or
                                                DSN 743-5687


           Routine, non-emergency assistance,   Comm: (316) 977-0183
           call

Table A4.24. RQ-4:

TIME       PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                   POCs:

24         Call Northrop Grumman React Center   Comm: (858) 618-4444
HOURS:

Table A4.25. RQ-170:

TIME       PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY       Call Lockheed Martin                 Comm: (661) 572-3410      Eddie Cabrera
HOURS                                           Comm: (661) 572-7329
                                                                          Jim Stolting
                                                                          Larry Pellett

NON-       Call Lockheed Martin                 Comm: (661) 245-1984      Eddie Cabrera
DUTY                                            Comm: 661-400-2021/5213 Jim Stolting
HOURS
                                                Pager: 800-206-0525       Larry Pellett
                                                Pager: 888 449-5478
                                                Pager: 888-689-1044
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                   39


Table A4.26. T-1:

TIME        PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

24          Call Hawker Beechcraft                Comm: (316) 243-8694 or
HOURS                                             (316) 712-8106

            Call 545 ACSS and state: “THIS IS A   Comm: (405) 590-4541
            CONFERENCE HOTEL CALL FOR
            THE T-1 AIRCRAFT.”

Table A4.27. T-6.

TIME        PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

24          Call HQ AFMC Command Center and       DSN: 787-6314
HOURS       state: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE          Comm: (937) 257-6314
            HOTEL CALL FOR THE T-6
            AIRCRAFT.”

Table A4.28. T/AT-38:

TIME        PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY        Call OO-ALC                           DSN: 777-6056
HOURS:      State: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE          DSN: 586-3265
            HOTEL CALL FOR THE T-38               DSN: 586-3352
            AIRCRAFT.”

NON-        Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for   DSN: 777-3007 or          Grant
DUTY        a phone patch to T-38 Conference                                Herring
                                                  Comm: (801) 777-3007
HOURS:      Hotel POCs. Hill Command Post will
            maintain a current listing of home                              Eric Flygare
            telephone numbers for below POCs.

                                                                            Brett
                                                                            Hamblin

Table A4.29. U-2:

TIME        PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY        Call Lockheed Technical               DSN: 368-9186 or          Kurt Conklin
HOURS:      Representative                        Comm (530) 788-0281
 40                                           AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


            Call General Electric Technical        DSN: 368-3913 or           Neil Kessler
            Representative                         Comm: (530) 634-3913

NON-        Primary: Call the Maintenance          DSN: 364-5750 or
DUTY        Operations Center and ask for one of   Comm: (530) 634-5750 or
HOURS:      the POCs listed.                       Comm: (530) 788-0281

Table A4.30. RC-26:

TIME       PROCEDURE                               CONTACT                    POCs:

DUTY       Call M-7 Aerospace                      Comm: (210) 820-8663 or
HOURS:                                             Comm: (210) 824-9421 Ext
                                                   7663

NON-       Call M-7 Aerospace                      Comm: (210) 824-9421 Ext
DUTY                                               7294
HOURS:
     AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                     41


                              Attachment 5 (Added-AVIANO)
                        31 FW SUPERVISOR OF FLYING REPORT

      DAY MONTH YEAR
                                             Bird
   DUTY                   RWY      VFR                                FUEL/ DIVERT
               NAME                         (L/M/   FCIF/OGRF/SOFRF
  PERIOD                 (05/23) PATTERN                                STATUS
                                              S)




                                                        AVIANO
               HOURS
ALTERNATE                FUEL   RWY     NOTAM         EQUIPMENT       IN     OUT
                 (z)
                                                        STATUS

 RIVOLTO                                               BARRIERS

 ISTRANA                                              TAXIWAYS

  CERVIA                                               LIGHTING

GROSSETO                                                 PAPI

   GHEDI                                                TACAN
                                                         GCA
                                                          ILS


COMMENTS (If urgent contact OGV at x8464)
 42                                            AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


                              Attachment 6 (Added-AVIANO)
           31 FW SUPERVISOR OF FLYING (SOF) UPGRADE CHECKLIST

Pilot ____________________ Rank _____ Unit ______ Date Entered __________
The SOF nominee named above is “Experienced” IAW AFI 11-2F-16V1 or waiver has been
approved by the 31 OG/CC. His/her qualifications have been reviewed and the nominee meets
all SOF qualifications per AFI 11-418 and AFI 11-418_31FW Supplement. Entry into the SOF
upgrade program is approved.


                                     FS/CC Signature ________________________


The following checklist will be completed by SOF candidates prior to unsupervised duties.


1. Review the following regulations, supplements, and written directives:


                                                                            DATE
INITIALS


a. Read AFI 11-418 & AFI 11-418_AVIANO AB SUP                     ________     _________


b. Read AFI 11-202, Vol 3_USAFE SUP                               ________     _________


c. Read AFI 11-2F-16 Vol 3_USAFE SUP_AVIANO AB SUP (Local Chapter 8)
                                                ________   _________


d. Review 31 FW Pilot Aid                                         ________     _________


e. Review 31 FW Flight Crew Information Files and OG Read Files
                                                      ________          _________


f. Review 31 FW SOF Read File                                     ________     _________


g. Review 31 FW SOF Quick Reaction Checklist (QRC)                ________     _________


h. Review 31 FW SOF Books 1, 2, and 3                             ________     _________
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                            43



i. Read Aviano SOF Information Package in SOF Book 1                ________     _________


j. Take SOF Test (31 OG/OGV)                                        ________     _________


k. Flight Line Driver’s License (Squadron ADPM / Baseops)           ________     _________


l. SOF e-mail and PEX Access (31 OG/OGV and 31 OSS/OSOS) ________                _________


m. Get JET Access (Weather Flt Chief at DSN 632-7628 / 9555) ________            _________


2. Visit the following base support agencies to become familiar with facilities, procedures, and
limitations. These visits should emphasize the close interaction required between support
agencies and SOF, emphasizing procedures and considerations used during IMC and night
operations.


ORGANIZATION                  BLDG#          TELEPHONE              DATE        INITIALS


a. Base Ops                   31 OSS / 904          x7222           ________     _________


b. Fire / Crash / Rescue      1434                  x6150           ________     _________


c. Base Weather               31 OSS / 904          x7629           ________     _________


d. Tower                      1302                  x7815/7861      ________     _________


e. RAPCON                     1307                  x7554           ________     _________


f. 31 FW CP                   31 FW / 1360          x7673           _______ _______


3. Complete at least one tour observing a qualified ISOF (SOF See) and one tour acting as
primary SOF (SOF Do) under the direct supervision of a qualified ISOF (at least one will be an
opening tour). Both tours will be a minimum of 2 hours in length.
 44                                            AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


                                                    DATE         ISOF (print name and initial)


a. Tour 1 (SOF See)*                        __________       ________________________
        (Opening tour w/ one complete launch & recovery. Conduct an actual airfield inspection
in the SOF truck)


b. Tour 2 (SOF Do)                          __________       ________________________
       (Opening or closing tour)


Topics for ISOF to discuss:
   1. Operation of the SOF truck, its maintenance, and inspection requirements.
   2. Interaction with tower personnel (Watch Sup being primary link).
   3. SOF Radio/telephone/control panel/LMR operations.
   4. Capabilities and limitations of tower SOF position (communications, equipment, etc.)
   5. Determining alternates (single alternate, dual alternate, Night, IMC, weather products and
      useful links).
   6. Airfield familiarity and Runway/Taxiway/FOD check
   7. Emergency Procedures - Emphasis will be placed on use of checklists, TOs, coordination
      with appropriate agencies, and taking a proactive role in the situation. The upgradee will
      accomplish one actual or simulated IFE while acting as primary SOF.


4. Complete an interview from 31 OG/CC on responsibilities, personal philosophy, expectations,
and authority of the SOF. Upgradee has completed all required training for SOF and is hereby
certified as a 31 FW Supervisor of Flying.


                                           31 OG/CC Signature ________________________
                                                                Date__________________


__________________ has completed 10 SOF tours and is named an instructor SOF.


               31 OG/CC Signature ________________________ Date:_________________
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                             45


                               Attachment 7 (Added-AVIANO)
                 TDY SOF INTEGRATION CHECKLIST TO 31 FW OPS
                   (FOR CURRENTLY QUALIFIED SOFS IN MDS)

The following checklist will be completed prior to unsupervised SOF duties. DETCOs will
ensure their unit SOFs complete the following checkout program. Briefings by 31 OG/OGV
will be given to an initial cadre of TDY SOFs. This initial cadre will visit the tower with a
31 FW ISOF and sit a supervised tour. Later, that unit’s qualified SOF cadre can provide
the checkout briefings and tower familiarization tour within the unit.


   1. Read the Aviano SOF “Info Packet” (OPR: 31 OG/OGV). This packet will answer
      the majority of questions about Aviano SOF duties.
   2. Review and discuss the following with 31 OG/OGV:


         a. AFI 11-418 and AVIANO SUP
         b. AFI 11-202 Vol 3 USAFESUP_AVIANOABSUP
         c. 31 FW Pilot Aid
         d. 31 FW Flight Crew Information Files & Operations Group Read Files
         e. 31 FW SOF Read Files
         f. 31 FW SOF books and the SOF QRC
         g. AFI 11-2F-16 Vol 3 AVIANOABSUP


3. Accomplish a SOF tour with a qualified 31 FW ISOF or Aviano qualified TDY SOF.


The individual(s) listed below from the ____________ (unit) have completed the SOF
Upgrade Checklist:


NAME                                                DATE
__________________________________________________________________________


__________________________________________________________________________


__________________________________________________________________________


__________________________________________________________________________
 46                                            AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014



__________________________________________________________________________


__________________________________________________________________________


__________________________________________________________________________


__________________________________________________________________________


__________________________________________________________________________



DETCO SIGNATURE: _______________________________
DETCO Rank/Name (print): __________________________


4. Attach additional pages if necessary. Please retain the original with your unit Stan/Eval
and forward a copy of this completed form to 31 OG/OGV. Call 632-8464 if you have
questions.
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                             47


                               Attachment 8 (Added-AVIANO)
                                 SOF OPENING CHECKLIST

1. Inspect the SOF truck. If required, accomplish an airfield inspection (b and c).
       a. Sign off AF Form 1800, note any discrepancies (also list discrepancies in the
          SOF Daily Report). If it is the beginning of the month, put the used form 1800 in
          the glove container and start a new form (additional forms in the glove
          container).
       b. Accomplish a FOD check of taxiways A, B, Bravo Pad, runway, barriers, and
          arming areas. Advise Tower to call FOD sweeper if necessary. Document
          significant FOD in the SOF Daily Report.
       c. If the FOD check is accomplished when the field is closed and no controllers are
          in the tower, obtain clearance from the CP (Falcon Ops) to drive on the airfield to
          conduct the FOD check.


2. Review the following
       a. Previous day SOF Daily Report
       b.    Review DINS NOTAMS ( https://www.notams.jcs.mil for current NOTAMS),
            ITAF NOTAMS (from ITAF controller), ZITA NOTAMS (from ITAF
            controller)
       c. Open the flying schedule in PEX. Review the schedule -- Check for AOR
          missions, X/C missions, FCFs, LFEs, etc. that may require coordination. Track
          T/O and landings. Verify with squadron SARMs/Ops Sups any schedule
          changes. Cross check pilot weather categories with current wx/field status. Print
          out schedule as a backup.
       d. Review any new FCIFs, OGRF, SRF, and SOFRF. Print and post them in the
          SOF books. Annotate current read files on SOF report.
       e. Weather – Obtain phone brief and review internet products. Use latest WX
          internet links located in the document titled “SOF links” at S:\31OG\31 OGV.


3. Coordinate alternates/diverts through the ITAF controller and list them in the SOF Daily
   Report. Specific items to verify are divert availability, times, and confirm alternates
   booked one hour past last scheduled land time.


4. Determine airfield/flying status:
       a. Ensure Base ops has conducted an airfield inspection.
       b. Verify availability of SAR assets with Italian controllers/BOC. If SAR assets
       limited/unavailable, contact Padova Mil at (+39) 049-8222292 to determine exactly
       what airspace will be available. Notify OG/CC and Ops Sups ASAP with updates as
 48                                              AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


       appropriate.
       c. 31 FW field status/pattern status/ATIS (coordinate with Watch Supervisor).
       d. Verify cable status, runway lighting, etc. with Watch Supervisor.
       e. Verify suitability of alternates. Cross-Check WX, NOTAMs, cable status & pilot
       WX Cats.
       f. Check for any restrictions to flying (Hot Cargo Pad movement, Vault Ops, etc.).
       g. Establish bird watch condition (ref QRC page 3-4). Initiate BASH procedures
       and/or bird cannons if necessary.
       h. Determine if Ice FOD procedures are necessary IAW the IFG.
       i. Notify flying squadrons of airfield status.
       j. Turn on the Bird Cannon computer.


5. Check communication equipment:
       a. SOF UHF/VHF radios (375.45 / 140.25 MULTI CH 20).
       b. SFA UHF/VHF radios (378.82 / 140.42 MULTI CH 9).
       c. SOF LMR
       d. Hot lines as required.


6. Brief 31 OG/CC (or designated acting OG) IAW SOF Opening Briefing, QRC p. 1-1.
                       OG/CC           OG/CD               OSS/CC
       Office:
       Home:
       Cell:


7. Inspect pubs and Hit-and-Run kit. If not current and complete, call 31 OG/OGV x8464
immediately.
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                              49


                               Attachment 9 (Added-AVIANO)
                                SOF CLOSING CHECKLIST

Ensure all local aircraft are accounted for including: FCFs, PDM deliveries/pick ups, cross
countries, or deployments/AOS movements. Remain in the tower until the last jet has shut
down.


   1. If any TDY USAF units have aircraft airborne, ensure they have a qualified SOF in
   the Tower prior to departing.


   2. If you encountered any hardware problems, document in the SOF Daily Report. Call
   31 OG/OGV at x8464 with any major issues/problems.


   3. Complete the SOF Daily Report. Save it to: D:/SOF/Daily Report folder
   (appropriate year and month) and e-mail it to the 31 OG/SOF, 31 OSS/OSA, and the
   personal accounts of the OG/CC and OG/CD. Copy the text of the SOF report into the
   body of an HTML email, do not attach the document.


   4. Clean up SOF work area. Shut down the bird cannon computer.


   5. De-select channels and turn down all dials on the UHF/VHF control board.


   6. Call the clinic to inform them local flying is finished for the day: x5101/5601 or after
   hours call the on-call Flight Surgeon at 335-848-2582.


   7. Contact the on duty flight safety representative to inform him that local flying is
   finished: 335-848-4100.


   8 Notify 31 OG/CC and 31 FW CP that all local flying is finished. Call 31 OG/CC (7
   days/ week, 0700L to 2200L) IAW SOF Closing Briefing, p. 1-1.


                    OG/CC            OG/CD                   OSS/CC
       Office:
       Home:
       Cell:
50                                           AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


  9. Make a broadcast on Falcon Net: “This is Falcon SOF. All local flying is terminated
  for the day.” Turn off the LMR and make sure it is in the charger.


  10. Hook SOF truck keys on LMR antenna and take out the trash.
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                  51


                         Attachment 10 (Added-AVIANO)
                         END OF DAY FLYING REPORT

                                          xxx FIGHTER SQUADRON


                                                         End of Day Report

DATE:     15 Feb 08    TOP 3:     Last Name          Devs.      MX Super Last Name
                                                     Debrf'd
                                                     w/
Spare
Status
            1st Go:      0/1          2nd Go:           1/0       3rd Go:      0/1
(A/A /
A/G)


1. FLYING SCHEDULE.
SCHEDULED             FLOWN                    Pilot Late Steps (< 40 min to TO)




2. DEVIATIONS.
              CALLSIGN                         REASON
  LINE#                         TAIL#          (Add/Cnx/MND/GAB/LTO/etc) Non-
                                               Eff?




3. ALL EMERGENCIES.
 LINE#     CALLSIGN        TAIL #          Pilot         DETAILED COMMENTS




4. JETS OFF-STATION (X-COUNTRY, DIVERT BASES).
  #      CALLSIGN     LOCATION      Pilot(s)                  COMMENTS
 52                                             AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014




5. NON-EFFECTIVE or REDUCED EFFECTIVENESS TRAINING SORTIES.


LINE# CALLSIGN            TAIL    SCHED                 REASON/REMARKS
                           #       MSN




6. AIRSPACE VIOLATIONS. (Mach bust, Spill Outs, Denials, Restricted/Prohibited
area busts)
LINE#      CALLSIGN       AIRSPACE        TIME        DETAILED EVENT      TRNG
                                                       DESCRIPTION       Affected?




7. OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION FROM DAILY EVENTS (Orientation
Flight Status, etc)


LINE#      CALLSIGN         DETAILED EVENT DESCRIPTION           TRNG Affected?




1.    E-MAIL DAILY TO: 31 OG/CC, CD, FS/CC, DO, ADOs, Flt CCs, SQ/WG
      Safety
2.    Copy / paste to new message: (Insert Email distro here)
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                         53


                             Attachment 11 (Added-AVIANO)
                              TOP 3 CONTINUITY BOOK

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Normal Procedures
   1. Step Brief
   2. Opening Checklist
   3. Changeover Checklist
   4. Closing Checklist
   5. DV/Fam /Incentive Checklists
   6. Schedule Approval Checklist


2. Abnormal Procedures
   1. Accident Response Checklist
   2. SOF QRC Checklist
   3. Surety Checklist
   4. Bugout Checklist
   5. FPCON Measures
   6. Sonic Boom Procedures


3. Exercise Information
   1. 31 OG FATSO Guide


4. Rosters and Phone Numbers
   1. Quick Reference Numbers
   2. Recall Rosters
   3. Base Phone Book


5. Miscellaneous
          a. Top 3 and Flight Order Authorization Letter
          b. Letter of X’s (LOX)
          c. Pilot Flying and Ground Currencies
54                                      AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014


     d. F-16 Maintenance Fault List (MFL) Listing
     e. 31 OG Operations Supervisor (TOP-3) Upgrade Checklist
     f. Flight-line Photography Authorization Letters
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014   55
56   AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014   57
58   AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014   59
60   AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014   61
62   AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                            63


                              Attachment 12 (Added-AVIANO)
         31 OG OPERATIONS SUPERVISOR (TOP 3) UPGRADE CHECKLIST

II. Pilot ________________ Rank _________ Date Entered __________
The following checklist will be completed by Top 3 candidates prior to unsupervised duties.
Top 3 candidates should be selected from among the most experienced pilots in the squadron,
typically flight CC, shop chiefs, and above. Top-3s will be certified by the SQ/CC.


1. REGULATION REVIEW*                                                 DATE
INITIALS


a. Read AFI 11-418 & AFI 11-418 AVIANOABSUP                                  ________
________


b. Read AFI 11-202 Vol 3 USAFE SUP                                  ________            ________


c. Read AFI 11-2F-16 Vol 3                                   ________               ________


d. Read AFI 11-2F-16AVIANOABSUP                                     ________
________


e. Read ACCI 21-165 Aviano Sup, Chapters 3,4,6,7                     ________
________


*NOTE: These regulations may be accessed on E-Publishing and the ‘OGV Pubs’ folder on the
OGV Sharepoint site (https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/31OG/OGV%20Stan%20Eval/default.aspx)


2. PERFORM THE FOLLOWING EVENTS


a. a. Meet with SQ/DO                                                      ________
_________
  (discuss responsibilities, personal philosophy, expectations, and authority of the Top-3)


b. b. Get JET access (Weather Flt Chief at DSN 632-7628 / 9555)                  ________
_________
 64                                                 AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014



c. c. Ride with Maintenance Pro-Super for a launch                                   ________
_________
  (1 hour prior to first T/O till end of launch)


d. Visit MOC (x-7551)                                                       ________
_________
  (emphasize Top-3 interaction and MOC reporting reqt’s)


3. UPGRADE TOURS                                   DATE        TOP 3 NAME AND INITIALS
a. Tour 1 (Top 3 See)               __________            ________________________
(note: one tour must be opening and the other closing)
   Topics to discuss:
   1. Pro-super interaction
   2. SOF interaction
   3. MOC interaction
   4. WX/NOTAM/Mass brief
   5. SARM duties
   6. Bird Board
   7. Opening/Changeover/Closing actions
   8. LTO/LL guidance
   9. Deviations (ACCI 21-165, chapter 4)
   10. End of Fly report: creation and usage by outside agencies


b. Tour 2 (Top 3 Do)                    __________             ________________________
   Topics to discuss:
   11. Accident response
   12. Search and Rescue response
   13. Sonic Boom response
   14. Immediate flight plans
   15. Following day schedule review process
   16. Wing standup binder review
AFI11-418_AVIANOABSUP_I 16 MAY 2014                                                              65


4. Upgradee has completed all required training for Top 3 and is hereby certified as a ____ FS
Operations Supervisor.


                                                                              FS/CC Signature


                                                              ________________________
