BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-111
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 18 MAY 2012
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 16 June 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                        INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO THE
                                                              ACQUISITION LIFE-CYCLE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A2DP                                                              Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                (Brig Gen Mark W. Westergren)
Supersedes:   AFI 14-111, 10 January 2005                                              Pages: 23


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations, and is consistent with
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI)
Protection Within the Department of Defense, AFPD 10-9 Lead Command Designation and
Responsibilities for Weapons Systems, AFPD 16-7, Special Access Programs, AFPD 63-1,
Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process,
and AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, and guidance portion in Department of Defense
Directive (DoDD) 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data (IMD) Within the DoD.
This publication must be used in conjunction with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-601,
Operational Capability Requirements Development, AFI 14-132, Air Force Geospatial
Intelligence (GEOINT), AFI 14-201, Intelligence Production and Applications, AFI 14-205,
Geospatial Information and Services, Operational Capability Requirements Development, AFI
63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, AFI 63-114, Quick Reaction
Capability Process, AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, AFI 99-114, Foreign
Materiel Program. This publication applies to Regular Component, Air Force Reserve (AFR),
Air National Guard (ANG), and Department of the Air Force (AF) Civilians. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS). Submit change recommendations using an AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). This
publication may be supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval. Upon publication, MAJCOMS
 2                                                                                       AFI14-111 18 May 2012


will ensure copies are provided to the OPR. Compliance waiver requests must be submitted
through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, all other waivers
will be submitted to the publication OPR.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change identifies tiered waiver authorities for unit level compliance items to depict
the assessed risk of non-compliance and updates the certifying official. A margin bar (|)
indicates newly revised material.

        1.      ACQUISITION INTELLIGENCE ........................................................................   2
        2.      ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES .....................................................................    3
        3.      IMPLEMENTATION CONCEPTS ......................................................................      9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                      14


1. ACQUISITION INTELLIGENCE
     1.1. Purpose. Successful development of weapons systems, new operational concepts, and
     innovative combat techniques depends upon rapid, precise, accurate, and detailed
     intelligence, along with the infrastructure needed to provide it. Three key processes in the
     Department of Defense (DoD) must work in concert to deliver the capabilities required by
     the warfighter: The requirements process, the acquisition process and the Planning,
     Programming, Budget and Execution (PPBE) process. Acquisition intelligence activities
     span all three processes, as well as additional processes that are unique to the Intelligence
     Community (IC). Intelligence Supportability Analysis (ISA) is the process by which AF
     intelligence, acquisition and operations analysts identify, document and plan for
     requirements, needs and supporting intelligence infrastructure necessary to successfully
     acquire and employ AF capabilities, thereby ensuring intelligence supportability. ISA is
     required throughout a program’s life cycle, and should be considered for all programs and
     initiatives. This publication outlines processes and provides guidance to ensure intelligence
     and its related infrastructure are aligned and integrated appropriately within AF acquisition-
     related activities.
     1.2. Objective. To support effective research, development, fielding, employment,
     sustainment and improvement of AF capabilities by identifying intelligence requirements,
     resolving/mitigating deficiencies, integrating intelligence, and providing needed intelligence
     data and infrastructure in a timely and secure manner.
     1.3. Tenets. Effective acquisition intelligence support is:
        1.3.1. Relevant, providing meaningful support that enables programs to optimize
        capabilities.
        1.3.2. Iterative, providing timely intelligence inputs to the materiel effort along
        acquisition timelines in an evolving fashion dictated by materiel development and
        sustainment needs.
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                           3


      1.3.3. Tailored, focusing products and processes to meet the needs of the users while
      reducing extraneous information.
      1.3.4. Collaborative.        Requiring partnership across acquisition, intelligence,
      counterintelligence, and requirements communities in order to identify and resolve
      intelligence issues related to new and evolving programs.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
  2.1. General
      2.1.1. USAF Intelligence Offices are the primary interface to the National Intelligence
      Community and will partner with the IC to provide intelligence products and services,
      and to identify and resolve the intelligence needs of AF programs.
      2.1.2. Authoritative threat intelligence information will be used by AF programs when
      validated intelligence information is not required. The National Air and Space
      Intelligence Center (NASIC) and other DoD/Service intelligence production centers
      provide authoritative threat intelligence information suitable for program use.
  2.2. Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) Serves as the
  Senior Security Official for the AF with oversight and policy authority for all AF SAPs.
  2.3. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ): Sets policy and
  direction for AF acquisition processes to ensure intelligence dependencies, shortfalls and
  requisite courses of action are identified to resolve shortfalls for intelligence-sensitive
  programs.
   2.4. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2):
      2.4.1. Sets policy and direction for AF intelligence processes to ensure intelligence
      products and services are integrated across the full acquisition life cycle. This includes
      research, development, acquisition, test, modernization and sustainment activities.
      2.4.2. Provides oversight of the processes and procedures governing derived intelligence
      requirements.
      2.4.3. Participates in the development of, and reviews requirements, planning, and
      acquisition documents and ensures they adequately address intelligence interests and
      have appropriate intelligence content.
      2.4.4. Collaborates with AF/A3/5 and SAF/AQ to provide intelligence support during
      development of new requirements and program documents.
      2.4.5. Represents AF ISR interests with respect to DoD and other agency activities
      impacting AF acquisition intelligence programs.
      2.4.6. Collaborates with Intelligence Agencies and across AF staffs to establish policies
      for threat Modeling & Simulation (M&S) efforts.
      2.4.7. Establishes workforce standards for acquisition intelligence competencies to
      include initial certification and recurring training, as appropriate. Approval authority for
      Major Command (MAJCOM) requests for waivers to acquisition intelligence
      certification requirements.
4                                                                      AFI14-111 18 May 2012


       2.4.8. Advises the Director of Acquisition Career Management on acquisition
       intelligence workforce management issues, and assists in execution of acquisition
       workforce responsibilities in respective acquisition functions IAW AFI 36-2640,
       Executing Total Force Development.
       2.4.9. Ensures collaboration between the IC and AF requirements, planning and
       acquisition communities in the development and sustainment of warfighting capabilities.
       2.4.10. Provides intelligence certification recommendation as part of Joint Capabilities
       Integration and Development System (JCIDS) coordination and leverages acquisition
       intelligence inputs such as Independent Intelligence Assessment (IIA) to develop
       certification recommendations.
       2.4.11. IAW AFPD 16-7, advocates intelligence requirements, provides substantive
       intelligence support, oversees acquisition intelligence support and provides intelligence
       oversight for all SAPs.
    2.5. Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5):
       2.5.1. Ensures intelligence dependencies are described within applicable JCIDS
       documents per Joint Staff guidance and addressed within the AF Requirements Oversight
       144 Council requirements approval process.
       2.5.2. Collaborates with AF/A2 for intelligence support on issues concerning system
       performance, system survivability and validation of operational survivability
       requirements as well as on Planning and direction, Collection, Processing and
       exploitation, Analysis and production, and Dissemination (PCPAD) architectures and
       supportability.
       2.5.3. Ensures that AF/A2 participates in the development and review of requirements,
       planning, and acquisition documents to ensure they adequately address intelligence
       interests, concept of operations (CONOPS), and have appropriate intelligence content.
       2.5.4. Coordinates JCIDS documents with AF/A2 for intelligence certification
       recommendation prior to forwarding for Joint Staff intelligence certification.
       2.5.5. As lead for AF M&S policy and standards, collaborates with AF/A2 and NASIC
       to establish policy for threat M&S efforts, to include those performed in support of
       program-based requirements development and simulation-based support activities
       throughout the life cycle.
    2.6. MAJCOM/Field Operating Agency (FOA):
       2.6.1. Identify ISR subject matter experts (SMEs) (to include acquisition intelligence
       specialists) and process owners to support requirements development High-Performance
       Team (HPT) processes. (T-2)
       2.6.2. Ensure timely, complete, sufficient, and accurate intelligence analysis, information
       and support is provided to and integrated within capabilities-based planning and
       requirements development processes and life cycle PPBE documentation. (T-2)
       2.6.3. Provide initial certification of personnel as acquisition intelligence specialists
       based upon the following minimum requirements: (1) completion of Defense Acquisition
       University courses ACQ 101, Fundamentals of Systems Acquisition Management and
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                          5


      RQM 110, Core Concepts for Requirements Management, (2) completion of the
      Acquisition Intelligence Formal Training Unit, (3) one year experience in a designated
      acquisition intelligence position. Submit requests for waivers to initial certification
      requirements to MAJCOM/FOA A2. (T-2)
      2.6.4. Collaborate with AF/A2 to designate positions as acquisition intelligence
      positions. (T-2)
      2.6.5. Participate in acquisition intelligence activities as follows:
         2.6.5.1. Assist in the MAJCOM/FOA development of strategic plans and other
         acquisition-related documents, studies and analyses, ensuring ISR requirements and
         constraints are addressed. (T-2)
         2.6.5.2. Participate in identification of intelligence support requirements for
         intelligence-sensitive acquisition programs. (T-2)
         2.6.5.3. Draft and coordinate intelligence content for JCIDS and other requirements,
         acquisition and program planning documents for completeness, supportability,
         impact, and threat content. (T-2)
         2.6.5.4. Coordinate analysis of requirements to identify ISR-related deficiencies and
         guide efforts to resolve those deficiencies. (T-2)
         2.6.5.5. Participate in acquisition intelligence forums, as appropriate (e.g.,
         Intelligence Support Working Group (ISWG), Threat Steering Group (TSG), etc.) to
         support derivation of intelligence requirements, intelligence costing, assessment of
         data shortfalls, and development of courses of action to address shortfalls. (T-2)
         2.6.5.6. Coordinate with implementing command A2 to determine acquisition
         intelligence lifecycle support required for intelligence-sensitive materiel requirements
         (rapid reaction, modernization and sustainment, acquisition etc.). (T-2)
         2.6.5.7. Submit requirements for and/or assist in the justification of requirements for
         modifications to fielded programs, based on emerging threats or technologies that
         jeopardize the mission effectiveness or survivability of the system. (T-2)
   2.7. Program Executive Officers (PEOs), Technology Executive Officer, Designated
   Acquisition Officials (DAOs) and PMs.
      2.7.1. In collaboration with implementing command designated intelligence focal points,
      ensure programs within their responsibility receive appropriate acquisition intelligence
      support IAW AFI 14-111 and AFI 63-101.
      2.7.2. Determine Program Protection Plan (PPP) intelligence requirements IAW DoDI
      5200.39. (T-0)
   2.8. Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA). In
   addition to FOA responsibilities, AFISRA also:
      2.8.1. Through NASIC, provide air, space and cyber intelligence assessments, products
      and services for a wide range of needs. (T-3)
         2.8.1.1. Ensure NASIC chairs and/or attend TSGs. (T-3)
6                                                                        AFI14-111 18 May 2012


          2.8.1.2. NASIC, as lead AF agency for production of Capstone Threat Assessments
          (CTAs), System Threat Assessments (STAs) and System Threat Assessment Reports
          (STARs), validate all intelligence production requirements (PR) and broker/monitor
          status of such requirements for satisfaction through the Defense Intelligence Analysis
          Program (DIAP). NASIC is the AF validation authority for Acquisition Category
          (ACAT) IC and ACAT II authoritative threat documents. NASIC is also responsible
          for applying the analysis of other national, DoD agencies/organizations, or allied
          intelligence services, as needed, to meet the need of the USAF force modernization
          and acquisition communities. (T-3)
          2.8.1.3. Identify data production capabilities and shortfalls impacting acquisition
          programs. Identify associated operational impacts to support risk assessments and
          course of action development. (T-2)
          2.8.1.4. Collaborate with AF/A2 and AF/A3/5, to establish standards for threat M&S
          efforts, to include those performed in support of program/capability-based
          requirements development and simulation-based support activities throughout the life
          cycle. (T-3)
          2.8.1.5. Review      threat    and     life-cycle    intelligence  mission    data
          plans/documents/studies/ assessments prior to milestone (MS) reviews, as required.
          Ensure threat and intelligence mission data information meet DoD and AF standards.
          (T-2)
          2.8.1.6. Monitor Critical Intelligence Parameters and provide appropriate notification
          in case of a breach. (T-2)
    2.9. Implementing Command (Air Force Material Command (AFMC), Air Force Space
    Command (AFSPC)):
       2.9.1. Ensure ready forces and capabilities (to include tools) to execute their acquisition
       intelligence mission. (T-2)
          2.9.1.1. Collaborate with AF/A2 to establish workforce training standards for
          acquisition intelligence competencies, to include initial certification and recurring
          training, as appropriate. (T-2)
          2.9.1.2. Lead development of curricula for Acquisition Intelligence Formal Training
          Unit. (T-2)
          2.9.1.3. Provide initial certification of personnel as acquisition intelligence specialists
          based upon the following minimum requirements: (1) completion of Defense
          Acquisition University courses ACQ 101, Fundaments of Systems Acquisition
          Management and RQM 110, Core Concepts for Requirements Management (2)
          completion of the Acquisition Intelligence Formal Training Unit (3) one year
          experience in a designated acquisition intelligence position. (T-2)
          2.9.1.4. Maintains and updates, the Acquisition Intelligence Guidebook (AIG), as
          required. The guidebook serves as a reference on intelligence tasks throughout the life
          cycle of an acquisition program or project and is available from AFMC/A2X. (T-3)
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                          7


      2.9.2. Ensure timely, complete, sufficient, and accurate intelligence analysis, information
      and support are provided to and integrated into acquisition and sustainment processes.
      (T-2)
      2.9.3. In collaboration with the lead command A2 and programs, performs objective
      assessments of intelligence impacts associated with intelligence-sensitive programs from
      both an impact to acquisition and impact to operational employment perspective. (T-2)
         2.9.3.1. Documents identify impact in IIA and provide that information to AF/A2 to
         support intelligence certification recommendations as well as other Headquarters AF
         and DoD level planning and requirements activities. (T-2)
      2.9.4. Oversee and manage the conduct of acquisition intelligence, as follows:
         2.9.4.1. Determine intelligence sensitivity of programs and advise program offices
         and MAJCOMs/FOAs (for new programs) of corresponding levels of support
         required to execute acquisition intelligence responsibilities. This information supports
         development of acquisition program baselines that account for program office
         intelligence workload. (T-1)
         2.9.4.2. Oversee and review completion of ISA for programs to include
         documentation of intelligence requirements, deficiencies, and proposed solutions.
         This must be accomplished for programs in all phases including technology
         development, acquisition, test and sustainment. (T-2)
         2.9.4.3. Work with PEOs/DAOs to identify requirements for acquisition intelligence
         related program facilities, personnel and resources. (T-2)
         2.9.4.4. Identify and submit intelligence PRs to initiate IC production processes. (T-
         1)
         2.9.4.5. Obtain expertise and cost data from intelligence agencies, as necessary.
         Work with acquisition counterparts (program manager (PM), Technology Lead, etc.)
         and MAJCOMs/FOAs to ensure intelligence costs are included in life cycle cost
         estimates and program budgets. (T-3)
         2.9.4.6. Provide intelligence input to command attestation/certification of acquisition
         requirements feasibility. (T-2)
         2.9.4.7. Provide intelligence analytical support to capabilities-based planning
         activities, as required. (T-2)
         2.9.4.8. Perform Cross-Program Analysis (CPA) of program derived intelligence
         requirements to ensure consolidation of common deficiencies and facilitate
         development of multi-program solutions. Provide resulting derived requirements to
         appropriate MAJCOMs/FOAs for resolution via established AF requirements
         processes as well as to IC agencies for resolution via established intelligence PRs
         processes. (T-3)
         2.9.4.9. Ensure acquisition intelligence specialists participate in force modernization
         forums (such as AF capabilities planning forums, TSGs, HPTs, Capability Material
         Teams, ISWGs, etc.). (T-2)
8                                                                     AFI14-111 18 May 2012


          2.9.4.10. Coordinate transition of intelligence requirements, responsibilities and
          resources as programs transition between research sites, centers or other IC
          organizations. Draft Intelligence Annex to Transition Support Plans. (T-3)
       2.9.5. Facilitate Threat Working Groups (TWGs) to identify emerging weapons and
       technologies that may threaten acquisition programs or the long-term viability (mission
       effectiveness and survivability) of AF weapon systems in sustainment. Assist, as
       necessary, with justification for threat-driven modifications to weapon systems, in
       coordination with program offices and lead command A2 personnel. (T-2)
       2.9.6. Recommend approval/disapproval to AF/A2 of program requests for waivers to
       required intelligence planning and threat documentation (e.g. STAR, intelligence mission
       data or signature support plans, etc.). (T-3)
       2.9.7. Ensure weapon systems in the Operations and Support phase receive threat
       assessments as needed throughout their lifecycle, to support in-service upgrades relevant
       to adversaries, reprogramming, and capability advancements. (T-2)
       2.9.8. Review information provided via AF Form 1067, Modification Proposals, IAW
       AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, for systems in sustainment. Determine
       whether the identified deficiencies/suggested modifications are intelligence sensitive and
       require intelligence support. (T-2)
    2.10. Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC):
       2.10.1. Ensure that Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) program threat/target lists
       and OT&E threat environments are adequately addressed. Ensure appropriate intelligence
       is used to support test planning and the development of the threat/target/environment
       (TTE) portions of AFOTEC documents. (T-1)
       2.10.2. Participate in STAR TSG, CTA and other acquisition intelligence forums, as
       appropriate. (T-1)
       2.10.3. Coordinate with operating and implementing commands to identify and
       document total intelligence support requirements for OT&E. Ensure validated threat and
       ISA are included in Test and Evaluation Master Plans (TEMPs), and Operational Test
       Plans. (T-1)
       2.10.4. Work with MAJCOM/FOA and direct report unit intelligence offices and IC
       organizations to ensure development of appropriate OT&E threat lists/scenarios to
       support Initial Operational Test and Evaluation. (T-1)
    2.11. Air Education and Training Command:
       2.11.1. In addition to responsibilities outlined for MAJCOMs/FOAs, design, develop,
       and instruct acquisition intelligence training courses at the direction of the AF Career
       Field Manager (CFM). (T-3)
       2.11.2. Incorporate acquisition intelligence concepts and materials into acquisition and
       intelligence training programs at the direction of the appropriate AF CFM. (T-3)
    2.12. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI)
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                            9


      2.12.1. AFOSI will provide input to program protection planners in concert with
      MAJCOM senior intelligence officers (SIOs) IAW DoDI O-5240.24, Counterintelligence
      (CI) Activities Supporting Research, Development, and Acquisition (RDA). (T-0)
      2.12.2. Operating or implementing command SIOs will identify counter-intelligence
      topics, vulnerabilities and opportunities to AFOSI command representative as required.
      (T-3)
3. IMPLEMENTATION CONCEPTS
   3.1. Acquisition Intelligence Process Requirements. The following conditions are
   necessary for intelligence support to be effectively integrated within acquisition life cycle
   processes:
      3.1.1. Common access to and understanding of a program and its intelligence needs,
      across the intelligence, operations, planning, requirements, research, acquisition and
      sustainment communities.
      3.1.2. Integration of acquisition intelligence stakeholders into assessment, analysis,
      planning, programming, and decision activities to provide data for cost, schedule and
      performance tradeoffs.
      3.1.3. Tailoring of acquisition intelligence processes to each program. Ensuring they are
      executed as early as possible in the life cycle, and repeated, as necessary, during the life
      cycle. As requirements become more defined, more details about intelligence
      supportability and potential shortfalls can be derived.
   3.1.4. The Operations and Support (O&S) phase of a weapon system usually lasts for
   decades and will encounter evolving theats throughout its life cycle. Warfighters depend on
   appropriate threat assessments to ensure weapon systems remain mission effective and
   survivable. Consistent processes during the O&S phase should support needed in-service
   upgrades relevant to adversaries, including “reprogramming” and capability advancements.
   3.2. Process. Acquisition intelligence includes the following intelligence considerations for
   which process checklists and product formats are specified in the AIG:
      3.2.1. Intelligence Sensitivity. The first step in the acquisition intelligence process is
      determination of intelligence sensitivity of the program by the implementing command
      A2 or delegate. Programs are considered to be intelligence-sensitive if they require
      intelligence data during development or to perform their mission, require the direct
      support of intelligence personnel or influence intelligence data at any point in the PCPAD
      cycle. Criteria and checklists for determining intelligence sensitivity are documented in
      the AIG. This assessment aids early development of rough-order-of-magnitude estimates
      for intelligence support to and risk management of the program.
      3.2.2. Intelligence Supportability Analysis: ISA is the process by which AF intelligence,
      acquisition and operations analysts identify, document and plan for requirements, needs
      and supporting intelligence infrastructure necessary to successfully acquire and employ
      AF capabilities, thereby ensuring intelligence supportability. It is an iterative,
      collaborative process that provides tailored support to intelligence sensitive efforts within
      the Integrated Defense Acquisition, Technology and Logistics Life Cycle Management
      System. ISA should begin as early as possible and continue throughout the system life
10                                                                   AFI14-111 18 May 2012


     cycle; it is to be used for all initiatives, not only ISR programs. It must provide robust
     support during analysis of alternatives (AoA), system design, production and sustainment
     and will not end until the final transition/disposal of the capability.
        3.2.2.1. ISA results in the identification of derived intelligence requirements (DIRs)
        and deficiencies, along with associated impacts to both acquisition and operational
        capability if the required intelligence is not provided. Examples of DIRs include:
        threat data, geospatial information, PCPAD requirements and issues related to
        Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, and
        Facilities (DOTMLPF). These analytic activities must be documented, tracked and
        reported.
        3.2.2.2. Results of ISA form the foundation for intelligence input to requirements and
        acquisition documents such as Initial Capabilities Documents (ICDs), Capability
        Development Documents (CDDs), TEMPs, Life Cycle Mission Data Plans (LMDPs),
        System Requirements Documents, etc., as outlined in applicable acquisition guidance
        (see Attachment 1).
        3.2.2.3. Identified deficiencies are documented and submitted via established IC PRs
        and AF ISR Capability Planning & Analysis processes for resolution.
     3.2.3. Documentation. ISA results must be documented throughout the process in a
     manner that facilitates intelligence input to established requirements systems and required
     acquisition documents (LCMP, CDD, COLISEUM, etc.) Documentation should be
     readily available and routinely updated to support acquisition events including, but not
     limited to: Acquisition Strategy Panels (ASPs), ICDs, CDDs, AF Requirements Boards,
     and AF Requirements Oversight Council meetings.
     3.2.4. Deficiency Resolution. Once intelligence needs, shortfalls, and associated
     costs/benefits/risks have been assessed, the PM and acquisition intelligence specialists
     will develop and implement a plan or course of action in a secure and cost-effective
     manner, in time to meet approved or adjusted MS within the program timeline. The plan
     or course of action and its supporting information shall be periodically reviewed
     throughout the life cycle of the program and updated as needed, IAW DoD, Defense
     Intelligence Agency (DIA), Joint and AF guidance.
     3.2.5. Intelligence Health Assessment (IHA). The IHA is an assessment of the status of
     a program’s intelligence supportability. IHA factors will be evaluated and incorporated
     into a program’s overall risk assessment.
     3.2.6. Independent Intelligence Assessment (IIA). IIA are objective assessments of
     capability impact driven by intelligence dependencies that are associated with
     intelligence-sensitive programs. The IIA is a higher headquarters assessment of impact
     to acquisition and impact to operations based upon the results of intelligence
     supportability analysis, CPA and IC responses to acquisition community intelligence
     requirements.
     3.2.7. Cross-Program Analysis (CPA). CPA is the examination of programs and derived
     intelligence requirements to identify commonality and achieve synergies via common
     solutions. The linkage of documented requirements/shortfalls with multiple customer
     sets serves to strengthen AF requirements and/or gain efficiencies in meeting these
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                       11


     requirements, which can be forwarded to the IC and/or the AF corporate structures for
     action. CPA can also identify system or program integration issues.
     3.2.8. Intelligence Certification. To be accomplished IAW Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
     of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3312.01A Joint Military Intelligence Requirements
     Certification.
  3.3. Primary Collaborative Activities. The primary means for executing acquisition
  intelligence are described below. Program teams should tailor the breadth and depth of
  application of the acquisition intelligence processes to the complexities and needs of their
  specific effort, commensurate with its point in the life cycle.
     3.3.1. Intelligence Support Working Group (ISWG). The ISWG brings together
     functional representatives from the intelligence, operations and acquisition communities
     to conduct and document ISA and to assess their collaborative ability to ensure that a
     program can be adequately supported at a level that will enable mission success. An
     ISWG is a useful construct to develop intelligence inputs to an AoA.
         3.3.1.1. ISWG Participants. The ISWG is established by the program manager and is
         typically chaired or co-chaired by an implementing command designated intelligence
         focal point. ISWGs are composed of the following major interest groups:
         Implementing command program and intelligence offices; lead command
         requirements and intelligence offices; operational users; system engineers, developers
         and testers; and intelligence providers (IC representatives, intelligence production
         center points of contact, intelligence support managers, etc.).
     3.3.2. TWGs are working-level integrated product teams (WIPTs) that address threat
     issues and ensure consistent threat support to acquisition programs throughout their life
     cycles. They are typically chaired by the program’s designated intelligence focal point.
     TWGs are appropriate forums for addressing TTE issues for all programs. TWGs are
     typically composed of operational users, intelligence representatives, counterintelligence
     representatives, systems developers, and system testers.
     3.3.3. Cost Analysis Working Group (CAWG).                The CAWG is comprised of
     representatives from operating and implementing command organizations with expertise
     in cost analysis and works closely with the Air Force Cost Analysis Agency to develop
     the system life cycle cost estimate. Intelligence cost estimators participate in the CAWG
     for intelligence sensitive programs.
      3.3.4. Threat Steering Group (TSG). The TSG’s primary purpose is to produce a STAR
      or STA IAW DoD 5000-series guidance and DIA Instruction (DIAI) 5000.002,
      Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense Acquisition Programs. Note: DIAI
      5000.002            is         available           on          SIPRNET           at:
      http://diateams.dse.dia.smil.mil/sites/Issuances/default.aspx.
         3.3.4.1. TSG membership typically includes representatives from: intelligence staffs
         of the implementing and operating commands, intelligence staffs of the service and
         Unified Commands, staff of the program manager; SAF/AQ; DIA (ACAT 1D
         programs); NASIC; AFOTEC; Operations, Plans and Requirements staffs from the
         implementing and operating commands, as appropriate.
12                                                                   AFI14-111 18 May 2012


        3.3.4.2. IAW DIAI 5000.002, product centers provide NASIC and the TSG a system
        description that describe the system in sufficient detail to assess which threats could
        jeopardize the proposed system’s ability to perform its mission. To accurately assess
        the threat, it is necessary that the system description include mission profiles for all
        missions foreseen for the system. The program office is responsible for providing the
        system description. The description must be current.
     3.3.5. AoA is an evaluation of the performance, operational effectiveness, operational
     suitability, and estimated costs of alternative systems to meet a mission capability. The
     analysis assesses the advantages and disadvantages of alternatives versus the baseline
     capability, including the sensitivity of each alternative in the available tradespace.
     Acquisition intelligence has a role in all of the AoA working groups (WG). An ISWG is
     a useful construct to develop intelligence inputs to an AoA.
        3.3.5.1. Threats and Scenarios Working Group (TSWG). The TSWG is responsible
        for identifying and providing the scenario(s) to be used during an AoA to assess the
        military utility and operational effectiveness of solutions being considered for
        possible AF acquisition to meet a valid requirement. Additionally, the TSWG
        provides threat performance and characteristic information from intelligence sources
        to enable the AoAs Effectiveness Analysis Working Group (EAWG) to simulate
        potential threats to mission effectiveness. The TSWG will be staffed primarily with
        MAJCOM intelligence professionals and SMEs. Members support the TSWG by
        providing relevant intelligence information to sustain TSWG decisions. The TSWG
        is the forum tasked to track, anticipate, and mitigate issues potentially impacting the
        identification, selection and recommendation of scenarios to the AoA WIPT. Other
        members may be added on an ad hoc basis to resolve issues, as they arise.
        3.3.5.2. Technology and Alternatives Working Group (TAWG). The TAWG acts as
        the interface with alternative providers, crafting the requirements request, receiving
        alternative data, and resolving questions between the providers and the rest of the
        AoA WGs. The acquisition intelligence specialist's role as a TAWG member is to
        ensure the requirements information request specifically asks for ISR capability
        enabler assumptions to include external infrastructure needs, these include inputs
        from the acquisition intelligence costs analyst detailing what data is required to frame
        the ISR infrastructure costing analysis report.
        3.3.5.3. Operating Concept WG. The acquisition intelligence specialist’s role is to
        review the CONOPS from an intelligence perspective to ensure intelligence
        supportability issues/needs are noted.
        3.3.5.4. Effectiveness Analysis Working Group. The acquisition intelligence
        specialist participates in the creation of the analysis assumptions from the perspective
        of valid intelligence supportability.
        3.3.5.5. Cost Analysis Working Group. Acquisition intelligence cost analysts, in
        coordination with, members of the other working groups, support the AoA by
        providing cost data on intelligence support-related activities external to the proposed
        solutions/alternatives (i.e. DOTMLPF).
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                       13


     3.3.6. Other Supported Venues. Other acquisition-related forums that can require
     intelligence support include Acquisition Strategy Panels, Systems Security Working
     Groups, HPTs, Integrated Test Teams, Interoperability WGs, and unique WGs
     established by programs/capabilities/initiatives/projects.




                                       LARRY D. JAMES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                       Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance,
                                       and Reconnaissance
 14                                                                   AFI14-111 18 May 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapons Systems, 8 March
2007
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFPD 16-7, Special Access Program, 19 February 2014
AFPD 63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 3 April 2009
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 March 2009
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013
AFI 14-201, Intelligence Production and Applications, 1 December 2002
AFI 14-205, Geospatial Information and Services, 5 May 2010
AFI 16-701, Military Personnel Exchange Program (MPEP), 2 February 2006
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 16 December 2008
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 20 June 2013
AFI 63-114, Quick Reaction Capability Process, 4 January 2011
AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, 19 March 2013
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 2013
AFI 99-114, Foreign Materiel Program, 25 October 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, November 25, 2013
DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection Within the Department of
Defense, July 16, 2008
DoDI O-5240.24, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting Research, Development, and
Acquisition (RDA), June 8, 2011
DoDD 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data (IMD) Within the DoD, January 22,
2013
CJCSI 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System; Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Manual for the Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development
System, March 1, 2009
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                       15


CJCSI 3312.01A, Joint Military Intelligence Requirements Certification, February 23, 2007
DIAI 5000.002, Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense Acquisition Programs January
19, 2005
AIG, Acquisition Intelligence Guidebook
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 1067, Modification Proposals, 1 November 1999

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AF—United States Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AIG—Acquisition Intelligence Guidebook
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
ASP—Acquisition Strategy Panel
AT&L—Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
CAWG—Cost Analysis Working Group
CDD—Capability Development Document
CFM—Career Field Manager
CI—Counterintelligence
CIA—Central Intelligence Agency
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CPA—Cross-Program Analysis
CPD—Capability Production Document
CTA—Capstone Threat Assessment
 16                                                            AFI14-111 18 May 2012


DAO—Designated Acquisition Official
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DIAI—Defense Intelligence Agency Instruction
DIAP—Defense Intelligence Analysis Program
DIR—Derived Intelligence Requirements
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel
and Facilities
DS&TI—Designated Science and Technology Information
EAWG—Effectiveness Analysis Working Group
FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigations
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
HPT—High Performance Team
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Intelligence Community
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
IIA—Independent Intelligence Assessment
IHA—Intelligence Health Assessment
IMD—Intelligence Mission Data
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
ISA—Intelligence Supportability Analysis
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
ISWG—Intelligence Support Working Group
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
KSA—Key System Attribute
LMDP—Life Cycle Mission Data Plan
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCIA—Marine Corps Intelligence Activity
MDAP—Major Defense Acquisition Program
MS—Milestone
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                           17


MSIC—Missile and Space Intelligence Center
M&S—Modeling & Simulation
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NGIC—National Ground Intelligence Center
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
NSA—National Security Agency
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
O&S—Operations and Sustainment
PCPAD—Planning and direction, Collection, Processing and exploitation, Analysis and
production, and Dissemination
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
PMD—Program Management Directive
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System
PPP—Program Protection Plan
PR—Production Requirement
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SME—Subject Matter Expert
STA—System Threat Assessment
STAR—System Threat Assessment Report
T-0—Tier 0
T-1—Tier 1
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TAWG—Technology and Alternatives Working Group
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TPP—Technology Protection Plan or Planning
TSG—Threat Steering Group
TSWG—Threats and Scenarios Working Group
 18                                                                     AFI14-111 18 May 2012


TTE—Threat, Target, Environment
TWG—Threat Working Group
USAF—United States Air Force
USD (AT&L)—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
WG—Working Group
WIPT—Working Level Integrated Product Team

Terms
Acquisition Intelligence Specialist—Personnel certified in acquisition intelligence.
Analysis of Alternatives (AoA)—The evaluation of the operational effectiveness and estimated
costs of alternative materiel systems to meet a mission need. The analysis assesses the
advantages and disadvantages of alternatives being considered to satisfy requirements, to include
the sensitivity of each alternative to possible changes in key assumptions or variables. The AoA
assists decision-makers in selecting the most cost-effective materiel alternative to satisfy a
mission need.
Authoritative—An intelligence product that has been published/posted under the auspices of the
Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP). It has been produced by the intelligence
element recognized in the DIAP as the authority for that kind of information, vetted and
adjudicated within that element, and is based on reliable and trusted analysis tools and processes.
Capability—The combined capacity of personnel, materiel, equipment, and information in
measured quantities, under specified conditions, that, acting together in a prescribed set of
activities, can be used to achieve a desired output.
Capability Development Document (CDD)—A document that captures the information
necessary to develop a proposed program, normally using an evolutionary acquisition strategy.
The CDD outlines an affordable increment of militarily useful, logistically supportable and
technically mature capability. The CDD is validated and approved before MS B.
Capability Production Document (CPD)—A document that addresses the production elements
specific to a single increment of an acquisition program. The CPD is validated and approved
before MS C.
Capstone Threat Assessment (CTA)—The DoD Intelligence Community's official assessment
of the principal threat systems and capabilities within a category of warfare (e.g., air, Space,
Cyber, Naval Warfare, etc.) that a potential adversary might reasonably bring to bear in an
attempt to defeat or degrade U.S. weapon systems. CTAs project the threat environment in a
given warfare area out to 20 years, and constitute the validated, DoD IC position with respect to
those warfare areas.
Critical Intelligence Parameter (CIP)—A factor which clearly defines the threshold at which
the performance of a foreign system/capability could compromise the program / mission
effectiveness of the US system. If a CIP is breached (i.e., a foreign system has met the CIP
threshold) materiel and/or non-materiel (DOTMLPF) changes must be considered, the program
will likely require additional time and funds to adjust (“re-baseline”), and spiral/increment
thresholds, objectives, KPPs, KSAs, etc. may require adjustment.
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                           19


Cross-Program Analysis (CPA)—CPA is an analytical effort designed to “look across” all
intelligence-sensitive programs and the related intelligence shortfalls. The primary objective of
CPA is to identify and consolidate like deficiencies. Synergies between programs and cost
savings are realized when solutions are identified that support multiple programs. The results of
CPA guide identification and development of solutions to the documented deficiencies. An
additional aspect of CPA is to identify system or program integration issues.
Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP)—DIA centrally manages defense intelligence
analysis and production using a distributed analytical process known as the DIAP. This program
integrates general military intelligence and scientific and technical intelligence production
conducted at DIA, Combatant Commands, and Service intelligence centers. The DIAP allows
DIA to focus all-source defense intelligence analysis efforts on compelling issues for defense
customers while limiting duplication of effort.
Derived Intelligence Requirements—–Intelligence requirements that are implied from higher-
level requirements, such as Key Performance Parameters (KPPs) and Key Systems Attribute
(KSA).
Geospatial Intelligence—The exploitation and analysis of imagery and geospatial information
to describe, assess, and visually depict physical features and geographically referenced activities
on the Earth. Geospatial intelligence consists of imagery, imagery intelligence, and geospatial
information, also called GEOINT.
Implementing Command—The command or agency designated by the AF Acquisition
Executive to manage an acquisition program. The intelligence support to the manager of an
acquisition program usually resides with the Product Center/Logistics Center/Lab Research Site
Intelligence Division/Branch.
Initial Capabilities Document (ICD)—Documents the need for a materiel approach to a
specific capability gap derived from an initial analysis of materiel approaches executed by the
operational user and, as required, an independent analysis of materiel alternatives. It guides
initial program activities and supports MS A.
Intelligence Community (IC)—The federation of executive branch agencies and organizations
that conduct foreign and/or counter-intelligence activities necessary for conduct of foreign
relations and protection of national security. IC members include the Service intelligence
organizations (NGIC, ONI, NASIC, MCIA, and Service intelligence staff/support units), NSA,
CIA, FBI, DIA (including MSIC and AFMIC), NRO, and NGA, as well as the intelligence
components of the US Coast Guard, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security,
Department of State, Department of Commerce, and Department of Treasury. Note:
Counterintelligence (CI) is an organizational and functional part of the Intelligence Community,
but is usually “compartmented” from foreign intelligence offices and/or functions in order to
protect sensitive personal and law enforcement information IAW federal law and Intelligence
Oversight guidance. While this AFI focuses on support from the (foreign) intelligence
components of the IC, representatives from the CI components can be requested to support
acquisition intelligence processes, if needed. The Air Force Office of Special Investigations
(AFOSI) is the primary USAF CI organization, a FOA that identifies, investigates and
neutralizes criminal, terrorist, and espionage threats to the personnel and resources of USAF and
DoD.
 20                                                                      AFI14-111 18 May 2012


Intelligence Costing—–An integral part of the ISA is the estimation of costs associated with the
Intelligence resources required to support the acquisition programs. The lack of understanding
of these costs can result in scheduling delays, costly work-arounds, and unplanned adjustments
to Operations and Maintenance (O&M) budgets.
Intelligence Estimate—An appraisal of available intelligence relating to a specific situation or
condition, with a view to determining the courses of action open to an enemy or potential enemy
and the probable order of adoption of such courses of action.
Intelligence Mission Data (IMD)—DoD intelligence used for programming platform mission
systems in development, testing, operations, and sustainment including, but not limited to, the
following functional areas: signatures, EWIR, OB, C&P, and GEOINT.
Intelligence Requirement—The need for a product, function, infrastructure, or service provided
by the Intelligence Community (IC) that is integral to a program at a point within its life cycle.
Intelligence requirements can come from any part of the DOTMLPF construct. Program
intelligence requirements should be documented to support both current and future acquisition
and intelligence requirements. Documentation should include information on the availability of
the needed IC capabilities. Requirements which cannot be met with current IC capabilities are
identified as gaps, shortfalls or deficiencies.
Intelligence-sensitive—Any program/initiative that produces, consumes, processes, or
influences intelligence information, thereby requiring threat or intelligence infrastructure
support. If it is likely that, in the future, the program would produce, consume, process, or
influence intelligence information, it should be considered intelligence-sensitive.
Intelligence Supportability—Refers to the availability, suitability and sufficiency of
intelligence support required by a program. CJCSI 3312 Par. 4.c(2)(b).
Intelligence Supportability Analysis (ISA)—–Intelligence personnel partner with acquisition
and operations stakeholders, and with other SMEs, to help derive/resolve the intelligence
requirements by tailoring and utilizing the acquisition intelligence processes described in this
AFI. In addition, IAW CJCSI 3312.01, the AF must review the intelligence support and
intelligence-related operational requirements specified in (or derived from) JCIDS and other
acquisition documents for completeness, supportability, and impact. For the purposes of this
AFI, these intelligence certification activities are also included under the “ISA” term. ISA was
formerly known as intelligence infrastructure analysis.
Intelligence Support Working Group (ISWG)—The ISWG is an enduring and continuously
functioning group that brings together functional representatives from the intelligence,
operations and acquisition communities to conduct and document ISA and to assess their
collaborative ability to ensure that a program can be adequately supported at a level that will
enable mission success.
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)—Term referring to the activity that
synchronizes and integrates the planning and operation of sensors, assets, and processing,
exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct support of current and future operations. This
is an integrated intelligence and operations function.
JCIDS Documents (ICD, CDD, CPD)—–IAW CJCSI 3170.01 and the JCIDS Manual, DIA
validates the threat and intelligence supportability information in all JROC Interest, JCB Interest,
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                          21


and Joint Integration ICDs, CDDs and CPDs through the intelligence certification process (ref.
CJCSI 3312.01). For programs with Joint Information or Independent JPDs, which DIA does
not review or validate, DoD Components can utilize DIA-validated threat reference information
and/or data contained in DoD Service validated and authoritative intelligence products for their
JCIDS documents.
Life Cycle—The span of time associated with a technology, concept, system, subsystem,
capability, initiative or end-item that begins with the conception and initial development of the
requirement, continues through development, acquisition, fielding, sustainment, until the time it
is either consumed in use or disposed of as being excess to all known materiel requirements.
Life Cycle Mission Data Plan (LMDP)—A management plan that is applied throughout the life
of a intelligence mission data-dependent acquisition that bases programmatic decisions on the
availability of data over the life of a mission data-dependent acquisition.
Major Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP)—A DoD acquisition program that is not a
highly sensitive classified program and: (1) That is designated by the USD(AT&L) as a MDAP;
or (2) That is estimated to require an eventual total expenditure for research, development, test,
and evaluation, including all planned increments, of more than $365 million (based on fiscal year
2000 constant dollars) or an eventual total expenditure for procurement, including all planned
increments, of more than $2.19 billion (based on fiscal year 2000 constant dollars).
Milestone (MS)—Major decision point that separates the phases of an acquisition program
under the DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, acquisition management
framework. These include: MS A—Technology Development Phase approval; MS B—
Engineering and Manufacturing Development Phase approval (normally the initiation of an
acquisition program); and MS C—Production and Deployment Phase approval.
Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBE)—A cyclic process
containing four distinct but interrelated phases: Planning—Produces a fiscal forecast, planning
guidance, and program guidance; Programming—Creates the AF portion of the DoD's Future
Years Defense Program (FYDP) by defining and examining alternative forces and weapons and
support systems; Budgeting—Formulates and controls resource requirements, allocation, and
use; and Execution—Measures and validates the performance of the planning, programming, and
budgeting phases.
Program—For clarity throughout this publication, a program, project, technology
demonstration, research effort, development planning activity, quick reaction capability, study,
concept, initiative, system, modification, sustainment effort or upgrade involving intelligence
support during research, development, acquisition, test, modernization, or sustainment will be
implied by and referred to by the word “program.”
Program Management Directive (PMD)—The official AF document used to direct acquisition
responsibilities to the appropriate major commands, agencies, program executive office, or
designated acquisition commander. All acquisition programs require PMDs. PMDs initiate and
terminate actions, cite funding sources, and assign responsibilities and tasks to appropriate
commands and agencies.
Program Protection Plan or Planning (PPP)—The Program Protection Plan is the program
manager's single source document used to coordinate and integrate all protection efforts designed
to protect critical information and resources, and to prevent inadvertent disclosure of leading
 22                                                                    AFI14-111 18 May 2012


edge technology to foreign interests. Program Protection Planning is a comprehensive effort that
encompasses all security, technology transfer, intelligence, and counterintelligence processes
through the integration of embedded system security processes, security manpower, equipment,
and facilities.
Requirements Strategy—A plan or document that maps the details necessary for developing a
requirements document, and describes the resources and communities necessary to support the
process.
Special Access Program (SAP)—A program established by the head of a department or agency
whom the President has designated in the Federal Register as an original SECRET or TOP
SECRET classification authority, which has additional “need to know” access controls beyond
those controls normally required for access to information classified as CONFIDENTIAL,
SECRET or TOP SECRET. SAPs are established only when the program is required by statute
or upon a specific finding that: (1) the vulnerability of, or threat to, specific information is
exceptional; and (2) the normal criteria for determining eligibility for access applicable to
information classified at the same level are not deemed sufficient to protect the information from
unauthorized disclosure.
System Threat Assessment Report (STAR)—Official assessment of the principal threat
systems and capabilities that a potential adversary might reasonably be expected to employ in an
attempt to defeat or degrade a specific US weapon system when it is deployed. The STAR
includes descriptions of the operational threat environment, target attributes, system-specific
threats (for the time period of IOC to IOC+10 years), and emergent technologies. STARs are
developed for ACAT Level 1D, 1C, and ACAT II programs, and for all programs on DOT&E
Oversight List. For those AF programs, STARs are required for Milestones (MS) B and C IAW
DoDI 5000.02. AF policy: STARs must be current at the time each MS decision is made.
STARs typically expire 24 months from the date of publication.
Technology Protection Plan or Planning (TPP)—Similar to the PPP developed in the
acquisition cycle, a TPP is developed by research organizations to identify critical information
and resources that require increased protection. The TPP identifies the threats to a technology
and prescribes necessary countermeasures to ensure the technology is adequately protected from
compromise. TPPs will likely focus on those critical technologies, information, capabilities, and
demonstrations, referred to as designated science and technology information (DS&TI), that
have a more defined transition path to an activity ready to assume program management
responsibility (usually an acquisition program or other DoD government agency or organization)
or that have strong potential for transition based on the underlying value/advancement of
warfighter capability. DS&TI will be protected via a TPP or, in the case of a technology
insertion Advanced Technology Demonstration, within the auspices of an existing Program
Protection Plan (PPP). The overall objective of AFRL-generated technology protection planning
is to protect identified DS&TI that will transition into a weapons system platform or program to
ensure the AF can acquire, field, and operate quality weapons and support systems, which have
not been compromised and will meet mission requirements.
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g., Congress, White House, OSD,
JS). The requirement is external to AF. Requests for waivers must be processed through
command channels to publication OPR for consideration. (AFI 33-360)
AFI14-111 18 May 2012                                                                     23


Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, commanders or the AF strongly at risk of mission
or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. T-1
waiver requests may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than
MAJCOM Director, with the concurrence of the publication's approving official. (AFI 33-360)
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director. (AFI 33-360)
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level. (AFI 33-360)
