BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-209
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                       AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                                        COMMAND
                                                                         Supplement

                                                                VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                       14 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                          Flying Operations

                                                            AERIAL EVENT POLICY AND
                                                                       PROCEDURES

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 OG/OGV                                                     Certified by: 71 OG/OGV
                                                                    (Maj Monyca J. Uecker)
                                                                                     Pages: 6


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-209,
Aerial Event Policy and Procedures, 4 May 2006, and Air Education and Training Command
(AETC) Supplement, 23 May 2007, Interim Change 1, 30 May 2008. It establishes procedures
for the wing‘s dissimilar formation program at Vance AFB. This supplement applies to all
Vance Air Force Base personnel including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) members.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)       Air    Force     Records    Disposition    Schedule     (RDS)    located   at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the VAFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-
215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling
out the form.)
2                           AFI11-209_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP 14 FEBRUARY 2012


    1.1. General Guidance. The purpose of this supplement is to provide guidance for
    dissimilar flyovers and aerial reviews flown by the 71 FTW. Dissimilar aerial reviews are
    used for special wing functions, to update 71 FTW mission photos, to videotape the wing‘s
    diverse mission, and to enhance Air Force recruiting and retention by highlighting the
    versatility of the 71 FTW.
           1.4.3.4. Operations and aircrew qualifications associated with aerial reviews of
           multiple MDS will be the same as dissimilar formations.
    1.11. Exception to Policy Requests. Unless otherwise specified, OG/CC is the waiver
    authority for guidance contained in this supplement. Units forward exceptions to policy to
    this supplement through 71 OG/OGV.

                                           GLEN D. VANHERCK, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 71st Operations Group
AFI11-209_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP 14 FEBRUARY 2012               3


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGL—Above Ground Level
ATC—Air Traffic Control
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
FTW—Flight Training Wing
IP—Instructor Pilot
LOWAT—Low Altitude Awareness Training
MC—Mission Commander
MDS—Mission Design Series
NM—Nautical Miles
NORDO—No Radio
NOTAM—Notice To Airmen
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
RAPCON—Radar Approach Control
RCP—Rear Cockpit
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOF—Supervisor Of Flying
VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions
 4                             AFI11-209_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP 14 FEBRUARY 2012


                                      Attachment 5 (Added)
                         DISSIMILAR FORMATION PROCEDURES

A5.1. Definitions
     A5.1.1. Reference AFI 11-209, a ‗Flyover‘ is performed by a single formation of four or
     fewer aircraft of the same type. All Vance aircraft are the same ‗Trainer‘ type.
     A5.1.2. A dissimilar formation is any formation of four or fewer aircraft of multiple MDS.
     A two-, three-, or four-ship formation consisting of any mix of the training aircraft assigned
     to Vance AFB is considered a dissimilar formation.
     A5.1.3. An aerial review includes any formation larger than 4 aircraft.
A5.2. Individual Selection and Qualification.
     A5.2.1. Only experienced pilots will participate in dissimilar formations.
        A5.2.1.1. If the individual has not previously participated in a dissimilar formation at
        Vance AFB, their first dissimilar formation will be dual with a dissimilar formation IP.
        Upon participation in one dissimilar formation, at Squadron Commander discretion,
        individuals will be qualified as a dissimilar formation IP.
        A5.2.1.2. 71 OGV will maintain an upgrade/sample qualification letter.
     A5.2.2. Only Low Level or LOWAT current dissimilar formation IPs may participate in
     dissimilar flybys waivered below 1000‘AGL.
     A5.2.3. The OG will designate a participant as MC for all dissimilar flybys. The MC will be
     a dissimilar formation IP and will typically be a T-38 pilot.
A5.3. Responsibilities.
     A5.3.1. Event POC‘s will coordinate with 71 OSS/OSOS as soon as possible to ensure all
     appropriate approvals are obtained.
     A5.3.2. The mission commander will plan, brief, and participate in the formation. The
     briefing should include lost wingman procedures, NORDO procedures, breakout procedures,
     safe minimum airspeeds for participating aircraft, and normal formation briefing items.
     A5.3.3. The MC will ensure all applicable agencies are briefed such as the SOF, tower, or
     RAPCON. Consider checking the operation of applicable radios prior to the flyby.
A5.4. Ground Operations.
     A5.4.1. Normally, all participating aircraft will depart from the same airfield. Alternate
     takeoff plans will be thoroughly briefed.
     A5.4.2. The lead aircraft may monitor a briefed discrete formation frequency throughout all
     taxi operations to stay abreast of aircraft fallout and spares.
A5.5. Departure and Join-up.
     A5.5.1. The lead aircraft will orbit at a briefed altitude, normally 4500‘ MSL at Vance.
     A5.5.2. Aircraft will join up in briefed order and call all previous aircraft in sight. Aircraft
     will avoid the preceding aircraft‘s altitude by at least 500 feet until visual.
AFI11-209_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP 14 FEBRUARY 2012                                                  5


   A5.5.3. Reference the parent regulation paragraph 1.6.4., the minimum airspeed for the
   formation is 30% above the highest stall speed of all participating aircraft – approximately
   230kts for a fully fueled T-38. The maximum airspeed for a T-6 is typically 250kts.
A5.6. Holding.
   A5.6.1. The MC will brief a holding plan in accordance with flyby objectives.
   Considerations should include the slower airspeeds required on the inside of turns.
   A5.6.2. T-38s should remain above final turn airspeed at all times, approximately 220kts no-
   flap immediately after takeoff. When information with a T-6, T-38s may use flaps to
   accommodate a slower airspeed or increase the stall margin. T-38s may set 60% flaps or
   may use the aux flap switch for an intermediate setting. Do not reduce the final turn airspeed
   calculation unless setting at least 60% flaps.
A5.7. Flyover Procedures.
   A5.7.1. Local flyovers will typically be flown in a sterile VFR traffic pattern. Coordinate
   with squadron supervisors and SOFs. A local NOTAM will be published and will provide
   sterile pattern times and requirements.
   A5.7.2. Flyover aircraft will utilize appropriate tower or ATC frequency for departure and
   enroute to the rejoin pattern. The MC will brief and utilize an appropriate communications
   plan for the sortie.
   A5.7.3. In mountainous terrain, weather minimums are 5000/5 (USAFA).
   A5.7.4. The MC will determine formation numbering and orientation in accordance with
   flyby objectives. If a T-1 is present it will lead the dissimilar formation.
   A5.7.5. Close formation references (front cockpit).
      A5.7.5.1. T-38 off T-1: The pilot should be aligned with the wingtip leading edge with
      the aft edge of the cabin door, level with the wing. The pilot should be abeam the tail
      number.
      A5.7.5.2. T-38 off T-6: The pilot should center the wingtip light in the exhaust manifold
      opening. The pilot should be abeam the center of the elevator.
      A5.7.5.3. T-6 off T-1: The pilot should place the wingtip light below the side canopy
      divider and on the black stripe. Place the trailing tip of the elevator directly above the
      tail‘s white position light.
      A5.7.5.4. T-6 off T-38: The pilot should be aligned with the wing leading edge, level
      with the wing. The pilot should be just aft of the afterburner cans so they form a figure 8.
   A5.7.6. Route formation. Route formation will be flown from two to four ship-widths
   spacing. Route will be flown to aid in clearing when close formation is not necessary. Unless
   briefed otherwise, all rejoins will be to route formation. Lead will direct route or close
   formation as required.
   A5.7.7. Photo ship procedures. Photo aircraft may suggest corrections to aircraft spacing to
   ―fine tune‖ the formation.
 6                             AFI11-209_AETCSUP_VANCEAFBSUP 14 FEBRUARY 2012


     A5.7.8. Timing. Due to T-1 system limitations, when precise timing is necessary the T-38
     may provide airspeed and timing inputs to the flight lead. The T-38 should utilize the RCP
     pilot if able but in no case compromise formation responsibilities.
     A5.7.9. Run-in procedures. At approximately 5 NM, lead will direct the formation to reform
     to close formation and descend to the run in altitude to allow the formation to stabilize well
     prior to the target. When out of visual range with spectators, lead will direct the formation to
     route. Some practice flyovers may require steeper descents and more maneuvering than local
     flyovers to simulate the planned off-station event.
A5.8. Formation Split-up.
     A5.8.1. Upon completion of the flyover, the MC will direct the split up in accordance with
     the briefed split up plan.
A5.9. Abnormal Procedures.
     A5.9.1. Fall out. Squadrons will make spares available as required. Lead may renumber
     flight members on the ground. The MC will only direct briefed alternate formations. The
     MC will designate an alternate MC in case of fallout. The alternate MC may not be MC
     qualified.
     A5.9.2. Late. The MC will brief a late rejoin game plan
     A5.9.3. Overshoots. Call overshoots and maintain safe separation from formation. Complete
     rejoin when overtake under control and all flight members in sight.
     A5.9.4. Break-out procedures. If unable to maintain safe formation position, maneuver away
     from formation, obtain safe separation and keep formation in sight. Use caution for other
     aircraft on the wing. At lower altitudes, initial separation must be gained by slowing. All
     aircraft use caution for the photo ship (if applicable) when breaking out.
     A5.9.5. Knock-it-Off. Any flight member can call ―Knock-it-off‖ in case of emergency,
     dangerous situation developing, or any unusual circumstance affecting safety of flight. Flight
     members acknowledge in order, lead remain predictable and direct rejoin as necessary.
     A5.9.6. Lost Wingman. Normally formations will be flown in VMC, however, formation
     members should always be prepared for a lost wingman situation. The MC will brief lost
     wingman procedures for level flight, inside and outside the turn. In all lost wingman
     situations, simultaneously transition to instruments, execute the briefed procedures and
     coordinate for rejoin (if appropriate) upon regaining visual.
     A5.9.7. T-38s and T-6s will not chase each other unless required due to unusual
     circumstances.
     A5.9.8. The MC will brief a NORDO plan.
