BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-207
AIR FORCE SPECIAL
                                          AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND
OPERATIONS COMMAND
                                                                        Supplement

                                                                            14 OCTOBER 2008

                                                                                      Operations

                                                                            COMMAND POSTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.



OPR: HQ AFSOC/A3OP                                                  Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A3
                                                                     (Brig Gen Thomas J. Trask)
Supersedes: AFI 10-207 _AFSOCSUP1,                                                    Pages: 12
            10 May 2007


AFI 10-207, Command Posts, 4 April 2008, is supplemented as follows: This supplement
prescribes command post (CP) policy, procedures, facilities and manpower requirements specific
to Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) requirements. It applies to all AFSOC unit
CPs, command representatives (COMREPs), the AFSOC Operations Center (Ops Ctr) (also
referred to as a Major Command (MAJCOM) Command Center in the basic AFI) and Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units when mobilized. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Send
comments and recommended improvements to this publication on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to HQ AFSOC/A3OP, ATTN:
CP Operations, Policy and Procedures, 427 Cody Ave, Suite 307, Hurlburt Field, FL 32544; e-
mail to afsoc.a3cp.dl@hurlburt.af.mil; or by message to HQ AFSOC HURLBURT FLD
FL//A3OP//.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document supersedes and replaces AFI 10-207, AFSOCSUP1, 10 May 2007. This
document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Furthermore, it supersedes
2                                            AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP            14 October 2008

all previously published HQ AFSOC/A3 policy letters and messages dated prior to this
supplement. Personnel will carefully review the entire text to familiarize themselves with all
changes. HQ AFSOC/A3 is the waiver authority for this instruction.
1.1.5. AFSOC units serviced by a non-AFSOC (host) CP will ensure AFSOC-unique
requirements are identified and included in Host Tenant Support Agreements (HTSA) and/or
Memorandum of Agreements (MOA)/Responsibility Statements (RS) IAW AFI 25-201, Support
Agreements Procedures. At a minimum address mission management, operational reports
(OPREPs), and Status of Resources and Training System/Defense Readiness Reporting System
(SORTS/DRRS). Specify details on how the host and tenant will fulfill the requirements within
the CP functional area. Coordinate requirements with the host CP and AFSOC tenant
commander and review current agreements/statements annually.                 Submit finalized
HTSA/MOA/RS through HQ AFSOC/A3OP and other concerned MAJCOM C2 staff agencies.

1.6.1. Unless otherwise specified, the term CP as used in this instruction, refers to all AFSOC
CPs, including ARC when activated, and the AFSOC Ops Ctr. MAJCOM Command Center
references in the basic AFI apply to the AFSOC Ops Ctr.

1.6.5. AFSOC Crisis Action Team (CAT). Normally, during day-to-day operations, the CAT is
a dormant function, activated in response to an external emergency, crisis, or contingency. The
AFSOC CAT consists of functional area representatives from HQ AFSOC and provides HQ
AFSOC the means to respond quickly and effectively to a variety of wartime, contingency and
disaster related situations. In response to situation checklists, or when directed by competent
authority, the AFSOC Ops Ctr is responsible for immediate CAT activation notification (recall).
Upon activation, the CAT assumes staff and oversight responsibilities until conditions permit a
return to normal operations.

1.7. (Added) Recommendation for Changes. AFSOC units may submit recommendations for
changes to HQ AFSOC/A3OP. When conflicts exist, notify HQ AFSOC/A3OP for clarification.
AFRC/ANG units also submit recommendations through HQ AFRC and HQ ANG.
1.8. (Added) Waivers and Recommendation for Changes. HQ USAF/A3C and HQ
AFSOC/A3 respectively, retain authority to waive the requirements of AFI 10-207 and this
supplement. Send waiver requests to HQ AFSOC/A3OP. Waiver requests must contain
complete reference, justification, and the anticipated duration. ARC (AFRC and ANG) units
submit waiver requests through their applicable command.2.2.1. AFSOC emergency actions
(EA) are IAW EAP-CSAF (S), USSOCOM-EAP (S), and AFSOC-EAP (S) and apply to the
AFSOC HQ, all CONUS units, and AFSOC gained AFRC and ANG units when mobilized. The
AFSOC EAP includes all prescribed formats and checklists. AFSOC tenant/attached units will
comply with host installation/theater EA directives.

2.2.9. Physical security requirements (entry and circulation control) will be IAW AFI 31-101,
Air Force Installation Security Program. Additionally, all AFSOC CP facilities (i.e. Installation
Control Center (ICC)/building housing the AFSOC Ops Ctr) will be designated the same
Protection Level (PL) rating as the resources they operationally control (minimum of PL-3
restricted area). The same PL rating applies to alternate AFSOC (unit and HQ level) CPs when
activated.     Vital support equipment (telephone/computer/radio communications rooms,
emergency generators, etc.) will also be designated the same PL rating as the CP. The intent is
AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP           14 October 2008                                                3

to, within reason; protect the vital CP mission from sabotage when such
communications/equipment is located/accessed from outside the CP. CP Management must
work with installation security personnel to ensure that these requirements are understood,
incorporated in the installation security plan, and prioritized in order of (response) importance
(IAW AFI 31-101).

2.5.1. Ensure that AFSOC Ops Ctr controllers are aligned IAW paragraph 1.3.1. of this AFI and
Enabling Concept Program Action Directive (PAD) 07-13.

2.5.13.1. Send to AFSOC/A3OP (at a minimum).

2.6.4. The SORTS Program Manager will not be converted to civilian billet without prior waiver
approval from the AFSOC 1C3 MFM, and AFSOC A3OP.

2.6.10. Alternate CP physical security requirements will comply with paragraph 2.2.9. of this
supplement.

2.6.21. Ensure a sufficient number of controllers are mobility/deployment qualified (completed
all training, tasks, etc.) to meet short to no-notice AFSOC mission requirements.

2.7. (Added) Unit Level CP Awards. CP managers are encouraged to establish and maintain a
robust CP awards program to recognize deserving controllers. Consider CP Controller of the
Month, Quarter, and Year awards. For quarterly and annual awards, consider sub categories for
Airman, NCO, and SNCO. A robust CP awards program can be a force multiplier, morale
booster, and provides a steppingstone toward higher level (unit/wing/HHQ) awards.

2.7.1. (Added) HQ AFSOC/A3 sponsors six individual AFSOC-level CP awards: AFSOC CP
unit-level Senior Noncommissioned Officer of the Year (COMREPs compete in this category),
AFSOC CP unit-level Noncommissioned Officer of the Year, AFSOC CP unit-level Airman of
the Year, AFSOC Higher Headquarters CP Senior Noncommissioned Officer of the Year,
AFSOC Higher Headquarters CP Noncommissioned Officer of the Year, and AFSOC Higher
Headquarters CP Airman of the Year.

2.7.2. (Added) HQ AFSOC/A3 sponsors one AFSOC-level CP unit award. The winner of the
AFSOC CP of the Year award will compete at the AF level for the AF CP of the Year (large
unit).

2.7.3. (Added) HQ AFSOC/A3C must receive all nomination packages no later than the last
duty day of January the following year (i.e., 30 January 2009 for 2008 nominations). Packages
received after the established suspense will not be considered. HQ AFSOC/A3C will alert units
in November of each year that the awards submission cycle is about to begin and that nomination
packages are due per the guidance indicated above.

2.7.4. (Added) Use the guidance in AFI 36-2807, HQ USAF Deputy Chief of Staff Operations,
Plans and Requirements Annual Awards Program, for developing AFSOC and A-level CP
4                                             AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP            14 October 2008

award packages. AFSOC winners will compete at the AF level in the categories listed in AFI
36-2807.

2.7.5. (Added) The AFSOC 1C3X1 Functional Manager is the focal point for the HQ AFSOC’s
CP awards program. Submit nomination packages to HQ AFSOC/A3C, ATTN: 1C3 Functional
Manager, 426 Cody Avenue Suite 307, Hurlburt Field FL 32544. Fax number: DSN 579-2112,
Commercial 850-884-2112.

3.1.2. For SORTS positions, see paragraph 2.6.4. of this supplement.

3.1.5. Ensure the 352/353 SOG CP COMREPs report directly to the 352/353 SOG wing/group
commanders respectively. The CP COMREP is responsible for ensuring the host wing CP
adheres to AFSOC-unique mission requirements.

3.1.7. CP managers will appoint an Alternate Training Manager (Assistant Training NCOIC) to
assist the NCOIC of Training and fill in during absences. Due to the CP force structure and
staffing levels, the assistant is expected to be a primary shift worker.

3.1.8. CP managers will appoint an Alternate Reports Manager (Assistant NCOIC Reports) to
assist the NCOIC of Reports and fill in during absences. Due to the CP force structure and
staffing levels, the assistant is expected to be a primary shift worker. When both functions reside
in the CP, the CP Operational and SORTS reporting functions may be combined or separated.

3.1.9. CP managers will appoint an Alternate CP Systems Manager (Assistant NCOIC CP
Systems) to assist the NCOIC of CP Systems and fill in during absences. Due to the CP force
structure and staffing levels, the assistant is expected to be a primary shift worker. When the
primary and/or alternate CP systems managers are 1C3X1’s, they are restricted to directly
support the CP operation only, not MOC, EOC, CAT, etc.

3.1.10.4. AFSOC controller immediate recall, for the purposes of this paragraph, requires the
(second) controller to be capable of arriving back at the controller position within 3 minutes.
Recall also implies the ability to “recall”, by klaxon, blow horn, radio, etc., and does not
normally extend outside the (CP) facility. “Outside” exceptions could include an authorized
smoke break, outside facility/equipment check, “quick” retrieval of a package/delivery from
outside, etc.

3.1.11. (Added) The 352 and 353 SOGs have a 1C371 COMREP assigned. The CP COMREP
is responsible to the AFSOC group commander and will ensure the host CP satisfies AFSOC-
unique mission requirements. The SOG CP COMREPs primary duty location will be within the
(host) consolidated CP.

3.1.11.1. (Added) The SOG CP COMREP duties and responsibilities will be identified by the
supported MAJCOM and HTSA and AFSOC Supplement to AFI 10-207. The COMREP will:

3.1.11.1.1. (Added) Develop/update/ensure currency of the HTSA/MOAs/SAs/RSs (IAW
paragraph 1.1.5. of this supplement).
AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP           14 October 2008                                                5



3.1.11.1.2. (Added) Interpret, clarify, and otherwise provide AFSOC-unique C2 expertise to
host CP Management.

3.1.11.1.3. (Added) Ensure the host CP supports all AFSOC’s peacetime/wartime mission
requirements (outlined in the HTSA) and that CP checklists and OIs meet AFSOC-unique
contingency, wartime, and peacetime requirements.

3.1.11.1.4. (Added) Ensure AFSOC-unique requirements are incorporated into the host CPs
training outline.

3.1.11.1.5. (Added) Provide the CP proper mission and reporting data to accommodate AFSOC
requirements. AFSOC requirements will be IAW approved HTSA/MOA/SA/RSs (i.e. between
the 100 Air Refueling Wing/352 SOG and 18 Air Wing/353 SOG).

3.1.11.1.6. (Added) Attend (host CP) monthly formal training meetings and provide AFSOC-
unique information/presentations for the meetings. Maintain (AFSOC-unique items covered) for
12 months. File in the COMREP continuity binder.

3.1.11.1.7. (Added) Brief newly assigned host CP controllers on AFSOC-unique missions and
requirements.

3.1.11.1.8. (Added) Evaluate host CP controllers quarterly to ensure they are knowledgeable
and proficient in AFSOC procedures. Evaluations will be documented and maintained for 12
months and filed in the COMREP continuity binder. Forward trends and concerns to HQ
AFSOC/A3OP.

3.1.11.1.9. (Added) Conduct and document annual reviews of all host CP checklists and OIs to
verify content, scope and ability to support AFSOC forces.

3.1.11.1.10. (Added) Develop an operations continuity binder. This binder should contain
sufficient details/checklists so a new person may take over the position with minimal training.

3.1.11.1.11. (Added) Provide guidance to the AFSOC group CAT/JAOC members as required.

3.1.11.1.12. (Added) Ensure all (host) CP controllers receive an orientation visit with the tenant
AFSOC commander as soon as practical prior to/following certification.

3.1.11.1.13. (Added) Receive and maintain certification in (host) CP procedures, to include
theater emergency action procedures (EAPs). COMREPs will work the minimum required
(currency) shifts. COMREPS may be used, in a limited capacity, as a host CP controller. The
intent is to maintain currency, fill in as a CP controller on a limited basis, without interfering
with their primary “COMREP” duties.

3.1.11.1.14. (Added) Brief AFSOC key personnel semi-annually on theater command EA
procedures, i.e. changes in Defense, Force Protection,, and Information Conditions.
6                                           AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP           14 October 2008



3.1.11.1.15. (Added) Function as the SORTS/DRRS COMREP between HQ AFSOC, the
AFSOC unit and the host installation. The COMREP must attend formal SORTS/DRRS
course(s) IAW AFI 10-201 AFSOC Sup 1, Status of Resources and Training System.

3.1.11.1.16. (Added) Develop and maintain a SORTS/DRRS continuity folder IAW AFI 10-201
AFSOC Sup 1, Status of Resources and Training System.

3.1.11.1.17. (Added) Provide written notification to AFSOC/A3OP and A3CR regarding any
time away from duty (i.e. leave, TDY, etc.). A SORTS/DRRS point of contact must be included
in the notification to include duty phone number, unclassified and classified email address.

3.1.11.1.18. (Added) AFSOC CP COMREP Support. AFSOC COMREPs require the following
support from host CPs:

3.1.11.1.18.1. (Added) Unescorted access to the CP.

3.1.11.1.18.2. (Added) Office space within the CP.

3.1.11.1.18.3. (Added) Access to secure and non-secure DSN telephones.

3.1.11.1.18.4. (Added) Access to administrative support and equipment.

3.1.11.1.18.5. (Added) Adequate classified storage space.

3.1.11.1.18.6. (Added) SIPRnet, NIPRnet, GDSS, and secure e-mail access/accounts.

3.3. Additional Qualifications. AFSOC CP stand-by and contingency “mobility” mission
requirements are essential. AFSOC and unit level managers and supervisors need to look
beyond the normal “deployment” training scope to ensure immediate mobilization preparedness
of their controllers.

3.3.1. (Added) All required ancillary/mobility/deployment training is identified, tracked, and
scheduled outside the CP by the unit deployment manager (UDM) and may be location specific.
CP managers must work closely with UDMs to ensure controllers maintain mobility proficiency
without creating an undue hardship for shift requirements.

3.3.2. (Added) Supervisors and unit deployment managers (UDM) have the final responsibility
for ensuring unit personnel receive required ancillary/deployment training. However, to ensure
success within the CP, it is highly recommended that CP (Ops Ctr) managers appoint a CP
mobility monitor to be the single point of contact for all ancillary/deployment training
scheduling for CP personnel.

3.4. Duty Schedule and Restrictions. Due to AFSOC CP/Ops Ctr 24-hour on-call mobility
requirements, CP (centric) additional duties, and limited manpower, certified CP overhead
personnel (i.e. NCOIC, Superintendent, COMREPs) will not be assigned additional duties (i.e.,
AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP           14 October 2008                                                7

unit First Sergeant, shelter monitor, etc.) outside the CP. Exception: a dormitory resident may
perform as bay orderly. This does not prevent personnel from volunteering for additional duties
provided they do not interfere with CP operations.

3.5.6. Submit monthly manning reports to HQ AFSOC/A3OP.                   Add the supplemental
information below to the bottom of the AF manning report format.

3.5.6.11. (Added) CURRENT AUTHORIZED/ASSIGNED/AVAILABLE. List the total
number of personnel authorized by the UMD, the number currently assigned, and the number
actually available (available implies certified and available to work shifts). Insert this
information in the following format at the bottom of the report:                CURRENT
(Auth/Assigned/Avail) 13/13/9 (may be further broken out to identify civilian, officers, and
information managers at the unit’s discretion).

3.5.6.12.       (Added)      THREE-MONTH PROJECTED AUTHORIZED/ASSIGNED/
AVAILABLE. Report the projected number of personnel authorized by the UMD, the number
of personnel projected to be assigned based on projected gains/losses, and projected availability.
Insert this information in the following format at the bottom of the report below the current
authorized/assigned/available status. THREE-MONTH PROJECTION (Auth/Assigned/Avail)
13/10/9 (may be further broken out to identify civilian, officers, and information managers at the
units discretion).

4.5. Crisis Action Team (CAT). The AFSOC Ops Ctr at MAJCOM level, and the wing CP at
wing level, are responsible for immediate CAT activation notification/recall. When activated,
the CAT assumes staff and oversight responsibilities until conditions permit a return to normal
operations.

5.2.3. An OI is not required if the requirement is adequately covered in a QRC.

5.3.2.1.7. (Added) End of month COMSEC changeover.

5.3.3.3.3. Use conferences and automated/mass notification systems to the maximum extent
possible. Conference call or one system input action equals to one telephone notification.
Notifications in excess of ten per controller can severely degrade CP effectiveness and inhibit
controller follow-on actions during time sensitive events.

5.4. CP Daily Events Log. Log entries may be supplemented with attached data (such as
completed QRCs, OPREP-3s, etc.) when the attached data adds to reconstruction of events.
When attached, the data will not be used in place of log entries, but rather as supplemental
information. When used, CP management should address/develop standardized procedures (in
QRCs/OIs) for event log attachments. Maintain events logs IAW Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) accessed from the web-based Records Information Management System,
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/, and dispose of events logs after 3 months. Electronic storage of
events logs is recommended (RDS replaced AFMAN 37-139).
8                                             AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP            14 October 2008

5.4.11. Electronic log reviews may be annotated (by electronic initials) within the electronic file
if they can be verified at a later date. A separate (electronic/paper) means of recording is also
acceptable.

5.9. (Added) Commanders Availability. The availability of commanders is monitored by
controllers IAW AFI 10-205, Availability of Major Command Commanders and AFSOCI 10-
203, Absence/Availability of HQ AFSOC and Subordinate Unit Key Personnel.

6.1.3. Global Decision Support System (GDSS) is the mobility air force (MAF) C2 system of
record for flight following/mission managing USAF aircraft worldwide. All AFSOC activities
(active duty, ANG/AFRC) will adhere to AMCI 10-202V6, Mission Management and Reliability
for all missions with the exception of those flown in the local area. For the purposes of this
instruction, a local mission is defined as those missions flying locally around home station, not
transiting another location. AFSOC mission numbers will correspond to the AMC Mission ID
Encode/Decode Tables located on the HQ AFSOC/A3OP AF Portal page at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/browse.do?programId=1152936&channelPageId=-
1699604&parentCategoryId=-1699623. Note: This policy does not restrict the use of Patriot
Excalibur (PEX), units may choose to input any or all data in PEX, but MUST (also) input all
required data in GDSS.

6.1.3.1. (Added) AFSOC/AMC MOA/U provides AFSOC unrestricted use of GDSS. AFSOC
users (at any level) can request changes, updates, additions to GDSS applications and system
software.

6.1.3.2. (Added) GDSS is an accredited, redundant, web-base accessible, protected with triple
layer security, and global system. It leverages technology, reduces training, and interfaces with
(pushes/pulls data to/from) a large number of low-side (NIPRNet) and high-side (SIPRNet) C2
systems.

6.1.3.3. (Added) GDSS automatically stores in progress and historical mission (crew, aircraft,
passenger, cargo, land/take off time, delay, etc.) information. “Report” retrieval of information
is automated and quick. Reports may be scheduled to be received on your desk top via e-mail, at
a specified time, by individual, work center, or agency. Any data in the database may be
retrieved in a report format (the number and types of reports is unlimited). Over 10 years of
report data is archived. Examples of information the reports function can provide include the
number of crews at a particular location (present/past), hours flown, aircraft arrival/departure/
delay information, number of passengers/cargo information, etc.

6.3.1. IAW AMCI 10-202V6, mission planners/schedulers are responsible to input all
predeparture mission (including assigning aircrews) in GDSS (24/12/6 hours) prior to initial
departure. The system prohibits CP controller launch actions, until the required mission set-up
data has been entered.

6.5. Mission Movement Reporting. IAW AMCI 10-202V6, the first GDSS capable agency
(Ops Ctr, CP, AOC, etc.) with knowledge, will submit mission movement (arrival, departure,
AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP            14 October 2008                                                  9

advisory, delay) information into GDSS. Compliance with this police ensures timely reporting
and prevents duplication of effort.

7.8.1.3. Training meetings will be recorded on some form of multimedia, audio or video, to aid
in controller comprehension of missed training. Video is the preferred method. Ensure the
multimedia device is marked with the appropriate classification of material discussed or briefed.
Controllers between mid/night shifts should be excused.

7.8.3.3. AFSOC IG inspectors and SAV/MEF team members may administer a closed-book EA
examination. Generally, the examination will be given to all certified controllers, not between
midnight shifts, during one or two testing sessions. Examinations will consist of a 25-question
closed-book test, with a minimum passing score of 90 percent. Examinations will be critiqued to
100 percent. Examinations may be used/documented as a substitute for the unit’s monthly
closed book exam at the discretion of the unit.

7.8.3.5.3. AFSOC IG inspectors and SAV/MEF team members may administer performance
evaluations. When administered, evaluation time of occurrence will generally be announced in
advance, and will not be given to more than two controller teams, and will be ruled
“SATISFACTORY’ or “UNSATISFACTORY”. Examinations may be used/documented as a
substitute for the unit’s performance evaluation at the discretion of the unit.

9.2.2.1. (Added) The CP facility/command center entry may have a stand-off (or entrapment)
area located between the main entrance outer and inner doors. The standoff should generally be
large enough to permit five personnel entry at one time, have a storage unit/rack designed to hold
portable radios, cell phones, beepers, etc., instructional signs (turn off all cell phones, etc.) and
comply with paragraph 9.3.3. of AFI 10-207.

9.3.1. UPS/generators, that directly support the CP/Ops Ctr, will be the same PL rating as the
CP/Ops Ctr which they support. This applies equally to UPS/generators physically located
outside of the CP/Ops Ctr restricted area.

9.4.8. Facility emergency exits (ICC, CP, EOC, MOC, etc.) will not be used except during
actual emergencies, the CP/Ops Ctr facility will only have one primary entrance/exit. All
external facility exits will be alarmed to notify on-duty CP and central security control
controllers when opened.

10.2.1.1.1. As a minimum, the CP will have three each, SIPRnet and NIPRnet computers (multi-
monitor) to allow independent use by three controllers, with immediate access to printer(s) (may
be shared) and associated equipment and applications.

10.2.1.1.4. Defense Red Switch Network (DRSN) secure voice capability (lateral, up/down) is
also desired.

10.2.2. IAW USSOCOM M525-3, Operations Center Procedures, and AFI 10-206, Operational
Reports, CPs must have world-wide capable Digital Switching Network (DSN) access at FLASH
capability.
10                                           AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP            14 October 2008



10.2.2.1. Should have a dedicated inbound toll free (1-800/866 XXX XXXX) phone number.

10.2.2.3. Additional mass notification systems, that leverage technology, should be used to the
maximum extent possible. In addition to systems already mentioned, also consider commanders
net/cable TV override, emergency broadcast (radio/TV), automatic notification system(s), and
emergency computer pop-up generators. When such systems are used, back-up procedures must
be in place to permit controllers to overcome communications outages if system(s) are
unavailable.

10.3. Controller Consoles. A third console position is required, and a fourth console position is
desired, to support contingencies and a third/fourth controller may be required. Although not
recommended, the additional console(s) may be a partial capable unit with limited functionality.

10.4.4. Applicable to all phones in the Ops Ctr area (AOC) and CP facility (ICC/EOC). The
intent is to reduce background noise (operational information/general discussions) that could be
transmitted over a “open” secure/unsecured line.

11.2. Entry and Circulation Control. AFSOC CP facilities (i.e. ICC/building housing the HQ
AFSOC Ops Ctr) will be designated the same PL rating as the resources they operationally
control (minimum of PL-3 restricted area). The same PL rating applies to alternate AFSOC (unit
and HQ level) CPs when activated. Vital CP support equipment/rooms (telephone/computer/
radio communications rooms, UPS/emergency generators, etc.) will also be designated the same
PL rating as the CP. The intent is to protect the vital CP mission from sabotage when such
communications/equipment is located/accessed from outside the CP facility. CP Management
must work with installation security personnel to ensure that these requirements are understood,
incorporated in the installation security plan and prioritized in order of response importance
(IAW AFI 31-101).

11.2.4. The CP/ICC facility, and AFSOC Ops Ctr area (AOC) will have only one primary
entrance/exit. All emergency exits will be alarmed to notify on-duty CP and central security
control controllers when opened. Facility emergency exits (ICC, CP, EOC, MOC, etc.) will not
be used except in actual emergencies.

11.5. (Added) Information Security (INFOSEC). The amount of classified information
generated and passing through CPs (ICC/EOC/CAT) necessitate additional security
requirements. Classified documents will be stored and protected IAW DOD 5200.1-R, AFI 31-
401, AFSOC supplements, and other applicable instructions. The following areas warrant
scrutiny:

11.5.1. (Added) Facility communications vulnerabilities. The CP mission is vulnerable to and
can be compromised by other work centers operating in the ICC/AOC. Individuals from other
work centers, i.e. CAT, AOC, EOC, MOC, etc., must be trained, briefed, and policed. All
INFOSEC policies and procedures must be strictly enforced. Under no circumstances, will
anyone bring unauthorized contraband, including cell phones, cameras, recording devices,
radios, etc., into the CP (AOC/ICC) facility. Additionally, all classified must be properly
AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP           14 October 2008                                               11

marked, stored, destroyed, and accounted for. Ensure all (CAT, AOC, EOC, MOC, etc.)
personnel are knowledgeable/trained and enforce AFSOC Command Policy that requires all
material (even unclassified notes) to be destroyed (as if they were classified).

11.5.2. (Added) Cryptographic/Communication Security (COMSEC). Receive, store,
inventory, destroy, and otherwise control access IAW applicable COMSEC instructions.

11.5.3. (Added) Two Person Integrity (TPI). TPI standards for TS (keying) material must be
strictly enforced. Such procedures will ensure that no one individual can possibly gain
undetected access to TPI material.

11.5.4. (Added) Transmission Security. Transmission over intrabase radios (IBR), giant voice,
commanders TV override system, LMR base station, and other mass notification systems must
be done using extreme caution. Such equipment has the ability to pick up and amplify
background “noises” such as telephone and spoken conversations. Refer to paragraph 10.4.4. as
well as the paragraphs below for additional guidance.

11.5.5. (Added) Land Mobile Radios (LMRs). Only the LMR base station is authorized for use
in the ICC/AOC. Other (hand held) LMRs will be left outside the AOC/ICC. When necessary
to bring into the ICC/AOC, before entering, they will be turned off and the battery disconnected.

11.5.6. (Added) Cellular phones, personnel data assistants (PDA), and personnel mass media
storage devices (i.e. thumb drives) will not enter the ICC/AOC. They may be left at the
ICC/AOC entry control point (ECP), sometimes referred to as the entrapment/standoff area.

11.5.7. (Added) Telephones, to include secure capable (STE/U-III and defense red switch) can
present security risks. All AOC/ICC personnel must be trained in locally developed procedures
(such as phone-up/down) to ensure classified/sensitive discussions are not revealed during phone
conversations.

12.1.2. AFSOC 1C3X1’s will achieve and maintain full deployment preparedness (i.e. current
dental/medical, shots, chemical warfare training, official passport, weapons qualification, family
preparedness, etc.) to the maximum extent practical, to ensure availability and capability to meet
unique AFSOC stand-by and on-call requirements.

12.4. CP Deployment Critique. AFSOC 1C3X1’s must complete a post CP Deployment
Critique for all deployments, even those of short duration. If the critique is classified, forward
via SIPRNet.

13.2.2. AFSOC CPs may request a SAV for the entire CP or for focused area(s) at any time. All
unit requested SAVs will be unit funded.
12                                           AFI10-207_AFSOCSUP           14 October 2008

13.2.5. SAVs/FAVs will utilize the applicable Inspection/Self Inspection checklist to help guide
them through key areas.


THOMAS J. TRASK, Brig Gen, USAF
Director of Operations
