BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-2501
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                 AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement

                                                                          7 JANUARY 2009

                                                                                  Operations

                                              AIR FORCE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
                                                     (EM) PROGRAM PLANNING AND
                                                                    OPERATIONS

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/A7XX                                                    Certified by: HQ ACC/A7
                                                        (Brigadier General Timothy A. Byers)
                                                                                    Pages: 35


AFI 10-2501, dated 24 January 2007, is supplemented as follows: Wing commanders will
publish local EM program requirements in base supplements and plans as necessary. This
publication applies to the Air National Guard. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as required. Send comments and
suggested improvements to this supplement on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through channels, to HQ ACC/A7XX, 129 Andrews St, Suite 102, Langley AFB
VA 23665-2769.

1.2. Purpose. This supplement provides policy and guidance to Air Combat Command (ACC)
personnel involved with Emergency Management (EM) activities.
1.4.1. EM program waiver requests from ACC installations will be submitted under the
signature of the process owner. In effect those processes related to civil engineering, Prime
BEEF, or Readiness and EM Flight program management will be signed by the Civil Engineer
Squadron Commander (CES/CC). Submit waivers for these areas to the ACC Readiness
Division (HQ ACC/A7X). Installation processes [i.e. unit staff assistance program, chemical,
biological, radiological, nuclear, and high yield explosive (CBRNE)-defense training, shelter
2                                                  AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


programs, etc] must be submitted under the signature of the installation commander. Submit
waivers to the ACC Directorate of Installations and Mission Support (HQ ACC/A7).
1.6.2. ACC Geographically Separated Units (GSU) will comply with host base EM requirements
and ensure CBRNE defense equipment requirements are included in host requirements.
2.3.1. ACC EM program status/issues will be addressed during semi-annual, consolidated
ACC Force Protection and Emergency Management Working Group (FP-EM WG) meetings.
2.3.2. The ACC Operations Center provides the Commander, Air Combat Command
(COMACC) with a corporate approach to time-sensitive operations. The formation of the ACC
Operations Center through its support staff and functional action officers ensures 24/7
availability of designated functional expertise. Primary ACC Operations Center members
convene as required, depending on the type and tempo of the operation. The ACC Operations
Center’s functional and support staff is generally formed 24/7 during a contingency, but may be
reduced and placed on stand-by as operations dictate. ACC contingency response organizations
and procedures are outlined in Attachment 8 (added).
2.4.2.8. ACC Operations Center personnel will complete the on-line Emergency Response
Operations (ERO) course at https://golearn.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp?kc_ident=kc0001.
This training ensures the ACC Operations Center staff understands the interoperable National
Incident Management System (NIMS); Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS); the
emergency response structure at the installation level; and local, state, and Federal Emergency
Operation Centers (EOC). Refresher training will be completed as outlined in AFI 10-2501,
Table 6.3.
3.5.2. HQ ACC/A7X is the command office of primary responsibility (OPR) for PE 27593
(Chemical-Biological Defense Program) and PE 27574 (Weapons of Mass Destruction Threat
Response Program) funding. The Emergency Management and Modernization Branch (HQ
ACC/A7XX) is the ACC Program Element Monitor (PEM) for both PEs and coordinates EM
program objective memorandum (POM) submissions with the ACC Flight Operations and
Training Branch (HQ ACC/A3TO), Ground Management Branch (HQ ACC/A3YG), Supply
Chain Management Branch (HQ ACC/A4RM), Explosive Ordnance Disposal Branch (HQ
ACC/A7XE), Fire and Emergency Services Branch (HQ ACC/A7XF), Security Forces Programs
and Requirements (HQ ACC/A7SP), and others as appropriate. The ACC Security Forces
Operations Branch (HQ ACC/A7SO) is OPR for Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives
Fund (CbTRIF). The ACC Command Surgeon (HQ ACC/SG) is the PEM for PE 28036,
Medical WMD Program.
3.6.1. Director of Installation and Mission Support (A7). HQ ACC/A7X is the ACC EM
Program OPR.
3.6.1.5. ACC installations will use the CEMP 10-2 template developed by the Air Force Civil
Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA) and available through the AFCESA EM Community of
Practice. Installation CEMP 10-2 plans will be reviewed annually to ensure contents are current.
3.6.1.7. The AFCESA Emergency Management Division (HQ AFCESA/CEXR) maintains an
EM Community of Practice (CoP) to provide installations on-line access to this information. HQ
ACC/A7X EM program management supporting documents can be found under the
MAJCOM/Base Folders link, within the ACC folder.
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                                3


3.6.1.13. HQ ACC/A7XX will develop, review and consolidate assessment criteria, as command
OPR for the ACC EM program.
3.6.1.14. When an installation commander requests MAJCOM cross-functional teams for EM
support, HQ ACC/A7XX will act as the focal point for identifying team members and
coordinating with the installation commander.
3.6.1.17. HQ ACC/A7XX will use the Command Inspection Calendar (CIC) to de-conflict staff
assistance visit (SAV) dates with operational readiness inspections, unit compliance inspections,
etc. Programmed visit dates will be coordinated with installations at least 30 days prior to the
SAV.
3.6.1.18. See Attachment 9 (added) for staff assistance visit criteria and checklist. Each ACC
Installation Readiness and Emergency Management Flight will develop a unit emergency
management representative guide using the suggested template developed by HQ ACC/A7XX.
The guide will provide instruction to EM representatives regarding program support
requirements for publications (technical orders, base/installation supplements, information
program items, CEMP 10-2, supporting checklists, etc.), EM representative duties, unit training,
unit SAVs, unit self-inspection, and EM Equipment.
3.6.8.1. HQ ACC/A3TO will provide HQ ACC/A7XX with the aircrew individual protective
equipment (IPE) requirements for budget and POM submissions.
3.6.8.4. (Added) The ACC Homeland Defense Branch (HQ ACC/A3OH) is the command focal
point for Homeland Defense (HLD). They are responsible for ACC policy and guidance for the
prevention, deterrence, preemption of, defense against, and response to threats and aggression
directed towards the United States homeland. They also direct ACC policy and support of
Defense Support to Civil Authorities (DSCA), and oversee the command's counterdrug
programs.
3.10.4. Readiness and Emergency Management Flights will perform annual Staff Assistance
Visits to their GSUs. GSUs will also be included in installation Emergency Management
information program.
3.10.14.1. (Added) Immediate protection shelter. Installations must identify protective shelter
space and procedures for the peak on-base population for those natural disasters that may occur
with little or no warning. Tornados, earthquakes, severe thunderstorms, and flash floods are
examples of this threat. When determining the best place for personnel to seek immediate
protective shelter, consider structural design and sitting, as appropriate to the threat. Also,
consider proximity to the shelterees and expected warning times, as they will have very little
time to seek shelter. In many cases, the best option is for personnel to shelter in an appropriate
area of their workplace or home.
3.10.14.2. (Added) Rideout Shelters. Installations must identify sufficient protective shelter
space to accommodate all personnel that will remain on the installation during those natural
disasters that can be predicted far enough in advance to allow for evacuation and shelter
activation before the onset of hazardous conditions. Hurricanes and typhoons are typical
examples of this threat. These shelters often require trained shelter management teams and
shelter equipment. Any personnel that do not have space in a shelter that affords good protection
from the predicted disaster should be evacuated out of the danger area or to an appropriate off
4                                                   AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


base shelter. In some cases, personnel may be able to shelter in an appropriate area of their
workplace or home.
3.10.14.3. (Added) The tenets of paragraphs 3.10.14.1 and 3.10.14.2 above will be addressed in
each base CEMP 10-2, Annex B, Natural Disasters. Immediate and Ride-Out shelters may be
one and the same, depending on installation, building construction and threat. For installations
recently completing a revision to their plan, include as a change to the current plan, and in the
next re-write.
3.10.25. (Added) Establishes an installation Emergency Operations Center (EOC) to function
as the C2 support elements that directs, monitors, and supports installation actions before,
during, and after an incident.
3.10.26. (Added) Ensures Readiness and Emergency Management Flight personnel (3E9X1),
Readiness Support Team (RST) members, and Bioenvironmental Flight personnel are not subject
to additional duties or details conflicting with their ability to prepare for and respond to
emergencies. Readiness and Emergency Management becomes an RST member’s primary duty
when scheduled for training, exercises, or during actual emergencies. This policy applies during
peacetime and wartime contingencies.
3.10.27. (Added) Establishes a National Defense Area (NDA) if an incident occurs off the
installation in the CONUS and involves classified military equipment, property and documents.
The commander is ultimately responsible for their protection and has the option of declaring this
exclusive zone. This can be delegated to the initial senior fire official (SFO), Incident
Commander when written in the installation CEMP 10-2 or wing supplement to this AFI,
provided they are trained in and knowledgeable of NDA criteria.
3.10.28. (Added) Through the Readiness and Emergency Management Flight; develop a
consolidated list, and identify units that require EM representatives, EOC representatives, UCCs,
shelter-in-place programs, specialized team members, and unit training schedulers. This
information serves as the baseline for Readiness and Emergency Management Flight program
management activities (e.g. training requirements, SAV requirements, etc.).
3.11.1. Unit commanders will appoint a primary and alternate EM Representative and ensure
availability for program management (e.g. alternating AEF buckets, etc.)
3.11.1.2.4. Units EM representatives will maintain a copy of the Readiness and Emergency
Management Unit EM Representative Guide within their EM program folder.
3.11.3. EOC primary and alternate members will be appointed in writing giving them full
authority to commit unit resources in support of contingency/ emergency situations. Both
primary and alternate representatives must complete the web-based AFCESA developed ERO
course.
3.11.8. ACC tenant unit commanders will take part in their host installation’s EM program
during planning and exercises; schedule their personnel for training; and fund, procure and/or
identify requirements, and store equipment according to host requirements.
3.11.13. Units will send CBRN defense equipment budget submissions through their respectable
MAJCOM functional manager to HQ ACC/A7XX for funding of PE 27593 requirements. Units
will send WMD response equipment budget requirements through the Readiness and Emergency
Management Flight to HQ ACC/A7XX for funding from PE 27574.
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                               5


3.11.21. Use SAV checklist included in Attachment 9 (Added).             This checklist may be
supplemented at installation level.
3.12.1. ACC installations will use their installation instruction or supplement to AFI 10-2501 to
identify team requirements and team composition required in support of CEMP 10-2.
3.14. (Added) Readiness and Emergency Management Flights.
3.14.1. (Added) Readiness and Emergency Management Flights: Upon receipt of new or
upgraded information technology, geographical information systems, GeoBase and related
communications systems coordinate with installation communications to ensure that there is
Approval to Connect (ATC)
3.14.2. (Added) Readiness and Emergency Management Flights: Upon receipt of new or
upgraded CBRN Defense systems requiring frequency authorization, coordinate with the
installation’s frequency manager to ensure compliance.
4. 3. Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) 10-2. The installation should
analyze what resources are made available under MOAs and/or MOUs. An installation can
augment its resources through cooperation with local or regional agencies, other nearby Air
Force and DoD resources. These additional support elements might include HAZMAT teams,
fire departments, emergency medical services, public health offices, law enforcement agencies,
environmental agencies, communications capabilities, and contracted response and remediation
companies. Units will coordinate their CEMP 10-2 with the nearest Air Force installations
regardless of Command affiliation to determine response support and distances of travel for
initial response requirements.
4.3.2. Each ACC Readiness and Emergency Management Flight will develop operating
instructions/guides for the following areas at a minimum: Readiness and Emergency
Management Flight Operations, Readiness and Emergency Management Branch Program
Management, Prime BEEF Program Management, EM SAV Program Administration, and
Readiness and Emergency Management Proficiency Training Program Administration.
4.3.7.3. ACC CONUS installations will not develop an Annex C, Attack Actions, unless the
specific threat dictates otherwise.
4.6.5.4. The IRB provides personnel, equipment, and other resources in support of ACC, which
acts as the management and oversight team. HQ ACC Response Task Force (RTF)
representatives will prepare and maintain position-unique checklists in support of ACC Plan 10-
2.
4.6.6.6.1. All temporary storage events will be reported to base Security Forces, Command Post,
Fire Protection, Munitions, and Readiness and Emergency Management Flight. CES
commanders will ensure HQ ACC/A7X is notified NLT the next duty day. The report will
include requesting agency, actions taken, and any funds expended.
4.7.3. ACC Installation commanders from affected installations should report pertinent
personnel information on natural disaster response directly to HQ Air Force Personnel Center
(AFPC/PRC) and will include the ACC Command Center, the ACC Director of Manpower and
Personnel (HQ ACC/A1) and HQ ACC/A7 as info addressees for all reports.
4.8.2.2. In accordance with AFI 10-245, a team of experts from a variety of fields should be
assembled to complete annual vulnerability assessments. As a minimum, this team should
6                                                    AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


include, but not be limited to, personnel from Readiness and Emergency Management, Fire,
EOD, Bioenvironmental Engineer (BE), Structural and Infrastructure Engineering departments,
if available. The same cross-functional experts will be included in the installation’s Force
Protection Working Group (FPWG) and, if appropriate, a CES representative will be included in
the installation’s Threat Working Group (TWG).
4.9.3. The Civil Engineer Readiness and Emergency Management Flight and Bioenvironmental
Engineering personnel will serve as members of the assessment team during CBRNE
vulnerability assessments. They will provide analysis of airborne, waterborne, and vector-borne
CBRNE threats. Threats include WMD and TIMs (home station and deployed locations). TIMs
threat for home station will include all major storage, manufacturing, and transportation locations
within 15 miles of the installation perimeter.
4.9.4. Terrorist Use of CBRNE Phases of Incident Management. See AFH 10-2502, USAF
Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Threat Planning and Response Handbook, for WMD
planning and response procedures.
4.9.4.1. Prevention. When there is a warning of an increased terrorist attack or threat, forces
will increase defense readiness according to declared FPCON measures. See AFI 10-245 for
FPCON measures. Installation commanders will ensure local FPCON measures include WMD
actions required to mitigate threats identified in the annual vulnerability assessment, e.g., pre-
positioning detectors, placing CE Readiness and Emergency Management, EOD, and BE
personnel on standby, or implementing a random sampling plan.
4.9.4.4. Recovery. As a minimum, the recovery plan will be approved by HQ ACC/A7 and
deputy direction (HQ ACC/A7-2) or HQ ACC/A7X (as available). Coordination will be
obtained from ACC Public Affairs (HQ ACC/PA), the ACC Staff Judge Advocate (HQ
ACC/JA), the ACC Chief of Safety (HQ ACC/SE), the ACC Director of Logistics (HQ
ACC/A4) and HQ ACC/SG.
4.9.5. (Added) CEMP 10-2 will include procedures for contacting the nearest office of the
Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) office to report CBRNE incidents. These procedures will
include contacting the ACC Command Center, the ACC Director of Air and Space Operations
(HQ ACC/A3), HQ ACC/A4, HQ ACC/A7, and FIR/CC with FBI notification.
4.9.6. (Added) The Readiness and Emergency Management Flight will include local and state
civil response team chains of command in the installation CEMP 10-2 Plan. This provides AF
responders with a better understanding of the established organizational structure and expected
communication flow between DoD and civil authorities when conducting joint response
operations.
5.4.1. Submit non-medical CBRN and WMD funding requirements through the Readiness
and Emergency Management Flight to HQ ACC/A7XX for POM submissions. Include the ACC
Ground Medical UTC Management Branch (HQ ACC/SGXM) as info addressee.
5.4.2. The Medical Readiness office, in conjunction with resource management, will submit
medical EM budget requests to HQ ACC/SGX for PE 28036F POM submissions.
5.4.3. HQ ACC/A7X validates current year PEs 27593 and 27574 spend plans with the ACC
Exercises and Joint Training Division (HQ ACC/A3J), the ACC Flight Operations Division (HQ
ACC/A3T) and the ACC Logistics Readiness Division (HQ ACC/A4R), and then provides the
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                                7


distribution plan to the ACC Resources Division (HQ ACC/A7R). HQ ACC/A7R transmits
distribution messages to the Readiness and Emergency Management Flights, Logistics Readiness
Squadrons, and Operations Groups for execution of EM funds. Each wing comptroller is an info
addressee.
5.4.5. See Attachment 10 (Added) for minimum equipment list. The MCC may be any type
vehicle suitable to meet mission and environmental needs. It must be equipped with emergency
(flashing) beacons as per local laws. Additionally, it is recommended the MCC vehicle be
maintained in a closed and weather-resistant shelter/garage.
5.4.8. (Added) EOC Equipment: The EOC requires access to local, state and national media
news coverage (e.g. cable television feeds, etc.).
5.5. Unit Emergency Management (EM) Response Equipment. For ACC installations this
includes all supplies/materials used for Shelter-In-Place (SIP) activities.
5.7.2.1. ACC Tenant units will comply with host base guidance.
5.7.2.2. ACC Tenant units will comply with host base guidance.
Table 5.4. Note 9 (added). Readiness and Emergency Management flights are authorized the
ability to launder” training use” CBRN defense ensembles in support of training.
6.4.1. Each ACC Readiness and Emergency Management Flight will ensure no less than
two assigned 3E9X1 (or civilian equivalent) personnel in the flight have attended formal training
course DNWS-R026, Nuclear Emergency Team Operations (NETOPs).
Table 6.3. Note 11 (Added) All Disaster Response Force (DRF) members will complete the
ERO course within 60 days of assignment. Additionally, initial time requirement for RST
members attending local training is within 60 days of assignment. Refresher frequency for C-2
Center Operations (Control Centers, EOC, ICC, and ECC), RST, and CCT member training is
annually. SMT refresher will be conducted on a “just-in-time (JIT)” basis.
6.4.3. GSU are not required to use ACES PR to schedule personnel through the Readiness and
Emergency Management Flight due to the limited number of personnel requiring training.
6.4.3.1. (Added) Unit commanders will ensure personnel receive required pre-requisite training
(ERO, CBRNE Defense Awareness, etc.) before being scheduled for Readiness and Emergency
Management conducted training. Documentation will be maintained in the unit and reviewed
during annual EM SAVs. Unit training schedulers are responsible to provide attendance/no-
show information to their respective commanders.
6.4.3.2. (Added) Unit schedulers will provide Readiness and Emergency Management with the
total number of personnel requiring Emergency Management Training. Readiness and
Emergency Management will use this “baseline” information to establish their training schedule
and program sufficient quotas to ensure all personnel are trained within the required time frame.
6.6.1. CBRNE Defense Course. The Readiness and Emergency Management Superintendent
will ensure annual EM training courses (e.g., CBRN Defense, EM Rep, SMT, RST, etc.)
schedules are established in ACES-PR. Base the number of CBRNE Defense classes required on
the total number of personnel requiring training plus an additional 10%. Allocate sufficient
quotas to each unit to ensure all personnel requiring training are accommodated.
8                                                     AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


6.6.1.13. (Added) Readiness and Emergency Management will document, in the ACES-PR
scheduler module, personnel who attended training. Units are responsible for ensuring
individuals training records/certificates are completed. Students are not required to bring CBT
certificates to Readiness and Emergency Management conducted courses.
6.6.1.14. (Added) Personnel who become due for CBRNE Defense Training during an AEF
deployment must accomplish this training before departure. For no-notice OPlan/DOC taskings,
personnel may expire during the deployment. Wing commanders have the authority to expand
this training policy to fit their specific mission requirements. Training waiver requests will be
coordinated through HQ ACC/A7X for approval by COMACC.
6.6.6. Each ACC installation will identify the number of RST augmentees required to support
Readiness and Emergency Management operations, based on the mission. This will be included
in the base EM instruction or in a supplement to this AFI.
6.6.7. On ACC CONUS installations, shelter management training will address SIP and natural
disaster shelter requirements. Shelter programs will be reviewed as part of the annual EM SAV.
6.6.8.1. ACC CCT team members identified to deploy to MTA/HTA may receive knowledge
and skills training for contamination control area (CCA) operations by requesting such training
through their base Readiness and Emergency Management flight training section.
6.6.11. Within ACC, requests for the AFIM Course will adhere to the following priorities:
               Priority       Individual/Function
               1              EOC Director*
               2              Alternate EOC Director*
               3              EOC Managers* [Readiness and Emergency Management Officer
                              or Readiness and Emergency Management Superintendent
                              (3E9X1)]
               4              Senior Fire Officials (Fire Chiefs, Assistant Chief of Operations
                              and Readiness, and Assistant Fire Chief of Operations)
               5              BCE’s, Security Forces Commanders and SF Operations Officer
               6              Logistics Readiness Squadron Commanders

               * Required to Attend
6.9. (Added) Readiness           and      Emergency        Management       Flight     Proficiency
Training. Proficiency training (“in-house training”) for Readiness and Emergency Management
Flight members is crucial. ACC Readiness and Emergency Management personnel will each
receive a minimum of 16 hours of proficiency/on-the-job training (OJT) per month to refine their
emergency responder and contingency response skills. Supervisors will develop an annual OJT
training plan to ensure all critical tasks are covered, minimize redundancy, and assign instructors.
Table 7.1. Note 8 (Added). Major Accidents -- All ACC installations will conduct a nuclear
weapons accident response exercise annually.
Table 7.1. Note 9 (Added). ACC installations will conduct home-station OREs for
expeditionary force deployable personnel, as if deployed to an MTA/HTA.
Table 7.1. Note 10 (Added). ACC installations are authorized one table top exercises annually.
Credit may be taken for the terrorist use of CBRNE exercise requirement by installations
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                                9


participating in the All Hazards Response Training program or local EET exercise. All other
exercise requirements identified in Table 7.1 will be conducted as field exercises.
7.3.1. See 7.10 (Added) for evaluation areas and grading criteria.
7.3.1.3. (Added) Installations are encouraged to develop and conduct exercise objectives that
meet multiple exercise category requirements within a single exercise. For example, an off-base,
WMD, mass casualty exercise could fill requirements for three types of exercises. Consider
using a tabletop exercise to test defense support to civil authorities during peacetime natural
disaster or other civil emergency relief operations affecting installation mission capability.
7.4.5. EET Team Chiefs will develop a time-phased Master Scenario Events List (MSEL) for
each exercise. Functional EET representatives will identify events for their specific functional
areas and include anticipated action/response for each event.
7.4.7. If exercise credit is taken for real world response, wing EET chiefs will forward one copy
of the after-action lessons learned report to HQ ACC/A7XX and the ACC Inspector General
Support Branch (HQ ACC/IGIS).
7.4.8. AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, as supplemented, will provide common
inspection criteria for core passive defense tasks.
7.4.8.1. (Added) Readiness and Emergency Management inspection guidance/checklists are
available through the ACC/IG website at: https://ig.acc.af.mil/.
7.4.9. EET Team Chiefs will track lessons learned and deficiencies. Functional OPRs will be
assigned to track and correct these. Items or actions identified as deficient will be incorporated
into the next similar exercise and, based upon the outcome of the exercise, will be closed or
identified as a repeat deficiency.
7.4.9.1. (Added) Functional EET representatives will conduct a verbal critique of their portion
of an exercise, to their participating functional personnel, immediately following exercise
termination. The critique will include identification of strong points and deficient areas.
7.4.9.2. (Added) EET Team Chiefs will conduct an exercise critique involving all EET
representatives within two working days following the completion of the exercise. During this
critique, EET members will submit a list of DRF personnel participating in the exercise, submit
inputs/lessons learned and identify plans to validate these items. Validation will be
accomplished with the commander of the affected unit/organization and will be completed prior
to the wing commander hot wash.
7.5. Installation Commander. The EET Chief and Wing XP Office staff may be selected from
any organization or career field as deemed appropriate for the installation. Readiness and
Emergency Management personnel will provide EET support from their role as Emergency
Management program managers within the Civil Engineer squadron.
7.5.1. Installation EET Chiefs will develop and publish an installation exercise schedule.
7.5.2. Installation commanders may assign a military officer or civilian to function as the wing
EET Chief.
7.5.4. (Added) Approve the use of training munitions. Training smoke generating devices or
ground burst simulators, planned for use during an exercise, will be listed in the exercise
scenario. Only trained EET members may have access to and are allowed to expend these
10                                                  AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


munitions. See AFCAT 21-209, Ground Munitions and AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety.
Establish a munitions custody account IAW AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance
Management and applicable local requirements. The EET account custodian is responsible for
preparing issue requests in advance so that items will be available within a 24-hour period and
forecasting munitions requirements for local and IG exercises annually.
7.6.4. The public affairs office, along with all on/off-base officials maintaining appropriate
memorandums of understanding for emergency response should be contacted 14 days prior to
conducting the exercise off base. The EET Chief will also coordinate all EM exercises with the
fire chief, safety, and the Airfield Operations Flight Commander at least 30 minutes prior to
STARTEX.
7.9. (Added) Reports and Analysis for Exercise Evaluations. Exercises are a means to
improve operational procedures.
7.9.1. (Added) The Critique. EET chief conducts a critique of each exercise after its
termination. The EET and representatives from each participating agency should attend. Major
problem areas and exercise ratings (if used) must be discussed. If a rating is assigned, it should
not be finalized until after this critique. See 7.10 (Added) for evaluation areas and grading
criteria.
7.9.2. (Added) The report is written by the EET chief and distributed to participating agencies
after it is completed. It will document strengths and weaknesses associated with the installation
response capability. See 7.10 (Added) for evaluation areas and grading criteria.
7.9.2.1. (Added) Document and summarize the scenario, identify findings, assign offices of
primary responsibility to correct actions and lists ratings (when/if used).
7.9.2.2. (Added) Agencies listed in exercise reports with deficiencies must monitor and
document corrective actions. This will be done through one of two methods:
7.9.2.2.1. (Added) Send a reply of corrective action to the EET chief and an information copy
to the Readiness and Emergency Management flight.
7.9.2.2.2. (Added) Track deficiencies as part of a self-assessment system. Outline the problems
in detail, map out corrective actions, and document the process as it occurs.
7.9.3. (Added) The Analysis. EET chief will analyze previous reports to determine recurring
deficiencies then identify any recurring deficiencies in the exercise report.
7.9.3.1. (Added) Recurring deficiencies are used to formulate objectives for future exercise
scenarios.
7.9.3.2. (Added) Copies of all exercise reports for participating installations will be maintained
by the EET chief in order to focus on preventing recurrences.
7.9.3.3. (Added) Briefs installation exercise trends to the EMWG.
7.10. (Added) Evaluation Areas & Grading Criteria.
7.10.1. (Added) Major Accidents, Natural Disasters, and Terrorist Use of CBRNE.
7.10.1.1. (Added) The focus of major accident, natural disaster, and terrorist use of CBRNE
exercises will be on the response phase, and specifically, the three major overlapping phases
within this area. Subsets within these phases will be deemed as “complies”, “complies with
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                         11


comments”, or “does not comply” for each. See Figure 7.1 (Added) for a sample report format.
The Complies / Does Not Comply ratings for these subsets will also contain the strengths and
recommended improvement areas identified in each. Table 7.10.1 illustrates the minimum
evaluation areas for these types of exercise.
7.10.1.2. (Added) The following functions will receive emphasized consideration during
terrorist use of CBRNE evaluations: C2, specialized teams, EOD, SFS, CES, BE, and MXG.
7.10.1.3. (Added) Incident type and enabling task procedures will be considered during
exercise evaluations. Table 7.10.2 (Added) outlines these procedures.
12                                             AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


Table 7.10.1. (Added).   Minimum Exercise Evaluation Areas.
 Phases       Functional Areas                 Phase Subsets
 NOTIFICATION    - Installation Control           - Recall procedures
                    Center/Commander’s Senior     - Recall execution
                    Staff/Emergency               - Timeliness and accuracy of
                    Communications Center             information flow
                 - Incident Commander(s)/First    - Effectiveness of warning
                    Responders/Emergency              and reporting network (i.e.
                    Responders                        giant voice, pagers,
                 - Emergency Operations Center        telephones, radios,
                 - Emergency Support Functions        computers, etc)
                 - Unit Control Centers           (Ref: AFI 10-2501, Para
                 - Specialized Teams              4.6.6.3.1)
 RESPONSE        - Installation Control           - Timeliness of first
                    Center/Commander’s Senior         responders to scene
                    Staff/Emergency               - C2 effectiveness
                    Communications Center         - Effectiveness of life saving,
                 - Incident Commander(s)/First        search and rescue,
                    Responders/Emergency              containment, and mitigation
                    Responders                        actions
                 - Emergency Operations Center    - Isolation of hazards
                 - Emergency Support Functions    - Damage assessment
                 - Unit Control Centers           - Reporting effectiveness
                 - Specialized Teams              - If terrorist attack scenario,
                                                      establishment and
                                                      maintenance of chain of
                                                      custody for evidence
                                                      preservation
                                                  - Situation awareness of
                                                      responders
                                                  (Ref: AFI 10-2501, Para
                                                  4.6.6.3.2, 4.7.4.3.2, and 4.9.4.3)
 SHELTERING      - Installation Control           - Effectiveness of shelter-in-
 &/OR               Center/Commander’s Senior         place program
 EVACUATION         Staff/Emergency               - Effectiveness of evacuation
                    Communications Center             for aircraft and non-
                 - Incident Commander(s)/First        essential personnel
                    Responders/Emergency          (Ref: AFI 10-2501, Para
                    Responders                    4.6.6.3.3, 4.7.4.3.3)
                 - Emergency Operations Center
                 - Emergency Support Functions
                 - Unit Control Centers
                 - Specialized Teams
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                                  13


Figure 7.1. (Added) Sample Exercise Report Format.

  1. MAJOR ACCIDENT EXERCISE
                                                                             COMPLIES WITH
  1.1. NOTIFICATION                                                          COMMENTS
                                                                             COMPLIES WITH
  1.1.1. INSTALLATION CONTROL CENTER (ICC)                                   COMMENTS
 Strength
     - Information flow from senior leadership to personnel throughout the installation was
         timely and accurate.
 Recommended Improvement Area
     - Some ICC personnel did not bring response checklists which hampered decision
         making.
                                                                        DOES NOT
  1.1.2. COMMANDER’S SENIOR STAFF                                       COMPLY
 Recommended Improvement Area
          Commander’s senior staff members did not respond to notification in a timely
           manner.
          One member took 45 minutes to arrive at ICC and two did not show up.
7.10.2. (Added) Operational Readiness Exercises in Preparation for Enemy Attack.
7.10.2.1. (Added) Command and control (C2) to include unit control centers. Evaluation will
include EOC and UCC planning and operations; CBRNE plans and procedures, and local alarm
system.
7.10.2.2. (Added) Active Defense. Evaluation will include awareness and employment of
protective measures, ground combat skills and tactics, and convoy movement.
7.10.2.3. (Added) Protection. Evaluation will include individual protection, CCA, hardening,
blackout, and dispersal.
7.10.2.4. (Added) Response.        Evaluation will include individual response, CBRNE
reconnaissance teams, post-attack reconnaissance, and self-aid and buddy care.
7.10.2.5. (Added) Contamination Avoidance and Control. Rated areas will include preplanning
actions, C2, CBRNE cell, contamination avoidance, decontamination, and contaminated waste
management.
7.10.2.6. (Added) Mission Continuation/Restoration and Sustainment. The evaluation in this
area is in the unit’s ability to execute required actions after an attack to reconstitute and recover
resources needed to restore and sustain combat operations.
7.10.2.7. (Added) Grading criteria. Use AFI 90-201 five-tier grading criteria.
14                                                   AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


Table 7.10.2. (Added).Incident Types.
 Type 1 Incident: Type of Incident is Most Complex Type of Response that may require
 resources from other Services, local or Federal agencies (example: Terrorist Attack or
 Asymmetric use of TIC/TIM, tactical ballistic missile attack, biological attack, hurricane, or
 earthquake.) P=Primary, S=Secondary. T=Tertiary , N/A=Not Applicable

 Type 2 Incident: May require resources outside the installation or regional area to
 effectively manage the incident. (Example: IED with CBRN Hazards (IED strapped to
 tanker of HAZMAT, aircraft crashed, regional flooding, overt attack, incident affects area
 2,000 foot cordon or less) P=Primary, S=Secondary. T=Tertiary , N/A=Not Applicable

 Type 3 Incident: When capabilities exceed the initial response. (Examples: large
 HAZMAT release, small area affected by terrorist attack or IED less than 2,000 foot
 cordon) P=Primary, S=Secondary. T=Tertiary , N/A=Not Applicable

 Type 4 Incident: Command and general staff of ICS are activated affects a small area.
 (Examples: structural fire in a townhouse complex, multi-vehicle incident, or white powder
 package in mail room) P=Primary, S=Secondary. T=Tertiary , N/A=Not Applicable

 Type 5 Incident: The incident is contained within one hour after resources arrive on scene.
 (Examples: vehicle fire, an injured person, or small HAZMAT spill) P=Primary,
 S=Secondary. T=Tertiary , N/A=Not Applicable

8.2.2.1. Send reports to HQ ACC/A7XX, Readiness and Emergency Management Branch,
acc.cexxbr@langley.af.mil.
8.2.3. (Added) Installation commanders, through the Readiness and Emergency Management
Flights, will use the COMACC EM Metrics to provide their overall EM capability assessment.
8.3. Include ACC/Command Center/A7S/A7X/SG and AFOSI 2 FIR/XOQ as addressees.
8.3.1. Include ACC/A7X as an addressee.           If the incident involves HAZMAT, include
ACC/A7A/A7X as addressees.
8.3.1.1. (Added) Notification of MAJCOM. The appropriate MAJCOM offices will be notified
of any HAZMAT release that meets one or more of the following criteria:
       - Results in injury or loss of life
       - Results in loss of aircraft or facility
       - Causes interruption of flying operations
       - Causes environmental contamination extending beyond installation boundaries
       - Creates financial impact exceeding $50,000
       - May result in litigation, publicity or media coverage
       - Other reasons, as specified by local commander
8.3.2. Include ACC/A7X acc.A7X@langley.af.mil) as an addressee.
8.4.3. (Added) Installation commanders will ensure all base agencies maintain records of
resources employed during disaster relief operations to prepare reimbursement requests. All
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                             15


organizations will maintain this record with their Events Log for future reference. Refer to AFI
10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities, for further guidance
16                                            AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2003
ACC Plan 10-2, CONUS Radiological Accident Response and Recovery Plan

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—-Air Combat Command
HQ ACC/SG—-ACC Command Surgeon
HQ ACC/A3OH—-ACC Homeland Defense Branch
HQ ACC/A3TO—-ACC Flight Operations and Training Branch
HQ ACC/A3YG—-ACC Ground Management Branch
HQ ACC/A4RM—-ACC Supply Chain Management Branch
HQ ACC/A7—-ACC Directorate of Installations and Mission Support
HQ ACC/A7SO—-ACC Security Forces Operations
HQ ACC/A7SP—-ACC Security Forces Programs and Requirements
HQ ACC/A7X—-ACC Readiness Division
HQ ACC/A7XE—-ACC Explosive Ordnance Disposal Branch
HQ ACC/A7XF—-ACC Fire and Emergency Services Branch
HQ ACC/A7XX—-ACC Emergency Management and Modernization Branch
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                                     17


Table A4.9. CE - Environmental Flight/Officer/Environmental Management.
1.    Prepares and submits environmental release reports to State, Federal, and host nation agencies
      as required by law or host nation agreement.
2.    Ensures compliance with State and local HAZMAT emergency planning and response
      requirements. Serves as the HAZMAT emergency program manager, and oversees the
      installation HAZMAT emergency planning and response activities.
2.1   Ensure HAZMAT team first responder, and emergency responder personnel receive training
      and certifications required by Federal Law. Functional areas maintain team training and
      certification documentation.

3.    Serves as OPR for:
      - EPCRA, Sections 301-304 and 311-313.
      - The Pollution Prevention Act.
      For example, provides information for the LEPC and SERC.
4.    Reviews installation emergency response plans and advises on compliance with State and
      local HAZMAT emergency planning and response requirements.
5.    Develops and coordinates storm water pollution prevention and integrated HAZMAT plans in
      installation CEMP 10-2.
6.    Develops HAZMAT response checklists for CEMP 10-2.
7.    Collects, prepares, transports, and manages results for environmental compliance samples sent
      to approved testing laboratories.
8.    Coordinates collection, management, sampling, and disposal of hazardous waste IAW State,
      Federal, and host nation requirements.
9.    Advises the IC or EOC director on environmental impacts from HAZMAT incidents or
      emergency operations and recommends environmental impact prevention and control
      strategies.

Table A4.11. CE - Fire Emergency Services (FES) Flight.
1.    Establishes a HAZMAT response capability for CBRNE incidents. Consider including CEX,
      CED, BE, SF, and other functional personnel on HAZMAT team as specialist-trained
      members to handle unique situations, as necessary.
2.    Establishes initial contamination control capability for responders and victims.
3.    Establishes a safe route for responders to the accident scene. Plots the entry control point
      (ECP).
4.    Relays information from the Fire Alarm Communications Center (FACC) to dispatched units.
5.    Relays ECP location to command post. Notifies SF of designated ECP location. Relays ECP
      grid coordinates to the EOC.
6.    Briefs EOC Director on significant incident factors.
18                                                      AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


7.    Identifies and establishes a triage area. Assigns supervision to initially assess, care, package,
      and transport or transfer patients to medical staff.
8.    Designates a HAZMAT Officer for assistance during HAZMAT and CBRNE incidents.
9.    Serves as the OPR for Fire fighting ESF (ESF 4).

Table A4.12. CE – Readiness and Emergency Management Flight.
1.    Manages the installation EM program.
2.    Informs commanders and their staffs on EM program policies, structure, planning, and
      response. Develops, maintains, and provides (upon request) the Installation EM Program
      briefing.
3.    Ensures EM program direction and guidance are included in operations orders, plans,
      directives, support agreements, and other installation planning documents. Based on the
      threat, provides WMD-related RAM actions to Wing AT/FP OPR for inclusion in installation
      AT/FP plan. As a minimum include
3.1   (Added) Detection network set-up and activation.
3.2   (Added) Installation entry point detection protocols.
3.3   (Added) Random biological sampling protocols.
3.4   (Added) Increased contact with local emergency management agencies.
4.    Helps unit EM representatives develop EM operational procedures.
5.    Manages passive defense for the CE Commander and Installation Commander. Use the
      EMWG as the briefing forum.
6.    Assists in passive defense plans and checklists development.
7.    Manages the CBRNE contamination control program.
8.    Helps units determine CBRNE defense avoidance, protection, and contamination control
      requirements.
9.    Develops and administers a CBRNE incident detection and monitoring plan with
      bioenvironmental engineering and agencies the EMWG identifies.
10.   Establishes the installation CBRN detection, survey, marking, plotting, prediction, and
      reporting capabilities and associated equipment requirements.
11.   Integrates the HAZMAT program into the installation EM program. Ensures compliance with
      State and local HAZMAT emergency planning and response requirements.
12.   Reviews MAAs regarding EM response as provided by the Support Agreement Manager
      (SAM).
13.   Advises the Installation Commander on the need to establish CCTs for the installation based
      upon the mission and the threat. Minimum units to consider for CCTs are Munitions, Medical
      Group, Transportation, Services, and CE.
14.   Maintains publications IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                                   19


15.   Reviews AFTO Forms 22 concerning CBRNE defense T.O.s and equipment submitted at the
      installation. Sends AF Forms 22 to the MAJCOM CE Readiness staff.
16.   Serves as the installation QNFT Program OCR.
17.   Develops, publishes, and maintains the installation CEMP 10-2.
18.   Reviews unit EM checklists. Helps units ensure their checklists and MAAs support the plan.
      Reviews unit EM checklists for policy, structure, responsibility, and other passive defense
      initiatives.
19.   Inserts CBRNE defense guidance into installation operations orders, plans, directives, and
      similar documents.
20.   Establishes and equips the CBRNE Control Center.
21.   Coordinates with the bioenvironmental engineer and fire chief on HAZMAT issues.
22.   Coordinates with CE Environmental Engineering (CEV) and Bioenvironmental Engineering
      on contaminated waste material. Develops plans in conjunction with the CE Squadron
      Asset Management flight, Bioenvironmental Engineering, and installation JAG for
      disposition of CB contaminated individual protective clothing, flight gear, IPE, and duty
      uniforms.
23.   Provides response functions with current on-base and off-base maps. ACC installations will
      prepare and use a sector/zone map. If the map is already sectored for another purpose
      (e.g., security or evacuation), these sectors may be used for CBRN/WMD events, or new
      sectors may be developed.
24.   Provides classes for Air Force EM program courses. Documents training IAW Air Force
      directives.
25.   Organizes training for and provides criteria to equip specialized teams.
26.   Provides CBRNE defense training for specialized teams.
27.   Provides individual CBRNE defense training for required personnel.
28.   Helps develop CBRNE defense equipment maintenance and use procedures.
29.   Maintains and operates an MEOC to respond to EM incidents.
30.   Coordinates requirements for COLPRO facilities and protective shelters.
31.   Budgets for CBRNE defense materials and equipment, including training requirements.
      Submit training funding as a separately identified line item to ACC/A7XX for PE 27593
      POM submission.
32.   Activates and maintains the CBRNE Control Center during EM responses.
33.   Assists installation units to plan for, maintain, and develop procedures to meet passive defense
      equipment needs.
34.   Advises units on equipment acquisition, maintenance, and use of specialized CBRNE defense
      equipment. Consolidate installation units’ WMD (PE 27574) funding requirements for
      submission through the Readiness and Emergency Management Flight to ACC/A7XX for
      POM submissions. Additionally, submits Readiness and Emergency Management Flight
      CBRN defense (PE 27593) funding requirements to ACC/A7XX for POM submissions.
20                                                   AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


35.   Establishes a CBRN detection plan at deployed locations.
36.   Clears area to establish ECP and CCS for radiological detection operations.
37.   Advises the EOC and Incident Command (IC) during response and recovery operations.
38.   Prepares detailed plumes for CBRN events.
39.   Supervises CCS and CCA operations during CBRN incidents.
40.   Advises special teams during contingency operations.
41.   Establishes and maintains a response capability for terrorist use of CBRNE. Detects and
      identifies CBRN hazards and determines extent of contamination hazard in hot zone.
      Recommends reduction or expansion of cordon to allow continuation of critical mission
      operations.
42.   Provides expertise to commanders concerning hazards during CBRNE accidents and terrorist
      threats.
43.   Advises the Installation Commander on conducting sustained operations in a contaminated
      environment.
44.   Implements the Air Force EM SAV Program.
44.1 (Added) At a minimum Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) will be conducted annually for
     each assigned and tenant unit utilizing SAV checklists provided by HQ ACC/A7XX.
     SAV checklists will be distributed to all installation units. See Attachment 9 (Added) for
     Unit SAV checklist template.
45.  Conducts self-inspections IAW command guidance.
46.   Submits the installation Radiological Accident Response Capability Report IAW DTRA
      procedures.
47.   Helps compile data for reports listed in paragraphs 8.3. and 8.4.
48.   Coordinates with the CEV to submit the CBRN incident-related environmental release reports
      to State and Federal agencies.
49.   Serves as OPR for the Emergency Management ESF (ESF 5).
50.   (Added) All ACC Readiness and Emergency Management Flights will submit the
      COMACC EM Metrics to ACC/A7XX <acc.cexxbr@langley.af.mil> semi-annually.
      Metrics will be due no later than 20 Apr and 20 Oct each calendar year. A statement that
      the wing commander or vice commander reviewed the metrics will be included in the e-
      mail transmittal memo.

Table A4.14. Command Post.
1.    Activates and tests the INWS periodically. Reports status to CE. Report outages to
      Communications and Civil Engineer customer service POCs.
2.    Assists in directing installation EM and response actions: Maintains notification rosters.
      Provides information to and collects information from UCCs and shelters. Coordinates report
      information with the ICC and EOC.
3.    Directs actions to support the installation’s assigned mission IAW AFI 10-207, Command
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                                      21


      Posts.
4.    Serves as the focal point for installation-wide notification and warning operations. Receives
      and sends task-relevant orders, information, and requests.
5.    Until the EOC is operational, maintains notification rosters, notifies EOC members, and
      activates the INWS.
6.    Serves as OCR for the Emergency Management ESF (ESF 5).

Table A4.15. Communications and Information.
1.    Develops procedures to reduce the impact on communications-computer systems during
      contingencies. Develops procedures to protect communications and computer systems from
      CBRNE attack.
2.    Procures, installs, and maintains the INWS. In addition, serves as OPR for the INWS siren,
      GIANT VOICE components, and audible footprint map.
3.    Advises the commander and staff on communications assets available for disaster operations
      and for CBRNE defense operations. Provide status on JWARN SIPRNET connectivity and
      hardware.
4.    Ensures units and staff offices identify and establish procedures to protect or remove vital
      records during contingencies. Ensures vital records are protected IAW AFI 33-332, Privacy
      Act Program, and AFI 37-138, Records Dispositions—Procedures and Responsibilities.
5.    Installs and maintains the communications equipment in the MEOC. Ensures the equipment
      meets host installation and MAA capability requirements. Applies spectrum management to
      provide dedicated radio frequencies for integrated CBRN detection.
6.    Ensures primary and back-up communication systems are available to disseminate timely
      weather information to supported customers and agencies.
7.    Provides communications and computer systems to support Air Force EM program
      operations. Installation-specific requirements will be approved by the Installation EMWG.
      Install/maintain JWARN software.
8.    Incorporates communication requirements into installation plans and unit checklists to support
      on- or off-base CCA or toxic free area (TFA) operations.
9.    Serves as OPR for the Communications ESF (ESF 2).
10.   Serves as OCR for the Public Works and Engineering ESF (ESF 3).
11.   Serves as OCR for the Emergency Management ESF (ESF 5).

Table A4.24. Medical Treatment Facility Commander.
1.    Arranges for medical response to emergency events.
2.    Directs the development of, approves, and publishes the Medical Contingency Response Plan
      (MCRP).
3.    Ensures the MCRP addresses all medical responsibilities outlined in the installation CEMP
22                                                    AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


      10-2.
4.    Develops MAAs with Federal, civilian, and installation agencies to support MCRP and
      medical portions of the CEMP 10-2.
5.    Appoints, in writing, the following personnel to support specific emergency response
      requirements and ensures they are adequately trained:
      Medical Readiness Officer
      Medical Intelligence Officer (MIO)or NCO CBRN Medical Defense Officer (MDO) or NCO
      Medical EOC (ESF 8) Representative
      Medical EOC (ESF 11) Representative
6.    Advises commanders of best employment of medical assets in emergency environments,
      LIMFACs of those assets and installation operating support requirements.
7.    Assigns a Bioenvironmental Engineer and a Public Health officer (or NCO) to the installation
      AT vulnerability assessment team. Ensures medical aspects of the AT program are addressed.
8.    Establishes, organizes, and maintains the Medical Control Center (MCC).
9.    Establishes and operates threat- or vulnerability-based disease early warning and surveillance.
      Reports findings to Installation Commander and higher headquarters.
10.   Manages assigned shelters. Assists with and advises on medical requirements at other unit
      shelters.
11.   Directs and provides health-based TIC/TIM and CBRN risk assessments to Installation
      Commander and Incident Command (IC). Assessments will be coordinated with the
      Readiness and Emergency Management Flight.
12.   Directs baseline and ongoing sampling, analysis, identification, and diagnosis.
13.   Serves as OPR for the Public Health and Medical Services ESF (ESF 8).
14.   Serves as OPR for the Agriculture and Natural Resources ESF (ESF 11).
15.   Serves as OCR for the Emergency Management ESF (ESF 5).
16    Serves as OCR for the Mass Care, Housing, and Human Services ESF (ESF 6).
17.   Serves as OCR for the Urban Search and Rescue ESF (ESF 9).
18.   Serves as OCR for the Oil and HAZMAT Response ESF (ESF 10).
19.   Serves as OCR for the Long-term Community Recovery and Mitigation ESF (ESF 14).
20.   Serves as OCR for the External Affairs ESF (ESF 15).
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                                   23




Table A4.34. Services.
1.     Plans shelter operations IAW AFMAN 10-2502. Use 48 to 72 hours as the sheltering time
       for CONUS planning purposes.
2.     Serves as OPR for humanitarian services such as feeding, housing, and clothing for disaster
       survivors, DRF members, and incoming forces.
3.     Develops plans with CE to bury or dispose of contaminated IPE and duty uniforms.
4.     Develops plans for mortuary affairs to support decontamination and handling of contaminated
       remains in overseas areas during wartime. See JP 4-06, Mortuary Affairs in Joint Operations,
       for further in-theater operational guidance. (Does not apply to domestic CBRN incidents.)
5.     Provides search and recovery team support IAW AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program.
6.     Incorporates services requirements into installation plans and unit checklists to support CCA
       operations.
7.     Responsible for domestic Mortuary Affairs IAW AFI 34-242.
8.     Serves as OPR for the Mass Care, Housing, and Human Services ESF (ESF 6).
9.     Serves as OCR for the Public Health and Medical Services ESF (ESF 8).
10.    Serves as OCR for the Urban Search and Rescue ESF (ESF 9).
11.    Serves as OCR for the Agriculture and Natural Resources ESF (ESF 11).
12.    Serves as OCR for the Long-term Community Recovery and Mitigation ESF (ESF 14).




Table A4.39. (Added) .Tenant Unit Commanders.
1.     ACC unit commanders on non-ACC installations will:
1.1.   Ensure host-tenant support agreements, MOAs, or MOUs identify the EM training
       program requirements needed by ACC units to comply with this supplement and their
       mission requirements.
1.2.   Participate in host installation’s EM program, including the EM Program Structure.
2.     Non-ACC unit commanders on ACC installations will:
2.1.   Ensure host-tenant support agreements, MOAs, or MOUs identify EM program training
       requirements needed by the non-ACC units to comply with their Command supplement
       and mission requirements.
2.2.   Participate in installation’s EM program.
24                                                 AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009




A6.5. 1. 1.1.Hazmat Specialists receive 24 hours of training equal to technician level, plus
additional competencies that support health risk assessment roles.
A6.6.1. The In-Place Patient Decontamination Capability (IPPDC) Manager must attend the
USAFSAM patient decontamination course, the 2-day Contingency/Counterterrorism Casualty
Decontamination Course or the ACC MEFPAK-approved manufacturer patient decontamination
course. All meet the First Responder Operations level training for personnel performing patient
decontamination.
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                           25


                                   Attachment 8 (Added)
                   ACC CONTINGENCY RESPONSE PROCEDURES

A8.1. (Added) Organizations. ACC organizations with major roles in contingency response
include the ACC Command Center, ACC Operations Center, ACC CE Contingency Response
Cell (CRC), ACC Threat Working Group, the ACC Response Task Force (RTF), and other ACC
Directorates’ contingency cells, as necessary to support installations during an EM situation.
A8.1.1. (Added) The ACC Command Center will notify the organizations listed above when
requested by an installation after receiving approval from ACC/A3O, when directed by the ACC/
CC/CV, A7 or A3, in support of an EM situation requiring ACC directorates’ involvement on a
large scale.
A8.1.1.1. (Added) Organization listed in paragraph A8.1 will notify the ACC Command Center
when any of their organizations are activated.
A8.1.1.2. (Added) The ACC Command Center will ensure directorates are notified when any
of the organizations listed in paragraph A8.1 are activated.
A8.1.1.3. (Added) ACC Directorates will ensure they have contingency response activation
procedures and can respond to activation calls.
A8.1.1.4. (Added) ACC installations will ensure the ACC Command Center is notified when
support is required from ACC.
A8.1.2. (Added) Contingency Response Procedures. ACC contingency response organizations
will use the following procedures:
A8.1.2.1. (Added) The ACC Command Center will provide the ACC Operations Center
Operations Officer (OPSO) a concise brief on the EM situation.
A8.1.2.2. (Added) The ACC Operations Center OPSO will provide a situation briefing to the
other ACC contingency response organizations members in paragraph A8.1 as required by the
situation.
A8.1.2.3. (Added) ACC contingency response organization members will respond to their
designated work centers and prepare for support requests based on the situation.
A8.1.3. (Added) ACC Contingency Response Organization Responsibilities. Responsibilities
include:
A8.1.3.1. (Added) Coordinating installation requests for manpower, equipment, and Federal
support. Support could be survey teams, medical treatment teams, EOD teams, light-alls,
specialized vehicles, medical or WMD supplies, etc.
26                                                  AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


                                    Attachment 9 (Added)
        STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT CRITERIA AND CHECKLIST TEMPLATE

A9.1. (Added) Readiness and Emergency Management Flights will perform SAVs on all
assigned and tenant units on an annual (calendar year) basis. Flights will develop and publish an
annual SAV schedule. Waiver requests to the annual SAV requirement must be signed by the
Mission Support Group Commander and forwarded to HQ ACC/A7X. ACC Tenant units will
participate in their host wing SAV program.
A9.2. (Added) SAV Trend Analysis Requirements. Readiness and Emergency Management
Flights will develop a method to track unit trends in relation to the Major EM SAV areas
identified in Table A9.1. (an example spreadsheet is available within the ACC folder on the
AFCESA Readiness and Emergency Management CoP).                  Readiness and Emergency
Management Flights will develop the ability to identify percentage of units that comply with
major EM SAV areas (e.g., sixty percent of units comply with EM training). Post unit SAV
trend analysis on the Air Force Readiness and Emergency Management COP, within the ACC
Folder and their respective base. URL is as follows:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-EN-CE-52-16-
3&Filter=OO-EN-CE-52
A9.3. (Added) Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) Criteria. These criteria will be used by
Readiness and Emergency Management Flight personnel conducting SAVs. The ACC SAV
philosophy is based on assisting the units in producing a better EM capability and aiding in
mission accomplishment, not on inspecting for compliance. Readiness and Emergency
Management SAV’s will review items identified in Table A9.2. (Unit Emergency Management
Program SAV Checklist). Installations should add detail to the major areas within the SAV
checklist concerning installation specific EM program requirements.

Table A9.1. Unit SAV Trends Tracking Areas
                SAV Trend Analysis
                A. Emergency Management Program Assessment
                B. Emergency Management Planning
                C. Emergency Management Training
                D. Emergency Management Equipment
                E   Self Inspection and SAV Program
                F.    Disaster Response Force
                G.    Unit Control Centers
                H.    Specialized Teams
                I.    Shelter Program
                J.    Exercise Evaluation
                K.    Unresolved Issues
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                             27




Table A9.2. (Added) SAV Checklist Template
Installation Name                                                              Page 1 of 5
UNIT EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM XX CES/CEX                                   Date
STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT CHECKLIST
No Item                                                                        Yes    No N/A


A.   EM PROGRAM ASSESSMENT

1.   Has the unit commander established effective recall procedures? (AFI
     10-2501, 4.7.4.2.)

2.   Does the unit participate in the installation Emergency Management
     Working Group (EMWG), if tasked? (AFI 10-2501, 2.4.1.2.)

3.   Does the unit EM representative create and maintain a unit EM program
     folder, either hard copy or electronic? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.1.2.)

4.   Does the unit provide an EM Quarterly Report to the Readiness and EM
     Flight? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.1.2.1)

5.   Has the unit commander appointed unit EM representatives to manage
     and coordinate unit requirements of the EM program? (AFI 10-2501,
     3.11.1.)

6.   Does the unit commander actively support the information program
     IAW AFI 10-2501, to include visual aids and posters? (AFI 10-2501,
     6.7.2, and 9.2.2.)

B.   EM PLANNING

1.   Has the unit developed unit-specific checklists to support CEMP 10-2?
     (AFI 10-2501, 4.3.1.)

2.   Do unit specific checklists tell who, what, when, where, and how action
     will be accomplished? (AFI 10-2501, 4.3.1.)

3.   Has the unit developed checklists for each specialized team they
     control? (AFI 10-2501, 4.3.1.)

4.   Has the unit coordinated checklists that support CEMP 10-2 through CE
     Readiness before implementation? (AFI 10-2501, 4.3.1.)
28                                                 AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009




Installation Name                                                              Page 2 of 5
UNIT EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (EM)                         XX CES/CEX              Date
PROGRAM STAFF ASSISTANCE/SELF-
ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST
No Item                                                                        Yes    No N/A
C.   EM TRAINING
     Did the unit commander appoint primary and alternate EM/CBRN
1.   Training Unit Schedulers? (X AFB Quarterly Report)

     Are unit personnel scheduled and trained IAW AF EM program training
2.   requirements? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.9.)

     Does the unit schedule, track, and document EM training for their
3.   personnel? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.9.)

     Do unit training schedulers use Automated Civil Engineer System -
4.   Personnel Readiness (ACES - PR), Unit Scheduler Module to schedule
     personnel for EM training courses? (AFI 10-2501, 6.4.3.)

     Are personnel going TDY to or deploying to a medium threat area
5.   (MTA) or high threat area (HTA) current in CBRNE Defense? (AFI
     10-2501, 6.4.9.)

     Do unit trainers and supervisors conduct CBRNE Defense Functional
6.   Area Task Qualification Training (TQT)? (AFI 10-2501, 6.6.1.13.)

     Do all unit personnel complete the CBRN Defense Awareness web
7.   based training course? (AFI-2501, 6.6.1.2.2.)

     Do all required personnel complete the CBRNE Defense Survival Skills
8.   course within 60 days after the CBRNE Defense Awareness Course?
     (AFI-2501, 6.6.1.3.2.)

     EM EQUIPMENT
D.   Does the unit identify requirements, budget for, obtain, store, and
     maintain passive defense operational and training equipment; including
1.   individual protective equipment (IPE), personal protective equipment
     (PPE), detection equipment, contamination control materials, and
     shelter supplies? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.13.)

2.   Does the unit ensure interoperable communications and visual
     information services are available for incident response? (AFI 10-2501,
     3.11.15.)
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                             29


Installation Name                                                              Page 3 of 5
UNIT EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (EM)                          XX CES/CEX             Date
PROGRAM STAFF ASSISTANCE/SELF-
ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST
No Item                                                                        Yes    No N/A
3.   Does the unit ensure that all unit military personnel and emergency
     essential civilians and contractors maintain and use AFMAN 10-100,
     Airman’s Manual during exercises and real world contingencies? (AFI
     10-2501, 3.11.20.)

     Unit commanders must:

4.   Does the unit identify requirements then budget for, obtain, store, and
     maintain material needed to accomplish their specific functional EM
     tasks in support of response plans? (AFI 10-2501, 5.5.)

5.   Does the unit identify and mark training equipment IAW technical
     orders? (AFI 10-2501, 5.5.2.)

6.   Does the unit store training equipment separately from operational
     equipment? (AFI 10-2501, 5.5.2.)

7.   Does the unit ensure that PPE used by emergency responders is
     approved by the installation bioenvironmental engineer or Safety
     personnel (IAW Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire
     Protection, and Health [AFOSH] standards) before procurement and
     use? (AFI 10-2501, 5.7.3.2.)

E.   SELF INSPECTION AND SAV PROGRAM

1.   Does the unit EM representative perform semi-annual EM program self-
     inspections? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.21.)

2.   Does the unit track open EM program self-inspection and SAV
     deficiencies until closed? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.1.2.3.)

3.   Does the unit provide follow-up action on EM program SAV
     observations or findings? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.7.)

F.   DISASTER RESPONSE FORCE (DRF)

1.   Have Emergency Operation Center (EOC) members been appointed and
     trained? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.3.)
30                                                  AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


Installation Name                                                               Page 4 of 5
UNIT EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (EM)                          XX CES/CEX              Date
PROGRAM STAFF ASSISTANCE/SELF-
ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST
No Item                                                                         Yes    No N/A
2.   Are EOC members the senior ranking individuals with decision-making
     authority for their unit? (Recommended)

3.   Does the unit provide First Responder and Emergency Responders, as
     tasked in CEMP 10-2? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11. and sub-paragraphs)

4.   Do primary and alternate DRF personnel each take part in at least one
     exercise per year? (AFI 10-2501, 7.3.1.1.)

G.   UNIT CONTROL CENTER (UCC)
1.   Are UCCs established IAW AFI 10-2501? (AFI 10-2501, 2.4.2.10 and
     3.11.5.)

2.   Does the UCC have resources to maintain unit command and control
     (C2), relay information to and from unit personnel, provide expertise to
     the EOC or IC, and leverage unit resources to respond to and mitigate
     the incident? (AFI 10-2501, 2.4.2.10)

3.   Are procedures written for 24-hour operation and manning of the UCC
     to include activation, deactivation, and relocation? (AFI 10-2501,
     3.11.11.)

4.   Are the following recommended items available in the UCC?

     a.   CEMP 10-2
     b.   Current On/Off-base maps with overlay
     c.   Comm equipment, to include base stations and handheld radios
     d.   Events Log or equivalent
     e.   Current recall rosters
     f.   List of emergency phone numbers
     g.   Administrative supplies

5.   Has the unit commander assigned highly knowledgeable personnel to
     the UCC? (AFI 10-2.4.2.10.)

H.   SPECIALIZED TEAMS

1.   Does the unit appoint Contamination Control Team (CCT) members?
     (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.4.)
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                              31


Installation Name                                                               Page 5 of 5
UNIT EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (EM)                          XX CES/CEX              Date
PROGRAM STAFF ASSISTANCE/SELF-
ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST
No Item                                                                         Yes    No N/A
2.   Does the unit appoint Readiness Support Team (RST) members? (AFI
     10-2501, 3.11.4.)

3.   Does the unit commander notify the CE commander when approving
     the release of a trained team member for reasons other than PCS,
     retirement, discharge, or medical disqualification? (AFI 10-2501,
     3.11.4.4.)

4.   Does the unit ensure support and recovery teams are adequately staffed,
     trained, and equipped to provide 24-hour coverage when activated?
     (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.11.)

5.   Does the unit assign and control Post Attack Reconnaissance (PAR)
     teams? (AFI 10-2501, 4.8.4.4.)
I.
I    SHELTER PROGRAM

1.   Can unit personnel implement shelter-in-place procedures if an incident
     occurs with little or no warning? (AFI 10-2501, 3.10.15.)

2.   Did the unit CC assign trained personnel to perform shelter management
     duties? (AFI 10-2501, 3.12.1.2.)

3.   Do unit plans include methods to relocate, evacuate, or shelter all
     personnel affected or potentially affected by an incident? (AFI 10-2501,
     4.2.2.3.)

4.   Does the unit include shelter operations checklists address needed
     supplies/equipment and personnel accountability? (AFI 10-2501,
     4.8.4.5.)

J.   EXERCISE EVALUATION

1.   Does the unit participate in installation EM planning and exercises?
     (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.8.)

2.   Does the unit ensure that Installation Control Center (ICC), EOC,
     Emergency Communications Center (ECC), and UCC members
     participate in at least one exercise per year? (AFI 1-2501, 3.11.18. and
     7.3.1.1.)
32                                                 AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009



Installation Name                                                            Page 5 of 5
UNIT EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (EM)                         XX CES/CEX            Date
PROGRAM STAFF ASSISTANCE/SELF-
ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST
No Item                                                                      Yes    No N/A


3.   Are unit recall and personnel accountability exercised during each EM
     exercise? (AFI 10-2501, 7.3.1.2.)

4.   Have new members been appointed and trained before previous
     members depart? (AFI 10-2501, 3.11.4.4.)

5.   Are EET members trained as required? (AFI 10-2501, 6.4.5. and 6.6.9.)

6.   Does the unit commander provide support to the EET Remedial Action
     Program? (AFI 10-204, and AFI 10-2501, 7.8.)

K.   UNRESOLVED ISSUES:

1.   Are there any open items from previous reports?

     a.   ACC/IG
     b.   AF Audit report
     c.   EET
     d.   Previous Staff Assistance Visits

2.   What actions have been taken to correct open items?

3.   Are there any repeat deficiencies?
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                              33


                                   Attachment 10 (Added)
       MINIMUM EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR ACC INSTALLATIONS

A10.1. (Added) Installation Response Equipment. Commanders will ensure DRF members
(military and civilian) maintain the ability to respond to recalls and provide sustained incident
response support to the Incident Commander (IC). This will include providing them with
required equipment to operate in the expected weather conditions at the scene of an EM
situation. Units will have available or be able to quickly obtain the following items for DRF
members that require them:
A10.1.1. (Added) Response gear, which may include, field gear, including web gear and
canteen, cold weather and wet weather gear, when not otherwise authorized. Additional gear
such as flashlights, insect repellant, and Global Positioning Systems may be necessary depending
on incident locations.
A10.2. (Added) Mobile Communication Center (MCC) Equipment. The Mission Support
Group commander will ensure the MCC is able to perform missions during EM situations. The
Readiness and Emergency Management Flight will operate and maintain the MCC for the
Incident Commander’s (IC) use. The MCC will be equipped with items listed in Table A10.1.
Column “R” represents required items and provides a standardized response capability across
ACC. Column “O” represents optional items determined locally. The MSG/CC will provide a
MCC status update annually, referring to items identified in Table A10.1. ACC/A7X will use
this data for programming funding requirements.

Table A10.1. (Added) Mobile Emergency Operations Center Equipment
          Item(s) and Purpose                                                            R    O
 Qty
 Communications Equipment
 1 ea  Ground-to-ground land mobile radios (LMR) (UHF and/or VHF as needed),             X
       for transmitting Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) information, with
       transmit/receive capability on the following (minimum) nets: (Wing)
       Command, DRF (if used), Fire, Civil Engineer, Readiness and Emergency
       Management, Security Forces, Medical, Explosive Ordnance Disposal,
       Ramp, and Transportation. Include other LMR frequencies as necessary for
       emergency response. Should have mast-mounted antenna for longer range
       during operations at On-Scene Control Point (OSCP)
 1 ea  Handheld ground-to-ground radio with local civil emergency                        X
       communications net(s) (includes battery chargers)
 1 ea  Ground-to-air radio for coordination with search aircraft and local airlift       X
       support
 1 ea  Ground-to-air radio with local civil emergency communications net(s)              X
 1 ea  Commercial radio scanner. NOTE: If key local nets are digital, trunked,           X
       and/or encrypted, a scanner may not be useful, and units must use LMR(s) to
       monitor nets
 1 ea  ACU 1000- Intelligent Communications Interconnect System                          X
 1 ea  Laptop computer equipped with remote wireless data capability (cell phone         X
34                                              AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009


        modem, packet radio, SATCOM, etc) and communications software for
        remote E-mail access and sending/receiving (unclassified) faxes. (Laptop
        must have a CAC compatible reader (internal or external) and the capability
        to write to CD-R or CD-RW disks. Procurement, configuration and use must
        follow the guidance in AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset
        Management and any other applicable guidance. Laptop should also have a
        media port compatible with the digital camera or consider obtaining an
        external media device that is compatible with the digital camera.)
1 ea    Cellular telephone for low cost communications and use when and where             X
        cell net is available (includes battery chargers)
1 ea    Standalone laptop computer for classified operations                              X
1 ea    Fax machine for sending classified faxes over secure cell phone and               X
        SATCOM

1 ea     Secure-capable (up to Secret) SATCOM telephone with Secure Telephone             X
         Instrument (STE) for guaranteed access, long-haul communications
Support Equipment
1 ea     Vehicle mounted siren and public address system                              X
1 ea     Mobile weather station with computer data link providing temperature, dew    X
         point, wind direction and speed, and atmospheric pressure (WeatherPac or
         equivalent)
1 ea     Software. Include current versions of: Windows Office, Joint Warning and     X
         Reporting Network (JWARN), and HPAC. (Software procurement,
         installation and use must follow guidance in AFI 33-114, Software
         Management and any other applicable guidance.)
1 ea     Portable generator(s) capable of providing continuous power to all           X
         installed/supported systems
1 set    On-base and off-base maps; paper and digital                                 X
1 ea     First Aid Kit                                                                X
1 ea     Tool box/kit, road kit, jumper cables                                        X
1 ea     Digital camera to record critical activities                                 X
1 ea     Batteries (for flashlights, GPS units, NVGs; Rangefinders; and digital       X
         camera, etc, as required); CD-R or CD-RW disks; and spare media
         compatible with digital camera.
1 pr     Binocular                                                                    X
1 ea     compass                                                                          X
1 ea     portable public address system for Incident Commander (IC) to address            X
         responders
1 ea     Government off-the-shelf incident management software such as CAMEO              X
         and Consequence Assessment Tool Set (CATS); and commercial equivalents
         such as the Chemical Biological Response Aid (CoBRA).
As req CBRN detection equipment.                                                          X
1 pr     Night Vision Goggles                                                             X
1 ea     Laser Range Finder                                                               X
1 ea     Trailer for storing/transporting equipment, if necessary.                        X
AFI10-2501_ACCSUP 7 JANUARY 2009                                                      35


1 ea     Winch                                                                        X
1 ea     Color printer w/spare print cartridges                                       X
1 ea     Global Positioning System receiver                                           X
1 ea     Sheltered (from weather) work area for IC and key staff. May be inside       X
         MEOC vehicle, an MEOC trailer, or a tent (air beam, TEMPER, DRASH,
         etc).
1 set    Area lighting (portable and/or mounted on MEOC) for lighting the OSCP        X
1 ea     Clock                                                                        X
As req   AM/FM radio with batteries                                                   X
As req   Water                                                                        X
As req   Foul weather gear (for crew and the Incident Commander),                     X
As req   Sunscreen                                                                    X
As req   Insect repellent                                                             X
As req   Rations                                                                      X
As req   Blankets                                                                     X
As req   Cots                                                                         X
As req   Tarps                                                                        X
As req   flagging ribbon                                                              X
As req   Plastic Trash Bags                                                           X
As req   CD-R or CD-RW disks; and spare media compatible with digital camera.         X

Administrative Supplies
As req Paper                                                                      X
As req Pens                                                                       X
As req Pencils                                                                    X
As req Grease Pencils                                                             X
As req Thumb Drives                                                               X
As req Clip Boards                                                                X
