BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2CR,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  VOLUME 1

                                                                           17 JANUARY 2013
                                                   Incorporating Change 1, 14 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                          CONTINGENCY RESPONSE UNIT
                                                              INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AMC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 37


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in Contingency Response (CR)
units. This publication applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard
(ANG) intelligence personnel supporting CR operations. The National Guard Bureau will be
considered functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System. This AFI may be supplemented, but all supplements
must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate functional chain of
command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated
with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered
compliance items.
 2                                                                                           AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                  4
       1.1.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
       1.2.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            5
       1.3.   Position Qualification. ...........................................................................................            6
       1.4.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     8
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   IFTU Attendance. ..................................................................................................            8
       2.3.   IFTU Timeline Waiver. .........................................................................................                8
       2.4.   IFTU Prerequisites. ................................................................................................           8
       2.5.   Initial Qualification Training. ................................................................................               8
       2.6.   IQT Documentation. ..............................................................................................              8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     9
       3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
       3.2.   Mission Qualification Training Evaluation. ...........................................................                        10
       3.3.   Knowledge and Task Training. ..............................................................................                   10

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                             15
       4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   15
       4.2.   Internal Intelligence Training Program. .................................................................                     15
       4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                16
Table 4.1.    CR Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements. ....................................                                     16
       4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     17
       4.5.   Re-qualification. ....................................................................................................        17
       4.6.   Proration of End-of-Cycle Requirements. .............................................................                         17

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                              18
       5.1.   Specialized Training Programs. .............................................................................                  18
       5.2.   External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) Specialized Training. ....................................                                18
Table 5.1.    External Intelligence Trainer Event Training and Currencies. ..............................                                   20
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                                        3


     5.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................   20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                     22

Attachment 2—TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                 26

Attachment 3—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                                                                             27

Attachment 4—GRADESHEETS                                                                                           28

Attachment 5—IQT TIMELINE WAIVER                                                                                   37
 4                                                              AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013



                                            Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. Responsibilities.
     1.1.1. AMC/A2, as lead MAJCOM for this mission area, will:
        1.1.1.1. Chair a biennial training review to address Contingency Response Group (CR)
        unit intelligence training requirements and programs for CR units. Participants will
        include applicable active and reserve component (ARC) representatives.
        1.1.1.2. Develop and maintain standardized training materials (e.g., master question file
        (MQF), Capabilities, Visual Recognition, and Threat Materials).
        1.1.1.3. Notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if such
        correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
     1.1.2. All MAJCOMs will:
        1.1.2.1. Determine training requirements to meet expected unit taskings and submit to
        AMC/A2 for inclusion in the instructional system design (ISD) process.
        1.1.2.2. Review subordinate unit supplemental instructions and training programs
        annually.
        1.1.2.3. Courtesy-copy AMC/A2 regarding all subordinate unit waiver requests and
        responses.
     1.1.3. The Chief of Wing Intelligence will:
        1.1.3.1. Develop and execute programs to ensure training objectives are met. (T-2)
        1.1.3.2. Appoint in writing an Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager to
        oversee program execution. Coordinate with unit commanders if requesting unit level
        personnel be assigned Wing intelligence program managers. (T-2)
        1.1.3.3. Designate the qualification to which each intelligence position will train. Upon
        request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with a list
        of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and Basic Mission Capable (BMC) manning positions.
        Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
        1.1.3.4. Monitor currencies and requirements for all assigned/attached intelligence
        personnel. (T-2)
        1.1.3.5. Ensure ancillary training is accomplished IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
        Program. Consult with the local unit training manager (UTM) and Unit Deployment
        Manager (UDM) for guidance on ancillary training specific to the unit and base. (T-3)
        1.1.3.6. Ensure intelligence personnel only participate in operational events and tasks for
        which they are qualified and current unless under the direct supervision of qualified and
        current intelligence personnel. (T-2)
        1.1.3.7. Review training and evaluation records of newly assigned intelligence personnel
        and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                      5


      achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this publication have been met.
      (T-2)
      1.1.3.8. Determine how many and which CMR and BMC intelligence personnel will
      carry specialized qualifications. (T-2)
      1.1.3.9. Identify the levels of supervision needed to accomplish the required training,
      unless specifically directed. (T-3)
      1.1.3.10. DELETE
      1.1.3.11. Identify and report to MAJCOM/A2 training shortfalls that have a major
      impact on training. For AFRC units, identify and report training shortfalls to NAF/A2
      and AFRC/A2. Reference Attachment 3. (T-2)
   1.1.4. The Unit Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager will:
      1.1.4.1. Develop written guidance detailing how the intelligence personnel training
      program will be conducted. (T-3)
      1.1.4.2. Develop an annual internal intelligence training program. (T-2)
      1.1.4.3. Coordinate with the Chief of Wing Intelligence to establish the frequency of any
      training items not otherwise delineated in this instruction. Training methods may
      include, but are not limited to: briefings, demonstration-performance, formal and
      informal lectures. (T-3)
      1.1.4.4. Submit a written evaluation of the wing/group intelligence training program at
      the end of each training cycle IAW local procedures. (T-3)
   1.1.5. Individual intelligence personnel will:
      1.1.5.1. Make permanent change of station (PCS) moves with an electronic copy (hand-
      carry a copy of the records on compact disc) of their qualification training and evaluation
      records to assist the gaining unit in assessing qualifications and training requirements.
      (T-2)
      1.1.5.2. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
      publication. (T-2)
      1.1.5.3. Participate only in operational activities for which they are qualified and current,
      unless under the direct supervision of qualified and current intelligence personnel. (T-2)
1.2. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from Initial Qualification Training (IQT) to Mission Qualification
Training (MQT) in order to achieve CMR or BMC status which will be maintained via
continuation training (CT) and validated by periodic intelligence evaluations.
   1.2.1. IQT provides the initial training necessary to qualify intelligence personnel for basic
   duties in an intelligence position without regard to a unit’s mission. Upon completion of
   IQT, intelligence personnel attain Basic Qualification (BQ) status. BQ is not a long-term
   qualification status. IQT is discussed further in Chapter 2.
   1.2.2. MQT provides the training necessary to qualify or re-qualify intelligence personnel in
   a specific duty position to perform the missions assigned to a specific unit. Intelligence
 6                                                               AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


     personnel maintain BQ status until they complete MQT. Completion of MQT is a
     prerequisite for CMR or BMC status. MQT is discussed further in Chapter 3.
     1.2.3. CT provides the volume, frequency and mix of training necessary for intelligence
     personnel to maintain proficiency, currency and qualification. The Ready Intelligence
     Program (RIP) outlines the minimum CT requirements. RIP is designed to focus training on
     capabilities needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. CT is separate from skill
     level upgrade training, although CT may fulfill some skill level upgrade training
     requirements. CT and RIP are discussed further in Chapter 4.
     1.2.4. Specialized Training is training in any skills necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned
     missions that are not required for every intelligence unit member. Specialized Training is
     accomplished after MQT and after the member has attained CMR or BMC status, and is in
     addition to CMR or BMC requirements. Specialized Training is discussed further in Chapter
     5.
1.3. Position Qualification. The Chief of Wing Intelligence will designate positions as CMR or
BMC. BMC is ideal for personnel who will be performing mission essential tasks in wartime,
but whose status or daily duties do not revolve around these tasks. Personnel that may be ideal
for BMC status include traditional Guardsmen or reservists, superintendents or executive officers
who won't be performing mission duties daily.
     1.3.1. CMR. The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily completed MQT
     and maintain qualification and currency in the mission qualification tasks and knowledge.
        1.3.1.1. CMR personnel must maintain currencies by accomplishing all designated tasks
        within the prescribed timelines. See Table 4.1. for RIP currency requirements and Table
        5.1. for Specialized Training currency requirements. Failure to complete this training or
        maintain these currencies may result in regression to non-CMR (N-CMR). While non-
        current, personnel may perform only individual tasks in which they are current and
        qualified. If intelligence personnel lose currency in a particular task, that task may not
        be performed except for the purpose of regaining currency IAW AFI 14-202 Volume 1.
        (T-2)
        1.3.1.2. Personnel should meet CMR currency requirements before deploying in support
        of unit operations. However, in the case of short-notice deployments where this is not
        possible, the Chief of Wing Intelligence can allow BMC personnel to deploy. If the
        Chief of Wing Intelligence is forced to deploy an individual who has not met CMR
        currency requirements, the Chief of Wing Intelligence will ensure the member's deployed
        chain-of-command is aware of the member's currency status. (T-2)
     1.3.2. Basic Mission Capable. BMC is the status of intelligence personnel who have
     satisfactorily completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain CMR
     status. BMC personnel must be able to attain CMR currency within 30 days.
        1.3.2.1. BMC personnel must maintain currencies by accomplishing all designated tasks
        within the prescribed timelines. See Table 4.1 for RIP currency requirements and Table
        5.1 for Specialized Training currency requirements. BMC personnel may participate in
        any mission for which they are current and qualified, without additional training, as
        determined by the Chief of Wing Intel. Failure to complete BMC required training
        results in regression to non-BMC (N-BMC) status. While non-current, personnel may
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                     7


       perform only individual tasks in which they are current and qualified. If intelligence
       personnel lose currency in a particular task, that task may not be performed except for the
       purpose of regaining currency IAW AFI 14-202 Volume 1. (T-2)
   1.3.3. N-CMR/N-BMC. Intelligence personnel who regress to N-CMR or N-BMC status
   will accomplish the requirements IAW Chapter 4 before being rewarded CMR or BMC
   status. (T-2)
1.4. Documentation. Units will document qualification training on AF Form 4381, Intelligence
Gradesheet, and in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online
documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                              AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


                                            Chapter 2

                          INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. This chapter outlines IQT for CR unit intelligence personnel. IQT for
intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training is completed (i.e. the AFSC-awarding
courses) and will consist of the Mobility Air Forces (MAF) Intelligence Formal Training Unit
(IFTU) and the AF Force Protection (FP) IFTU. At the completion of IQT, the individual is
qualified as BQ.
2.2. IFTU Attendance. In-residence MAF IFTU attendance is mandatory for all intelligence
personnel at their first mobility assignment. Personnel who have attended IFTU in a previous
mobility assignment will repeat IFTU if the break between mobility assignments is more than
four years. When possible, IFTU attendance should occur prior to reporting to the duty station or
as soon as possible after arrival at the duty station. Individuals only need to attend the IFTUs
once during consecutive mobility assignments. (T-1)
2.3. IFTU Timeline Waiver. When IFTU training is not available within a reasonable time
period (within 60-120 days for active duty, 90-180 days for the ARC), the unit may request an
IFTU Timeline Waiver. The waiver request (see Attachment 6) must include the reason the
Chief of Wing Intelligence could not obtain a seat, the actions being taken to obtain the seat, and
the date the individual is projected to attend. When a seat in the IFTU is not readily available,
the unit may begin MQT prior to IFTU attendance. As lead MAJCOM, AMC/A2 is approval
authority for MAF IFTU waivers. All MAJCOMs will route waiver requests with their
endorsements to the AMC/A2 Force Management Division. (T-2)
2.4. IFTU Prerequisites. Course prerequisites will be IAW the MAF IFTU formal course
syllabus and the Education and Training Course Announcements, https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
(T-2)
2.5. Initial Qualification Training. The IFTUs will develop and maintain its courseware and
materials IAW the ISD process. The course content will be formalized and published in the
course syllabus, course training standard and course resource estimate. These documents will be
available for MAJCOM and unit review. (T-2)
2.6. IQT Documentation. BQ is attained at the completion of IQT and evaluated and
documented at the IFTU on the AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. Within
60 days of graduation the course director will send the AF Form 4350 to the gaining Chief of
Wing Intelligence who will ensure it is documented in the individual’s qualification training
record. (T-2)
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                    9


                                          Chapter 3

                         MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT is training necessary to qualify intelligence personnel in an assigned
position to perform the unit mission. Guidance in this chapter is provided to assist the Chief
Wing Intelligence/CRG/IN in executing the MAJCOM/A2 approved minimum MQT
requirements for all individuals newly assigned BQ. Units may further tailor their programs for
intelligence personnel with current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented
performance or formal training. Applicable portions of MQT may be used to create a re-
qualification program for personnel who have regressed from CMR or BMC to specifically
address deficiencies which caused regression.
   3.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT;
   however, in situations determined by the senior intelligence officer (SIO), intelligence
   personnel may begin MQT before completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make
   this option more practical. Member must complete IQT and attain BQ status before fully
   completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR. MQT will be completed within the time
   specified below.
   3.1.2. Timing starts within 45 days (90 days for ARC) of the individual’s first duty day at
   the gaining unit or immediately after the completion of IQT. If personnel elect to take leave
   prior to being entered into MQT, the timing will begin after the termination of the leave. For
   first term airmen being entered into MQT, the timing will begin upon completion of the First
   Term Airman Course (or equivalent) at their gaining unit. Training will be completed in line
   with the following: (T-2)
       3.1.2.1. For AFRC, notify AFRC/A2F, NAF/A2 and AMC/A2 if training exceeds 120
       days with seasoning or 180 calendar days. For individual mobilization augmentees
       (IMAs), notify MAJCOM Intelligence IMA Program Manager, AFRC/A2 and AMC/A2
       if training exceeds 180 calendar days.
       3.1.2.2. For ANG, notify the National Guard Bureau A2 if training exceeds 180 calendar
       days.
       3.1.2.3. For active duty, notify MAJCOM and AMC A2 if training exceeds 120 calendar
       days.
       3.1.2.4. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate reporting as directed and notify AMC/A2 when
       training of personnel exceeds allowable time. AMC/A2 will dictate reporting format and
       frequency.
   3.1.3. Personnel in MQT may participate in exercises if supervised while performing
   intelligence functions. The level of supervision is at the Chief of Wing Intelligence’s
   discretion.
   3.1.4. Assigned IMAs will be trained and equipped to established command standards for
   the positions they will assume. (T-2)
   3.1.5. Personnel may complete other local area orientation and training during MQT.
 10                                                            AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


3.2. Mission Qualification Training Evaluation. Training is complete and personnel are
qualified CMR upon successful completion of required tasks to include completed gradesheets
(AF Form 4381), a successful Initial (INIT) Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN) evaluation
IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and AFI 14-2CR, Volume 2, and endorsement from the Chief of
Wing Intelligence.
3.3. Knowledge and Task Training.
   3.3.1. Knowledge MQT. Units will develop blocks of instruction, derived from MAJCOM-
   developed training materials, to include unique local area procedures relevant to the tasks and
   areas pertinent to the mission as determined by the Chief Wing Intelligence or CRG/IN as
   applicable. Blocks of instruction will include all unique local area procedures relevant to the
   tasks and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge area proficiency via
   separate closed book tests on each area (85 percent minimum to pass). At a minimum, MQT
   programs will include the following: (T-2)
       3.3.1.1. CR Academics. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate an understanding
       of the CR he or she is assigned to: CR structure, missions, capabilities and limitations,
       and an overview of unit-specific equipment. Specific tasks: Demonstrate understanding
       of CR capabilities and limitations in relation to the specific unit missions. Successfully
       complete a test from unit MQF. Graduation from Contingency Response Mission
       Orientation Course (CRMOC) will satisfy this training.
       3.3.1.2. Threat Training. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate comprehension
       of applicable threats to ground forces such as: weapons systems, asymmetric threats,
       TTPs, and limitations and employment techniques. Specific tasks: Demonstrate detailed
       understanding of threats, specifically related to the CR’s capabilities and limitations.
       Successfully complete closed book test from unit MQF.
       3.3.1.3. Visual Recognition (VR) Training. Event objective: The trainee will identify
       threats to ground personnel. This includes weapon systems categories such as, but not
       limited to: (Small Arms) SMARMS, Heavy Machine Gun (HMG), Rocket Propelled
       Grenade (RPG), Improvised Explosive Device (IEDs), mortar/rocket systems, vehicle
       type, military rank insignia, and uniform/clothing type.
       3.3.1.4. Personnel Recovery (PR) Academics. Event objective: As required, the trainee
       will demonstrate knowledge of theater specific techniques, academics, DD Form 1833,
       Isolated Personnel Report (ISOPREP), requirements, and extracting combat search and
       rescue (CSAR) information from the special instructions (SPINS). Understand the role
       intelligence personnel play in PR training which will prepare mission crews for the
       possibility of survival, evasion, captivity, escape and recovery in hostile territory.
       Specific tasks: Successfully complete a test from unit MQF (85 percent minimum to
       pass). Per AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program,
       operational PR training can only be conducted by an graduate of the SERE Training
       course, SV-80-A.
       3.3.1.5. Intelligence Support to Ground Forces. Event objective: The trainee will
       understand Army operations and Joint Force operations terms, concepts, missions and
       capabilities, and understand the CR’s role in supporting ground forces. The trainee will
       also understand modified combined obstacle overlay terrain analysis and development of
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                   11


     Named Areas of Interest (NAIs) and how to incorporate these into the integrated base
     defense plan. Specific tasks: Demonstrate detailed understanding of CR support to
     ground forces as it relates to the CR’s capabilities and limitations. Successfully complete
     closed book test from unit MQF.
     3.3.1.6. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE). Event
     objective: The trainee will know IPOE terms and concepts, understand the analytical
     methodology employed in IPOE and understand how USAF Intelligence automated
     support applications are used to support the IPOE processes. Specific tasks: Successfully
     complete closed book test from unit MQF (85 percent minimum to pass). Graduation
     from FP IFTU will satisfy this training.
  3.3.2. Task MQT. Units will develop blocks of instruction, derived from MAJCOM-
  developed training materials, to include unique local area procedures relevant to the tasks and
  areas pertinent to the mission as determined by the Chief Wing Intelligence or CRG/IN as
  applicable. Blocks of instruction will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks IAW
  evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2CR, Volume 2. Trainers record training on the AF
  Form 4381 (see Attachment 5 for gradesheet elements). At a minimum, the MQT program
  will include: (T-2)
     3.3.2.1. Research, Analysis and Dissemination (RAD). Event objective: The trainee
     will become familiar with available resources for researching, analyzing and
     disseminating intelligence concerning major potential threat adversaries, to include
     military, political, geographic and asymmetric threats. Specific tasks: As part of
     subsequent MQT events, demonstrate proficiency in researching, analyzing and
     disseminating intelligence (including Human Intelligence collection) to CR personnel,
     commanders and local support agencies (US Embassy, Regional Security Officer, Force
     Protection Detachment) through reports and briefings. Analyze incoming intelligence
     information, identify significant events and develop briefings and/or read files to
     disseminate critical intelligence information.   Appropriately submit requests for
     information (RFIs).
     3.3.2.2. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in constructing, posting, updating, purging and quality controlling order of
     battle displays without intelligence system support IAW unit established order of battle
     standards. Specific tasks: Research, analyze and plot order of battle using correct
     symbology (MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field
     Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational
     Terms and Graphics), and extract military grid reference system (MGRS) and geographic
     coordinates. Demonstrate understanding of order of battle production responsibilities for
     the AOR.
     3.3.2.3. Automated OB. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     utilizing intelligence support systems to download, construct, post, update, purge and
     quality control automated order of battle displays and perform coordinate conversion.
     Specific tasks: Exploit intelligence software applications to post and maintain order of
     battle and convert military grid reference system (MGRS) and geographic coordinates.
     3.3.2.4. Changeover Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency
     in developing, coordinating and conducting a changeover briefing. Specific tasks:
12                                                           AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


     Demonstrate proficiency in organizing, prioritizing and presenting key information at
     shift changeover. Provide incoming personnel with a summary of events to prepare them
     for their shift. Include issues needing immediate attention, pending tasks, personnel and
     equipment problems, work area status and briefing times (when applicable). Deliver
     changeover briefing IAW local timelines, format and content requirements.
     3.3.2.5. Pre-deployment Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in developing, coordinating and conducting a pre-deployment briefing.
     Specific tasks:     Demonstrate understanding of unit tasking (i.e. warning order
     (WARNORD), execution order (EXORD)) and/or AEF tasking (when applicable) by
     researching, analyzing and tailoring intelligence information to the unit’s specific
     mission, roles and combat profiles. Include: force protection considerations, synopsis of
     military and political situation generating the deployment, enemy activity and force
     disposition (air, ground, naval and asymmetric, when applicable) in AOR (and along
     deployment route when applicable), enemy and terrorist tactics and employment
     strategies, potential enemy reactions to the deployment, known threats (terrorist or
     regular military forces) in vicinity of bed-down location, reporting instructions and
     essential elements of information (EEI), and additional items as dictated by the local
     situation. Deliver pre-deployment briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format, and
     content requirements.
     3.3.2.6. Situation Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     developing, coordinating and conducting both an initial situation and situation briefing.
     Specific tasks: Demonstrate proficiency in researching, analyzing and briefing the
     situation and providing the latest intelligence to assist the commanders, staff and mission
     crews in their decision-making. For the initial situation briefing, present major events
     leading to the crisis, any national decisions, enemy force disposition and possible enemy
     courses of action (COAs). For the situation briefing, present the current situation, enemy
     force disposition (ground, air and air defense, naval, asymmetric, when applicable), local
     area situation (e.g., terrorist activity, asymmetric threats, etc.), anticipated enemy
     reactions and additional items indicated by the local situation (terrorism, sabotage,
     asymmetric threats, etc.). Deliver the initial situation and situation briefing IAW
     prescribed local timelines, format and content requirements.
     3.3.2.7. Tasking Documentation. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in locating, identifying and breaking out the applicable elements of the
     Warning Order (WARNORD), Operations Order (OPORD), Execution Order (EXORD)
     and Fragmentary Order (FRAGO) and Global Decision Support System II (GDSS II).
     Specific tasks: Locate, identify and extract pertinent information (i.e. unit tasking and
     CSAR information) from tasking orders/messages and SPINS. Demonstrate breakout of
     tasking documents with both manual and automated (e.g. TaskView) techniques and tools
     IAW prescribed local timelines and format requirements.
     3.3.2.8. Threat Working Group (TWG). Event Objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in extracting and analyzing intelligence on the mission area and formulating
     assessments. Specific Tasks: Understand changes to the threat picture and their impact
     on the mission (threat to base, terrorist actions, attacks on other bases in theater).
     Analyze current threat information. Accurately assess current force protection measures /
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                  13


     base defense plan. Aid in development of unified TWG recommendations and Courses
     of Action (COAs).
     3.3.2.9. Airfield Assessment Integration. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in performing airfield analysis and developing intelligence products to
     support an airfield assessment. Specific tasks: Research and analyze intelligence
     information pertaining to airfields of interest. Demonstrate proficiency in supporting an
     airfield assessment that includes (when applicable) the latest imagery, force protection
     and security considerations.         Demonstrate proficiency in developing Force
     Protection/Security EEIs to facilitate collection of information by first-in contingency
     forces. Demonstrate proficiency integrating newly collected intelligence into the IPOE
     cycle and updating existing assessments accordingly. If time / mission permits conduct a
     Risk Assessment process to include portions of Threat Assessment, Vulnerability
     Assessment, Criticality Assessment, CARVER, MSHARPP.                   Complete airfield
     assessments IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content requirements.
     3.3.2.10. Force Protection Intelligence. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in developing, planning, coordinating and constructing instructional material
     and providing external / internal academic instruction on intelligence support to force
     protection. Specific tasks: The trainer will demonstrate instruction techniques for
     intelligence support to force protection. The trainer will demonstrate intelligence
     principles and procedures for force protection, summary of hostile forces in AOR and
     other hot spot areas, examples of hostile forces’ tactics and weapons employment,
     intelligence force protection resources, terrorist threat levels and unit force protection
     considerations. The trainee will develop and present a force protection intelligence
     training session and successfully complete a test from the MQF (force protection specific,
     85 percent minimum to pass).
     3.3.2.11. Aircrew Pre-mission Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in developing, coordinating and conducting a pre-mission briefing. Specific
     tasks: Demonstrate proficiency in researching, analyzing and providing mission crews
     and USAF Security Forces Ravens, when applicable, a pre-mission briefing which
     includes, when, the general situation since the last briefing, operating area information,
     general situation in the operating area, airfield, en route, operating area threats, (SAMs,
     AAA, air, ground, naval, asymmetric, laser and spectrum interference threats, etc.),
     Demonstrate proficiency in using 4D models and overlays using visualization and
     analysis tools to enhance mission portrayal.           Deliver pre-mission briefing IAW
     prescribed local timelines, format and content requirements.
     3.3.2.12. Ground Pre-mission Briefing Event Objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in researching and analyzing intelligence relevant to the pre-mission briefing.
     Provide ground crews a pre-mission briefing which includes the general situation since
     the last briefing. This lesson should include route recon, route analysis, threats, threat
     mitigation, route history, indications and warnings, debriefing and other factors essential
     to mission success. Demonstrate proficiency in using 4D models and overlays using
     visualization and analysis tools to enhance mission portrayal.        Deliver pre-mission
     briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content requirements.
14                                                           AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


     3.3.2.13. Communications Equipment Familiarization. Event objective: The trainee will
     demonstrate proficiency in CR communication hardware and software (e.g., DISK, STE,
     IRIDIUM phone) identification, setup operation, and breakdown. Specific tasks:
     Correctly identify communications equipment specific to CR operations. Demonstrate
     proficiency in communications equipment setup. Demonstrate proficiency in properly
     using the equipment. Demonstrate proficiency in reach-back, utilizing hardware and
     software. Demonstrate proficiency in properly breaking down equipment. Complete
     tasks IAW prescribed local procedure and timeline requirements.
     3.3.2.14. Debriefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     planning, coordinating and conducting a debriefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     mission intelligence from personnel. Ask amplifying questions relevant to the mission.
     Identify time-sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently.
     3.3.2.15. Intelligence Reports.     Event objective:     The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in developing and transmitting mission reports and other applicable
     intelligence reports. Specific tasks: Generate, review, analyze, validate and transmit
     hard and soft copy intelligence reports. Ensure thorough and concise products meet
     requirements from the theater intelligence reporting directive. In the event there is not a
     theater reporting directive or COCOM reporting directive, use approved MAJCOM
     Intelligence Reporting Directive.
     3.3.2.16. Request for Information. Event Objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in developing, tracking and transmitting accurate RFIs as required by
     MAJCOM and theater procedures. Specific Tasks: Generate, review, analyze, validate
     and transmit RFI. Ensure thorough and concise products meet requirements from
     MAJCOM and theater directives.
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                     15


                                            Chapter 4

                                CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence continuation training (CT) requirements for
CMR and BMC intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of
internal intelligence training in basic intelligence task and knowledge items. These training
topics ensure familiarization with local unit intelligence functions, CR capabilities and threat
system capabilities. The second aspect of CT is the Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which
consists of specific mission-related training required to accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to accomplish the unit’s tasked missions.
4.2. Internal Intelligence Training Program. The internal intelligence training program is
intended to facilitate maintaining designated qualification and currency status of all intelligence
personnel. While the Chief of Wing Intelligence is ultimately accountable for the successful
completion of all required training, individual training is the responsibility of the trainee and
supervisor. This guidance is intended to provide a basic starting point and may be modified by
the Chief of Wing Intelligence based on unit requirements. Training for these events will consist
of unit-developed academics and scenarios.
   4.2.1. The Chief of Wing Intelligence will appoint an Internal Intelligence Personnel
   Training Program Manager to oversee program execution. (T-2)
   4.2.2. Internal intelligence training that is not part of qualification training may be
   conducted, led or trained by personnel who are not qualification trainers.
   4.2.3. The internal intelligence training plan will include all training items for the
   intelligence duty position in the unit. (T-2)
   4.2.4. Internal intelligence training examinations will be compiled from the lead MAJCOM
   developed MQF, as a minimum. The Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
   should augment the MQF with specific questions relevant to the unit’s mission. (T-2)
   4.2.5. Internal Intelligence Training Requirements. The internal intelligence training
   program should continue to emphasize the MQT tasks to facilitate RIP requirements.
   Therefore the internal intelligence training program will cover at a minimum: (T-2)
       4.2.5.1. CR Operations, to include structure, missions, capabilities and limitations.
       4.2.5.2. Threat Knowledge, to include applicable threats to ground forces such as:
       weapons systems, asymmetric threats, TTPs, and limitations and employment techniques
       with respect to CR operations.
       4.2.5.3. VR, to include identification features of weapon systems categories such as, but
       not limited to: SMARMS, HMGs, RPGs, IEDs, mortar/rocket systems, vehicle type,
       military rank insignia, and uniform/clothing type.
       4.2.5.4. Intelligence Systems, to include OB maintenance, mission planning, imagery
       retrieval, and reporting software applications.
       4.2.5.5. Order of Battle, to include manual plotting, automated OB update procedures,
       unit checklists/standards for OB maintenance.
 16                                                             AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


       4.2.5.6. Briefing, to include preparing and conducting current intelligence, pre-
       deployment, situation and pre-mission briefings.
       4.2.5.7. Mission Planning, to include WARNORD/OPORD/EXORD/FRAGO location
       and breakout, mission planning software applications and route, airfield and operational
       area analysis for mission planning.
       4.2.5.8. Debriefing, to include theater specific requirements, techniques and applicable
       follow on questions.
       4.2.5.9. Reporting, to include theater intelligence reporting directives, software
       applications and transmitting.
       4.2.5.10. PR, to include, when applicable, theater specific techniques, academics, and
       ISOPREP requirements.
       4.2.5.11. Geospatial Intelligence and Services, to include determining product
       requirements (quantity, chart type, appropriate scale), acquisition, receipt, storage and
       maintenance.
       4.2.5.12. Force Protection, to include intelligence principles and procedures for force
       protection, summary of hostile forces in Hot Spot areas, examples of hostile forces tactics
       and weapons employment, intelligence force protection resources, Terrorist Threat
       Levels and unit force protection considerations.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, RIP tasks
should be conducted in conjunction with day-to-day flying training missions (e.g. Red Flag
missions, local live fly exercises, etc.) as much as possible.
   4.3.1. The standard task requirements listed in Table 4.1 establish the minimum frequency
   requirements for CMR and BMC. (T-2)

Table 4.1. CR Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
          SUBJECT                   Frequency to Maintain            Frequency to Maintain
                                        CMR Status                       BMC Status

 Manual OB                       Semi-annually                    Annually
 Automated OB                    Semi-annually                    Annually
 Changeover Briefing             Semi-annually                    Annually
 Pre-deployment Briefing         Semi-annually                    Annually
 Situation Briefing              Semi-annually                    Annually
 Tasking Documentation           Annually                         Annually
 Threat Working Group            Semi-annually                    Annually
 Airfield Assessment             Semi-annually                    Annually
 Integration
 Pre-mission Briefing            Semi-annually                    Annually
 (Aircrew or Ground)
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                     17


 Comm Equipment                  Quarterly                        Annually
 Familiarization
 Debriefing (Air or Ground)      Semi-annually                    Annually
  Intelligence Reports
 RFI                             Semi-annually                    Annually
 Note: For the purposes of this publication quarterly is defined as once every 3 months, semi-
 annually is defined as once every 6 months and annually is defined as once every 12 months.
   4.3.2. Individuals are responsible for documenting RIP task completion. Intelligence
   personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks and successfully accomplish periodic MSNs
   in accordance with AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and AFI 14-2C-130, Volume 2, to maintain
   currency and qualification.
   4.3.3. If an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not
   perform that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Failure to accomplish these
   requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC status and additional training will be
   required as determined by the Chief of Wing Intelligence.
4.4. Regression. If an intelligence specialist does not meet currency requirements throughout
the training cycle, the Chief of Wing Intelligence may direct the specialist be regressed to N-
CMR/N-BMC. The Chief Wing Intelligence may direct the member who fails to demonstrate
proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Regression and the steps taken to correct the
situation will be documented in a memorandum for record in the individual’s qualification
training and evaluation record. (T-2)
   4.4.1. CMR/BMC intelligence personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC for failing to remain
   current must complete a Chief Wing Intelligence-approved recertification program to return
   them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during the recertification program
   may be credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
   4.4.2. Individuals must re-attain/attain CMR currency prior to deployment. (T-2)
4.5. Re-qualification. Intelligence personnel are unqualified upon expiration of their
qualification evaluation. This includes specialized qualifications. For all intelligence personnel
re-qualification requirements are as follows: (T-2)
   4.5.1. Unqualified up to 2 Years. Complete training in all delinquent items, additional
   training as directed by the Chief Wing Intelligence and be task evaluated via a MSN
   Evaluation.
   4.5.2. Unqualified over 2 Years. Re-accomplish MQT and the INIT MSN.
4.6. Proration of End-of-Cycle Requirements. Prorate training IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
 18                                                             AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


                                            Chapter 5

                                 SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training Programs. This chapter outlines specialized training programs for
specialized qualifications. These qualifications are in addition to core missions for the unit and
do not apply to all intelligence personnel assigned or attached to the unit. These programs are
intended to provide the Chief Wing Intelligence the minimum approved specialized training
programs for individuals with no previous qualifications and may be tailored for intelligence
personnel with current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented performance or
formal training. Unless governed by a formal syllabus, these programs will consist of unit-
developed academics and scenarios.
5.2. External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) Specialized Training. This program establishes the
minimum guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the Chief Wing Intelligence to
progress to EITs within the unit. Only qualified EITs may conduct unsupervised external
intelligence training. There are two types of EITs: Aircrew Intelligence Training (AIT) and
Force Protection Intelligence Training (FPIT). Graduates of the USAF Weapons School who are
current and qualified (CMR or BMC) are certified EITs in all areas. The Weapons School
graduate will develop the EIT program, in lieu of a Weapons School Graduate, the unit graduates
of AAMIC should develop the EIT program. An individual may be qualified as an external
intelligence trainer in one, some or all EIT areas: Threats, Collection and Reporting, Visual
Recognition, PR. All personnel attached to a flying squadron must be EIT qualified in all areas.
Currency requirements apply to maintain this specialized qualification; see Table 5.1
   5.2.1. Requirements. Intelligence personnel selected for EIT specialized training must: (T-
   2)
       5.2.1.1. Complete MQT.
       5.2.1.2. Be current and qualified in their training status (CMR or BMC).
       5.2.1.3. Complete all or some of the following unit-developed EIT profiles depending on
       whether the individual will attain a full or partial EIT specialized qualification. EIT 1 is
       mandatory. Units may add considerations/techniques for specialized training to
       applicable areas.
   5.2.2. External Intelligence Trainer Profiles.
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 – External Intelligence Training Concepts and Methods. Event objective:
       The trainee will become familiar with the various instruction concepts and methods
       available to fulfill external intelligence training requirements. Specific tasks: The trainer
       will introduce types of briefings, techniques and academic scenarios typical of external
       intelligence training. The trainee will understand the training concepts and methods used
       and apply these principles when conducting external intelligence training.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 – Threat Training. Event objectives: The trainee will demonstrate
       knowledge of threats and proficiency in establishing threat training requirements (to
       include formats and minimum standards) as cited in AFI 14-2CR, Volume 3, CR Unit
       Intelligence Procedures and delivering a threat training instruction session. Specific
       tasks: The trainer will introduce types of briefings and academic scenarios typical of
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                  19


     threat training to include threat and hotspot briefings. The trainee will prepare and
     deliver a threat training instruction session. The trainee will successfully complete a
     closed book test from MQF (threat training specific, 85 percent minimum to pass).
     5.2.2.3. EIT 3 – Collection and Reporting. Event objectives: The trainee will
     demonstrate proficiency in establishing collection and reporting training requirements (to
     include formats and minimum standards) as cited in AFI 14-2CR, Volume 3 and
     developing and presenting a collection and reporting briefing. Specific tasks: The trainer
     will introduce instruction techniques for collection and reporting requirements to enable
     CR personnel to initiate reports (i.e. SALUTE) and will familiarize the trainee with the
     information requirements of the intelligence-generated MISREP and INTREP and other
     reports as required locally. The trainee will develop and present a collection and
     reporting briefing. Briefing requirements include crew originated reports (e.g., SALUTE,
     etc.), intelligence-generated reports (e.g., INTREP), and EEIs, etc. The trainee will
     successfully complete a closed book test from MQF (collection and reporting specific, 85
     percent minimum to pass).
     5.2.2.4. EIT 4 – Visual Recognition. Event objectives: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in visually recognizing enemy/blue/gray equipment. The trainee will
     demonstrate proficiency in establishing VR training requirements (to include formats and
     minimum standards) as cited in AFI 14-2CR, Volume 3 and developing and presenting a
     VR training session. Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce instruction techniques for
     VR of enemy/blue/gray weapons systems mandated by unit intelligence training
     programs and will train to the same standard required of CR personnel. The trainee will
     develop and present a VR training session for CR personnel. Training requirements
     include enemy/blue/gray SMARMS, HMGs, RPGs, IEDs, mortar/rocket systems, vehicle
     type, military rank insignia, and uniform/clothing type.       Trainee will successfully
     complete a VR test (85 percent minimum to pass).
     5.2.2.5. EIT 5 – PR Training. The trainee must be a graduate of the Survival, Evasion,
     Resistance and Escape (SERE) Training Course (S-V80-A). Event objectives: The
     trainee will demonstrate proficiency in developing instructional material in coordination
     with tactics, aircrew life support and SERE personnel and providing academic instruction
     on PR processes. Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce instruction techniques for
     PR. The trainee will coordinate with appropriate personnel to develop and present an
     aircrew PR training briefing that will be part of a comprehensive aircrew training session.
     The trainee will successfully complete a closed book test from MQF (PR specific, 85
     percent minimum to pass). For units with an assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1) this
     block may be omitted if intelligence personnel do not provide any PR related training to
     personnel.
  5.2.3. References. Ensure AFTTP 3-1, Threat Guide, is the primary reference for threat
  knowledge training and ensure this training is current with the latest edition. AFTTP 3-1, or
  any other applicable volume, can be supplemented with other classified and unclassified
  authoritative publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center products,
  National Ground Intelligence Center products, Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis Reports,
  Country Studies, etc., so long as the source is appropriately referenced. Ensure AFI 16-1301
  is used in conducting PR training.
 20                                                            AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


   5.2.4. External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation. EIT evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI
   14-202, Volume 2, as supplemented, and AFI 14-2CR, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as
   external intelligence trainers upon successful completion of required tasks, an initial external
   intelligence trainer evaluation (INIT EIT) and endorsement from the Chief Wing
   Intelligence. Only Intelligence Evaluators (IEs) may conduct INIT EIT and EIT evaluations.
   All external intelligence trainers must be qualified prior to conducting unsupervised training.
   In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct training in
   one or more events, but not require full EIT qualification. The individual must complete the
   specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task/briefing element by an
   IE. Document the evaluation IAW local procedures. The individual must maintain currency
   for the subject matter according to Table 5.1 and must be reevaluated IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2, and AFI 14-2CR, Volume 2. (T-2)
   5.2.5. External Intelligence Trainer Currency. Table 5.1, External Intelligence Trainer
   Event Currencies, defines currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
   maintain current EIT status. EITs must also successfully complete periodic EIT evaluations
   IAW AFI 14-2CR, Volume 2. If an EIT loses currency in a particular area, the individual
   may not perform training unsupervised until currency is regained. To regain currency EITs
   must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by another EIT current and
   qualified in the same training requirement. (T-2)

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Trainer Event Training and Currencies.
      Event              Specialized Training                      Currency Requirement
 Threat Training Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 and                Semi-Annually
                 specific tasks                              Instruct one threat training event
                 INIT EIT evaluation                         per 12-month period
 Collection and  Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 and                Annually
 Reporting (C&R) specific tasks                              Instruct one C&R training event
 Training        INIT EIT evaluation                         per 12-month period
 Visual          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 and                Semi-Annually
 Recognition     specific tasks                              Instruct one VR training event per
 (VR) Training   INIT EIT evaluation                         12-month period
 PR Training     Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 and                Annually
                 specific tasks                              Instruct one PR training event per
                 INIT EIT evaluation                         12-month period
   5.2.6. External Intelligence Trainer Documentation. The Intelligence Personnel Training
   Program Manager will ensure EIT training is documented in the on-line documentation
   system. (T-2)
5.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the Chief Wing Intelligence to progress to IE
within the unit. Only qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to
grade standardization and evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Requirements. Intelligence personnel identified by the Chief Wing Intelligence for
   progression to IE must: (T-2)
       5.3.1.1. Complete MQT.
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                                  21


     5.3.1.2. Be current and qualified in their qualification status (CMR or BMC).
     5.3.1.3. Meet evaluator requirements in AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and AFI 14-2CR,
     Volume 2.
     5.3.1.4. Meet task certifier requirements in AFI 36-2201.
     5.3.1.5. Complete the following unit developed IE profiles. Trainers record training on
     the AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for gradesheet task elements). Units may add
     considerations and techniques for specialized training to applicable areas.
     5.3.1.6. Be a graduate of a MAJCOM-approved IE course. Personnel will attend the IE
     course after completion of the unit developed IE profiles.
  5.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator Training Profiles.
     5.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Event objective: The trainee will observe a
     mission evaluation. Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce evaluation criteria, grading
     procedures and gradesheet preparation for either an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation.
     Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues and techniques for
     conducting evaluations.
     5.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Observation. Event objective: The trainer will introduce
     evaluation criteria, grading procedures and gradesheet preparation for an INIT EIT and
     EIT. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues and techniques for
     conducting evaluations. Specific tasks: The trainee will observe an EIT evaluation.
     5.3.2.3. IE 3 – IE Proficiency. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
     proficiency in successfully conducting an evaluation. Specific tasks: The trainer will
     observe the trainee conduct an evaluation and provide a thorough debrief and critique.
     The trainee will demonstrate knowledge of evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
     grade sheet preparation. The trainee may perform the evaluation with the trainer as the
     examinee in a simulated evaluation.
  5.3.3. IE Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and
  AFI 14-2CR, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized training is
  completed and the MAJCOM-approved IE course has been successfully completed. The
  intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after completing training, successful
  completion of the initial intelligence evaluator evaluation (INIT IE) and endorsement from
  the SIO.
  5.3.4. IE Documentation. The Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager will ensure
  evaluator specialized training is documented in the on-line documentation system. (T-2)




                                           LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                           Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 22                                                          AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-2CR, Volume 2, Contingency Response Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria, 17
January 2013
AFI 14-2CR, Volume 3, Contingency Response Unit Intelligence Procedures 17 January 2013
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 4 May 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1, Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Education and Training Course Announcements, https://etca.randolph.af.mil
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
4D—–Four-dimensional
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—–Air Force Manual
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                           23


AFPD—–Air Force Policy Document
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
AIT—Aircrew Intelligence Trainer
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARC—Air Reserve Components
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BQ—Basic Qualification
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—–Course of Action
CRG—Contingency Response Group
CR—Contingency Response
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EXORD—Execution Order
FP—Force Protection
FPIT—Force Protection Intelligence Trainer/Training
FRAGO—Fragmentary Order
GDSS II—Global Decision Support System II
HMG—Heavy Machine Gun
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IED—Improvised Explosive Device
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit
 24                                                         AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IPOE—–Intelligence Preparation of the Operating Environment
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISD—Instructional System Design
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPORD—Operations Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RPG—–Rocket Propelled Grenade
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                               25


SMARM—–Small Arms
SPINS—Special Instructions
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TWG—–Threat Working Group
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
USAF—United States Air Force
UTM—Unit Training Manager
VR—Visual Recognition
WARNORD—Warning Order

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC level.
 26                                                          AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


                                       Attachment 2
                             TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

Table A2.1. MQT, ST, and RIP Currency Requirements.
 Requirement                                                   MQT       ST      RIP
 CR Academics                                                   X
 Threat Training                                                X
 Visual Recognition Training                                    X
 PR Academics                                                   X
 Intelligence Integration in Force Protection                   X
 Intelligence Support to Ground Forces                          X
 Research, Analysis, Dissemination                              X
 Manual OB                                                      X                 X
 Automated OB                                                   X                 X
 Changeover Briefing                                            X                 X
 Pre-deployment Briefing                                        X                 X
 CAT/Battlestaff Briefing                                       X                 X
 Situation Briefing                                             X                 X
 Tasking Documentation                                          X                 X
 Threat Working Group (TWG)                                     X                 X
 Airfield Assessment Integration                                X                 X
 Force Protection Intelligence                                  X                 X
 Pre-mission Briefing                                           X                 X
 Pre-mission Briefing for mounted/unmounted patrols and/or      X                 X
 convoys
 Comm Equipment Familiarization                                 X                 X
 Debriefing                                                     X                 X
 Intelligence Reports                                           X                 X
 RFI                                                            X                 X
 EIT 1 – External Intelligence Training Concepts and                     X
 Methods
 EIT 2 – Threat Training                                                 X        X
 EIT 3 – Collection & Reporting                                          X        X
 EIT 4 – Visual Recognition Training                                     X        X
 EIT 5 – PR Training                                                     X        X
 Intelligence Evaluator Training                                         X
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                           27


                                     Attachment 3
                          TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

Figure A3.1. Training Shortfall Report.
 28                                                            AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


                                         Attachment 4
                                       GRADESHEETS

A4.1. Gradesheets. The AF Form 4381 will be used by Intelligence Qualification Trainers to
record completion of Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training (MQT)
and Specialized Training events. Gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s qualification training
record. Intelligence Evaluators will use the gradesheets to assist in the completion of the AF
Form 4350. After the AF Form 4350 is complete, the used gradesheets are no longer required to
be maintained and may be destroyed by the IE. (T-2)
A4.2. Required Task Elements. The following tables in this attachment include the minimum
task elements to be graded during each MQT event. As a minimum, each numbered element
(i.e., “1. CR Systems”) will receive a grade of 1-3. Grades will be considered in aggregate to
determine the overall grade for the event. Sub-elements are listed to provide additional detail as
necessary. For the CR Intelligence Academics Gradesheet all knowledge events are represented
on this one gradesheet. The trainer will use a separate gradesheet when grading each knowledge
event. Therefore, the trainee will have, at a minimum, a CR Intelligence Academics Gradesheet
on file for each event: CR Systems, AOR Threats, Personnel Recovery, Intelligence Integration
in Force Protection. (T-2)

Table A4.1. CR Intelligence Academics Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. CR ACADEMICS
 2. THREATS
 3. PERSONNEL RECOVERY
 4. INTELLIGENCE INTEGRATION IN FORCE PROTECTION
 5. INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO GROUND FORCES

Table A4.2. CR RAD Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. RESEARCH, ANALYSIS AND DISSEMINATION(RAD)
  A. RESEARCH METHODS AND RESOURCES
    (1) DAILY INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTS
    (2) REFERENCE DOCUMENTS/INTERNET SOURCES
    (3) REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
  B. IDENTIFIED INFORMATION GAPS W/MISSION IMPACT
  C. LOCAL PROCEDURES
    (1). MESSAGE TRAFFIC LOG TRACKING
    (2). COORDINATION/DISSEMINATION
    (3) MANUAL PLOTTING
    (4) PLOTTING CRITERIA
  D. ANALYSIS
    (1) IDENTIFIED SIGNIFICANT EVENTS
    (2) DISCRIMINATED IRRELEVANT INFORMATION
    (3) UNDERSTOOD KC-135 CAPABILITIES/LIMITATIONS
    (4) DREW CONCLUSIONS
  E. DISSEMINATION: AUDIENCE AND METHODS
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                   29


  F. STANDARDS ADHERENCE
  G. SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
  H. TIMELINESS AND ACCURACY

Table A4.3. CR Intelligence Manual OB Maintenance Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. PLOTTING
    A. GEOCOORDS
    B. MGRS (UTM)
    C. PERFORM COORDINATE CONVERSION
    D. DETAIL
    E. APPROPRIATE SCALE
 2. SYMBOLOGY
    A. AIR ORDER OF BATTLE
    B. DEFENSIVE MISSILE OB
    C. GROUND ORDER OF BATTLE
    D. NAVAL ORDER OF BATTLE
    E. ELECTRONIC ORDER OF BATTLE
    F. AEROSPACE CONTROL ORDER
    G. RENDEZVOUS POINTS
    H. MISCELLANEOUS OTHER SYMBOLS
 3. ORDER OF BATTLE ANALYSIS
    A. PURGE CRITERIA
    B. POSTING CRITERIA
 4. COMPUTE DISTANCE, DIR., AZ.
 5. DISPLAY MARKINGS
    A. CURRENT AS OF TIMES
    B. LEGENDS
    C. CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS
 6. SECURITY

Table A4.4. CR Intelligence Automated OB Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. PLOTTING/DOWNLOADING OB
    A. GEOCOORDS
    B. MGRS
    C. COORDINATE CONVERSION
 2. SYMBOLOGY
    A. AIR ORDER OF BATTLE (AOB)
    B. DEFENSIVE MISSILE OB (DMOB)
    C. GROUND ORDER OF BATTLE (GOB)
    D. NAVAL ORDER OF BATTLE (NOB)
    E. ELECTRONIC ORDER OF BATTLE (EOB)
    F. AEROSPACE CONTROL ORDER (ACO)
    G. MISCELLANEOUS
 3. ORDER OF BATTLE ANALYSIS
 30                                                    AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


      A. PURGE CRITERIA
      B. POSTING CRITERIA
      C. TERRAIN ANALYSIS
 4.   COMPUTE DISTANCE, DIR., AZ.
 5.   DISPLAY
      A. CURRENT AS OF TIMES
      B. CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS
 6.   THREAT/DRAWING/LZ/ROUTE FILES
      A. CREATION
      B. MAINTENANCE
      C. IMPORT FILES
 7.   PRINT MAP W/ PROPER CLASS.
 8.   EXPORT THREAT FILES
 9.   SECURITY

Table A4.5. CR Intelligence Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
 2. ADHERENCE TO UNIT PROCEDURES
 3. ADDRESSED RELEVANT AREAS
   A. ISSUES REQUIRING IMMEDIATE ATT’N
   B. WORK CENTER STATUS
   C. INSTALLATION CONTROL CENTER (ICC)/SQUADRON BRIEFING TIMES
   D. REVIEW PREVIOUS BRIEFING MATERIAL
   E. REVIEW IN/OUTGOING MSGS
   F. REVIEW SIGNIFICANT EVENTS LOG/PUC/TUC
   G. RFI STATUS
   H. REVIEW BSD/SPINS/WATCHCON/DEFCON
   I. SYSTEMS STATUS
   J. PROCEDURAL CHANGES
   K. ITEMS TO BE ACCOMPLISHED
     (1) PLOTTING
     (2) BRIEFINGS
     (3). SF/OSI UPDATES
   L. PERSONNEL STATUS/SCHEDULES
   M. EQUIPMENT STATUS
   N. MESSAGES DUE OUT
   O. REVIEW EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
   P. COMBINATION/CIPHER CHANGES
 4. DELIVERY
 5. SECURITY

Table A4.6. CR Intelligence Pre-Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
    A. RESEARCH
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                 31


    B. ANALYSIS
 2. APPLICABILITY TO AUDIENCE
 3. DELIVERY
 4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
 5. EFFECTIVE VISUAL AIDS
 6. ADHERE TO UNIT STANDARDS
 7. SECURITY
 8. SUMMARY OF POL/MIL EVENTS
 9. ENEMY ACTIVITY & FORCE DISPOSITION
 10. ENEMY TACTICS/EMPLOYMENT STRATEGY*
 11. POLITICAL/ANTICIPATED ENEMY REACTIONS
 12. POSSIBLE ENROUTE HAZARDS*
 13. PERSONNEL RECOVERY ISSUES*
    A. EMERGENCY DESTRUCTION OF CLASSIFIED
    B. THEATER PR
    C. EPA
    D. SANITIZATION REMINDER
    E. ISOPREP REVIEW
 14. KNOWN THREATS NEAR BED-DOWN LOC.
 15. REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS AND EEIS*
 * ITEMS NOT REQUIRED FOR NON-AIRCREW BRIEF

Table A4.7. CR5 Intelligence Situation Briefing Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
    A. RESEARCH
    B. ANALYSIS
 2. APPLICABILITY TO AUDIENCE
 3. DELIVERY
 4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
 5. EFFECTIVE USE OF VISUAL AIDS
 6. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
 7. SECURITY
 8. SIGNIFICANT POLITCAL/MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS
 9. CURRENT ENEMY FORCE DISPOSITION
 10. OBSERVED ENEMY TACTICS, EMPLOYMENT STRATEGIES
 11. INDICATIONS OF IMPENDING ENEMY ATTACK
 12. LOCAL AREA SITUATION
 13. ADDITIONAL ITEMS AS NEEDED
 14. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

Table A4.8. CR Tasking Documentation Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. ACCESSED CORRECT WARNORD/OPORD/EXORD/ FRAGO/ATO/ACO
 2. EXTRACTED APPLICABLE MISSION INFORMATION
 3. ID/EXTRACT APPLICABLE SPINS INFO
 32                                                    AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


 4. AUTOMATED TASKING (TASKVIEW)
 5. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
 7. SECURITY

Table A4.9. CR Threat Working group Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. ORGANIZATION/PREPARATION
     A. RESEARCH
     B. ANALYSIS
 3. ACCESSED CORRECT MISSION TASKING
 4. ANALYZED CURRENT/NEW THREAT INFORMATION
 5. CORRELATED CHANGES TO THREAT TO IMPACT ON MISSION
 6. ASSESSED FORCE PROTECTION MEASURES/BASE DEFENSE PLAN
 7. ID’S GAPS IN INTELLIGENCE
  8. SUBMITTED RFIS AS NEEDED
 9. DEVELOPED TWG RECOMMENDATION/COA
 10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
 11. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
 12. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
 13. SECURITY

Table A4.10. CR Airfield Assessment Integration Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. ORGANIZATION/PREPARATION
    A. RESEARCH
    B. ANALYSIS
 2. REQUIRED INFORMATION
    A. ANALYZED CURRENT/NEW THREAT INFORMATION
    B. IMAGERY
    C. ASSESSED FORCE PROTECTION MEASURES/AIRFIELD SECURITY
    D. ID’S GAPS IN INTELLIGENCE
    E. CONDUCTED RISK ASSESMENT AS APPLICABLE
 3. SUBMITTED RFIS AS NEEDED
 4. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
 5. SECURITY

Table A4.11. CR Aircrew Intelligence Pre-Mission Briefing Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
    A. RESEARCH
    B. ANALYSIS
    C. 4D MODEL/OVERLAYS
 2. DELIVERY
 3. APPROPRIATE LEVEL OF DETAIL
 4. EFFECTIVE USE OF VISUAL AIDS
 5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
 6. COVERED APPLICABLE AREAS
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                          33


   A.   SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
   B.   GENERAL BATTLE SITUATION
   C.   ENEMY FORCE LOCATIONS
   D.   ENROUTE THREATS
       (1) INGRESS
       (2) REFUELING TRACK
       (3) EGRESS
       (4) RON LOCATION(S)
    E. LOCAL AREA SITUATION
    F. PR DATA
       (1) PREDETERMINED RECOVERY AREAS
       (2) RECOVERY & AUTHENTICATION
       (3) SANITIZATION REMINDER
       (4) BLOOD CHIT, OTHER INTEL EQUIPMENT
       (5) EPA DEVELOPMENT AND REVIEW
       (6) ISOPREP REVIEW
    G. EEIS
    H. INFLIGHT REPORTING REQ’TS
    I. DEBRIEF LOCATION
    J. PILOT/THREAT UPDATE CODE
 7. SECURITY
 8. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

Table A4.12. CR Ground Intelligence Pre-Mission Briefing Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. BRIEFING PREPARATION
    A. RESEARCH
    B. ANALYSIS
    C. 4D MODEL/OVERLAYS
 2. DELIVERY
 3. APPROPRIATE LEVEL OF DETAIL
 4. EFFECTIVE USE OF VISUAL AIDS
 5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
 6. COVERED APPLICABLE AREAS
    A. SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
    B. GENERAL BATTLE SITUATION
    C. ENEMY FORCE LOCATIONS
    D. ENROUTE THREATS
      (1) ROUTE RECON
      (2) ROUTE ANALYSIS
      (3) THREATS
      (4) THREAT MITIGATION
      (5) THREAT/ATTACK HISTORY
      (5) AIRFIELD
      (6) TTP’S
 34                                                    AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


       (7) BLIND SPOTS
       (8) PHASE LINES
       (9) ACTIONS ON THE OBJECTIVE
       (10) ACTIONS ON CONTACT
       (11) COUNTERMEASURES
    E. LOCAL AREA SITUATION
    G. PR DATA
       (1) PREDETERMINED RECOVERY AREAS
       (2) RECOVERY & AUTHENTICATION
       (3) SANITIZATION REMINDER
       (4) BLOOD CHIT, OTHER INTEL EQUIPMENT
       (6) ISOPREP REVIEW
    H. EEIS
    I. REPORTING REQ’TS
    J. DEBRIEF LOCATION
    K. THREAT UPDATE CODE
 7. SECURITY
 8. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS

Table A4.13. CR Communication Equipment Familiarization.
 1. EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION
 2. EQUIPMENT SOFTWARE SET UP
 3. EQUIPMENT SOFTWARE OPERATION
 4. EQUIPMENT BREAKDOWN
 5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE OF EQUIPMENT SOFTWARE
    A. TROUBLESHOOTING
    B. REACHBACK SUPPORT
 6. COVERED APPLICABLE AREA
 7. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
 8. SECURITY

Table A4.14. CR Intelligence Debriefing Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. DEBRIEFING PREPARATION
    A. DEBRIEF WORKSHEET PREPARED
    B. VIS AIDS (MAPS, IMAGERY, ETC.)
 2. TIME CRITICAL INTELLIGENCE
    A. SIGNS OF DOWNED A/C
    B. NEW ADVERSARY TTPs
 3. ADHERENCE TO UNIT STANDARDS
 4. THREATS ENCOUNTERED
    A. AIR-TO-AIR
    B. SURFACE-TO-AIR
    C. LASING/SPOTLIGHT
    D. SPECTRUM INTERFERNCE
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                                                         35


    E. SIGHTINGS
 5. THREAT INFORMATION
    A. TYPE, NUMBER, IDENTIFYING MARKINGS
    B. LOCATION, HEADING, ALTITUDE, SPEED
    C. HOW ACQUIRED, WHEN
    D. GUN/MISSILE FIRINGS, DETAILS
    E. ENEMY TACTICS
    F. EVASIVE MANEUVERS/COUNTER-MEASURES AND EFFECTIVENESS
    G. BATTLE DAMAGE OR LOSS
    H. EFFECT ON MISSION
 6. EEIS ASSIGNED AND RESPONSE
 7. FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS
 8. DEBRIEF CONTROL
 9. TIME MANAGEMENT
 10. SECURITY

Table A4.15. CR Intelligence Reports Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1. REPORT PREPARATION
    A. RESEARCH
    B. ANALYSIS
 2. REPORT FORMAT
    A. REPORT SHELL PREPARATION
 3. CORRECT OVERALL CLASSIFICATION
 4. CORRECT CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS
 5. CONTENT
    A. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS/DATA REPORTED
    B. APPROPRIATE FOR AUDIENCE
    C. LOGICAL FLOW
    D. READABILITY
    E. CORRECT SPELLING/GRAMMAR
 6. ADHERENCE TO AOR STANDARDS
 7. RELEASE PROCEDURES
    B. QUALITY CONTROL CHECK
    A. MET PRESCRIBED DEADLINES
 8. TIME MANAGEMENT
 9. SECURITY

Table A4.16. CR Intelligence External Intelligence Trainer/Intelligence Evaluator
Gradesheet Task Elements.
 1.   PREPARATION
 2.   DECISION MAKING
 3.   OBJECTIVES
 4.   COMMUNICATION SKILLS
 5.   KNOWLEDGE
36                 AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013


6. ORGANIZATION
7. DOCUMENTATION
8. SECURITY
AFI14-2CRV1 17 January 2013                        37


                                   Attachment 5
                             IQT TIMELINE WAIVER

Figure A5.1. Example IQT Timeline Waiver Letter.
