BY ORDER OF THE                                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2E-8,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                            VOLUME 2

                                                                                                        18 APRIL 2013
                                                                               Incorporating Change 1, 5 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                                                                 Intelligence

                                                                         E-8 UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                                                  CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                                                  Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                                                       (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
Supersedes:   AFI14-2E-8V2,                                                                                               Pages: 22
              12 December 2008


This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been completely revised and must be thoroughly reviewed. Guidance
pertaining to waiver, supplements, and volume changes were updated to be consistent with the
rest of the series. Terminology was changed to accurately reflect evaluation criteria vs. grading
criteria. Table 2.2, Intelligence Evaluations - GEOINT Analyst, was added to reflect differences
from the Operations Intelligence evaluations. Evaluation criteria tables were updated.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                               3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................    3
       1.3.   Procedures. .............................................................................................................     3
       1.4.   Evaluation Instructions. .........................................................................................            3
       1.5.   Additional Training. ...............................................................................................          4
 2                                                                                           AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


      1.6.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ..................................................................................                 4

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                           5
      2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    5
      2.2.   Evaluation Cycle. ...................................................................................................          5
Table 2.1.   Intelligence Evaluations - Operations Intelligence. ...............................................                            5
Table 2.2.   Intelligence Evaluations - GEOINT Analyst. ........................................................                            6
      2.3.   Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation. .....................................................                           6
      2.4.   Specialized Qualification Evaluations. ..................................................................                      8

Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                              10
      3.1.   General Evaluation Standards. ...............................................................................                 10
      3.2.   Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                       10
Table 3.1.   MQT Evaluation Criteria – Operations Intelligence. .............................................                              10
Table 3.2.   Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria - GEOINT Analyst. .............................                                     15
      3.3.   ST Evaluation Criteria. ..........................................................................................            16
Table 3.3.   External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria. ..................................                                16
Table 3.4.   Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                      19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             20
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                     3



                                          Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and periodic
evaluations. The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to perform required duties
safely and effectively. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202,
Volume 2, and this publication. (T-2)
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2 will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all subordinate unit waiver
requests and responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver
correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and
guidance.
1.3. Procedures.
   1.3.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   successfully completed all duty position required Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or
   Specialized Training (ST) requirements outlined in AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 1, E-8 Unit
   Intelligence Training. (T-2)
   1.3.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for conducting intelligence
   evaluations. To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will be thoroughly familiar
   with the prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   1.3.3. Prior to commencing an evaluation, the IE will brief the examinee on the conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria of the evaluation. The examinee will
   accomplish required planning IAW the task being evaluated. (T-3)
   1.3.4. Conduct evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Document evaluations
   IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 7. Evaluations should be accomplished in a realistic
   training environment in conjunction with local events (e.g., actual deployment briefing or
   post-mission aircrew debrief) to the maximum extent possible. When it is impossible to
   conduct an evaluation in a realistic environment, evaluations may be conducted via an
   alternate method (i.e., simulated, staged, or by verbal examination) in order to complete the
   evaluation. Document the reasons and type of alternate method used in the Comments
   section of the AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. (T-3)
   1.3.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-3)
1.4. Evaluation Instructions. Standards and performance parameters are contained in AFI 14-
202, Volume 2, and this publication. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the evaluation criteria provided in this volume and
assign an appropriate evaluation grade for the area. Use the general area/sub-area grades in AFI
14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades,
the IEs will determine the overall qualification level (also found in AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Chapter 5). (T-3)
 4                                                              AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


     1.4.1. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet to assist in grading the
     individual areas during the evaluation. The grade sheet elements specific to E-8 intelligence
     tasks are found in Attachments 3 through 5 of AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 1. (T-3)
     1.4.2. IE judgment must be exercised when the wording for general evaluated areas is
     subjective and when specific situations are not covered. (T-3)
1.5. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training at their
discretion. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-
3)
1.6. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall qualification level 3 (“Q-3”)
will be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on a mission
evaluation (MSN or initial (INIT) MSN), they will not perform mission duties unsupervised until
remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on a specialized evaluation,
they will not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are accomplished, but they can
perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-2)
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                    5


                                          Chapter 2

                             EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. The intelligence evaluation must include all areas listed in this chapter as they
relate to the examinee’s duty position and as depicted in Tables 2.1, Intelligence Evaluations—
Operations Intelligence and/or Table 2.2, Intelligence Evaluations - Geospatial Intelligence
(GEOINT) Analyst. (T-2)
2.2. Evaluation Cycle. Periodic evaluations will be conducted on a 20-month cycle.
Evaluations expire on the last day of the 19th month following the month in which the task phase
was successfully completed. The individual will enter the eligibility window 14 months after the
INIT MSN/MSN eval (6-month period prior to expiration date). Extensions may be granted by
the SIO IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations - Operations Intelligence.
 TITLE                                                 INIT MSN       MSN      EIT      IE
 Knowledge Evaluations
 Threat Knowledge                                      R            R
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                  R            R
 Personnel Recovery Academics                          R            R
 Performance Task Evaluations
 Threat Briefing                                       R            R
 Situation Displays                                    R            R
 Manual Order of Battle (OB)                           R            R
 Automated OB                                          R            R
 Changeover Briefing                                   R            R
 Deployment Briefing                                   R            R
 Initial Situation Briefing                            R            R
 Situation Briefing                                    R            R
 Air Tasking Order (ATO)/Air Control Order
 (ACO)/Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target
                                                       R            R
 Acquisition (RSTA) Annex/Special Instructions
 (SPINS) and other tasking documents.
 Collection Deck Breakout                              R            R
 Intelligence Support in Mission Planning
 Mission Planning Briefing                             R            R
 Step Briefing                                         R            R
 Near Real-Time Mission Support                        R            R
 Debriefing                                            R            R
 Intelligence Reports                                  R            R
 Specialized Task Evaluations
 Instructional Ability                                                      R
 Evaluator Ability                                                                   R
 Note: Grade sheet elements for each area are included in AFI14-2E-8, Volume 1. Passing
 6                                                              AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


 criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.
 R = Required area of evaluation
 INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
 MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
 EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
 IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation

Table 2.2. Intelligence Evaluations - GEOINT Analyst.
 AREA TITLE                                     INIT MSN          MSN           IE
 Knowledge Evaluation
 GEOINT Data Attributes Analysis (GDAA) R                         R
 Performance Task Evaluations
 Imagery Analysis and Products                  R                 R
 Ground Moving Target Indicator (GMTI)
                                                R                 R
 Analysis and Products
 Specialized Task Evaluations
 Evaluator Ability                                                              R
 Note: Grade sheet elements for each area are included in AFI14-2E-8, Volume 1. Passing
 criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.
 R = Required area of evaluation
 INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
 MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
 EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
 IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
2.3. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
     2.3.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
     and periodic mission qualification evaluations to test the examinee’s understanding of threat
     knowledge, friendly and neutral weapons systems, Personnel Recovery (PR), and GDAA
     (content is dependent on the examinee’s position as either Operations Intelligence or
     GEOINT Analyst). Examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit’s master
     question file (MQF) for mission qualification evaluation subject areas. Examinations will be
     recorded on the AF Form 4350. Knowledge examinations may also be required during
     specialized qualification evaluations. Research, analysis and dissemination (RAD) and
     intelligence preparation of the operational environment (IPOE) involves knowledge
     intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of performance task
     evaluations and will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable performance task. (T-2)
     2.3.2. Performance Task Evaluation. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation
     materials based off of current intelligence, unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR)
     scenarios. Units must apply operational risk management principles to evaluations
     conducted during exercises or deployments. The following guidelines are provided to assist
     in constructing evaluation materials: (T-2)
        2.3.2.1. Operations Intelligence Mission Qualification Tasks.
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                  7


        2.3.2.1.1. Situation Displays. The situation for which the display is being built
        should contain enough data for the examinee to make decisions on the best medium to
        use for the creating the display. Include a large variety of items from AFI 14-2E-8,
        Volume 3 that will challenge the examinee to conduct research and analysis to
        determine the relevance of the data to the situation. The number of items to be
        plotted should be of sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming
        that the time taken is beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. The exercise
        will include both geographic coordinates and Military Grid Reference System
        (MGRS) coordinates. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates between
        geographic coordinates (DD/MM/SS) and MGRS (NNAAAXXXXXX); and also
        from geographic coordinates to decimal minutes (DD/MM.mm). The scenario may
        include erroneous information to mirror the fog of war by including intentionally
        incorrect coordinates or types of threats for the particular AOR, thereby allowing the
        IE to assess the examinee’s ability to identify errors and question the validity of
        information. The examinee should use MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting
        Symbology and US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM
        1-02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics.
           2.3.2.1.1.1. Manual OB. The number of OB items in the plotting exercise will be
           of sufficient volume to have a variety of threats to plot to ensure correct
           symbology is used. The examinee must be able to identify critical elements of the
           table of organization and equipment for the OB being used.
           2.3.2.1.1.2. Automated OB. Examinee should be provided with a variety of OB
           sources from which to pull data. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and
           save threat files, insert accurate data, update and purge data to ensure quality
           control of the displayed data and question the information’s accuracy for a
           particular AOR.
        2.3.2.1.2. Intelligence Briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information
        provided by the evaluator, message traffic, intelligence reports, and imagery. Other
        sources used to evaluate other mission areas may also be used. Evaluated briefings
        include threat briefings, changeover briefing, initial situation briefing, situation
        briefing, deployment briefing, mission planning briefing, and step briefing.
        2.3.2.1.3. ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/SPINS and other tasking documents. Scenario,
        actual contingency or exercise materials may be used for this purpose. Provide
        enough information that the examinee’s unit is not the sole unit tasked in the ATO
        and RSTA Annex. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s
        proficiency in identifying and breaking out the elements of ATO/ACO/RSTA
        Annex/SPINS. Include unit tasking, supported missions, air space control, personnel
        recovery SPINS, and Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance platform tasking.
        2.3.2.1.4. Collection Deck Breakout. Scenario, actual contingency or exercise
        materials may be used for this purpose. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the
        examinee’s proficiency in identifying and breaking out the elements of the collection
        deck. Include mission taskings and locations, reporting information and essential
        elements of information (EEI).
 8                                                               AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


            2.3.2.1.5. Near Real-Time Mission Support. Use scenario or actual exercise to allow
            examinee to flight follow missions in execution and maintain situational awareness.
            Ensure opportunity exists to evaluate examinee’s proficiency to keep abreast of
            ongoing missions and upcoming debriefs. Examine debrief forms to see that
            information has been filled in to maximum extent prior to engine shut down. Present
            simulated situation where aircraft is diverted. Ensure systems are used if available to
            aid examinee in monitoring progress of tasked missions.
            2.3.2.1.6. Debriefing. Conduct aircrew debriefings following actual flying missions
            whenever possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with
            aircrew to identify a particular threat scenario for the debriefing. Ensure there is
            enough activity to represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario
            commensurate with unit AOR tasking.
            2.3.2.1.7. Intelligence Reports. Construct mission reports (MISREPs) or other
            applicable intelligence reports using information provided in debriefings. Complete
            reports IAW theater intelligence reporting directives.
        2.3.2.2. GEOINT Analyst Mission Qualification Tasks.
            2.3.2.2.1. Imagery Analysis and Products. Actual contingency or exercise materials
            may be used for this purpose. Examinee should be provided with a variety imagery to
            analyze and disseminate to a specified requester in a timely manner. Examinee
            should have access to all necessary resources
            2.3.2.2.2. GMTI Analysis and Products. Actual contingency or exercise materials
            may be used for this purpose. Examinee should be provided with a variety of GMTI
            data (Near Real Time and Historical) to exploit and provide analysis to the requester
            in a timely manner. Examinee should have access to all necessary resources.
2.4. Specialized Qualification Evaluations.
     2.4.1. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will
     consist of a knowledge examination and a performance task evaluation that will be conducted
     IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Upon completion of profile EIT 1 and applicable profiles
     outlined in AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 1, the EIT trainer will demonstrate knowledge of the
     information presented by successfully completing a test based on the questions from the
     master question file (85 percent minimum to pass), as applicable. The EIT trainer will also
     be evaluated on their ability to present training in each applicable profile. Evaluators will
     give the examinee no less than 4 hours notice of the subject matter or briefing topic for the
     evaluation. (T-3)
        2.4.1.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
        training in more than one individual EIT event at a time. The individual must complete
        the specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing
        element by an IE. The individual must maintain currency and be reevaluated periodically
        for the subject matter according to AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 1.
        2.4.1.2. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
        evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated.
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                  9


  2.4.2. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
  Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified to be IEs upon completion of the IE ST profiles,
  successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO). IEs will
  be evaluated using criteria in Chapter 3. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of
  the periodic mission evaluation.
 10                                                            AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Evaluation Standards. The evaluation criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: MQT and ST Evaluation Criteria. Use all sections of criteria applicable to the events
performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria (Table 3.1
and 3.2) apply to tasks associated with the duty positions or work centers in which personnel
maintain mission qualifications.

Table 3.1. MQT Evaluation Criteria – Operations Intelligence.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q     Correctly answers at least 85% of questions in test based on MQF.
 Q-    Not applicable.
 U     Failed to correctly answer at least 85% of the questions.
 THREAT BRIEFING
 Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
       Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Effective
       use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Tailored threat briefing to the
       capabilities of the E-8 airframe, avionics and countertactics. Correct classification and
       security markings on all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
 Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
       omissions, recovered when prompted. Some comparisons of threat to E-8, but not
       many. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow,
       somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
 U     Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Threat was not
       tailored to E-8 capabilities. Major gaps in information, unable to recover with
       prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
       Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of E-8 mission
       capabilities. Incorrect classification.
 SITUATION DISPLAYS (Includes MANUAL and AUTOMATED OB)
 Q     Correctly determined the proper medium, including type and scale, for creating the
       best situation display. Researched and analyzed data for accuracy, inconsistencies,
       and relevance to the situation. Used manual and automated processes to accurately
       plot all threats/items within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates. Consistently used
       correct symbology IAW MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US
       Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
       FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics. Correctly extracted geographic
       coordinates and MGRSs. Plotted to appropriate level of detail with respect to unit
       requirements. Successfully downloaded, printed, exported and displayed data. Able
       to manipulate data, display appropriate threat rings and perform terrain masking
       analysis. Demonstrated ability to convert various coordinate formats. Accurately
       maintained situation display to unit specifications, including classification and
       currency. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                 11


Q-    Did not select the absolute best medium for creating the situation display. Did not
      fully research and analyze data resulting in some minor irrelevant items to be
      included. Plotted 95% of the data within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates, the
      remaining 5% within 1nm. Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little
      prompting. Needed little assistance with coordinate conversions.
U     Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors
      or inconsistencies in data. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision or
      intervention. Incorrect classification.
INITIAL SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well-tailored analysis
      relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures.
      Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Demonstrated ability to
      identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
      understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Understood and provided detailed information
      tailored to the audience. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations
      of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing poorly organized, hard to
      follow and redundant.
U     Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Content poorly
      organized, not tailored appropriately. Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack
      of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE
      concepts. Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information to
      proper audience. Poor understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or
      impact information may have. Negative impact on mission. Fabricated information.
      Incorrect classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items since last update, and well-
      tailored analysis relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local
      procedures. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts.
      Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
      identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience.
      Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, redundant.
U     Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Failure to follow
      local procedures. Content not tailored appropriately. Confusing. Omitted key areas.
      Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor
12                                                           AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


     understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed significant information or failed to
     disseminate information to proper audience. Poor understanding of
     capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have.
     Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q    Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addresses relevant areas. Demonstrated
     clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass on to next shift. Shows
     ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
     capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identifies
     significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Correctly
     annotated message traffic log, identifies significant events and issued threat update
     codes (TUCs). Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-   Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
     prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.
     relocation, attacks) vs. poor planning.
U    Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Deficiencies not due
     to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even with minor prompting.
     Omissions would have affected next shift. Missed significant information or failed to
     disseminate information to proper audience. Poor understanding of /limitations of unit
     assets and/or the impact information may have on the mission. Fabricated
     information. Incorrect classification.
DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q    Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist and
     followed local procedures. Tailored, relevant content. Easily understood by audience.
     Classification appropriate for audience. Hit key points including synopsis of military
     and political situation generating the deployment, host nation information, enemy
     activity, force disposition within AOR including deployment route, personnel
     recovery issues and reporting instructions. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in
     information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research
     methods and sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information.
     Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when
     conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification/security
     markings on all products.
Q-   Minor omissions, recovered when prompted and no significant impact on mission.
     Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U    Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Poorly organized, not
     tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas/critical information. Significant lack of
     analytical ability. Poor understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or
     the impact information may have on mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
     classification.
ATO/ACO/RSTA ANNEX/SPINS AND OTHER TASKING DOCUMENTS
Q    Demonstrated ability to access applicable ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/ /SPINS and any
     changes. Correctly extracted mission tasking, airspace control measures, combat
     search and rescue data and other information relevant to unit or tasking. Correct
     classification and security markings on all products.
Q-   Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                  13


      mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have jeopardized
      mission planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention.
      Incorrect classification.
COLLECTION DECK BREAKOUT
Q     Demonstrated ability to locate and access applicable Collection Deck and any
      changes. Correctly extracted mission taskings and locations, reporting information,
      EEIs and other information relevant to unit or tasking. Correct classification/security
      markings on all products.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
      mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in extracting and applying information that could have
      jeopardized mission planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant
      intervention. Incorrect classification.
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO MISSION PLANNING
Q     Clearly understood mission tasking and was able to address all factors relevant to the
      mission. When appropriate, provided logical route and orbit recommendations. Well
      organized and fully prepared. Made appropriate selection and effective use of
      planning materials and resources. Provided all mission materials in correct quantities
      and of sufficient detail. Materials neat and well organized. Considered all factors that
      could impact successful mission accomplishment. Provided thorough terrain analysis
      with respect to threats, airfields, and route and orbit area. Identified shortfalls in
      information, recommendations for production/information requests. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact mission planning. Able to
      recover with minor prompting.
U     Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Poorly organized or
      unprepared. Made errors or omissions that could have prevented an effective mission.
      Displayed faulty or limited knowledge of factors relevant to the mission. Improper
      use of mission planning tools or materials. Significant lack of analytical ability.
      Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of capabilities/limitations of
      unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the mission. Fabricated
      information. Incorrect classification.
MISSION PLANNING BRIEFING
Q     Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Briefing effectively
      organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence. Effective use of visual
      aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items:
      takeoff, enroute, orbit area and appropriate PR considerations. Demonstrated ability
      to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
      understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
      limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Correctly annotated message
      traffic log, identified significant events and relayed TUCs. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions, recovered when prompted and no significant impact on mission. Needs
14                                                            AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


      improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
      redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U     Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Very confusing or
      redundant. Major gaps in information, unable to recover even with prompting.
      Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Fabricated
      information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of E-8 mission capabilities.
      Incorrect classification.
STEP BRIEFING
Q     Professionally delivered, well organized and concise. Well planned/prepared and
      appropriate checklist usage. Tailored, relevant content presented in timely fashion.
      Appropriate for the particular mission. Provided PR data for aircrew. Reminded
      aircrew to sanitize uniform. Fielded questions promptly and correctly. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered with prompting- not proactive. Omissions would not
      have affected mission effectiveness.
U     Poorly organized, confusing. Omitted key areas/critical information. Significant lack
      of analytical ability. Poor understanding of E-8 mission capabilities. Passed dated
      information. Incorrect classification.
NEAR REAL-TIME MISSION SUPPORT
Q     Used all resources (e.g. systems, operations, command post, onboard datalink) to track
      progress of missions. Well prepared to receive information during various stages. All
      relevant mission information pre-filled on debrief forms. Aware of all cancelled or
      diverted missions. Made provisions for debrief at diverted location via personnel or
      other electronic means. All personnel had access to mission tracking and could
      quickly interpret information to derive mission status.
Q-    Did not utilize resources well. Made updates to tracking mechanism with prompting,
      not proactive. All personnel could not quickly derive mission status. Debrief forms
      not pre-filled with mission information.
U     No mechanism for effectively updating status of missions. Most personnel not
      capable of interpreting or updating mission status. Unaware of cancelled missions.
      Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated lack
      of understanding of E-8 mission capabilities. No plans for contacting divert locations
      for mission status and reporting information.
DEBRIEFING
Q     Thoroughly prepared and extracts pertinent mission results in timely manner.
      Assembled and brought requisite materials for use to the debriefing. Quickly
      identified perishable information and ensured prompt dissemination as applicable.
      Controlled the debriefing, asked amplifying questions and recognized irrelevant
      information. Collected all significant intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish
      reporting requirements IAW checklists and theater directives. Correctly annotated
      event log. Identified significant events. Correct classification and security markings
      on all products.
Q-    Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some amplifying questions that
      would have enhanced detail of information gathered. Some minor mistakes and some
      difficulty following the aircrew terminology through the debriefing. Missed some
      details that should be identified for inclusion in a Mission Report (MISREP).
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                  15


 U     Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Not prepared.
       Disjointed flow. Failed to identify perishable information. Completely missed
       debrief. Not enough detail to accomplish reporting requirements. Errors in the
       reconstruction would have significantly impacted the MISREP. Unable to complete
       tasks without significant supervision or intervention. Incorrect classification.
 INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
 Q     Thoroughly prepared, appropriate checklist usage. Able to summarize and distribute
       pertinent, validated mission information/results in timely manner. Clearly written
       with target audience in mind. Met reporting timelines. Properly formatted with
       correct classification and security markings on all products produced. Summarized all
       pertinent information available and included an initial level of tactical analysis with
       minimal to no extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting timelines.
       Produced report IAW checklists and theater directives. Correctly identified significant
       events. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
       Appropriate knowledge of US Message Text Format (USMTF), if required.
 Q-    Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
       extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting,
       but pertinent information was included. Working knowledge of USMTF, but required
       some assistance.
 U     Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Report was not in format
       required by theater intelligence reporting directive. Poor planning or preparation
       and/or inadequate checklist usage. Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills
       complicated meaning of information or omitted critical information. Incorrect
       dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct users through appropriate channels). No
       knowledge of USMTF, if applicable. Incorrect classification.

Table 3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria - GEOINT Analyst.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION: GEOINT DATA ATTRIBUTES ANALYSIS
 Q     Correctly answers at least 85% of questions in test based on MQF.
 Q-    Not applicable for knowledge evaluation.
 U     Fails to correctly answer at least 85% of the questions.
 IMAGERY ANALYSIS AND PRODUCTS
 Q     Demonstrating proficiency in developing, coordinating and disseminating an imagery
       product. Accurately fulfilled imagery product request and performed analysis.
       Annotated imagery properly. Properly utilized imagery viewers for exploitation and
       reference purposes. Delivered product IAW local timelines, format and content.
 Q-    Missed timeline but still delivered quality product. Delay due to extenuating
       circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting, but pertinent
       information was included.
 U     Did not complete analysis and/or product within prescribed timelines. Product was
       not in format required. Incomplete or inaccurate information. Incorrect dissemination
       (e.g., not sent to the correct users through appropriate channels). Unable to properly
       use imagery viewers. Incorrect classification.
 GMTI ANALYSIS AND PRODUCTS
 Q     Provided GMTI product satisfying as many EEIs within a given timeline. Ability to
 16                                                           AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


         provide correct type of GMTI product using multiple analysis tool sets. Delivered
         product IAW local timelines, format and content.
 Q-      Missed timeline but still delivered quality product. Delay due to extenuating
         circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting, but pertinent
         information was included.
 U       Did not complete analysis and/or product within prescribed timelines. Unable to
         satisfy EEIs. Unable to properly use analysis tool sets. Product was not in format
         required. Incomplete or inaccurate information. Incorrect classification.
3.3. ST Evaluation Criteria. The following grading criteria apply to duty positions in which
personnel maintain specialized qualifications (e.g., EIT Trainer, IE).

Table 3.3. External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q     Correctly answers at least 85% of questions in test based on MQF.
 Q-    Not applicable for knowledge evaluation.
 U     Failed to correctly answer at least 85% of the questions.
 VISUAL RECOGNITION
 Q     Correctly identified 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 Q-    Not applicable for knowledge evaluation.
 U     Fails to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY - GENERAL
 Q     Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively and modify training to audience. Planned
       training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives.
       Effectively fielded and accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated
       subject matter knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from
       reference materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
       mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of instruction.
       Did not adversely affect training.
 U     Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
       efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
       procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
       seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY - THREATS AND COUNTERMEASURES
 Q     Determined appropriate threat training requirements. Used AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide
       as the primary reference for training. Tailored threat training to the E-8 mission
       specific requirements and appropriate audience (e.g. aircrew, security forces, etc).
       Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
       timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 3.
       Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
       and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
       materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
       deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
       requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                 17


      of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary
      reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 3. Lack of
      subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY - COLLECTION AND REPORTING
Q     Determined appropriate C&R training requirements. Included aircrew originated
      reports (in-flight report, etc.), intelligence-generated reports (MISREP, Intelligence
      Report, etc.) and EEIs. Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training
      efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-
      2E-8 Volume 3 and the appropriate theater reporting directive. Demonstrated subject
      matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved
      answers to questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or reporting directives. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use appropriate theater reporting directive as the
      primary reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 3.
      Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
      training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
      with procedures, requirements, or reporting directives. Lack of knowledge seriously
      detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q     Determined appropriate VR training requirements. Included enemy/adversary,
      friendly, and neutral aircraft, surface threat, ground equipment and naval vessel
      recognition features. Incorporated all aspects/angles, theater-specific paint
      schemes/national markings, and various configurations along with the name or
      numerical designator of all enemy/adversary/friendly/neutral weapons systems
      presented. Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently
      and made timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8
      Volume 3. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately
      answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from
      reference materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or items to include in training. Minor problems in communicating or
18                                                           AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 3. Lack
      of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – PERSONNEL RECOVERY
Q     Determined appropriate PR training requirements. Coordinated with tactics, aircrew
      flight equipment (AFE) and survival, evasion, resistance and escape (SERE)
      personnel. Provided academic instruction on PR operational support processes.
      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 3.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or coordination process. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not coordinate with tactics, AFE and SERE personnel.
      Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 3. Lack of subject matter
      knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – FORCE PROTECTION INTELLIGENCE
Q     Determined appropriate Force Protection Intelligence (FPI) training requirements.
      Included intelligence principles and procedures for FPI; summary of hostile forces in
      AOR and other hot spot areas; examples of hostile forces’ tactics and weapons
      employment; FPI resources; Terrorist Threat Levels; and unit FPI considerations.
      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 3.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or FPI resources. Minor problems in communicating or organization of
      instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                                      19


 U      Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-8 Volume 3. Lack
        of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
        questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
        to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
        efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
        procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
        detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.

Table 3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria.
 INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR PROFICIENCY
 Q     Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and made
       timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Displayed thorough knowledge of
       evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation documentation preparation.
       Completed appropriate evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and
       recorded performance. Comments were clear and pertinent. Correct classification and
       security markings on all products.
 Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
       mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of evaluation.
       Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in evaluation
       records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
 U     Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
       plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
       evaluation process. Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or threats.
       Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from evaluator effectiveness.
       Did not complete required forms or records. Comments were invalid, unclear, or did
       not accurately document performance. Incorrect classification.




                                           LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                           Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 20                                                          AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 1, E-8 Unit Intelligence Training, 18 April 2013
AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 3, E-8 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 18 April 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, General Planning and Employment Considerations, 6 February
2014 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.JSTARS, Tactical Employment—E-8C JSTARS, 20 May 2011 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation
AF Form 4350, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013                                                21


AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GDAA—GEOINT Data Attributes Analysis
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
GMTI—Ground Moving Target Indicator
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT—Initial
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
JSTARS—Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (also Joint STARS)
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility, Officer Performance Report
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis, and Dissemination
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
USMTF—US Message Text Format
 22                                                          AFI14-2E-8V2 18 APRIL 2013


Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC level.
