BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2CR,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                    VOLUME 2

                                                                             17 JANUARY 2013
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 14 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                        Intelligence

                                                         CONTINGENCY RESPONSE UNIT
                                                   INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AMC/A2                                                                  Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                       (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                          Pages: 18


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the Air Force standards
for evaluating and qualifying personnel performing intelligence duties in CR units. This
publication applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG)
intelligence personnel supporting CR operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records
Information Management System. This AFI may be supplemented, but all supplements must be
coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval.
Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-
0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                            AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.
AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013                                                                    3



                                          Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial (INIT) and
periodic mission evaluations (MSN). The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to
perform required duties safely and effectively. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the
provisions of AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and this instruction.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy AMC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and
responses. AMC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver requests if such
correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.3. Procedures.
   1.3.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   completed all Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized Training requirements,
   as outlined AFI 14-2CR, Volume 1, Contingency Response Unit Intelligence Training.
   Additionally, the examinee must have on file a satisfactory gradesheet (see Attachment 5 of
   AFI 14-2CR, Volume 1, for gradesheet elements) from an intelligence qualification trainer
   for each area listed in Table 2.1. The gradesheets will be filed in the individual’s
   qualification training record. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, to
   assist in grading the individual areas during the evaluation. Upon completion of the AF
   Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, the IE may destroy the AF Form 4381.
   (T-2)
   1.3.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for conducting all
   intelligence mission qualification and specialized training evaluations. To ensure standard
   and objective evaluations, IEs will be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation
   criteria. (T-2)
   1.3.3. Prior to commencing, the IE will brief the examinee on the evaluation conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria. The examinee will accomplish required
   planning IAW the duty position being evaluated. The examinee will provide IEs with a copy
   of necessary data or materials. (T-2)
   1.3.4. Evaluations should take place in conjunction with in-garrison events to the maximum
   extent possible. Evaluations during exercises or deployments are not prohibited; however,
   units should apply operational risk management principles to the scheduling of the
   evaluation. (Real world contingencies may provide a unique opportunity to conduct an
   evaluation; however, factors beyond the control of the examinee and IE may preclude its
   successful completion.) When evaluation in a realistic environment is not possible,
   examinations may be conducted via an alternate method (i.e., simulated, staged, or by verbal
   examination) in order to complete the evaluation. Document the reasons and type of
   alternate method used in the Comments section of the AF Form 4350. (T-2)
   1.3.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-2)
 4                                                               AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


1.4. Grading Instructions. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the standards provided in this volume and assign an
appropriate grade for the area. Derive the overall intelligence evaluation grade from the area
grades based on a composite for the observed events and tasks IAW this instruction. Grading
will be conducted in the following manner: (T-2)
     1.4.1. IEs will use the grading criteria in this volume to determine individual area grades. IE
     judgment must be exercised when the wording for general graded areas is subjective and
     when specific situations are not covered.
     1.4.2. If the examinee receives an “unqualified” area grade in any area identified as critical,
     an overall qualification level of Q-3 will be assigned for the evaluation.
     1.4.3. IEs will be expected to use their personal experience and knowledge in the assessment
     of examinee performance and determination of overall grade.
     1.4.4. General Criteria. The following grading criteria will be used to grade individual
     items:
        1.4.4.1. Q. Qualified. Performance is correct. Quickly recognizes and corrects errors.
        1.4.4.2. Q-. Qualified with discrepancies. Performance is safe, but indicates limited
        proficiency. Makes errors of omission or commission.
        1.4.4.3. U.   Unqualified.   Performance is unsafe or indicates lack of knowledge or
        ability.
1.5. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training as
necessary. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-
2)
1.6. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall unqualified grade (Q-3) will
be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a mission
evaluation, he/she may not perform mission duties or specialized duties unsupervised until
remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a specialized evaluation,
he/she may not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are accomplished, but he/she
may perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-3)
1.7. Documentation. Units will document intelligence evaluations on AF Form 4350 and in
coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013                                                                       5


                                            Chapter 2

                             EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. Evaluation requirements are listed in Table 2.1. All required areas must be
included in the intelligence evaluation. If the IE determines the required area cannot be
adequately evaluated in a realistic environment (or by an alternate method), an additional
evaluation will be necessary to complete the requirements. (T-2)
2.2. Evaluation Cycle. Periodic evaluations will be conducted on a 20-month cycle.
Evaluations expire on the last day of the 19th month following the month in which the task phase
was successfully completed. The individual will enter the eligibility window 14 months after the
INIT MSN/MSN evaluation (6-month period prior to expiration date). Extensions may be
granted by the Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2.
2.3. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
   2.3.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
   and periodic mission qualification evaluations to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in CR
   academics, intelligence integration in force protection (FP) academics, threat knowledge,
   visual recognition (VR), personnel recovery (PR), intelligence support to ground forces and
   CR unit intelligence procedures. For mission qualification evaluations (initial and periodic),
   examinees will complete a knowledge test IAW paragraph 3.3.1, AFI 14-2CR, Volume 1.
   Examinations will be recorded on the AF Form 4350. Knowledge examinations may also be
   required during specialized qualification evaluations. Reference Table 2.1 for required
   knowledge examinations. (T-2)
   2.3.2. Task Evaluation. Units may utilize evaluation materials using current intelligence,
   unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR) scenarios that incorporate all appropriate
   evaluation requirements from Table 2.1. Research, Analysis and Dissemination (RAD)
   involves skills intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the
   evaluation and will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable graded area as indicated on
   individual gradesheets. The following guidelines are provided to assist in constructing
   evaluation materials. (T-2)
       2.3.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). The number of coordinates in the OB plotting
       exercise should be of sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that
       the time taken is beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. Examinee should have
       a variety of threats/items to plot to ensure correct symbology is used. The exercise will
       include both geographic coordinates (geocoords) and Military Grid Reference
       System/Universal Transverse Mercator (MGRS/UTM) coordinates. The scenario may
       include erroneous information to mirror the fog of war by including intentionally
       incorrect coordinates or types of threats for that particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE
       to assess the examinee’s ability to identify errors and question the validity of information.
       The examinee may use MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, and US
       Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
       Operational Terms and Graphics for reference. When using a scenario developed by the
       examinee, OB coordinates listed on the Mission Evaluation Worksheet will be evaluated
       by the IE for accuracy.
6                                                            AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


    2.3.2.2. Automated OB. Examinee should be provided with a variety of OB sources
    from which to pull data. When using an examinee-developed scenario, evaluate the
    examinee’s ability to develop and save threat files, insert accurate data, load, update and
    purge data to ensure quality control of the displayed data and question the information’s
    accuracy for a particular AOR. Ensure the opportunity exists for the examinee to be
    evaluated on his or her ability to manipulate OB displays and print using the intelligence
    support systems available. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates
    between geocoords and MGRS and DD/MM/SS to DD/MM.mm.
    2.3.2.3. Intelligence Briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information
    provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports, imagery and other
    sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may be used to fulfill this
    requirement. Evaluated briefings include: changeover briefing, pre-deployment
    briefings, combat action team (CAT)/Battlestaff briefing, situation briefing, aircrew pre-
    mission briefings and ground pre-mission briefings.
    2.3.2.4. Tasking Documentation. Scenario, actual contingency or exercise materials may
    be used for this purpose. Provide enough information that the examinee’s unit is not the
    sole unit tasked. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in
    locating, identifying and breaking out the elements of warning order (WARNORD)/
    operating order (OPORD)/ execution order (EXORD)/ fragmentary order (FRAGO)/ air
    tasking order (ATO) to include unit tasking, mission, air space control, airfield location),
    and combat search and rescue information.
    2.3.2.5. Threat Working Group (TWG). Scenario, actual contingency or exercise
    materials may be used for this purpose. Provide enough information to evaluate the
    examinee’s ability to extract and analyze intelligence on the mission area and formulate
    an assessment. Elements provided should include changes to the threat picture, threat to
    base, terrorist actions, attacks on other bases in theater.
    2.3.2.6. Airfield Assessment Integration. Actual contingency planning or exercise
    materials and imagery may be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the
    examinee’s proficiency in planning, coordinating and conducting the entire mission
    planning process.
    2.3.2.7. Communications Equipment Familiarization. Training should encompass
    utilization of all CR communication hardware and software (e.g., Deployable Intelligence
    Support Kit (DISK), Secure Terminal Equipment (STE), IRIDIUM phone) identification,
    setup, operation and breakdown in garrison and in the field. Correctly identify
    communications equipment specific to CR operations. Ensure the opportunity exists for
    a full communications equipment setup and breakdown. Trainee should be able to
    properly use the equipment. Grade the trainee’s ability to use hardware and software for
    reach-back. Complete tasks IAW prescribed local procedure and timeline requirements.
    2.3.2.8. Debriefing. Debriefings should be conducted with mission crews whenever
    possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with mission crew to
    identify a particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity to
    represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit tasking.
    Grade the examinee’s ability to control the debriefing, ask amplifying questions and
    recognize irrelevant information.
AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013                                                                      7


       2.3.2.9. Intelligence Reports. Mission reports (MISREPs) and intelligence reports
       (INTREP) should be constructed using information provided in the mission crew
       debriefing. MISREPs and INTREPs should be completed IAW MAJCOM/theater
       intelligence reporting directives.
2.4. External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation (EIT). EIT evaluations will consist of a
knowledge examination and a task evaluation conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Only
qualified EITs may conduct unsupervised intelligence training. Upon completion of EIT training
profiles the EIT will demonstrate knowledge of the information presented by successful
completion of a closed-book test based on the questions from the Master Question File (MQF)
(85 percent minimum to pass). The EIT will also be evaluated on his or her ability to present
training in each applicable sub-category (threat knowledge, VR, collection & reporting, and PR).
Evaluators will give the examinee no less than four hours notice of the subject matter or briefing
topic for the evaluation. (T-2)
   2.4.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
   training in one or more individual EIT events at a time. The individual must complete the
   specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing element by
   an IE. The individual must maintain currency for the subject matter and must be reevaluated
   periodically. (T-2)
   2.4.2. Subsequent EIT evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
   evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated.
   2.4.3. An EIT receiving a grade of U or “with additional training” in any grading area must
   not perform EIT duties until additional training is complete. This restriction is placed in the
   Comments section and “yes” is marked in Restrictions on the AF Form 4350. An EIT
   receiving an area grade of U or “with additional training” in any grading area will result in an
   overall Q-3 for the EIT evaluation. (T-2)
   2.4.4. All EITs will be graded using the criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
2.5. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified as IEs upon completion of the IE specialized training
profiles, successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the Chief of Wing Intelligence. IEs will
be graded using criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
   2.5.1. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation.
   2.5.2. An IE receiving a grade of U or “with additional training” in any grading area must
   not perform IE duties until additional training is complete. This restriction is placed in the
   Comments section and “yes” is marked in Restrictions on the AF Form 4350. An IE
   receiving an area grade of U or “with additional training” in any grading area will result in an
   overall Q-3 for the IE evaluation. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
    R = Required area of evaluation
    INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
    MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
    EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
8                                                           AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


    IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
               AREA TITLE                      Gradesheet   INIT   MSN    EIT     IE
                                              Requirement   MSN
Knowledge Evaluation (MQF Test)                               R      R
CR Academics                                      Yes
Threats                                           Yes
Personnel Recovery Academics                      Yes
Intelligence Integration in Force                 Yes
Protection
Intelligence Support to Ground Forces             Yes
RAD                                               Yes
Visual Recognition                                Yes         R      R
Manual OB                                         Yes         R      R
Automated OB                                      Yes         R      R
Changeover Briefing                               Yes         R      R
Pre-deployment Briefing                           Yes         R      R
CAT/Battlestaff Briefing                          Yes         R      R
Situation Briefing                                Yes         R      R
Tasking Documentation                             Yes         R      R
(WARNORD/OPORD/EXORD/FRAGO)
TWG                                               Yes         R      R
Airfield Assessment Integration                   Yes         R      R
Aircrew Pre-mission Briefing                      Yes         R      R
Ground Pre-mission Briefing                       Yes         R      R
Communication Equipment                           Yes         R      R
Familiarization
Debriefing                                        Yes         R      R
Intelligence Reports                              Yes         R      R
Request for Information (RFI)                     Yes         R      R
Instructional Ability                             Yes                      R
Evaluator Ability                                 Yes                             R
AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013                                                                     9



                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Grading Standards.
   3.1.1. The grading criteria in this chapter are divided into two sections: General Grading
   Criteria and Specialized Training Grading Criteria. Use all sections for criteria applicable to
   the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
   3.1.2. Where major areas are divided into sub-areas, only one grade will be assigned to the
   major areas. Annotate discrepancies in sub-areas in the comments section of the AF Form
   4350. (T-2)
   3.1.3. Gradesheets are included in Attachment 4, AFI14-2CR, Vol 1, of this instruction to
   assist the IE in determining the overall qualification and in documenting the AF Form 4350.
   3.1.4. Security will be considered in all evaluations.
   3.1.5. Locally developed priority intelligence requirements (PIRs) and essential elements of
   information (EEIs) must be considered.
3.2. General Grading Areas.

Table 3.1. General Grading Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q     Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on MQF.
 Q-    Not applicable.
 U     Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 VISUAL RECOGNITION
 Q     Correctly identified 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 Q-    Not applicable.
 U     Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 MANUAL OB
 Q     Without the use of automated intelligence support systems and IAW MIL STD
       2525C and FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A accurately plotted all threats/items within 25m of
       center point of coordinates on a 1:50,000 (or larger scale chart), consistently used
       correct OB symbology, identified inconsistencies or errors in OB. Plotted to
       appropriate level of detail with respect to unit requirements. Accurately maintained
       OB to unit specifications, including classification and currency. Correct
       classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-    Plotted 95% of the order of battle within 25m of center point of coordinates on a
       1:50,000 (or larger scale chart), the remaining 5% within 1 nm on a Tactical Pilotage
       Chart (or larger scale chart). Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with
       little prompting.
 U     Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors
       or inconsistencies in OB. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision
       or intervention. Incorrect classification.
10                                                          AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


AUTOMATED OB
Q     Demonstrated proficiency in using applicable intelligence support systems to
      maintain orders of battle, including current as of times and classification. Able to
      input OB manually with zero typographical errors. Successfully downloaded,
      printed, exported and displayed data. Able to manipulate data, display appropriate
      threat rings and perform terrain masking analysis. Correctly converted geocoords
      and MGRS. Able to utilize applicable tools to aid in mission planning. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Required some assistance, but no impact on mission success.
U     Required significant assistance. Lacked proficiency in operating intelligence support
      systems to the detriment of mission success. Incorrect classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q     Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas. Demonstrated
      clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass on to next shift.
      Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding
      of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
      identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience.
      Correctly annotated event log and identified significant events. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products.
Q-    Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
      prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.
      relocation, attacks, etc.) vs. poor planning.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist
      usage. Deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even
      with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next shift. Missed significant
      information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
      understanding of capabilities or limitations of unit assets or impact information may
      have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
PRE-DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q     Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist or local
      procedures. Tailored, relevant content appropriate for audience. Easily understood
      by audience. Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience.
      Hit key points including synopsis of military and political situation generating the
      deployment, and enemy activity and force disposition in AOR and along deployment
      route. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact
      on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed
      ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded
      questions correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key
      areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
      Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor
      understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets or negative impact information
      may have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013                                                               11


CAT/BATTLESTAFF BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, well tailored analysis
      relevant to audience. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
      limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identified significant
      information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Included predictive
      analysis (unit impact and/or enemy course of action (COA)). Fielded questions
      correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
      redundant. Limited predictive analysis presented (unit impact and/or enemy COA).
U     Failed to use checklist. Content not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas.
      Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed
      significant information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
      understanding of capabilities or limitations of unit assets or impact information may
      have. Failed to include predictive analysis (unit impact and/or enemy COA).
      Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, well tailored analysis
      relevant to audience. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
      limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identified significant
      information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Included predictive
      analysis (unit impact and/or enemy COA). Fielded questions correctly. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Limited predictive analysis
      presented (unit impact and/or enemy COA). Briefing hard to follow, redundant.
U     Failed to use checklist. Content not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas.
      Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed
      significant information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
      understanding of capabilities or limitations of unit assets or impact information may
      have. Failed to include predictive analysis (unit impact and/or enemy COA).
      Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
TASKING DOCUMENTATION
Q     Demonstrated ability to locate and access correct
      WARNORD/OPORD/EXORD/FRAGO/ATO and any changes. Correctly extracted
      mission tasking and other information relevant to unit or tasking. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
12                                                         AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


      intelligence integration in mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed
      minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have impacted
      mission planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention.
      Incorrect classification.
THREAT WORKING GROUP
Q     Demonstrated ability to access correct tasked mission. Demonstrated proficiency in
      analyzing current/new threat information affecting tasked area of operations.
      Demonstrated understanding of changes to threat picture and its impact on the
      mission. Accurately assessed if current FP measures/base defense plan mitigate
      threat effectively. Aided in development of unified TWG recommendations and
      COAs. Used correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting and analyzing information that did not jeopardize
      or impact the overall unified recommendations to the TWG. Accomplished tasks but
      needed minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in extracting and analyzing information that could have
      impacted recommendations of the TWG. Unable to accomplish tasks without
      significant intervention. Unable to articulate intelligence analysis to TWG members;
      negative impact to unified recommendations and COAs. Incorrect classification.
AIRFIELD ASSESSMENT INTEGRATION
Q     Demonstrated ability to research and accurately analyze intelligence information
      pertaining to airfields of interest. Developed terrain analysis and overlaid threat
      COA to develop Named Areas of Interests (NAI). Developed a collection plan for
      NAI. Collection plan is in line with pre-existing EEIs and PIRs. New EEIs were
      created as necessary. Determined weakest points of defense and recommended
      where and how the adversary will attack. Gave overall assessment of ‘ready’ for CR
      main body to arrive, or ‘unsafe’ for operations. Correct classification and security
      markings on all products.
Q-    Some errors or delays in research and analysis that did not jeopardize or impact
      overall airfield assessment. Minor delays in developing assessment that did not
      impact overall mission. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in research and analysis that could have impacted the
      mission. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
      Poor understanding of intelligence preparation of the operational environment
      concepts. Unable to develop airfield assessment without significant intervention.
      Incorrect classification.
AIRCREW PRE-MISSION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail,
      covered all applicable items IAW checklists: takeoff, enroute, landing and
      appropriate PR considerations. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information
      that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods
      and sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated
      understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis.
      Demonstrated ability to create and manipulate four dimensional (4D) (3D
      visualization plus time) models and overlays using visualization and analysis tools
AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013                                                                  13


      and programs IAW current guidance. Demonstrated ability to build 3D models of
      varying products (e.g. mission route, threat locations, airfield structures at
      deployment or enemy airbase locations, structures or terrain in landing zone/drop
      zone (LZ/DZ), mission routes, detection/engagement rings). Integrate with 3D
      visualization and time-stamped (4th dimension) threat data to support force
      protection as appropriate. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission. Needs
      improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
      redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U     Failed to use checklist. Did not brief all threats directly impacting the mission.
      Confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information, unable to recover with
      prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
      Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of the CR mission
      capabilities. Incorrect classification.
GROUND PRE-MISSION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail,
      covered all applicable items IAW checklists: airfield, PR considerations, convoy
      route, threat/attack history, tactics, techniques, procedures, blind spots, phase lines,
      actions on the objective, actions on contact, countermeasures. Demonstrated ability
      to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
      understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to discriminate
      irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities/limitations of
      unit assets when conducting analysis. Demonstrated ability to create and manipulate
      4D (3D visualization plus time) models and overlays using visualization and analysis
      tools and programs IAW current guidance. Demonstrated ability to build 3D models
      of varying products (e.g. mission route, threat locations, airfield structures at
      deployment or enemy airbase locations, structures or terrain in LZ/DZ, mission
      routes, detection/engagement rings). Integrate with 3D visualization and time-
      stamped (4th dimension) threat data to support FP as appropriate. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission. Needs
      improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
      redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U     Failed to use checklist. Did not brief all threats directly impacting the mission.
      Confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information, unable to recover with
      prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
      Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of the CR mission
      capabilities. Incorrect classification.
DEBRIEFING
Q     Thoroughly prepared and was able to extract pertinent mission results in timely
      manner. Quickly identified perishable information. Controlled the debriefing, asked
      amplifying questions and recognized irrelevant information. Collected all significant
 14                                                           AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


       intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish reporting requirements IAW
       checklists and theater directives. Identified significant events. Correct classification
       and security markings on all products.
 Q-    Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some amplifying questions that
       would have enhanced detail of information gathered.
 U     Failed to use appropriate checklist. Not prepared. Disjointed flow. Failed to
       identify perishable information. Completely missed a debrief. Not enough detail to
       accomplish reporting requirements. Incorrect classification.
 INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
 Q     Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
       available with minimal to no extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting
       timelines. Produced report IAW checklists and theater directives. Identified
       significant events. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-    Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
       extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting,
       but pertinent information was included.
 U     Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Failed to use checklist.
       Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills complicated meaning of information
       or omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct
       users through appropriate channels). Incorrect classification.
 RFI
 Q     Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
       available with minimal to no extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting
       timelines. Produced RFI IAW checklists, MAJCOM and/or theater directives.
       Identified significant events. Correct classification and security markings on all
       products.
 Q-    Slow to development but still produced quality RFI. Minor problems with clarity,
       organization or formatting, but pertinent information was included.
 U     Did not complete report within reasonable time period resulting in loss of perishable
       information required for planning. Failed to use checklist. Incomplete or inaccurate
       RFI. Writing skills complicated meaning of information or omitted critical
       information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct users through
       appropriate channels). Incorrect classification.
3.3. Specialized Qualification Grading Criteria. The following grading criteria apply to duty
positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications (e.g. External Intelligence
Trainer, Intelligence Evaluator).

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Trainer Specialized Training Grading Criteria.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY
 Q     Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
       timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Effectively fielded and accurately
       answered questions. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Able to quickly
       retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference materials. Training documented
       IAW local procedures. Correct classification/security markings on all products.
 Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013                                                                  15


         mission or threats. Minor problems in communication or organization. Documented
         training IAW local procedures with minor errors. Did not adversely affect training.
 U       Inability to communicate instruction to the audience effectively. Did not plan
         training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
         with procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
         seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Training not documented IAW local
         procedures. Incorrect classification and security markings.

Table 3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Grading Criteria.
 EVALUATOR ABILITY
 Q    Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently, made
      timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Completed appropriate evaluation
      records accurately. Adequately assessed and recorded performance. Comments were
      clear and pertinent. Correct classification/security markings on all products.
 Q-   Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
      mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of evaluation.
      Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in evaluation
      records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
 U    Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
      plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
      evaluation process. Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or threats.
      Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from evaluator effectiveness.
      Did not complete required forms or records. Comments were invalid, unclear, or did
      not accurately document performance. Incorrect classification and security markings.




                                           LARRY D. JAMES , Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                           Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 16                                                          AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-2CR, Volume 1, Contingency Response Unit Intelligence Training, 17 January 2013
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 1 July 2005
US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
4D—Four Dimensional
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Qualified
CAT—Combat Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Course of Action
CRG—Contingency Response Group
AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013                17


DISK—Deployable Intelligence Support Kit
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EXORD—Execution Order
FP—Force Protection
FRAGO—Fragmentary Order
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT—Initial (Evaluation)
INTREP—Intelligence Report
LZ/DZ—Landing Zone/Drop Zone
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
NAI—Named Area of Interest
OB—Order of Battle
OPORD—Operations Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIR—Priority Intelligence Requirement
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Information
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
STE—Secure Terminal Equipment
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TWG—Threat Working Group
USAF—United States Air Force
VR—Visual Recognition
WARNORD—Warning Order
 18                                                         AFI14-2CRV2 17 January 2013


Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC levels.
