                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-302
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           18 JANUARY 1994

                                                                                             Intelligence

                                                                   CONTROL, PROTECTION, AND
                                                                  DISSEMINATION OF SENSITIVE
                                                                COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: 497 IG/INSC (Elizabeth A. Hall)                           Certified by: 497 IG/INS (Col Michael R.
                                                                                             Hollomon)
Supersedes AFR 200-7, 16 October 1992; and                                                      Pages: 8
           AFR 205-19                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 14-3, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Intelligence Informa-
tion, AFMAN 14-304, The Security, Use, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information
(U), Director of Central Intelligence Directive (DCID) 1/19, DCI Security Policy Manual for SCI Control
System, and DCID 1/21, DCI Manual for Physical Security Standards for SCI Facilities, and explains Air
Force rules, responsibilities, and terminology for the security, use, and dissemination of Sensitive Com-
partmented Information (SCI). It also describes the functions and responsibilities assigned to Air Force
senior intelligence officers (SIO), SCI security officials, communications security (COMSEC) managers
and custodians who are SCI indoctrinated, and commanders and supervisors of SCI-indoctrinated individ-
uals.
This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information to be protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain this information is in Executive Order 12333, United
States Intelligence Activities. System of records notice F205 497 IG/INS applies.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 14-3.



1. Functions of the Air Force SCI Security Program and the Special Security Officer (SSO) Sys-
tem.
   1.1. The SCI Security Program gives the Air Force an exclusive, responsive, and secure means to
   receive, store, send, use, and protect SCI. The program assists individuals working with SCI material
   to avoid its compromise and ensure its dissemination to appropriate personnel. It also protects SCI
   information from interference by uncleared and unauthorized personnel and means
   1.2. The SSO System protects sources and methods, while permitting those with a valid
   need-to-know to receive intelligence information.

2. SCI Responsibilities. AFMAN 14-304 provides complete and detailed responsibilities.
   2.1. Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence (ACS/I), HQ USAF. The Air Force Senior Official of the
   Intelligence Community (SOIC). Implements and carries out the Director of Central Intelligence
   (DCI) policies and procedures for protecting, using, and disseminating SCI.
   2.2. IG/INS, Directorate of Security and Communications Management. Appointed by ACS/I to
   exercise ACS/I SCI security authority. Interprets all Intelligence Community (IC) SCI policy for the
   Air Force and issues management guidance.
   2.3. Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO). SIOs (major command [MAJCOM] and unit) exercise over-
   all management of SCI programs and that portion of the Special Security Office system under their
   control. SIOs will:
       • Establish an agreement or requirement with the supporting Air Force communmications ele-
           ment to ensure SCI security, timely communications support to the intelligence mission, and
           privacy communications support.
       • Identify communications-electronics (C-E) and COMSEC needs to the supporting communi-
           cations element commander.
       • Place the SSO in the organization so the SIO writes the SSO's performance report.
       • Ensure commanders comply with responsibilities in paragraph 2.5. and report all personnel
           data that pertains to SCI-indoctrinated individuals to 497 IG/INS as required by AFMAN
           14-304.
       • Keep the SSO informed of any issue that surfaces at the base Facilities Utilization Board, the
           Communications-Computer Systems Requirements Board, the Base Security Council, and
           similar forums which might have SCI implications.
   2.4. Special Security Officer (SSO). Each SSO has day-to-day responsibility and SCI security cog-
   nizance for the parent unit, supported and subordinate organizations, and subordinate SCI facilities
   (SCIF). SSOs are directly responsible to the SIO and will:
       • Ensure SCI is sent only to authorized persons who have a verified need-to-know.
       • Ensure all individual positions which require SCI access are "S" coded by unit manpower in
          the unit manning document (UMD) and in the Automated Personnel Data System according
          to AFMAN 36-2622, volume 1, Base Level Military Personnel System (formerly AFM
          30-130).
       • Retain SCI security cognizance of the Defense Special Security Communications System
          (DSSCS) Telecommunications Center (TCC) or Consolidated Telecommunications Center
          (CTCC), and interface with the TCC and Automated Information System (AIS) facilities to
          ensure proper SCI security and service to the SIO.
       • Provide privacy communications support to flag officers residing on or transiting through the
          base, and to other senior officers as requested.
   2.5. All Commanders and Supervisors. Commanders and supervisors of SCI-indoctrinated person-
   nel must provide changes in personal status to the SSO. Examples of these changes include any

                                              2
arrests, disciplinary actions, letters of counseling or reprimand, Article 15 actions, incidents involving
alcohol or drug abuse, etc.
2.6. Director, Base Medical Service. The medical community will give commanders and SSOs
information about a person’s continued eligibility for SCI access and information about treatment
which may temporarily affect an SCI-indoctrinated individual’s ability to perform sensitive duties.
Detail specific responsibilities of the director, base medical service in a memorandum of agreement.
2.7. Chief, Security Police. The chief, security police, will provide physical protection support for
approved SCIFs and, according to AFI 31-209, Air Force Resource Protection Program, AFPD 31-4,
Information Security, AFPD 31-5, Investigations, Clearances, and Program Requirements, AFI
31-101, Air Force Physical Security Program ,and AFMAN 14-304, will:
    • Establish procedures for security teams to respond to SCIF alarms in a timely manner.
    • Allow the unit commander, SSO, or designated representative access to daily blotter inputs
       which may affect the continued eligibility of SCI-indoctrinated personnel.
   •   Establish the SCIF as a controlled area as specified in AFI 31-209 or, if justified by mission,
       establish a restricted area and protect it according to AFI 31-101.
2.8. Base TEMPEST Officer and Noncommissioned Officer (NCO). While the ACS/I, through
497 IG/INS, is the TEMPEST authority for SCIFs, base TEMPEST officers and NCOs have certain
responsibilities. They will ensure equipment and systems are installed according to TEMPEST crite-
ria and conduct annual RED/BLACK inspections. AFI 33-220, TEMPEST Countermeasures Assess-
ments and Applications, and AFMAN 14-304 specify base TEMPEST officer and NCO
responsibilities.
2.9. Base Civil Engineer:
    • Construct or modify all facilities designated as SCIFs according to DCID 1/21 standards,
       unless waived by 497 IG/INS.
    • Ensure all requests for SCI-level shielded enclosures include: 1) National Telecommunica-
       tions and Information Systems Security Instruction 7000 analysis; 2) Analysis accomplished
       with the coordination of the host base or MAJCOM TEMPEST officer; 3) A letter or message
       from 497 IG/INS stating the shielded enclosure is necessary for the proposed SCIF.
    • Handle requests for assistance on security-related problems in SCIFs on a priority basis.
2.10. Supporting Communications Element:
    • Operate and maintain dedicated intelligence communications systems and CTCCs to provide
       timely intelligence communications support.
    • Provide C-E and COMSEC programming for communications according to the supported
       unit's validated requirements.
    • Maintain the Communications-Electronics Authorization Program for TCCs.
    • Ensure TCC personnel are trained and qualified in all aspects of DSSCS operating procedures.
    • Implement approved communications plans and programs.
    • Appoint properly cleared COMSEC officers and custodians.
    • Provide resources, on a rapid response basis, to meet the needs for communications service
       during peak activities, catastrophes, or fluctuations in the intelligence mission. Provide these

                                              3
           resources according to priorities established in the circuit restoration priority list or other
           authoritative source, such as a MAJCOM operations plan or local directive.

3. SCI Security Incidents and Violations:
   3.1. Immediately report incidents involving possible compromise or improper handling of SCI mate-
   rial to the closest SSO. Security police personnel, unless they are an SSO, are not authorized to inves-
   tigate SCI security incidents or violations.
   3.2. The SSO will report, initiate, and ensure inquiry officers conduct inquiries or investigations and
   prepare reports on SCI security incidents, except those referred to the Air Force Office of Special
   Investigations or the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The SSO will remain the office of primary
   responsibility until the cases are formally closed. SSOs are the focal point for other investigative
   agencies involved in the SCI security incidents. Contractor SSOs will report and investigate SCI
   security incidents in the same way as Air Force SSOs (Department of Defense [DoD] 5220.22-M,
   Industrial Security Manual for Safeguarding Classified Information, January 1991).
   3.3. Unlike security violations reported under AFPD 31-4, SCI violations cannot be closed by the
   local commander. All cases must be reviewed and closed at least by the MAJCOM SSO and in most
   cases by 497 IG/INS or Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).

4. Personnel Security:
   4.1. Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) or SSBI-Periodic Reinvestigation. S e e
   AFPD 31-5.
   4.2. Due Process Procedures for SCI Eligibility Denials or Revocations. 497 IG/INS noti fies
   each individual, through his or her commander, when denying or revoking SCI eligibility. The notice
   includes the reasons for denial or revocation, explains how the person may request releasable portions
   of applicable investigative reports, and advises that the decision may be appealed. The individual
   must acknowledge receipt of this notification within 5 workdays of receipt and has 45 calendar days
   from the date of the acknowledgment to file an appeal. If the appeal is denied by the Director, 497 IG/
   INS, the individual has 30 calendar days from the date of the denial letter to request review of his or
   her SCI eligibility disapproval by the ACS/I. The ACS/I’s determination is final and not reviewable.
   4.3. " For Cause" Actions--Persons Being Considered for Court-Martial, Involuntary Separa-
   tion, Discharge, or Dismissal. When considering involuntary separation from the Air Force, dis-
   missal from civilian employment with the Air Force, or court-martial (general or special) of an
   SCI-indoctrinated person, take only investigative or administrative actions until the final proposed
   action has been reviewed and approved by 497 IG/INS. Processing procedures for "For Cause" cases
   are contained in AFPD 31-5 and AFMAN 14-304.

5. Access to SCI. Personnel requiring access to SCI must have an SSBI. Additionally, the 497 IG/INS
must approve indoctrination of all persons needing access to SCI.

6. Physical Security. Personnel must protect the SCIF as a controlled area or as an Air Force priority
resource depending on the mission. Before accreditation is complete, the Base Security Council will
review mission requirements and address physical protection. Include a copy of the security council rec-
ommendations in the accreditation package.

                                                4
7. SSO Staffing. Due to the complexity of SCI security management responsibilities and requirements,
minimum staffing for each SSO is three personnel. Local SIOs should justify requests for exceptions or
waivers to this policy in writing to 497 IG/INS, through the MAJCOM SIOs who will add their recom-
mendations.

8. COMSEC Keying Material. Special marking and administrative controls normally associated with
SCI documentation do not apply to COMSEC keying material. See AFKAG 1, Air Force Communica-
tions Security (COMSEC) Operations.




                                        ERVIN J. ROKKE, Maj General, USAF
                                        Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence




                                              5
                                             Attachment 1

       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

Section A--References
NOTE: If you use this instruction, you are responsible for verifying the currency of the cited references.
AFKAG 1, Air Force Communications Security (COMSEC) Operations
AFPD 14-3, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Intelligence Information
AFMAN 14-304, The Security, Use, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information (U).
Formally USAFINTEL 201-1. Limited distribution through SSO channels only.
AFI 31-101, Air Force Physical Security Program
AFI 31-209, Air Force Resource Protection Program
AFPD 31-4, Information Security
AFPD 31-5, Investigations, Clearances, and Program Requirements
AFI 33-220, TEMPEST Countermeasures Assessments and Applications
AFMAN 36-2622, volume1, Base Level Military Personnel System
DCID 1/19, DCI Security Policy Manual for SCI Control System
DCID 1/21, DCI Manual for Physical Security Standards for SCI Facilities
DoD 5220.22-M, Industrial Security Manual for Safeguarding Classified Information
E.O. 12333, United States Intelligence Activities
NTISSI 7000, National Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction 7000

Section B--Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACS/I—Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence
AFKAG—Air Force Cryptographic Aid General
AIS—Automated Information System
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
C-E—Communications-Electronics
COMSEC—Communications Security
CRITICOMM—Critical Intelligence Communications
CTCC—Consolidated Telecommunications Center
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DCI—Director of Central Intelligence
DCID—Director of Central Intelligence Directive
DSSCS—Defense Special Security Communications System

                                                6
IC—Intelligence Community
MAJCOM—Major Command
NFIB—National Foreign Intelligence Board
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SCIF—Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SOIC—Senior Officials of the Intelligence Community
SSBI—Single Scope Background Investigation
SPINTCOMM—Special Intelligence Communications
SSO—Special Security Office or Officer
TCC—Telecommunications Center
UMD—Unit Manning Document

Section C--Terms Explained
Defense Special Security Communications System (DSSCS).—A specialized segment of the Defense
automatic digital network (AUTODIN) communications system which is operationally controlled by the
Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) and consists of automatic switching centers and
interswitch trunks. DSSCS has two elements, the Critical Intelligence Communications (CRITICOMM)
System and the Special Intelligence Communications (SPINTCOMM) Network. CRITICOMM is a
special purpose communications network established for transmitting critical intelligence.
SPINTCOMM is the communications network established for transmitting and handling SCI and other
sensitive or privacy information.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO).—At activities below HQ USAF, the highest ranking individual
charged with direct foreign intelligence missions, functions, and responsibilities within a component,
command, or element. For air component commands of the unified commands and Air Force major
commands, the individual must serve in a colonel or above intelligence position. If an Air Force
organization has a limited or no intelligence mission or function, but requires sensitive compartmented
information (SCI), the commander designates a senior officer as the SIO for SCI purposes.
Senior Officials of the Intelligence Community (SOIC).—Heads of departments and agencies within
the intelligence community or their designated representatives who are senior principals and observers to
the National Foreign Intelligence Board (NFIB). The Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, HQ USAF, is
the Air Force SOIC. For purposes of expediency and practicality, SOICs may delegate their authority to
other persons within their organizations.
Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI).—Classified information concerning or derived from
intelligence sources, methods, or analytical processes, which is required to be handled exclusively within
formal access control systems established by the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI).
Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF).—A formally accredited area, room, group of
rooms, or installation where SCI may be stored, used, discussed, or electrically processed. A SCIF may
be permanent or temporary, mobile or fixed, and of varied construction. Procedural and physical

                                                7
measures must prevent the free access of persons unless they have been formally indoctrinated for that
particular SCI material authorized for use or storage within the SCIF. SCIFs are located at US
Governmentcontrolled facilities, contractor plants, or other civilian locations.
Sensitive Compartmented Information Security Officials.—A generic term for those individuals
appointed to positions specifically responsible for security management and control of SCI. SCI security
officials include special security officers (SSO), SCI security officers, secure vault area custodians,
contractor special security officers, and others. See AFMAN 14304 for appointment criteria and
complete listing of duties and responsibilities for these positions.
Special Security Officer (SSO) System.—The system through which the Director, Defense Intelligence
Agency (DIA), the Military Department SOICs, Air Force supported unified and specified commands,
and major command SIOs perform their responsibilities for the security, use, and dissemination of SCI by
both physical and electrical means. The acronym SSO is used to refer to both the office and the officer.
TEMPEST.—A short name referring to investigations and studies (e.g., TEMPEST tests, TEMPEST
inspections) of compromising emanations. It is sometimes used synonymously for the term
"compromising emanations."




                                               8
