                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-205
AIR FORCE                                                                                  19 MAY 1994
                                                                  Certified Current, 3 NOVEMBER 2009
                                                                                       Flying Operations

                                                             AIRCRAFT COCKPIT AND FORMATION
                                                                              FLIGHT SIGNALS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ ACC/DOTV (Maj Glenn W. Weaver)                                      Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO
                                                                              (Maj Gen Edwin E. Tenoso)
Supersedes AFR 60-15, 1 June 1992.                                                              Pages: 12
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Flight Rules and Procedures. It provides guidance and proce-
dures for standard Air Force cockpit and formation flight manuals. It also indicates distress signals that
have been standardized for use with North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces (NATO
STANAG 3379). It applies to the operation of US Air Force aircraft flown by Air Force pilots, pilots of
other services or countries, and civilian pilots. It also applies to the Air National Guard and US Air Force
Reserve units and members. It supplements International Civil Aviation Organization standard signals in
the Flight Information Publication (FLIP) Enroute Supplement.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 11-2.



1. Cockpit Signals for Multiple Aircraft:
   1.1. Voice. Voice is the primary method of communication between the pilot and other crew mem-
   bers. Crew members will repeat the pilot’s instructions before executing them.
   1.2. Hand Signals. Hand signals are another method of communication between aircraft. Use of
   hand signals are authorized if all flight crew members understand their meaning.
   1.3. Night Visual Signals. Night visual signals should be used when an aircraft is in distress and
   unable to communicate using radios.
   1.4. NATO Standardized Signals. All signals standardized with NATO will appear in the attach-
   ments with an "*."
2. Standard Signals for Formation Flight. Standard signals for formation flight are described in
Attachment 1. Since the signals required may vary for different types of aircraft, only those signals used
in most aircraft are standardized.
   2.1. These signals reduce radio communications and permit pilots to communicate with each other
   during periods of radio silence. Use the radios if the situation permits, when time is critical, or the
   visual signals are creating confusion.
   2.2. Sun angle or sun glint on the canopy may make it impossible to either give or acknowledge a
   visual signal. With subdued helmets and gray or green gloves, most visual signals are more visible if
   given near the top of the canopy.
   2.3. Attachment 1 includes preparatory signals (if any) and the executing signals.

3. In-Flight Distress Signals:
   3.1. The visual signals for distress described in Attachment 2 should only be used if the radio fails or
   cannot be used due to the situational environment.
   3.2. International flight distress signals described in Attachment 2 also apply to USAF aircraft.
   3.3. Night visual signals are described in Attachment 3.




                                         LARRY L. HENRY, Maj General, USAF
                                         Acting DCS/Plans and Operations




                                                2
                                                   Attachment 1

          STANDARD FORMATION SIGNALS FOR DAYTIME COMMUNICATION

Table A1.1. Standard Formation Signals for Daytime Communication (See Notes).
Action                     Preparation                 Execution
Afterburner in or out:     Move clenched fist inboard Nod head.
 Note: Not required during or outboard as appropriate.
formation takeoff.
Attention in the air:                                  Execute rapid shallow rock-
                                                       ing of wings.
Battle Damage Assessment                               Hold clenched fist with
                                                       index finger and thumb
(BDA) Check:
                                                       extended, back of hand
                                                       towards canopy.
                                                                  Wingman responds by exe-
                                                                  cuting prebriefed BDA
                                                                  check.
Change Lead:                     M a k e s e v e r a l f o r w a r d Pilot of aircraft assuming
                                 pointing motions, then hold the lead nods head.
                                 up number of fingers to
                                 indicate present position of
                                 the point which is to
                                 assume the lead.
Echelon to the Right or                                              Dip wing to the right or left,
Left:                                                                whichever is appropriate.
Echelon Turn:                                                        Extend clenched fist with
                                                                     forefinger and little finger
                                                                     extended upward for each
                                                                     echelon turn performed.
*Flaps Up or Down;               Hand flat, fingers forward, Nod head.
                                 downward motion of hand
 Note: During a formation
                                 from wrist to lower
takeoff, pr eparatory or
                                 flaps--reverse motion to
execution signals are not
                                 raise flaps.
required for raising flaps.
Initial gear movement on
the flight lead’s aircraft may
be used as the wingman’s
signal for gear and flap
retraction.




                                                       3
Fuel Check:                                         Close fist with the thumb
                                                    extended and perform
                                                    drinking motion with
                                                    thumb touching the oxygen
                                                    mask.
Fuel Remaining for like In response to Fuel Check. Extend one finger for each
type aircraft.                                      1,000 lbs. of fuel board.
                                                    Extend finger(s) vertically
                                                    for 1,000 to 5,000 lbs; hori-
                                                    zontally for 6,000 to 9,000
                                                    lbs. After signaling 1,000
                                                    lbs. increments, pull hand
                                                    out of sight then signal 100
                                                    lbs increments in the same
                                                    manner. Signal zero with
                                                    closed fist. For example:
                                                    To signal 6,300 lbs., extend
                                                    one finger horizontally
                                                    (indicating 6,000 lbs.); pull
                                                    hand out of sight (indicat-
                                                    ing a change from thou-
                                                    sands to hundreds); and
                                                    extend three fingers verti-
                                                    cally (indicating 300 lbs.).
*Fuel Remaining for dis- In response to Fuel Check. a. Less than 10 minutes
similar aircraft.                                   remaining:
                                                      Use the "Land Immedi-
                                                      ately" signal in Attach-
                                                      ment 2attachment 2.
                                                      b. For more than 10 min-
                                                      utes, use up to five fingers
                                                      to indicate each 10 minute
                                                      increment of fuel as fol-
                                                      lows:
                                                      1 finger = 10 to 19 minutes
                                                      2 fingers = 20-29 minutes
                                                      3 fingers = 30-39 minutes
                                                      4 fingers = 40-49 minutes
                                                      5 fingers = more than 50
                                                      minutes




                                             4
Gear Down.                   Downward motion with a Nod head.
                             closed fist, thumb extended
                             downward.
Gear Up.                     Upward motion with closed Nod head.
 Note: During a formation f i s t , t h u m b e x t e n d e d
takeoff, preparatory hand upward.
signals are not required for
raising the gear.
Jettison Stores:             Hold fist at top of canopy Nod head.
                             and make several pumping
                             motions.
Lanyard Check:                                                Show hooked index finger.
Loosen Formation:                                             Fishtail the aircraft.
Oxygen Check:                                              C up ha nd over oxygen
Note: If the response is not                               mask, followed by query in
an OK, use the radios or                                   the form of an OK sign (cir-
appropriate HEFOE sig-                                     cle formed by touching
nal.                                                       ends of thumb and forefin-
                                                           ger,     other    fingers
                                                           extended).
Pitchout:                      Make a circular motion
                               with vertically extended
                               index finger




                                                 5
Radio Frequency Change:    Tap helmet near ear with Extend finger(s) vertically
                           fingers extended.        for digits 1 through 5, hori-
                                                    zontally for digits 6 through
                                                    9, pulling hand down out of
                                                    sight between digits. Signal
                                                    zero with a clenched fist.
                                                    Ensure signals are made
                                                    a gainst a visible bac k-
                                                    ground. For example:
                                                      a.     Present channel
                                                      change--tap helmet, extend
                                                      appropriate number of fin-
                                                      gers for channel desired,
                                                      pulling hand down out of
                                                      sight between digits.
                                                      b. Prebriefed manual fre-
                                                      quency--tap helmet, hold up
                                                      clenched fist next to helmet.
                                                     c. Manual frequency not
                                                     prebriefed--tap helmet, hold
                                                     up clenched fist next to the
                                                     helmet, extend appropriate
                                                     number of fingers for fre-
                                                     quency desired, pulling
                                                     hand down out of sight
                                                     between digits.
Ready for Takeoff:         After run up, the leader Wingman nods head yes or
                           looks at the wingman.     no.
Reform or Tighten Forma-                             Rock wings slowly.
tion:
Run up Engine for Takeoff:                           Make a circular motion
                                                     with vertically extended
                                                     index finger.
*Speed Brake(s) in or out: Biting motion with hand; Nod head.
                           fingers and thumb opening
                           and closing.
Start Engines:                                       Extend arm over head and
                                                     make a circular motion with
                                                     the hand.




                                             6
Start Takeoff Roll:          Lead pl aces head back Lead nods head for brake
                             toward headrest.       release. For aircraft
                                                    equipped with afterburner,
                                                    after the aircraft are rolling
                                                    straight down the runway, a
                                                    second head nod is a signal
                                                    to light afterburner (unless
                                                    after- burner light up is ini-
                                                    tiated simultaneously with
                                                    brake release).
Tactical Formation:                                 Make a series of porpoising
                                                    m a ne uv e r s , s p a c i ng a s
                                                    briefed.
NOTES:
1. Pilots in formation will relay visual signals; the leader must allow enough time for the relay of each
signal after it is given.
2. The head nod is the signal to acknowledge understanding of preparatory signals.




                                                 7
                                           Attachment 2

                                IN-FLIGHT DISTRESS SIGNALS

Table A2.1. In-Flight Distress Signals.
Intention/Problem                                 Signal
Approach End Cable Engagement                     a. Escorted: Extend tail hook. Escorting air-
                                                  craft will relay intent.
                                                  b. Unescorted: Fly parallel to the active run-
                                                  way at 1,000 feet above the field elevation
                                                  with tail hook extended. Rock wings until
                                                  reaching the departure end of the runway, turn
                                                  to downwind and check tower or mobile con-
                                                  trol for light signals. If a straight-in cable
                                                  engagement must be flown, flash landing light
                                                  on final.
*Bailing Out or Ejection                          One or both clenched fists pulled downward
                                                  across the face to simulate pulling an ejection
                                                  face curtain.
Descend to Lower Altitude                         Hold hand at top of canopy, palm down, fin-
                                                  gers extended and joined, move hand forward
                                                  and down.
*Desire to Land                                   Movement of the hand, flat, with palm down,
                                                  forward and downward, finishing the move-
                                                  ment in a simulated roundout. As an alternate
                                                  signal, lower the landing gear.
Electrical Failure Landing (No Assist Aircraft Distressed aircraft will fly 500 feet over the
Available)                                     tower or mobile control, then continue to the
                                               far end of the runway and pull up into a wide
                                               downward leg. Proceed with a landing and
                                               pattern approach for the type of aircraft being
                                               flown while watching the tower or mobile for
                                               signals. The control tower will clear the area
                                               of other aircraft and will call emergency crash
                                               equipment to the scene.
I Must Land Immediately                        Close fist and hold it to top of canopy with
                                               thumb extended downward, then move arm up
                                               and down rapidly. (Do not confuse with
                                               "GEAR DOWN" signal, which is generally
                                               not used with altitude.)




                                              8
I Must Land on Your Wing                           Pat shoulder, palm down. To prevent confu-
                                                   sion with other signals, use right hand and left
                                                   shoulder or vice versa. To acknowledge,
                                                   other pilot must give the OK signal; the basic
                                                   signal indicates a jet approach speed of 130
                                                   knots. If the distress aircraft desires a higher
                                                   approach speed, the pilot must raise one finger
                                                   for each 10 knot increase desired. The dis-
                                                   tressed aircraft lands and the escort executes a
                                                   go around.
Intercepting Signals                               The intercepting aircraft positions itself in
                                                   front of and usually to the left of the inter-
                                                   cepted aircraft and rocks its wings. This is a
                                                   signal that the interceptor wishes the other air-
                                                   craft to follow it. A responding irregular
                                                   flashing of all available lights in this case indi-
                                                   cates distress.
Radio Failure                                      Tap microphone or earphone of helmet and
                                                   signal as appropriate:
                                                   a. Receive Failure: With palm of hand over
                                                   the ear position, move hand forward and back-
                                                   ward.
                                              b. Transmitter Failure: With palm of hand
                                              toward and in front of the face, move hand up
                                              and down.
Radio Inoperative Landing (No Assist Aircraft Fly aircraft along the side of the landing run-
Available)                                    way, 1,000 feet above the field elevation,
                                              rocking wings until reaching end of the run-
                                              way. Turn to downwind and check the tower
                                              or mobile control for green light on base leg
                                              and final approach for landing clearance.
System Failures (HEFOE System)                Clench fist and hold it at top of canopy, then
                                              hold up the required number of fingers to
                                              denote which system is involved (see a
                                              through e below). If the clenched fist signal is
                                              seen but no finger signal is seen or the inter-
                                              cepting pilot is unable to understand the signal
                                              given, the pilot will assume the aircraft in dis-
                                              tress has one or more systems inoperable and
                                              should proceed with caution.




                                               9
System Failures (HEFOE System) (Continued)           The receiving pilot acknowledges the signal
                                                     by repeating it:
                                                     a. Hydraulic--one finger
                                                     b. Electrical--two fingers
                                                     c. Fuel--three fingers
                                                     d. Oxygen--four fingers
                                                     e. Engine--five fingers
                                                      Note: For multi-engine aircraft, point to the
                                                     side, left or right, that corresponds with the
                                                     engine failure.
NOTES:
1. For use only when radio is inoperative or not available.
2. Day visual signals.




                                                10
                                          Attachment 3

                                    NIGHT VISUAL SIGNALS

Table A3.1. Night Visual Signals.
Intention/Problem                        Signal
Aircraft Emergency (Must Land As Soon As Signal escort aircraft by repeated intermit-
Possible)                                tent flashes with a flashlight, then assume the
                                         wing position. This signal indicates a jet
                                         approach speed of 130 knots. If a higher
                                         approach speed is desired, the pilot must
                                         pause after the basic signal, and then blink
                                         flashlight at the top of the canopy, once for
                                         each 10-knot increase desired. The escort
                                         pilot will lead to the nearest suitable field,
                                         declare an emergency with the controlling
                                         agency, then fly a straight-in approach with
                                         the distressed aircraft on the wing. The dis-
                                         tressed aircraft lands and the escort executes
                                         a go around.
                                              Note: On a straight-in approach, the escort
                                             aircraft turns the position lights to bright,
                                             or dim and steady as appropriate, to alert
                                             the wingman to prepare to lower fla ps and
                                             landing gear. The corresponding signal of
                                             execution will be for the lead aircraft to
                                             return position lights to the original setting.
                                             However, if the aircraft is equipped with
                                             only a steady-bright light position, the lead
                                             aircraft will blink lights for the alerting sig-
                                             nal of execution.
Approach End Cable Engagement                Fly parallel to the active runway at 1,000 feet
                                             above field elevation with gear down and
                                             flash landing light. Turn downwind and
                                             check tower or mobile control for light sig-
                                             nal. If a straight-in cable engagement must
                                             be flown, flash landing light on final.
Attention                                    Attract attention by switching on the landing
                                             light, or other means of illumination.
Change Lead                                  Pilot of distressed aircraft holds flashlight
                                             parallel with canopy rail and sends a steady
                                             light while making a straight line from rear
                                             toward the front of the canopy.


                                            11
Descend to Lowest Practical Altitude           Make a rapid vertical movement with a
                                               flashlight.
Electrical Failure Landing (No Assist Aircraft Procedure same as prescribed for day visual
Available)                                     signal in Attachment 2.
Radio Inoperative                              Make a large circular motion with a flash-
                                               light.
Radio Inoperative Landing                      Same as day signal procedures in Attach-
                                               ment 2.
Signal Acknowledgment                          Point a steady light from the flashlight at the
                                               signaling aircraft.




                                               12
