 BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-215
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                     SUPPLEMENT

                                                                            1 JANUARY 2010
                                                           Certified Current 22 February 2012
                                                                             Flying Operations

                                               USAF FLIGHT MANUALS PROGRAM (FMP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


 ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

 RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

 OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3TV                                             Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3T
                                                                          (Col Daniel A. Kosin)
 Supersedes: AFI11-215_ACCSUP1, 25 January 2007                                     Pages: 10

 AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP) dated 22 December 2008, is supplemented
 as follows. This supplement establishes the HQ AFGSC Flight Manuals Program. It contains
 guidance unique to AFGSC that applies to all AFGSC personnel who manage, prepare, review,
 approve, distribute, or use flight manuals. This supplement also applies to Air National Guard
 (ANG) units and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units under AFGSC oversight. The term
 MAJCOM, used throughout this supplement applies to AFGSC for AFGSC units and AFRC for
 their units. For the purposes of this supplement, the ANG is considered a MAJCOM and will
 coordinate with the National Guard Bureau (NGB).
 Units may supplement this instruction in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360, Publications and
 Forms Management, and this supplement. Send unit supplements through
 Standardization/Evaluation (Stan/Eval) channels to HQ AFGSC/A3TV for approval prior to
 publishing. After publication, units will send one copy of their supplement to HQ
 AFGSC/A3TV. ANG and AFRC units will coordinate with NGB/A3 or AFRC/A3, respectively,
 before publishing unit supplements. HQ AFGSC/A3 is the waiver authority for this supplement
 for AFGSC units. NGB/A3 is the waiver authority for this supplement for ANG units. AFRC/A3
 is the waiver authority for this supplement for AFRC units.
 Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
 maintained IAW Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
 Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
 located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records
 managers as required. Submit suggested improvements to this supplement on AF Form 847,
2                                                AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010

Recommendation for Change of Publication, through Stan/Eval channels to HQ AFGSC/A3TV.
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in the publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.


SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been changed to reflect the transfer of the bomber global strike mission from
Air Combat Command (ACC) to Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC).
2.2.2. (Added) Only information and procedures derived from current flight manuals (or
MAJCOM-approved publication) data/guidance will be used to operate unit aircraft. Units may
assemble the checklist in a manner best suited to their particular needs. For example, the
emergency procedures checklist may be placed in the checklist binders prior to the normal
procedures checklist if the OG/CC so directs. Complete checklists derived from different
TOs/manuals may, for convenience, be carried within the same checklist binder.
2.3.11.2. Crewmembers need not carry specific sections of weapons/refueling/flight manuals and
checklists that do not apply to the unit system or aircraft. If crewmembers remove pages or
sections that do not apply, they will annotate the List of Effective Pages (LEP) to show which
pages have been removed. Destroy removed pages by shredding.
2.3.11.2.1. (Added) Unit-developed checklists that complement flight crew checklists will also
be approved by the MAJCOM Stan/Eval function, unless already authorized by the specific
Mission Design Series (MDS) Volume 3. Units desiring to use local checklists will forward them
to their MAJCOM Stan/Eval function for approval. Units will develop internal procedures for
issuance of approved local checklists.
2.3.12. MAJCOM Stan/Eval functions will evaluate written OG/CC requests to withhold
issuance of supplements and respond in kind.
2.5.3.3. Modification Flight Manuals (MFM) are used to describe flight operations when T-2
modifications are installed on aircraft to perform Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) or
Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E). Before acceptance and flight operational use of
any written MFM, it will be reviewed by MAJCOM Stan/Eval. Any areas called into question
will be resolved before the MFM is used. Verification responsibilities of MFMs prior to their use
may be delegated down from the MAJCOM level to the unit performing OT&E or DT&E if
subject matter expertise (SME) is required. MFMs developed by contract must comply with
AFI 11- 215 and this supplement, and be periodically reviewed for content and format by the
responsible program office or technical order branch element. Identified discrepancies will be
passed to the contractor through the appropriate test program channels. MFMs will only be
distributed to units whose mission is directly involved in OT&E or DT&E, or whose requirement
to have these TOs is verified by the MAJCOM Stan/Eval office.
2.8. (Added) Flight Manual Technical Data Security. Flight Manuals (FM) (basics, revisions,
changes and supplements) contain technical data classified as Scientific and Technical
Information. Per AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, FM data
requires the use of secured or encrypted methods of transmittal, and lists all approved methods of
unclassified flight manual data transmission.
AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010                                                              3

3.5.2. HQ AFGSC/A3TV will serve as AFGSC’s representative to the Flight Manual Executive
Steering Group (FMESG), but may delegate the responsibility as required.
6.3.1. Each OG Stan/Eval office will submit a point of contact for each MDS under its
supervision to HQ AFGSC/A3TV (AFRC units will send to 10 AF/A3V) by 15 December
annually, and as changes occur. Include all pertinent defense switched network numbers for
voice and facsimile, as well as unclassified e-mail and office Automated Message Handling
System (if used) addresses so that important information on operations, standardization, and
safety can be quickly disseminated to aircrews.
6.3.2. Refer to Chapter 9 and 10, as supplemented for specific instructions.
6.3.3.1. (Added) OG and Squadron Flight Crew Information File (FCIF) libraries (flight manual
publication portion only) are subject to guidance specified in TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order
System, since they are classified as "Operational Libraries" types (TO 00-5-1 section 4.7). FCIF
libraries must be inventoried annually to ensure the contents are complete and current. The
contents are compared to either a current “Master TO Report by Account” listing provided by the
servicing TODO/TODA, or against the TO Catalog.
6.3.3.2. (Added) To ensure currency of individual flight crewmembers’ Flight Manual Programs
(FMP) publications, AFGSC establishes the following program and mandates that each unit:
6.3.3.2.1. (Added) Maintain a list of publications required for each aircrew position.
6.3.3.2.2. (Added) Periodically review publication requirements to ensure an adequate supply.
6.3.3.2.3. (Added) Conduct periodic reviews (frequency determined by OG/CC) to ensure
individuals post changes and supplements. Annual LEP check requirements for individual
aircrew member’s flight manuals are defined in the following paragraphs and may be expanded
in AFI 11-2-MDS specific Volume 2 requirements.
6.3.4.1. Personal copy issuance and accountability procedures include the following:
6.3.4.1.1. (Added) Unit commanders will appoint, by memorandum, an officer or non-
commissioned officer at each operations staff level (down to and including squadron or
detachment) as the flight manuals control officer to carry out the requirements of AFPD 11-2,
Aircraft Rules and Procedures; AFI 11-215; and TO 00-5-1. When a group consists of more than
one collocated unit, the OG/CC may consolidate the flight manuals control responsibility at the
group level and manage existing group resources from within.
6.3.4.1.2. (Added) AFGSC units will issue all required publications as listed in the AFI 11-
2MDS-specific, Volume 2. At unit commander discretion, or at crew member request, a personal
copy of the aircraft Dash 1 flight manual will be issued if not already mandated in the AFI 11-
2MDS-specific, Volume 2. If aircraft Dash 1s are not issued to all crew members, units will
establish written procedures that ensure all crew members have adequate accessibility, both in-
garrison and at expeditionary locations, to an up-to-date, current electronic or paper copy of the
Dash 1. Adequate accessibility is defined as unrestricted access to the flight manual via a
website, Community of Practice (CoP), or unit shared drive (ensuring one source of redundant
backup in case of network failure), or unit maintenance of sufficient copies of the manual to
provide for concurrent individual study and mission planning. Electronic copies are considered
current and complete only when all applicable changes and supplements are imbedded/integrated
into the basic flight manual.
4                                                 AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010

6.3.4.1.3. (Added) ANG will issue required publications as listed in the AFI 11-2MDS-specific,
Volume 2. At unit commander discretion or at crew member request, a personal copy of the
aircraft Dash 1 flight manual will be issued. Mission crew members may be issued personal Dash
1s at unit commander discretion or at crew member request. Issued Dash 1s may be either
electronic or in paper. Electronic flight manuals may be issued when it can be positively verified
the electronic version is current and incorporates any interim or formal operational/safety
supplement issued against it. At unit commander discretion or at crew member request,
performance data of a flight manual issued as a separate TO, may be issued to each aircrew
member.
6.3.4.1.4. (Added) For AFRC units, personal copies of flight manuals and associated directives
will be determined by the unit OG/CC unless specifically directed by the applicable AFI 11-2-
MDS, Volume 3, or requested by crew member. If personal copies of flight manuals and
associated directives are required, units will establish a process to distribute these publications
and publish this process in the local unit supplement. Aircrew members will comply with the
current flight manual guidance and command directives regardless if personal copies are issued
by the unit or not.
6.3.4.1.5. (Added) Accounting and issuing procedures are delegated to the OG/CC.
6.3.4.1.6. (Added) FMP publications “in storage” that have not yet been issued to crewmembers
or used as part of a reference library are not required to be posted or current. Once issued,
crewmembers must post them before they are used.
6.3.4.1.7. (Added) AFGSC does not “release” flight manual publication revisions, changes, or
supplements. Units will review publications for accuracy and are cleared to implement upon
receipt, unless discrepancies are noted. If discrepancies are noted, units will contact the
appropriate NAF and MAJCOM Stan/Eval function for guidance before implementing the new
or revised flight publications. HQ AFGSC/A3TV will coordinate with all using commands and
provide resolution guidance for units to implement the new or revised flight publications. Unless
discrepancies prevent, all flight manuals will be posted within 5 workdays from date received by
the library custodian. Aircrew members will post all flight manuals prior to flight. If
implementing a flight manual publication revision or change will create “safety of flight” issues
with another MAJCOM due to inter-fly requirements, OG/OGVs will contact their NAF and
MAJCOM Stan/Eval function for resolution.
6.3.4.2. OG/CCs will publish written procedures to ensure flight manuals, checklists, changes,
and safety or operational supplements are distributed in a timely manner. These procedures will
ensure that aircrews have the latest publication changes that affect their aircraft or mission before
operating or maintaining aircraft or equipment, along with ensuring individuals review new
changes and supplements before their next flight. This process is documented in part B of the
squadron FCIF.
6.3.4.2.2. OG/CCs will publish written procedures to ensure concurrent use of scroll, electronic
checklists and paper FMP products as applicable. These procedures will be coordinated through
MAJCOM channels before implementation to ensure procedures and responsibilities are met.
6.3.4.2.3. OG/CCs will publish a written policy that establishes a redundant system to view the
FCIF library at all times, as well as a backup system for all electronically viewed publications in
AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010                                                                5

the FCIF library. These procedures will be coordinated through MAJCOM channels before
implementation to ensure procedures and responsibilities are met.
6.3.4.3. HQ AFGSC/A3TV (HQ AFRC/A3 for AFRC) will evaluate written requests for use of
one medium current and the other medium non-current on a case-by-case basis.
6.3.4.4. OG/CCs will publish written procedures to ensure flight crewmembers accomplish and
document periodic reviews on their personal FMP publications to ensure currency. These
periodic reviews will be conducted, at a minimum, when a change or supplement is released for
the publication. This requirement may be conducted in conjunction with the LEP checks required
in Chapter 8 of this supplement.
6.3.5. OG/CCs will coordinate with MXG/CC to ensure the use of proper sections of flight
manuals and flight crew checklists to operate aircraft systems and engines during ground
maintenance operations where applicable/necessary.
6.3.6. HQ AFGSC/A3TV (AFRC/A3V for AFRC units) will designate the MAJCOM
representatives for FMP and flight manuals review conferences (FMRC).
6.3.7. Units must coordinate their recommendations, using an AF Form 847, with their
MAJCOM Stan/Eval function before they will be submitted for consideration at FMRCs.
6.3.9. Units will e-mail minor FMP publication errors through normal command channels to HQ
AFGSC/A3TV. HQ AFGSC/A3TV will forward the errors to the appropriate Flight Manual
Manager (FMM).
6.3.10. Draft publications will be kept for review on the AFGSC CoP site during the
coordination phase. When practical, a round table discussion will be conducted by members of
all applicable units prior to release of the manual. If not practical, comments on the draft FM will
be made electronically.
7.1.2. Units may use the text insertion method when posting supplements and interim changes to
publications. Digital text may be inserted in available space on the affected page provided the
insertion does not cover existing verbiage and font properties correspond with existing text.
Write-in changes for corrections to title page(s) and LEP are authorized. Ensure AFGSC/A3TV
is aware, through normal command channels, of LEP and title page discrepancies.
7.1.4. Crew members are required to perform LEP checks on their personal flight manuals and
checklists as follows:
7.1.4.1. (Added) When the publication is initially issued to the member, all pages will be
compared to the LEP. Annotate this inspection on the title page or LEP page along with the date
and reviewer’s initials and any discrepancies (missing pages, improper printing, etc.).
7.1.4.2. (Added) When a change is posted, only the changed pages need to be compared to the
LEP. Annotate this inspection on the title page or LEP page along with the date and reviewer’s
initials and any discrepancies (missing pages, improper printing, etc.).
7.1.4.3. (Added) When a revision is posted, all pages will be compared to the LEP. Annotate this
inspection on the title page or LEP page along with the date and reviewer’s initials and any
discrepancies (missing pages, improper printing, etc.).
7.1.4.4. (Added) It is not required to do an annual review on personal publications. It is,
however, recommended that publications regularly used be checked annually for pages that
6                                                AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010

might have been lost. If this type of inspection is completed, all pages will be compared to the
LEP. Annotate this inspection on the title page or LEP page along with the date and reviewer’s
initials and any discrepancies (missing pages, improper printing, etc.).
7.1.4.5. (Added) Only the date (and associated initials etc.) corresponding to the latest LEP
check is required to be annotated. Other dates are acceptable if a chronological table is kept.
7.1.4.6. (Added) Use of photocopies to replace missing flight manual pages, to include
checklists, is authorized until replacement pages can be obtained. This includes printed copies
from other digital files and may include write-in changes.
7.1.5. For routine updates, revisions, and suggestions, send a copy of the AF Form 847 through
command channels to the NAF Stan/Eval AF Form 847 program manager, who will review and
forward it to MAJCOM Stan/Eval.
8.1.2.1. LEP checks are mandatory for all flight manuals in a unit’s FCIF library and will be
conducted as follows:
8.1.2.1.1. (Added) When the flight manual is initially inserted into the library, all pages will be
compared to the LEP. Annotate this inspection as “annual” on the title page or LEP page along
with the date and reviewer’s initials and any discrepancies (missing pages, improper printing,
etc.).
8.1.2.1.2. (Added) Annually, all pages will be compared to the LEP. Annotate this inspection as
“annual” on the title page or LEP page along with the date and reviewer’s initials and any
discrepancies (missing pages, improper printing, etc.).
8.1.2.1.3. (Added) When a change is posted, at a minimum, only the changed pages need to be
compared to the LEP. If only the changed pages are checked annotate this inspection as “change”
on the title page or LEP page along with the date and reviewer’s initials, any discrepancies
(missing pages, improper printing, etc.), and carry forward the last annual LEP date and initials
to the new title/LEP page. If a complete comparison of all pages against the LEP is performed
while posting the change, the reviewer may update the previous annual inspection with the date
and reviewer’s initials and any discrepancies (missing pages, improper printing, etc.).
8.1.2.1.4. (Added) When a revision is posted, all pages will be compared to the LEP. Annotate
this inspection as “annual” on the title page or LEP page along with the date and reviewer’s
initials and any discrepancies (missing pages, improper printing, etc.).
8.1.2.1.5. (Added) If both change and annual LEPs are completed, only the dates (and associated
initials etc.) corresponding to the latest change LEP and annual LEP are required to be annotated.
Other dates are acceptable if a chronological table is kept.
8.1.2.1.6. (Added) If only annual LEPs are completed (full page comparisons even when just a
change is posted) only the date (and associated initials etc.) corresponding to the latest annual
LEP is required to be annotated. Other dates are acceptable if a chronological table is kept.
8.2.1. OG/CCs will establish written policy and standardized programs to manage the
distribution and verify currency of electronic flight publications issued to aircrew members.
8.2.2. OG/CCs are delegated oversight responsibility for the printing of complete flight manuals.
8.3. (Added) Unit Responsibilities. Units electing to use E-publications on the aircraft will
comply with the following:
AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010                                                               7

8.3.1. (Added) Portable storage devices need to be marked with the highest distribution
statement of the data stored and must be encrypted when at rest due to high theft potential. CDs
are not required to be encrypted.
8.3.2. (Added) The program will be managed by unit OG/OGV.
8.3.3. (Added) Units will coordinate with MAJCOM Stan/Eval to ensure a single source for
digital flight manuals is used for all like MDS units.
8.3.4. (Added) Unless all stipulations for the use of electronic flight manuals given in this
publication are met, and express consent is given by AFGSC/A3T, all aircrew members are still
required to carry and use the appropriate paper checklists and flight manuals in flight. If
electronic flight manuals are carried for reference purposes only, paper flight manuals will be the
primary source document used in the event of an emergency.
8.3.4.1. (Added) AFRC units may use electronic TOs in-flight as the primary source document
as long as the TO meets the Structured Generalized Markup Language (SGML) standards and
the use is approved by the unit OG/CC. PDF technical orders do not meet SGML criteria and are
not approved for in-flight use as a primary source document. Paper abbreviated checklists must
be carried in-flight.
8.3.5. (Added) Only USAF approved equipment (IAW AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight
Rules) will be used to display “e-pubs” in flight. This equipment will be specified in the local
guidance with a reference to the applicable approving authority.
8.3.6. (Added) For aircrew members participating in the e-pubs program, any publications
review conducted as part of an evaluation will include:
8.3.6.1. (Added) A check for currency.
8.3.6.2. (Added) Examinee will demonstrate ability to navigate through and locate information
in the electronic media.
8.3.6.3. (Added) Examinee will demonstrate ability to locate information.
8.3.7. (Added) Participating units will establish guidance addressing the following areas, as a
minimum:
8.3.7.1. (Added) Distribution of interim safety and operational supplements.
8.3.7.2. (Added) Process to ensure e-pubs are current and all participating personnel have the
latest version.
8.3.7.3. (Added) Determining which crew members may use e-publications.
8.3.7.4. (Added) How to manage personnel who are not participating in the e-pubs programs.
8.3.7.5. (Added) How to manage those individuals who do not have access to a personal
computer and wish to participate in the e-pubs program.
8.3.8. (Added) Crewmembers participating in the e-pubs program will have access to a set of
current paper pubs while attending initial/recurring training programs, if required (i.e. formal
training courses or recurring simulator training).
8                                                 AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010

8.3.9. (Added) E-pubs will be standardized throughout the unit and will include all publications
and technical orders (if available in digital format) that are required to be issued to unit air crew
members. E-pubs will include the following folders/tabs.
8.3.9.1. (Added) “FM”. All FMs required to be issued to aircrew members (if available in digital
format).
8.3.9.2. (Added) “AFI”. All AFIs required to be issued to aircrew members. Note: At the unit’s
discretion, the above folders may be further divided.
8.3.9.3. (Added) Other folders may be included for local publications, additional AFIs, TOs, or
information of interest, to crewmembers as determined by commanders or standardization and
evaluation offices.
9.1.4. When a recommendation applies to dissimilar MDS aircraft flight manuals or TOs,
indicate the other publications affected after the rationale in AF Form 847, Block 17.
9.2.1.1. (Added) The Stan/Eval function at the group will ensure AF Forms 847 are submitted
when required information is missing, incorrect, or not available in current guidance.
9.2.1.2. (Added) Any person may submit a routine AF Form 847. Submit squadron level and
below AF Forms 847 to the squadron DOV for coordination and to the OGV for action. Units
outside of the squadron or without a DOV function will submit directly to the OGV. If required,
attach documentation that clarifies the recommendation, concurrence, or non-concurrence.
9.2.1.3. (Added) The OGV, NAF, and MAJCOM will maintain a control log of AF Form 847s
processed using the OGV-assigned unit number in block 2 (Attachment 3, AFI 11-215). OGVs
will use the following method to assign unit tracking numbers: OG identifier-year-sequential
number regardless of MDS. (Example: two AF Form 847s are submitted from the 2 BW in 2010.
The tracking numbers would be 2 BW 10-01 and 2 BW 10-02.) Squadron or MDS identifiers are
not included in the control number assigned by the OGV.
9.2.1.4. (Added) Originators of AF Form 847s submitted by AFGSC units will not digitally sign
Block 19 of the form; as this locks all previous entries on the form and does not allow
AFGSC/A3TV to enter the MAJCOM/HHQ Control Number in Block 3. These originators will
simply enter “//Signed//” after their signature block in Block 18.
9.2.1.5. (Added) Unit Stan/Eval functions will join the HQ AFGSC AF Forms 847 and Flight
Manuals CoP located at the following website: https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/
views/home.aspx?Filter=20702. This CoP is the repository for archived AF Form 847s, as well
as, the site for coordination of AF Form 847s for which AFGSC is the lead-MAJCOM.
9.2.1.6. (Added) The preferred method of coordinating AF Form 847s after OGV approval is
granted is for the OGV to load the form and its attachments onto the HQ AFGSC AF Forms 847
and Flight Manuals CoP. Units having a NAF as their next level of approval authority will drop
routine AF Form 847s and their attachments into the NAF review folder for their respective
NAF. Once NAF Stan/Eval have provided their position to the issue raised on the form in
Section 2, they will move the 847 and its attachments to the “MAJCOM Coord” folder. Units
submitting emergency AF Form 847s will drop them into the “Emergency 847” folder for
expeditious processing. Alternate methods of coordinating AF Form 847s include sending via
encrypted email. Regardless of coordination method selected, AF Form 847s (both concurs and
non-concurs) must be available for program managers at the NAF Stan/Eval (or to HQ
AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010                                                                9

AFGSC/A3TV if there is no NAF Stan/Eval or it is an emergency 847) to review within 30
calendar days after receipt (EXCEPTION: AF Form 847s concerning unit-level publications do
not require higher headquarters action.)
9.2.1.7. (Added) Within 30 days of receipt, or 60 days from original submission, HQ
AFGSC/A3TV will log in the form, coordinate with the appropriate SME for action and forward
it (as appropriate) to the FMM, lead or using MAJCOMs, or OPR. The preferred method of
coordinating routine AF Form 847s after AFGSC approval is to load the form and its
attachments onto the HQ AFGSC AF Forms 847 and Flight Manuals CoP, inserting them into
the “FMM Approval” folder (EXCEPTION: all coordination for emergency 847s will remain
within the “Emergency 847s” folder). A3TV will also leave a copy of routine AF Form 847s in
the “MAJCOM Coord” folder for other using-MAJCOMs to review and comment on. At
completion of MAJCOM coordination, A3TV will move all 847s and their attachments to the
“AF Form 847s Pending FMRC”, then “FMRC Complete” after the AF Form 847 has met the
FMRC.
9.2.1.8. (Added) Higher echelon units will not change the original text offered by a lower
echelon unit. If the higher echelon unit proposes a modification to the originator’s text, they will
use the block provided for their comments to offer the revised text. If no coordination block is
available, other MAJCOMs may enter their comments in the “Add Comments” drop-down under
“Select a Function” for the AF Form 847 loaded onto the HQ AF Forms 847 and Flight Manuals
CoP.
9.2.1.9. (Added) Forward classified AF Form 847s via SIPRNET through Flight Standardization
channels HQ AFGSC/A3TV. Units will follow up with an unclassified phone call or email to
verify receipt of classified AF Form 847s.
9.2.1.10. (Added) The HQ AFGSC AF Forms 847 and Flight Manuals CoP lists the status of AF
Form 847s. Final closing action on AF Form 847 to FMP publications is either non-concurrence
by either HQ AFGSC/A3TV, the FMM, or the FMRC, or approval by either the FMM or the
FMRC. Final closing action on AF Form 847s to other publications is non-concurrence by HQ
AFGSC/A3TV or the OPR, or approval by the OPR. Receipt of the formal change to the affected
document or written authority from the responsible headquarters is the only authority for
implementing changes or revisions.
9.2.1.11. (Added) ANG units upload AF Form 847s onto the AFGSC AF Form 847 CoP in their
gaining NAF Stan/Eval review folder and provide an info copy to ANG/A3OC. AFRC units
forward AF Form 847s to 10 AF/A3V for eventual forwarding to AFGSC/A3TV or posting on
the AFGSC AF Forms 847 and Flight Manuals CoP.
9.3.1.1. AFGSC units will submit emergency AF Forms 847 to HQ AFGSC AF Forms 847 and
Flight Manuals with an information copy to the respective NAF Stan/Eval and the appropriate
FMM, and will verify that all recipients received the message. AFRC units will send emergency
AF Form 847s to AFRC/A3V, email afrc.dov847@afrc.af.mil with informational copy to 10
AF/A3V.
9.3.1.3. HQ AFGSC/A3TV will provide the MAJCOM decision (approval, downgrade, or
disapproval) to the initiating unit within 48 hours of receiving the emergency AF Form 847.
10                                            AFI 11-215_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010


                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 5 Apr 2006
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program, 22 December 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management Program, 18 May 2006
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 Aug 2002
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 Jan 2005
TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, 15 Aug 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABM—-Air Battle Manager
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRC—-Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—-Acquisitions Operator
CAC—Common Access Card
CoP—-Community of Practice
CSAR—-Combat Search and Rescue
DT&E—-Developmental Test and Evaluation
ETIMS—Enhanced Technical Information Management System
FCIF—-Flight Crew Information File
NAF—-Numbered Air Force
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
OT&E—-Operational Test and Evaluation
SGML—-Structured Generalized Markup Language
SME—-Subject Matter Expert
TO—Technical Order




                                                 TIMOTHY M. RAY
                                                 Brigadier General, USAF
                                                 Director of Operations
