BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-212
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)
                                                       AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
                                                                           COMMAND
                                                                            Supplement

                                                                CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           ADDENDA-A

                                                                                 16 MAY 2013

                                                      Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command, and
                                                                                    Control

                                                   RANGE PLANNING AND OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 27 SOAOS/RMO                                               Certified by: 27 SOAOS/RMO
                                                                        (Mr. Steven A. Coffin)
                                                                                    Pages: 70


AFI 13-212_AFSOCSUP, Range Planning and Operations, 23 Aug 11, is supplemented as
follows. This supplement provides additional guidance for range responsibilities, safety,
equipment, facilities and security. It establishes policies and procedures for the maintenance,
operation and use of Melrose Air Force Range (MAFR) complex. This supplement applies to all
who use and operate this range. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.
 2                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013



                                         CHAPTER 1

                                    RESPONSIBLITIES

1.1. Purpose. This supplement provides guidance specifically for Melrose Air Force Range
operations procedures to safely, effectively and efficiently meet operational needs while taking
account of potential effects on the environment and the surrounding communities.
1.1.1. Due to the rapid development of MAFR, frequent updates to the addendum are required to
ensure safe and efficient usage of the range. These changes will be instituted through Interim
Changes (ICs) and all personnel utilizing MAFR will ensure they have the current IC. The OPR
for this regulation, 27 SOAOS/RMO (Range Management Office), will link the latest IC for AFI
13-212_AFSOCSUP_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A on https://melroserange.cannon.af.mil/.
1.2. 27 SOW Range Operating Authority (ROA). The MAFR Complex, which is composed
of Bombing and Gunnery (B&G), Electronic Combat (EC), multiple fixed and rotary wing
landing zones, multiple small arms ranges, two dudded impact areas, multiple drop zones and
ground maneuver areas is the responsibility of the Commander, 27th Special Operations Wing
(27 SOW).
1.2.1. Command and Control Command and control of the range is coordinated through the
Cannon Command Post (CP). The onsite Range Control Officer (RCO) will coordinate with the
CP and Cannon Radar Approach Control (RAPCON) for opening and closing of MAFR Class A
range operations. The RCO will notify the CP and the RAPCON Watch Supervisor when
unmanned range procedures (MAFR Class B and C) are in effect.
1.3. Other Agencies. All squadron and unit commanders will ensure their personnel comply
with the provisions of this supplement when operating aircraft or performing ground duties
within the confines of the MAFR Complex.
1.4. Host Unit. The 27 SOW, located at Cannon AFB, is the host unit for MAFR.
1.4.1. 27 Special Operations Medical Group (SOMDG).
1.4.1.1. The 27 SOMDG shall ensure emergency medical support is available for dispatch to the
range in an emergency.
1.4.1.1.1. The 27 SOMDG will pre-stage an ambulance crew during high risk activities to
include but not limited to: High Altitude High Opening (HAHO), High Altitude Low Opening
(HALO), Static Line, Fast Roping, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) operations, SERE
training, small arms training, live Calls For Fire (CFF) and any other activity deemed high risk
by the 27 SOW/CC.
1.4.1.1.2. In the event that an emergency occurs on MAFR, but no ambulance crew is pre-
staged, the RCO will initiate and perform the appropriate emergency response checklist.
1.4.1.1.3. The ambulance crew supporting MAFR activities will consist of one Advance
Emergency Technician (AEMT) and one Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT). Other DOD
medical personnel may assist with care while at MAFR however once the ambulance crew
begins transport off of the range, they will not be allowed to render care if they are not, at a
minimum, EMT or higher certified. The ambulance crew may validate medic certification on the
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                              3


spot with presentation of a certification license or by ensuring that Ambulance Services NCOIC
has a copy of their EMT license prior to performing any activities at the range.
1.4.1.1.4. Pre-hospital emergency medical care personnel will follow physician approved
protocols and will maintain a two-way voice communication with physicians at all times when
rendering care.
1.4.1.1.5. In the event that any patient suffers severe injuries, the on scene commander will
make the decision, with input from the on-call physician, to evacuate the patient via air. Aero-
care evacuations will be coordinated by the ambulance crew shift leader and RCO. The
ambulance crew shift leader will notify the RCO that the patient needs to be evacuated via air.
The RCO will then call 911 and inform Clovis EMS about an Aero-care request. A severe injury
is defined as, but not limited to, any bodily injury that involves a substantial risk of death, head
injuries with loss of consciousness, lacerations associated with damage to tendons or organs,
second and third degree burns, snake bites, multi-system trauma, cardiac compromise,
unconsciousness, fractures, dislocations, suspected internal injuries, irreversible mobility or
avulsion of teeth, injuries to the eyes, ingestion of poison, extreme physical pain, protracted and
obvious disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member,
organ, or mental faculty.
1.4.1.1.5.1. The RCO will designate the Helicopter Landing Zone (HLZ) for the airborne
evacuation. Once designated, the RCO will notify ambulance crew of the HLZ location and
ambulance crew will ensure patient is transported to the HLZ for evacuation.
1.4.2. 27 SOLRS.
1.4.2.1. 27 SOLRS will provide vehicle maintenance for fire vehicles located at MAFR through
either mobile maintenance or shop repairs.
1.4.2.2. 27 SOLRS will provide diesel fuel, unleaded gasoline, and JP-8 for all vehicles assigned
to MAFR.
1.4.2.3. 27 SOLRS will provide fuel and vehicle support for exercises and visiting units to
MAFR to the maximum extent possible within the limitations of the primary mission. All
support should be coordinated in advance to the maximum extent possible by the requesting unit
and is subject to short notice cancellation due to higher priority 27 SOW and AFSOC missions.
1.5. Special Operations Civil Engineer Squadron (SOCES).
1.5.1. 27 SOCES/CEA Environmental: Ensure compliance with applicable laws and
publications by providing environmental consultation and support (as required).
1.5.2. Chief, 27 SOCES/CEF Fire Emergency Services Flight shall:
1.5.2.1. Provide firefighters when the range is active for Class A/B operations and all cleanup
periods for fire protection.
1.5.2.2. Maintain appropriate vehicles and equipment at the range to provide fire protective
services.
1.5.2.2.1. Plan, program, and provide support for all operations and development outlined in the
current Comprehensive Range Plan and other official range planning documentation.
 4                  AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


1.5.2.2.2. Identify limitations in writing to the Range Operating Authority through the 27
SOAOS/RMO regarding new development in adequate time that they can be addressed before
they become a limitation to operations.
1.5.2.3. Ensure that firefighters assigned to MAFR are trained on firefighting techniques and
equipment that will be used to combat range and wildland fires.
1.5.2.4. Ensure that firefighters assigned to MAFR are trained on Crash Fire and Rescue
equipment and procedures.
1.5.2.5. Respond to additional firefighting requests from the Senior Fire Officer Range (SFOR).
1.5.2.6. In the event of a fire on MAFR, the SFOR at MAFR, will notify the RCO and will
determine the need to close portions of the range if necessary. If so, the RCO will close all or
part of the range as appropriate. If the fire is off the hazard area, the range will be closed.
1.5.2.7. Range contract firefighting support responsibilities.
1.5.2.7.1. The range contractor shall support the fire department to all off-hazard area fires when
required. The range contractor shall respond to all on/off hazard area fires with the appropriately
trained wildland firefighting personnel and equipment at the direction of the SFOR. Road
graders will only be used if requested by the fire department through the RCO. The SFOR may
communicate with and coordinate grader use once on scene. The RCO shall assess the incident
and close the range as necessary until SFOR is on scene. All fires, controllable or not
controllable, shall be immediately reported to the Range Fire station. The MAFR Fire
Department shall assist the Range contractor during controlled burns.
1.5.2.7.2. Aircraft will not be allowed to deliver ordnance if fire support personnel and/or
equipment are not available on the range.
1.5.3. The Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Flight (27 SOCES/CED) is responsible for
emergency response to explosive hazards, operational range clearance, certification of munitions
residue, and range safety training in support of MAFR.
1.5.3.1. If an Explosive Hazard Emergency Response is required the following procedures will
be followed.
1.5.3.1.1. Cease all operations immediately.
1.5.3.1.2. Notify RCO and request medical and firefighting support as necessary.
1.5.3.1.3. Request EOD support via the 27 SOW Command Post (DSN 681-2253, COMM 575-
784-2253).
1.5.3.1.4. Emergency detonations requiring immediate EOD action will override all activities.
EOD will notify RCO and the RMO.
1.5.3.1.5. DURING EMERGENCY DETONATIONS, ONLY SIMULATED WEAPONS
DELIVERIES, IAW AIRCRAFT SPECIFIC DIRECTIVES, ARE AUTHORIZED.
1.5.3.2. Operational Range Clearance.
1.5.3.2.1. Range clearance scheduling.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                         5


1.5.3.2.1.1. Coordinate dates and times for range clearance with the RMO, wing scheduling, 27
SOCES/CEF, and the range maintenance contractor. Conduct clearance operations only during
Class A operations.
1.5.3.2.1.2. Conduct range clearances as scheduled by the RMO. Clearances will be scheduled
in no less than four hour continuous time blocks. This requirement does not apply to small
clearance operations such as removal of a munition item from a road or removal of ordnance for
maintenance of a specific target.
1.5.3.2.1.3. Complete clearance operations on Jockey/Spirit target areas without interruption.
Once clearance operations for Jockey or Spirit have started, the target area will not have live
munitions fired on it until EOD clearance for that target is complete. The EOD team leader will
plan clearance of Jockey/Spirit target areas to minimize required closures.
1.5.3.2.1.3.1. The 27 SOAOS/RMO will schedule range clearance of Jockey/Spirit impact areas
with no less than three consecutive days to ensure the entire range can be completed without
interruption.
1.5.3.2.1.3.2. Senior EOD member will notify the ROO prior to detonating a charge that will
destroy any target or target set during range clearance.
1.5.3.2.2. Range Operations during EOD clearance closures.
1.5.3.2.2.1. Overflight is not authorized without RCO approval over areas or portions of ranges
during maintenance and decontamination. This ensures the protection of ground personnel and
prevents aircraft damage by fragments from demolition operations.
1.5.3.2.2.2. When EOD personnel are on a specific range, impact area or training area and no
demolition operations are planned, missions may be scheduled for dry-only operations above
3000 feet Above Ground Level (AGL).
1.5.3.2.2.3. During demolition operations missions may be scheduled for dry-only operations.
The EOD team chief, in coordination with the RCO, will establish a minimum safe altitude and
distance from the EOD working area for aircraft to operate.
1.5.3.2.2.4. When no personnel are on the range, but the range is closed for EOD/maintenance,
missions may be scheduled for dry-only operations with no EOD/maintenance directed minimum
altitude restrictions. NOTE: If non-demolition EOD/maintenance operations are clear of
Jockey/Spirit impact areas, C-130/CV-22 live fire operations may continue with RCO approval.
1.5.3.2.2.5. DURING EOD OPERATIONS, USE OF COMBAT LASERS IS NOT
AUTHORIZED.
1.5.3.2.2.6. DURING EOD OPERATIONS, CHAFF AND FLARE USE IS ONLY
AUTHORIZED WITH RCO APPROVAL AND IAW THE MAFR OPERATIONS
CONDITION MATRIX.
1.5.3.3. Practice munitions handling procedures.
1.5.3.3.1. Practice bombs which are confirmed to be clear of explosives will be stacked and
marked for transport to the holding area.
 6                  AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


1.5.3.3.2. Practice bombs which cannot be probed or are confirmed duds will be moved to a
demolition area for clearance IAW 60-series tech data. These practice bombs will not be
transported to the holding area until they are cleared of explosives.
1.5.3.3.3. Mk 80-series practice bombs will be inspected to determine the bomb filler. If inert,
the bomb will be transported to the demolition area where it will be opened to expose the filler.
In the event live high explosive filled ordnance is encountered, it will be handled IAW 60-series
tech data.
1.5.3.4. EOD range safety training.
1.5.3.4.1. 27 SOCES/EOD will conduct initial and refresher range safety training as required for
anyone performing frequent duties on the range. This training will be scheduled with one week
or more notice whenever possible.
1.5.3.4.2. 27 SOCES/EOD will provide training to requiring agencies on the handling,
maintenance, inspection, and function of pyrotechnic devices.
1.5.3.4.2.1. Train individuals to recognize a dud/misfired Smokey Sam. In the event of a
dud/misfire notify EOD. If the dud/misfire is located in such an area that it effects normal
operations EOD will respond to remove the hazard. If the dud/misfire Smokey Sam is in such an
area that daily operations may continue, the item should be marked and EOD will respond as
soon as the mission allows.
1.5.3.4.3. Develop lesson plans for training the supported agencies/visiting ground units. Ensure
the lesson plans are current and reviewed annually by 27 SOW/SEW (IAW AFI 91-202).
1.5.3.5. Coordinate all demolition shots with the RCO prior to initiation.
1.5.3.6. Observe the maximum explosive limit of 1,000 lbs. Class 1 Division 1, as defined in the
approved DDESB explosive site plan.
1.5.3.7. Ground party training is authorized on the range complex and will not interfere with
EOD clearance operating areas during decontamination.
1.6. Weather. 27 SOSS/OSW will support MAFR operations with weather watches, warnings,
and advisories (WWAs). They will provide weather updates and support for range ground
personnel during scheduled operations. 27 SOSS/OSW also produces weather radar information
for Cannon AFB and MAFR and any other support as requested by the ROA. 27 SOSS/OSW
will coordinate with the 25th Operational Weather Squadron (25th OWS) that produces the
Melrose Operating Area Forecast (MOAF) and ensure availability during MAFR operating
hours. However, the best known weather forecast will be used to inform the operations
conditions matrix.
1.6.1. The RCO is responsible for transmitting all Weather Watches/Warnings received. Upon
initial receipt of a weather watch/warning, the RCO will make a blanket broadcast over the
primary mission frequency announcing the watch/warning number, valid time and pertinent
information pertaining to the watch/warning. The RCO will make another broadcast announcing
the time the watch/warning expires or is cancelled.
1.6.1.1. Once notified by 27 SOSS/OSW the RCO will notify the SFOR of any weather changes.
1.6.1.2. The SFOR will notify the RCO if change in conditions constitutes a change in the
operations conditions matrix.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                               7


1.6.1.3. The RCO will notify the ROO if changes in the weather conditions increase the
operations matrix into either the RED or BLACK categories.
1.7. Range Users. All range users will comply with the directives of this and other applicable
instructions. Users will police their training areas for trash, debris and brass. No user will be
released from the range without inspection by MAFR contractor or RMO personnel. Provide
feedback to the RMO organizational mailbox: 27SOW/XPR-RMO@cannon.af.mil.
1.7.1. Munitions Tracking and Reporting. Range users are responsible for reporting munitions
expenditures.
1.7.2. Units are required to report their munitions expenditures immediately following the
completion of their training event. For example, once an AC-130 has reported mission complete
(weapons safe and the aircraft is ready to exit their profile) they will include in this same
broadcast the number and type of munitions expended on the range to the RCO. This same
methodology will be used when ground forces close the range at the end of the training day.
Ground forces will either phone or radio their munitions expenditures and closeout requirements
to their assigned range control at the end of the training event prior to requesting range clearance.
1.7.2.1. Munitions report includes but not limited to:
1.7.2.1.1. Air to ground munitions, inert or live.
1.7.2.1.2. Ground to ground munitions, simulated or live.
1.7.2.1.3. Flares, smoke grenades and ground burst simulators.
1.7.3. Ground User Safety Program. In order to maintain safe ground operations on MAFR all
personnel will have completed or be escorted by an individual who has completed the
appropriate training as outlined below. Upon completion of training a certification card will be
issued. Individual is required to have the card with them while operating on the range. If the
individual is operating on the range and is unable to present the card when challenged by the
ROO or delegate the individual will be asked to leave the range and mission cancelled at the
discretion of the ROO. If this occurs the ROO will ensure the Cannon Air force Base A3
(Operations Duty Officer) is notified.
1.7.3.1. Tactical Range Safety Officer (TRSO): This program is commensurate with other DOD
ranges following the guidance from DA Pam 385-63 Range Safety (Department of the Army
Pamphlet) that governs Army and Marine Corp Range Safety programs. This program will
allow ground users to have access to and operate on MAFR when there is no Range Control
Officer (RCO) present and provide an enhanced level of safety oversight (provided by the units)
while they are training on the MAFR. The RMO will provide designated TRSOs MAFR-
specific training and safety briefings on the use of the training complex as part of certification.
The complete training program in is Attachment 5 of this document and on the website,
https://melroserange.cannon.af.mil/. Training for the TRSO will include but not be limited to
the following:

       1. Impact Areas and Buffer Zones.
       2. Small Arms Live Fire Ranges.
       3. Communication Procedures.
       4. TRSO Qualifications Requirements.
 8                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


       5. TRSO Duties.
       6. TRSO Responsibilities.
       7. Range Familiarization.
       8. RPA procedures (if required).
       9. Range Opening and Closing Procedures (if required).

1.7.3.2. Range Lead (RL) program: This program is designed to allow personnel access to the
range in an administrative/oversight capacity. The RL program will provide a certain level of
training so personnel operating on the range in a non-tactical/administrative capacity can do so
safely with a minimal impact to ongoing operations and minimal risk to themselves. A Range
Operations Officer (ROO) or RCO MUST BE present while the RL is operating on MAFR. The
RL will be restricted to areas on MAFR required for performance of their duties. The RMO will
provide designated RLs MAFR specific training and safety briefings on the use of the training
complex as part of certification. All RL personnel must coordinate with the wing scheduling to
obtain an individual mission number. RL personnel who are performing administrative calls for
fire at Spirit or Jockey impact areas must inform wing scheduling that an event requiring a pre-
staged ambulance is required.. The complete training program in is Attachment 5 of this
document and on the website, https://melroserange.cannon.af.mil/. Training for the RL will
include but not be limited to the following:

       1. Impact Areas and Buffer Zones.
       2. Small Arms Live Fire Ranges.
       3. Communication Procedures.
       4. RL Qualifications Requirements.
       5. RL Duties.
       6. RL Responsibilities.
       7. Range Familiarization.

1.7.3.3. OPFOR Augmentee Program: This program will provide the range familiarization
portion of the 27 SOSS led OPFOR Augmentee Program. The OPFOR Augmentee Program is
designed to provide augmentation to the Cannon Air Force Base Opposition Force (OPFOR) and
Blue Force (BLUFOR) Program. All augmentee personnel are expected to operate in a group
with direct oversight of and in direct communication with a primary duty OPFOR. The primary
duty OPFOR is responsible for safety and guidance of all OPFOR Augmentee personnel
assigned to them while on the range. The complete training program in is Attachment 5 of this
document and on the website, https://melroserange.cannon.af.mil/ . Melrose Air Force Range
Orientation/Training will include but should not be limited to the following:

       1. Impact Areas and Buffer Zones.
       2. Small Arms Live Fire Ranges.
       3. Communication Procedures.
       4. OPFOR Augmentee Roles.
       5. Range Familiarization.
       6. Range Safety.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                             9


1.8. Unit Feedback.
1.8.1. Habitual users (aircraft and ground forces assigned to Cannon AFB or those units that
MAFR is considered a daily use training range) will submit an annual After Actions Report
(AAR) issues and concerns in Lessons Learned Format. These reports are due the first Friday of
February to be compiled for the annual range user’s conference in March.
1.8.2. Non-Habitual user’s (aircraft and ground forces not assigned to Cannon AFB or those
units that MAFR is not considered a daily use range training range) and Mission Commanders
for exercises will submit an AAR to the 27 SOW/RMO within 30 days of completion of the
exercise. AAR will include: training events accomplished/ number of personnel trained/ issues
encountered.
1.9. Scheduling Authority. 27 SOW Scheduling Office (wing scheduling), 27 SOAOS/DOOS,
is the Scheduling Authority (SA) responsible for the scheduling of MAFR Complex, R-5104
A/B, R-5105, Pecos, Taiban, Bronco, Mt. Dora Military Operations Areas (MOAs), Air Traffic
Control Assigned Airspace (ATCAA), and Military Training Routes (MTR). Wing scheduling
will ensure all range users receive and understand the applicable range operating instructions,
including this addendum. They will serve as ROA’s agent to enforce this requirement. They
will be familiar with all range operations and procedures. Scheduling procedures are posted on
the      Melrose     Air    Force     Range     website    under     “New    User’s      Brief”:
https://melroserange.cannon.af.mil/ under the “Air User” dropdown menu. Upon the receipt
of all required information the Wing scheduling will generate a mission number using the Center
Scheduling Enterprise (CSE) scheduling system.
1.10. Melrose Air Force Range Contractor. The contractor at MAFR is responsible for the
operations and maintenance of the range. CAFB support for the range is as noted in this
supplement. Exceptions include grass fires and aircraft crashes. In the event of these incidents,
27 SOCES will put into effect the contingency plans to provide emergency response.
1.10.1. Maintenance. Range areas and targets will be maintained in accordance with the
guidance provided in appropriate Air Force and local directives. The contractor currently
maintaining the range is responsible for maintenance associated with the operation of MAFR
Complex.
1.10.2. Reports. The contractor will prepare the Weapons Range Activity Report (RCS:
AFSOC/A3AR (Q) 7301) using the data from the Range Utilization Reports and deliver it to the
RMO.
1.10.2.1. Range Contractor shall supply the monthly munitions report to the RMO.
1.10.2.2. Range contractor shall provide the monthly utilization report and make available
NEPA representative on base.
1.10.3. Range clearance and maintenance schedule. Non EOD related clearance and
maintenance schedule is a minimum requirement and the responsibility of contractor personnel.
Maintenance should be preventative as well as corrective in nature and should be accomplished
regularly in order to provide the same quality of target presentation to all users. Range clearance
operations may be more frequent, depending upon types and quantities of ordnance used and the
frequency of target renovation.
1.10.4. Heavy equipment operators will avoid ordnance items.
 10                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


1.10.4.1. If observed, areas will be cleared of ordnance prior to grading or plowing. These areas
include access roads that lead in, around, and through hazard areas.
1.10.4.2. All practice bombs will be certified cleared by EOD before they leave the hazard area.
1.10.4.3. Ordnance items other than small arms and 20 millimeter (mm) will not be touched or
picked up until they are inspected by EOD personnel.
1.11. Melrose Air Force Range Development Procedures.
1.11.1. This serves to outline the procedures for range development on Melrose Air Force Range
(MAFR). The office of primary responsibility for range development and planning is the 27
SOW Range Management Office (RMO).
1.11.2. Units requesting a new training capability or modification to existing capability should
submit a Training Needs Statement (TNS) supported by MAJCOM functional commander
(example for AFSOC flying units AFSOC/A3) to the 27 SOW/RMO at
27SOW.XP.RMO.DL@Cannon.af.mil. The TNS should clearly describe the requirements of
the training capability being requested. The TNS should also accurately represent the number of
times the device would be used by the unit requesting and how this training is currently being
accomplished. Units should be prepared to provide a Bullet Background Paper and or present the
request to the ROA upon request during the quarterly range update briefing.
1.11.3. New HLZs and Drop Zones (DZs) do not require a TNS, but do require coordination
with 27 SOW/RMO to ensure they comply with the current Comprehensive Range Plan (CRP)
and Environmental Assessment (EA). Recurring surveys on existing HLZs and DZs does not
require coordination with 27 SOW/RMO unless changes are made to survey such as: name, run
in headings or type of drops to be conducted.
1.11.4. 27 SOW/RMO will coordinate new training capabilities or changes to existing training
capabilities with SA and 27 SOG/OGV to ensure incorporated in scheduling process and
appropriate instructions. The 27 SOG/OGV will ensure the new training capability is
incorporated in appropriate instructions and changes are disseminated.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                        11


                                        CHAPTER 2

                                  RANGE DESCRIPTION

Figure 2.1. Melrose Range.




2.1. General Range Description. MAFR is a 70,000 acre primary training range (PTR) in
eastern New Mexico. MAFR consists of conventional training areas and SOF specific training
areas. The inert bombing range is oriented north and south. The northern half of the range is a
 12                       AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


standard, single range consisting of two target circles, applied tactics targets, skip target, low-
angle strafe, high-angle strafe target, ground force tactical area, Jockey Military Operations in
Urban Terrain (MOUT) site, and Jockey impact area. The portion of the range south of the strafe
area is the tactical range, ground force tactical area, Spirit Observation Post (OP) and Spirit
impact area. A range layout map is available on the MAFR website. NOTE: For weapons
delivery, aircrews must pass their range lineup to MAFR contractor personnel prior to takeoff
(Weapons Impact Scoring System (WISS): DSN 681-6644/6645, FAX DSN 681-6649,
Commercial (575) 784-6644/6645, FAX (575) 784-6649. Provide call signs, number and type of
aircraft, events, attack headings and targets as listed on the range line up work sheet. The scored
Designated Mean Point of Impact (DMPI) for all targets except T-20 and T-74 is the target
center of mass. T-20 and T-74 DMPI’s are the center of the base on the target’s south side.
2.1.1. Capabilities.

Table 2.1. General Training Capabilities.

 Aero medical evacuation          Danger close                      Landing zone control party
 Air assault                      Defensive Counter Air             Laser operations
 Air control operations           Direct fire                       Laser guided weapons (inert)
 Air drop                         Electronic warfare                Low visibility operations
 Air interdiction                 Escort                            Maneuver
 Air reconnaissance               Evasion and escape                Military convoy
 Air refueling                    Exfiltration                      Minimum operating Landing Zone
 Armed reconnaissance             Explosive ordnance disposal       Nonlethal weapon
 Bare base                        Field training                    Offensive Counter Air
 Base defense                     Fighter escort                    Operational Readiness evaluation
 Battle damage repair             Foreign internal defense          Operational assessments
 Call for fire                    Forward air controller            Passive air defense
 Casualty evacuation              Forward operating base            Personal recovery
 Civil affairs                    Free fall (HAHO and HALO)         Reduced lighting
 Close air support                High value target                 Resupply
 Combat search and rescue         Hostage rescue                    Sabotage
 Counter guerilla warfare         Indirect fire                     Special reconnaissance
 Counter insurgency               Joint airborne advance party      Special tactics
 Covering fire                    Joint air operations center       Strafing
 Covert operations                Joint terminal attack             Unconventional warfare
 Damage assessment                Joint urban operations            Unmanned aerial vehicles
2.1.2. Hours of Operation. Normal hours of Class A and Class B operations are 0800-0200 M-
F. All air and ground operations on the range will be scheduled in advance. While the primary
user is the 27 SOW, the range may be used by any active duty, Reserve, National Guard Unit or
as approved by the RMO. See para 2.1.3, for scheduling procedures.
2.1.2.1. Range Class A hours are subject to change due to mission requirements. Class A will
be scheduled as required by the RMO to best support users. Refer to para 2.1.3, for scheduling
procedures.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                           13


2.1.2.2. Normal EC Range (ECR) hours are 0800-2200 M-F.
2.1.2.3. Any requests for operations outside of the normal range hours requires a written request
a minimum of three weeks prior notification through the RMO.
2.1.3. Scheduling Procedures.
2.1.3.1. Non-habitual users/special event scheduling procedures (these procedures will be
followed for all aircraft and ground forces not assigned to Cannon AFB or those units that
MAFR is not considered a daily use training range) Any questions regarding this requirement
please contact 27 SOW/RMO office for guidance on scheduling procedure to follow. The RMO
office can be reached at DSN 681-2878/4002, COMM 575-784-2878/4002 from 0730-1630 MT.
2.1.3.2. Ground and visiting air units requesting the use of MAFR for training will submit a 27
SOW Form 111R and a concept of operations at a minimum of 90 days prior to the start of the
exercise      to    27SOAOS.DOOS@cannon.af.mil              with     an     info      copy     to
27SOW.XP.RMO.DL@cannon.af.mil. The submission of the 111R is a request for range time
and entry only. A separate SOCOM Form 111 is required to request 27 SOW aircraft. The
concept of operations (CONOP) and MAFR 111 should include all support requested on MAFR
and Cannon AFB to include but not limited to: OPORD, billeting and planning facilities, vehicle
support, courtesy ammo storage, aircraft parking and vehicle requests. The approval of the 111R
is an approval of events planned on MAFR and not additional support requested from Cannon
AFB, but will aid 27 SOW personnel in initiating coordination of other support requested. 27
SOAOS/RMO will coordinate with Wing Plans and Wing Scheduling to ensure the training
event is committed and a response provided to the requesting unit no later than 60 days prior to
the exercise. 27 SOW will accept training requests as late as 30 days prior to the training event
but the organization requesting use of MAFR inside of 90 days will not receive priority as
outlined in this document. Requests inside of 30 days will not be accepted through this process.
Once MAFR has committed to a training event a point of contact will be assigned through the
Wing Plans office to aid the unit in planning.
2.1.3.3. As a primary training range MAFR is open to all organizations within the DoD. If
required, once within 90 days of the start of an exercise a second ground force will be supported
if no other requests are submitted. The level of information provided on the MAFR 111 and the
concept of operations will be used in determining priority and the greater the level of detail the
higher probability of support. The following criteria will be used when multiple requests are
submitted during the same time period:

        1. Joint pre-deployment training incorporating 27 SOW assets.
        2. Joint pre-deployment training not incorporating 27 SOW assets.
        3. Joint exercises.
        4. Coalition exercises.
        5. Operational Readiness Inspections (ORI).
        6. Unilateral 27 Special Operations Wing Training.
        7. Unilateral habitual user training.
        8. Other AFSOC unilateral training.
        9. Other Air Force unilateral training.
       10. Other unilateral training.
       11. Operational assessments and demonstrations.
 14                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013



2.1.4. Local Ground User Scheduling Procedures. Local users requesting access to MAFR must
contact the 27 SOW/DOOS (Wing Scheduling), during normal duty hours (0730-1630 MT) to
deconflict with other missions on MAFR. The wing scheduling will need the name of the
Tactical Range Safety Officer (TRSO) or the Range Lead (RL) responsible; this name will be
input in the scheduling system for the RCO and ROO. Ground users must coordinate with wing
scheduling to obtain their own mission numbers, if a ground user does not have an individually
assigned mission number the RCO will deny them access to the range. Any event involving
multiple units or special range configuration requests should be scheduled through the non-
habitual user process in para 2.1.3.1
2.1.4.1. Ground personnel not assigned to daily, recurring duties on MAFR are required to
obtain a mission number from the wing scheduling or the A3 prior to arriving at MAFR. A
mission number will be issued NLT 24 hours prior to the desired access time. It is the user’s
responsibility to check with wing scheduling on the day of the desired ground activity to confirm
the mission number and timeline. Any timeline and/or location changes prior to mission
execution will be coordinated with wing scheduling.
2.1.4.2. Personnel directly supporting operations are required to obtain a unique mission number
and will not use the mission number for the mission they are supporting.
2.1.5. Aircrew Scheduling Procedures. During normal duty hours, (0730- 1630), scheduling
requests for the current day can be made to the wing scheduling via telephone. If the requested
time is available and the requester is not a regular range user, wing scheduling will call RCO and
advise them of the change.
2.1.6. Scheduling Changes. Flights will adhere to assigned range periods and/or training areas.
Changes to scheduled range periods and/or training areas should be made as soon as practical.
All changes to the range schedule will be coordinated with the SA. Necessary in-flight
deviations will be coordinated with the RCO. The RCO may coordinate the current days
schedule changes with range users and notify Wing Scheduling of the changes. After the final
range schedule has been released, all 27 SOW unit airspace and range schedule changes require
A3 approval as applicable. Changes that conflict between 27 SOW assets may be resolved by
unit to unit coordination. The final plan will be relayed to the SA, and all involved units must
verify their concurrence with the plan via telephone or email to the SA before the change is
made. If changes can’t be resolved, the unit that was originally scheduled for the airspace and/or
range after the final range schedule had been released will keep their original scheduled time.
The 27 SOAOS JOC/A3 (27 SOW Operations Duty Officer) is the final authority for non-duty
hours range scheduling and all changes will be passed to the RCO.
2.1.7. The RMO is responsible for day-to-day MAFR operations and safety. Users will contact
the RMO to schedule any operational or safety briefings that are required. The RMO can be
reached at DSN 681-2878/4002 COMM 575-784-2878/4002 from 0730-1630 MT.
2.1.7.1. Range Safety Briefing. The briefings will be given by the RMO. It will consist of:
familiarization with this addendum, noise sensitive areas, restricted air space and range
procedures and the MAFR Operations Condition Matrix. A dry orientation pass must be flown
over the range before bombing, live fire and air drop events occur for non-habitual users. For C-
130s this requirement is satisfied if either the pilot or navigator has had an orientation pass or has
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                           15


previously used the range. The briefer’s initials will be given to the aircrew to relay to
scheduling.
2.1.8. Users must abide by their scheduled timelines. In the event an extension is required,
contact the RCO as soon as possible with the requested schedule change. The RCO will
coordinate with the wing scheduling or the A3, who will update the CSE database with the new
timeline. Users cannot assume that one timeline extension is blanket approval for subsequent
extensions.
2.1.9. In the event a mission is canceled, users will contact wing scheduling or the A3 as soon as
possible to have the mission removed from the daily schedule. In the event a new user with a
higher priority needs to schedule a mission on MAFR that conflicts with an existing user, wing
scheduling will contact the affected user to either deconflict or reschedule the mission.
2.1.10. Normal business hours for the wing scheduling (575-784-7634, DSN 681-7634) are
0730-1630 MT. After 1600, the A3 (575-784-2214, DSN 681-2214) is the POC for all on-going
scheduled operations at MAFR.

NOTE 1: RC-135s and Airborne Warning and Controls Systems (AWACS) do not need to
schedule the range in order to use Electronic Counter Measures (ECM) and are generally not
affected by this priority.

NOTE 2: Simultaneous multiple aircraft and/or ground users will be handled on a case by case
basis.

2.1.11. If training requires moving threat emitters off of MAFR proper, 5 weeks advanced notice
is required. This is to ensure the proposed plan will not incur expenses in excess of those
provided for in the range contract. If additional expenses are anticipated, the RMO will inform
the Contractor Site Manager no later than 5 weeks prior to the exercise. NOTE: All training
must have advanced coordination through 27 SOAOS prior to the RMO taking any further
actions.
2.1.12. Large Force Exercise (LFE) Operations. All exercises will be coordinated through 27
SOASO and the RMO prior to execution, at a minimum 90 days. All events will be scheduled
through wing scheduling . To ensure deconfliction all LFE’s must be scheduled no less than 30
days in advance. Exercise Mission Commanders may receive clearance on MAFR for all
participating aircraft by contacting the RCO on range frequency prior to entry into range-
controlled airspace. The only authorized frequencies for Melrose airspace will be range
frequencies or a specified tactical frequency. If all activities are dry with no weapons being
released, mission commanders should indicate this on their range lineup sheet and fax it to the
range no later than two hours prior to the scheduled range time. The RCO may then authorize
“FLIGHT LEAD CONTROL” for all activities on the range when clearance on the range is
provided. If any weapons are planned for release, the Exercise Mission Commander must brief
the attack plan to the ROO, or designee, no later than 48 hours prior to the scheduled range time.
The mission commander will fax the approved Range Lineup Sheet to the range no later than two
hours prior to the scheduled range time (FAX # DSN 681-6649, Commercial # 575 784-6649).
Upon receipt of the approved lineup sheet the RCO or appropriate controller may authorize
“FLIGHT LEAD CONTROL” for the scheduled exercise events after clearance on the range is
 16                  AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


provided. The RCO will then monitor range operations and inform the flight of any unsafe
conditions. Failure to coordinate exercise operations will result in denial by the RCO or
appropriate controller to release weapons and will restrict activities on the range to those
authorized under normal range operations.
2.1.12.1. Simultaneous Operations. Simultaneous airdrops/airland and munitions expenditures
must be coordinated through the RMO and scheduled through the wing scheduling.
Simultaneous operations guidance will be in accordance with SOGOI 11-201 (AFSOC
SharePoint: https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/27SOG/OGV/default.aspx or call DSN 681-4951,
Comm 575 784-4951).
2.2. Restrictions.
2.2.1. Common/General. Users must obtain clearance to enter R-5104/5105 by the controlling
agency prior to entry. During Class A operations, the RCO provides the final clearance into the
range airspace (via range frequency). Failure to obtain clearance into restrictive airspace is a
violation of 14 CFR 91.133. Users will advise the RCO/Combat Control Team (CCT)/Joint
Terminal Air Controller (JTAC) when “Arm and Safety Checks” are complete and when they are
exiting the range airspace. When the RCO is not controlling air operations (Class B / C
operations), clearance into the restricted airspace is prohibited without approval by the CP.
2.2.1.1. Melrose Range Operation Matrix. In accordance with AFI 13-212, para 2.5.14.1., AFI
13-212_AFSOCSUP, para 4.13.4.5. and AFI 32-7064, Chap 12, the Range Management Office
and Civil Engineering are required to periodically review the activities likely to cause range
fires, and develop and implement procedures to mitigate them. The Melrose Range Operations
Condition Matrix is designed to facilitate safe operations at Melrose Air Force Range in support
of 27 SOW assets and outside agencies. The Melrose Range Operations Condition Matrix 2012
(ref Figure A2.1), further clarifies the potential for higher fire risk activities and clarifies the role
of the SFOR and the ROO in determining operational impact as conditions on the range change.
Blanket approvals will not be issued for multiple events.
2.2.1.1.1. Range Operations Condition for Fire Danger. 27 SOSS/OSW will provide the RCO a
fire condition forecast daily prior to range operations commencing. Additionally, fire personnel
on MAFR may obtain additional fire weather forecasts from the National Wildland Fire
Coordinating Group (NCWG) or National Inter-Agency Fire Center (NIAFC) approved sources
to inform the operations condition matrix.
2.2.1.1.2. The RCO and SFOR will use the best known information available to coordinate and
determine the overall range condition IAW the Range Operations Condition Matrix (ref Figure
A2.1), given the weighted factors of the Fire Emergency Services (FES) resources, fire danger
and highest sustained or gusts winds recorded within 30 minutes. The cumulative condition
determines the operations that can be conducted at the range. Any changes to the range
condition will be put into immediate effect. If an agreement cannot be reached between the RCO
and SFOR, the most conservative condition shall be implemented and the ROO and the SFOR at
Cannon will be consulted to determine operational impact and condition changes.
2.2.1.1.3. RCO will notify ROO and A3 of the range condition. If the A3 is not available, the
RCO will notify the command post of the range condition.
2.2.1.1.4. CP will notify wing leadership daily of the range operating conditions or as conditions
worsen.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                            17


2.2.1.1.5. The ROA or designee is the waiver authority for range operations conducted in the
associated condition levels. The RMO, 27 SOAOS/DOOS, 27 SOCES/CEF, SFOR and the
RCO will immediately be notified of any waivers. Blanket approvals will not be issued for
multiple events. All waivers will be documented in the RCO Form 1.
2.2.1.1.6. 27 SOAOS/RMO is the office of primary responsibility for the Range Conditions
Operating Matrix.
2.2.1.2. Range Operations during firefighting on MAFR. The RCO may allow aircraft to
perform dry-only operations above 3000 feet AGL during firefighting operations on MAFR.
During firefighting operations all Landing Zone and Drop Zone operations will be suspended
unless in direct support of the firefighting operation.
2.2.1.2.1. Wildfire Reporting. Report all fires on or near MAFR by using Latitude/Longitude,
range road intersections, or Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) as soon as possible to
RCO.
2.2.1.3. Security and Control.
2.2.1.3.1. Scheduled mission numbers from wing scheduling will be required for all parties prior
to entry on the range. The mission number should be coordinated as far in advance as possible,
ideally a week or more, but no later than two business days in advance. Day prior and day of
requests must be coordinated directly with wing scheduling and approved by the RMO. This
will help facilitate deconfliction for all personnel operating on and accessing the range. The only
exception for this policy will be emergency work orders; these mission numbers may be
coordinated the day of but will be confirmed by the RCO. Emergency first responders are
exempt from this policy. All other late mission number requests will be approved by the Range
Manager/Deputy Range Manager or 27 SOAOS JOC/A3 outside of normal working hours.
Parties without scheduled mission numbers will not be granted access to MAFR.
2.2.1.3.2. All parties submitting a mission in CSE must provide at least one POC name, phone
number and area of operations for that mission. Simply submitting a mission in CSE does not
guarantee range access. It must be approved through the scheduling authority process and a
mission number applied to the day’s schedule. Entry control personnel will use the most current
information on CSE, therefore, mission numbers that have not been applied to the day’s schedule
will not be granted access to MAFR. The POC must be range lead or tactical range safety officer
qualified and possess current credentials. The RMO will serve as the point of contact for these
certifications. This is to ensure personnel accessing the range are familiar with the hazards
associated with MAFR, know the appropriate procedures to transit from one area to the next and
will serve as the POC for the party they are in.
2.2.1.3.3. Range personnel must control all access and activity within the fenced hazard area at
all times. Only mission essential personnel will be permitted within the confines of Jockey or
Spirit impact or dudded area.
2.2.1.3.4. Public access to the hazard areas is prohibited. The “Public” is defined as anyone
whose official duty does not require them to perform duties on the range or on range facilities.
The public will be escorted at all times and will cross the range using maintained roads to avoid
entering into a hazard area.
 18                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


2.2.1.3.5. The public is allowed on range property (other than hazard areas) when participating
in an Air Force sponsored program. The RMO must approve any activity on any portion of
range property during other than normal duty hours.
2.2.1.3.6. Unless required for official duties, personal firearms will not be allowed on the range.
All exceptions to security and control procedures must be approved by RMO.
2.2.1.3.7. Each time the range is opened the range personnel or using agency will ensure
buildings, equipment, towers, fuel pumps and gates are secured as required before departing the
range.
2.2.2. Range Real Estate Boundaries and Associated Restrictions with MAFR. The inert impact
area is a smaller area within the real estate boundary. It is outlined by a range fence, perimeter
road, and fire breaks and is identified at night by a series of steady lights. These lights may be
blue, infrared or both and are controlled by the RCO. Boundary lights will remain blue unless
otherwise requested. Flashing blue lights identify the two manned compounds.
2.2.2.1. Due to numerous noise sensitive areas around MAFR, non-habitual of the range will call
the RMO for a range briefing. Current maps of noise sensitive areas are available on the MAFR
web page.
2.2.2.1.1. Noise Sensitive Areas on and Around the Range. Reference FLIP AP1/B for noise
sensitive areas associated with low-level routes ending at the MAFR Complex.
2.2.2.2. Temporary Manned Locations. Several locations and access routes exist where
maintenance or operational activities are required to be conducted that lie inside the defined
hazard area. With RCO permission, personnel may access these areas during range operations
provided appropriate restrictions are enforced. Weapons release events that result in a footprint
that is determined to pose a potential hazard to personnel in these areas will not be allowed while
these areas are manned. The MAFR website contains guidance that will be used by the RCO to
determine access and event restrictions associated with these locations. The RCO will ensure
that personnel access to these areas does not adversely impact scheduled range operations. The
following locations and/or access routes are identified as temporary manned locations.
2.2.2.2.1. Reviewing Stands. Requested Smoky Sam and Tactical Range Threat Generator
(TRTG) operations take place at the edge of the mesa in front of the reviewing stands on a
routine basis. The FACs uses this location for directing attacks on range targets on the Inert
Impact Range (ref Figure 2.1).
2.2.2.2.2. The north Smokey Sam launch site. This is the second designated Smokey Sam
launch location. TRTG operations are also conducted as requested (ref Figure 2.1).
2.2.2.2.3. Hazard area Gate 4 access route. Ground traffic exits and enters the range from this
location when travel is required to/from the west side of the range or when flying operations
prevent mesa traffic from crossing the range via the primary route. This location includes the
roadway from the mesa complex to the cattle guard located west of the Hazard area Gate 4 (ref
Figure 2.1).
2.2.2.2.4. Camera Site Four. Routine preventive and unscheduled maintenance of camera and
microwave equipment is occasionally required during range operations. This location includes
the access route along the perimeter of the hazard area to the Camera Site on the south mesa (ref
Figure 2.1).
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                             19


2.2.2.2.5. Camera Site Two. Routine preventive and unscheduled maintenance of camera and
microwave equipment is occasionally required during range operations. This location includes
the access route from the mesa complex to the camera site on the west mesa (ref Figure 2.1).
2.2.2.2.6. Motor Pool and Reclamation Area. Routine ordnance reclamation operations and
equipment/vehicle maintenance are required to be conducted in this area during range operations.
This location consists of the area from the northern edge of the B&G Compound to the north
inner firebreak and is bordered on the east by the inner firebreak and on the west by the roadway
between the main tower and the north hazard area firebreak. The EOD compound is included in
this location (ref Figure 2.1).
2.2.3. Airspace.
2.2.3.1. Area overflight. When R-5105 is active, it may be over flown at or above 10,500 ft
MSL or as approved by the controlling agency.
2.2.3.1.1. Restricted area R-5104A may be overflown above 18,000 ft MSL if control of R-
5104B has been released to Albuquerque Center. If R-5104B has been activated, overflight must
be above 23,000 ft MSL. Flights will not enter R-5104A/B without clearance from the
controlling agency.
2.2.3.2. Range Clearance (Day and Night).
2.2.3.2.1. Flight Entry. Prior telephonic contact with the RCO is encouraged to reduce the
number of radio transmissions. Aircrews will use the range line-up form from the website when
calling in their range event line-up. Fax your line up of targets and events to the range using this
format at DSN 681-6649, COMM 575-784-6649. Aircrews will specify which deliveries are
laser events. Failure to do so may result in denial of laser clearance once on the range. Upon
range entry the RCO will issue range clearance, target information, altimeter setting, Cannon
AFB active runway, divert requirements for Cannon AFB as per the 27 SOAOS JOC/A3 and
direct the flight to squawk 4000. Each flight member will acknowledge the altimeter setting.
Flights will not proceed beyond the appropriate holding point until a specific clearance to enter
the range is issued by the RCO.
2.3. Range and Military Operating Area (MOA).
2.3.1. Air-to-Ground Range.
2.3.1.1. Jockey and Spirit impact areas. Both impact areas are defined with target set
coordinates on the MAFR website (ref Figure 2.1). Questions should be addressed to the RMO
at DSN 681-2878/4002, COMM 575-784-2878/4002.
2.3.1.1.1. Jockey impact area is a 1 kilometer square live-fire zone with 69 sub targets
designated for 30 mm, 40mm, and 105mm munitions. Jockey is centered at N34-18.785, W103-
45.799. Jockey is located NE of the inert impact area. The four corners are oriented north-south
and east-west. Jockey is further defined by fire breaks around the immediate impact area and
defines those borders. The outer fire break serves as an impact area buffer zone and defines the
hazard area around the impact area and is 700 meters from the impact zone borders. There is a
circular DZ and a helicopter LZ immediately north of the impact area. Also present is a ground
movement area simulating a small prison compound facilitating ground training. On the
northwest corner of the impact area is a 40’ tall, sheet metal construction, observation position
 20                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


(OP). Approximately 100m from the OP are four sets of tires in a semi-circle to reference true
azimuth at 165, and 095 degrees.
2.3.1.1.2. Spirit impact area is a 1.7 kilometer square live-fire zone with 141 targets approved
for the same munitions as Jockey. Spirit is centered at N34-1.471, W103-48.107. Spirit is
located in the SW corner of the inert impact area. The four corners are defined north-south and
east-west. Spirit borders are similar to Jockey with fire breaks defining the impact zone. A 700
meter impact area buffer zone surrounds the impact zone and further defines Spirit impact area.
There is a helicopter LZ immediately southwest of the impact area. On the western edge of the
buffer zone is a 40’ tall, sheet metal construction, observation position (OP) surrounded by
Hesco Barriers.
2.3.1.1.3. The Jockey and Spirit OPs may be used by personnel authorized in AFI 13-112V1,
Table 1, to perform JTAC duties, Calls For Fire, OPFOR, Blue Force and other mission essential
duties. The ROO will identify mission essential personnel in the case of any dispute. If training
requires personnel to be inside Hazard Area or Impact Area, they must remain outside the
Minimum Safe Distances for Ground Parties (Live Fire Training) Table (MSD-T) contained in
AFI 11-214, Attachment 6. When Spirit is occupied, restricted firing fans will be in effect for
some platforms and weapons. Fans are designed to provide maximum protection with minimum
training impact. MAFR webpage maintains the current footprint data.
2.3.1.2. Inert Targets.
2.3.1.2.1. Conventional Target (T-21). This target consists of a 75 ft (23 meters (m)) and 10 ft
(46 m) radius concentric circles (tires) within a 300 ft (91 m) radius plowed area. The scored
DMPI is a vehicle-oriented east/west. There are two lead-in lines for flight reference. The north
lead-in line is 2,500 ft (762 m) long and the south lead-in line is 2,000 ft (610 m) long.
2.3.1.2.2. Applied Tactics Targets. Five scored applied tactics targets (T-18, T-22 through T-24
and T-28) are located south of the conventional targets. These targets are authorized for
conventional deliveries excluding strafe and rockets.
2.3.1.2.3. Skip Target. The skip target is a truck-size vehicle. A 50 ft (1 m) x 200 ft (61 m)
impact area outlined by tires is located directly in front of the target. The axis of the impact area
is parallel to the strafe target lead-in lines and perpendicular to the strafe foul line. The RCO
scores this target visually and reports hit or miss.
2.3.1.3. Low Angle Strafe (LAS)/High-Angle Strafe (HAS).
2.3.1.3.1. LAS Targets. There are two acoustically scored low angle strafe targets located on the
range. The acoustic score targets are 1 ft (4.6 m) diameter drag chutes placed on earthen berms.
A 2000 ft (610 meters) cease fire or foul line is used for all aircraft firing the 20 mm cannon.
NOTE: Low Angle Strafe is authorized for daylight use only.
2.3.1.3.2. HAS Targets. The target is acoustically scored, oriented east/west, and located just
west of the low angle strafe target. The HAS target is authorized for daylight or night
operations.
2.3.1.3.3. All LAS and HAS on the conventional range will be directly controlled by the RCO
only. Ground and airborne Close Air Support (CAS) personnel may control high angle strafing
on the tactical range. Authorized targets are T-52 thru T-58, T-67, T-72, T-73, T-81 thru T-85,
T-90, and T-92 thru T-99.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                            21


2.3.1.4. Laser Targets. All targets are approved for laser designation. See section 3.4.for further
guidance.
2.3.2. Tactical Ranges.
2.3.2.1. The Tactical Range is an airfield complex with associated air defense and support areas.
It is located southwest of the strafe area and is intended for day or night, tactical, and ground
attack training. The mock runway dimensions are 8450 ft x 200 ft oriented 171/351. The
parallel taxiway is 7,650 ft x 65 ft. Godfather Landing Zone is located on the same orientation.
The LZ is 3960 ft x 60 ft packed surface, unimproved landing strip. Use of the landing strips
must be coordinated through wing scheduling and the RMO no less than 10 business days prior
to use. Prior to each scheduled training event, 27 SOSS/OSZ contractor personnel will test the
landing strip surface for suitability IAW AFI 13-217 and other applicable instructions. OSZ will
notify the RMO of any residue requiring removal. The RMO will coordinate removal IAW para
1.13.
2.3.2.2. Small Arms Range. The small arms range is located south of the B&G compound. The
use of this range will be coordinated through the RMO prior to scheduling. See para 3.13.3 for
operations procedures.
2.3.3. Electronic Combat Range (ECR). (See Chapter 4 for expanded discussion). Melrose ECR
provides an electronic combat training environment that supports a variety of military missions.
The ECR ground equipment presents a realistic Electronic Order of Battle (EOB), evaluates
operability of airborne jamming equipment, and creates an environment for aircrew to train
against a multitude of real world threat systems.
2.3.4. Air-to-Air Range. N/A.
2.3.5. MOAs. MAFR Complex airspace consists of restricted areas R5104A, R-5104B, R-5105,
the Taiban MOA and the Pecos MOAs as described in the FLIP. The following procedures and
restrictions apply for the use of these areas. See MAFR webpage for airspace maps. When a
mission requires the ATCAA or as requested by aircrew, the RCO will contact Albuquerque
ARTCC (ZAB) Sector 21 at 505-856-4821 to request activation of Melrose ATCAA and will
notify sector 21 when all aircraft are clear of the Melrose ATCAA and release it back to ZAB.

Figure 2.2. MAFR Airspace.
 22               AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013




Pecos
North Low – 500 feet AGL through 10,999 feet MSL
North High – 11,000 feet MSL through 17,999 feet MSL
South – 500 feet AGL through 17,999 feet MSL

Taiban
500 feet AGL through 10,999 feet MSL

Sumner ATCAA
North – FL180 through FL300
South – FL180 through FL500

Restricted Airspace
R-5105 – Sfc through 10,000 feet MSL
R-5104A – Sfc through 17,999 feet MSL
R-5104B – FL180 through FL230

Melrose ATCAA
FL240 through FL300
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                         23


2.3.5.1. Restricted Airspace. R-5104A is the portion of R-5104 that extends from the surface up
to but not including 18,000 ft MSL. R-5104B is the section of R-5104 that extends from 18,000
ft MSL up to and including 23,000 ft MSL. R-5105 is the northern restricted area that extends
from the surface up to and including 10,000 ft MSL. NOTE: When R-5104A/R-5105 is
scheduled, Cannon RAPCON shall protect the MTR re-entry pattern at 7,000 MSL and below.
Aircraft that desire to extend south of R-5104A must schedule the airspace for approval into the
airspace. The RCO will not coordinate for this airspace.
2.3.5.2. Melrose Air Traffic Control Assigned Airspace (ATCAA) is the airspace from FL240
up to and including FL300, within the boundaries of R-5104. The RCO shall call Center Sector
21 to request activation of the Melrose ATCAA. The Melrose ATCAA must be scheduled in
advance with wing scheduling. The RCO shall call Center Sector 21 when all aircraft are clear
of the ATCAA and the airspace is released back to Albuquerque Center. Aircrew must request
the ATCAA from the RCO and the RCO must advise them that they are cleared to use it. Use of
wing scheduling form is mandatory for all units not assigned to Cannon AFB. Refer to section
2.1.3. for further scheduling information. Flight leads will ensure the range lineup includes
required airspace if above FL230.
2.3.5.3. Taiban Military Operating Areas (MOA) is up to but not including 11,000 MSL. Taiban
MOA may be scheduled by itself, with Pecos MOAs or with R-5104A and/or R-5105 airspace.
When R-5104A/R-5105 is scheduled for use outside the published use times of the Taiban MOA,
the Taiban MOA is not active, unless specifically scheduled. If the Taiban MOA is required and
not scheduled in advance, flights must contact the Cannon Command Post three hours prior to
intended use. The Command Post will contact wing scheduling and will schedule it if available.
Wing scheduling will ensure Albuquerque Center is notified of Taiban MOA usage. Command
Post will then notify RAPCON of its use.
2.3.5.3.1. Aircraft scheduled for Taiban may transit from MAFR restricted airspace to and from
Taiban MOA between 500 ft AGL and 10,999 ft MSL provided crews accomplish the
appropriate weapons systems safety checks before leaving the restricted airspace.
2.3.5.4. The Pecos MOAs (North and South) are located to the west, southwest and south of the
range and Taiban MOA. Pecos altitude extends from 500 ft AGL up to but not including 18,000
ft MSL. Sumner ATCAAs are available from FL 180 up to and including FL 300 (North Sumner
ATCAA) and FL 180 up to and including FL 500 (South Sumner ATCAA). The Sumner
ATCAAs must be scheduled in advanced with wing scheduling. Specific clearance from
Albuquerque Center must be obtained to operate above FL 180. NOTE: Aircraft utilizing the
Sumner, MAFR, Pecos, Taiban MOAs/ATCAAs and R-5104/R-5105 may transition through any
of the scheduled airspace once cleared to operate within the Special Use Airspace (from the air
route traffic control center (ARTCC)) and R-5104/R-5105 (from the MAFR RCO).
2.3.5.4.1. Operations in the Pecos MOAs and Sumner and Melrose ATCAAs are separate from
MAFR operations. Any combination of the Pecos MOA must be scheduled separately with
wing scheduling. Use of the wing scheduling form is mandatory for all units not assigned to
Cannon AFB. Reference para 2.1.3 for further scheduling information. Once scheduled,
clearance to enter the Pecos MOAs must be obtained from Albuquerque Center (319.2). Aircraft
operating in any of the Pecos MOAs must call entering and exiting, which MOAs are being used,
operating altitudes and monitor the Pecos tactical frequency (267.9).
 24                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


2.3.5.5. Contact 27 SOW Airspace Manager, DSN 681-2521, COMM 575-784-2521 for
airspace concerns.
2.4. Range Routes, Holding Points and Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) Corridors.
2.4.1. Range entry/exit procedures are IAW CANNONAFBI 13-201, Chapter 6, RPA Flying
Operations, or call DSN 681-4951, Comm 575 784-4951.
2.4.2. Military Training Routes (MTRs) that exit at MAFR are contained in FLIP AP/1B.
MAFR users may schedule 27 SOW routes through wing scheduling.
2.4.3. All flights entering MAFR airspace during Class A ops shall contact the RCO. During
Class B / C ops contact CP for entry approval.
2.4.4. Holding.
2.4.4.1. North Entry (Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC)). Hold within the confines of
R-5105 in a left-hand pattern. Remain at least 2.5 nautical miles (nm) north of Highway
60/70/84. When cleared on range, call departing holding with event and target number.
2.4.4.2. South Entry (VMC). Hold between (lat/long and radial/DME) IR-113 point ‘‘M3” and
R-5104, left turns, and west of the IP/TGT run-in course. Do not enter R-5104 without clearance
from the RCO. Holding patterns will be kept as small as feasible. Flights should be cognizant of
their close proximity to the Hunker IAF (CVS 21/24, 9,000 ft MSL). When cleared on range,
call departing holding with event and target number.
2.4.4.3. Night/VMC holding. (Fighter) aircraft are authorized to hold VMC at night, blocking
8,000 ft MSL to 10,000 ft MSL while remaining in R-5105. RCO clearance is required. Flight
deconfliction is the responsibility of the individual flight leads.
2.4.5. Remote Piloted Aircraft (RPA) Corridors.
2.4.5.1. Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) operations will be conducted IAW an approved FAA
Certificate of Authorization (COA) or Waiver and the provisions of the DoD/FAA Memorandum
of Agreement for Operation of RPAs in the National Airspace System (NAS See Attachment 4
for map of corridor. Corridor will be NOTAM’d when active.
2.5. LZ/HLZ/DZ Surveys. 27 SOSS/OSK (Tactics) is the repository for all surveys on MAFR.
The MAFR website maintains surveys and descriptions of all LZ/HLZ/DZs. Any user requesting
additional LZ/HLZ/DZ surveys or questions should contact 27 SOSS/OSK.
2.6. Predominant Range Features.
2.6.1. Highest Elevation on Range. 4,600 feet Mean Sea Level (MSL), Ground Electronic
Combat Control Operations (GECCO) Site (Mesa), at coordinates N 34-17.284 by W 103-
49.031.
2.6.2. Lowest Elevation on Range. 4,390 feet MSL, Target 70, at coordinates N 34- 16.6268 by
W 103-47.4819.
2.6.3. The most prominent target. T-11, Urban Complex at coordinates N 34-1.903 by W 103-
47.548.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                            25


                                          CHAPTER 3

                  OPERATIONS/WEAPONS DELIVERY PROCEDURES

3.1. Overview. Class A/B/C Range Procedures:
3.1.1. Class A. This range is manned, has a ground-based scoring capability, and has an onsite
RCO who controls aircraft using the range. Delegation of weapons release authority by the RCO
occurs when the RCO cannot positively determine aircraft attitude, orientation, etc. (e.g., loss of
visual contact, night or high altitude releases). However, as long as the RCO is present in the
tower the service provided remains Class A.
3.1.1.1. In situations where the RCO delegates safe release of ordnance to a flight lead,
individual pilot, FAC, CCT, JTAC, STS, CAS, or other certified control personnel the RCO
maintains overall authority on the range and can deny release clearance or abort the release at
any time during Class A.              The RCO will release control of the aircraft to
FAC/JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS personnel after the affected aircraft check on the range and the RCO
has cleared the flight into the restricted area. If the flight lead, individual pilot, FAC, JTAC,
CCT, STS or other certified control personnel accepts delegation of weapons release authority
from the RCO they are solely responsible for safe release of ordnance on that pass. Once the
CAS mission aircraft have completed their range training, FAC JTAC/CCT/STS will return the
range airspace and frequencies back to the RCO. The RCO will then clear the aircraft off the
range.
3.1.1.2. FAC/JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS training on MAFR must be coordinated and approved
through the RMO and scheduled through wing scheduling. The FAC/JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS
controllers will comply with this addendum and all target run in restrictions.
3.1.1.3. Operations authorized during Class A range procedures: All operations.
3.1.2. Class B. During Class B operations at MAFR, the range will be manned, however the
RCO will not control aircraft operations. The RCO will act as the Range Safety Officer (RSO)
and will oversee safe range operations and coordinate all movement of ground parties. The flight
lead, individual pilot in command or FAC/CCT personnel performs the RCO function.
FAC/JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS can maintain control of the range or portion of the range as assigned.
The FAC will contact RCO/RSO prior to start and when finished with operations. All ground
movement will be controlled by the RCO/RSO when FAC/JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS personnel are
controlling range airspace.
3.1.2.1. All requests for Class B scheduling and scoring will be approved by the RMO and
coordinated through wing scheduling. Use of wing scheduling form is mandatory for all units
not assigned to Cannon AFB.
3.1.2.2. Operations authorized during Class B range procedures:

       1. All operations except ground scoring, aircraft can perform self-scoring ordnance
       delivery.
       2. Scoring is available during Class B operations when requested through the RMO.
 26                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.1.2.3. During Class B operations of MAFR, ground traffic and range maintenance operations
are not authorized on the hazard area without positive contact with the RSO.
3.1.3. Class C. During Class C operations, MAFR is unmanned with no scoring or aircraft
control from the ground. The flight lead or the individual pilot in command performs the RCO
function. No weapons of any kind will be dropped during Class C operations, no aircraft
landings and no high risk activities. All requests for scheduling during Class C operations will
be approved by the RMO and coordinated through wing scheduling; use of wing scheduling form
is mandatory for all units not assigned to Cannon AFB.
3.1.3.1. Only the following operations are authorized during Class C range procedures: dry
passes/dry fire activities.
3.1.4. FAC/CCT/JTAC/STS/CAS personnel will work air traffic from the mesa, near the
reviewing stands, from the range tower, the Jockey and Spirit OPs, or other areas as approved by
the RMO and may control aircraft during daylight or night operations. CAS operations for
helicopters /tiltrotors and AC-130s may also be conducted on Jockey and Spirit Impact Areas.
All aircraft in the range airspace will be on the range frequency however this does not preclude
the FAC/JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS personnel from providing instructions (i.e. 9 line brief) on a
different frequency while the aircraft is holding, however the aircraft must be on a range
frequency while flying a bombing/firing run (hot or dry). During laser operations the RCO must
be advised prior to any lasing operations (including ground based lasing) in sufficient time to
complete the lasing checklist. Once the checklist is completed, the RCO will advise
FAC/JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS              personnel      that     laser   operations     may      begin.
FAC/JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS personnel will provide their own laser eye safe protection and advise
the RCO when the lasing operation is terminated.
3.1.4.1. IAW AFI 11-214 FAC/ JTAC/CCT/STS/CAS may operate from within the hazard area
with prior coordination through the RMO and the RCO. The senior individual in charge is
responsible for safety of their personnel while in the hazard area.
3.2. Authorized Ordnance.

Figure 3.1. Authorized Ordnance.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                         27




3.2.1. MAFR 2.75-inch rocket operations.
3.2.1.1. Rocket operations are authorized on MAFR during Class A/B operations only using the
High Altitude Tactical Rocket or Low Altitude Tactical Rocket profiles. Aircraft may use any of
the following warheads on the range: white phosphorus, IR, inert or spotting charge. All users
will adhere to the restrictions in the Range Operations Condition Matrix at all times. Aircraft
may fire multiple rockets at a target. Pilots may release no more than three rockets on one pass
with a maximum of 500 feet between each rocket.
3.2.1.2. Aircraft releasing rockets on the range may be controlled by the RCO, ground CAS,
airborne FAC or appropriate controller. The Weapons Impact Scoring Set (WISS) shall be used
to score all rocket releases to the maximum extent possible.
3.3. Restrictions, Limitations, Footprint Data and Scoring.
3.3.1. Weapons Safety Footprint Data. A database of authorized headings for approved events
is available on the MAFR website. This database will be updated periodically with notification
 28                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


posted under “Range Briefing” on the web page. These headings are approved for single
weapons releases only unless otherwise noted. Multiple weapon releases, other than listed on the
web page, or special events must be approved by the RMO. Do not fly over the range tower, the
main B&G complex or the western mesa complex during run-in or pull-off. See para 3.10
3.3.2. Drop Zone Controller (DZC)/Landing Zone Controller (LZC).
3.3.2.1. Use of a DZC/LZC is mandatory for all airdrops and during hours of darkness for fixed
wing airland operations. DZC/LZC personnel are responsible for all activities on and
immediately above the DZ/LZ. Clearance to drop/land/take-off by the controlling party is
mandatory and may be conveyed by any appropriate means. Ambulance and crash rescue support
is available and must be coordinated during the scheduling process.
3.3.2.2. All “off zone” incidents or airdrop malfunctions will be reported by the DZC/LZC to the
RCO as soon as practical.
3.3.2.3. A Landing Zone Safety Officer (LZSO) can be used to meet LZC requirements IAW
AFI 13-217.
3.3.3.1. Maximum Number of Fighter/Bomber Aircraft. No more than four aircraft may be in
the pattern at one time during bombing operations. Exceptions: During ORIs, exercises, etc. an
evaluator, chase or FAC aircraft may monitor or control four aircraft. The ROA can waive the
four-aircraft limit. This does not restrict the composite force first-run attack described in para
2.1.12 Flights with mixed call sign and those out of sequence can expect to be identified by their
sequence number by the RCO or appropriate controller. Aircraft will de-conflict by altitude and
target set or operation. Operations must be coordinated through the RMO and scheduled through
wing scheduling.
3.3.3.2.2. Conventional. All weapon delivery patterns will be flown IAW AFI 11-2 series
instructions. Normally, flights will fly standard patterns. The RCO or appropriate controller can
approve non-standard patterns for all events except strafe and rocket delivery. Minimum altitude
on downwind is 500 ft AGL. Day and night patterns are the same. SOF aircraft are exempt from
standard patterns. NOTE: During civil twilight (30 minutes after/before official sunset/sunrise)
pops, lofts, toss and low-angle strafe will be terminated.
3.3.4. Weapons Scoring. Manned (not including AC-130 Impact Areas)/Scoreable Range
Procedures.
3.3.4.1. Bomb scoring is normally accomplished with a television-based scoring system known
as the WISS. The WISS is composed of remote television cameras and one scoring console.
The WISS scoring operator must select the appropriate target group at the console in order to
activate the appropriate cameras at the remote sites. Once a target group is selected, the operator
can provide scores for any of the targets in that group. Simultaneous or short-spaced weapons
impacts can only be scored if both/all targets are in the same target group. Target groups are
listed on MAFR website.
3.3.4.2. Strafe Scoring. The Improved Remote Strafe Scoring System (IRSSS) acoustically
scores both high angle and low angle strafe targets. When using the LAS pilots will advise the
RCO on the inbound turn which target they will use.
3.3.4.3. Laser Scoring. Systems are available to aid aircrew training and confirm proper laser
designator operation. See para 3.4.5 for guidance.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                               29


3.3.4.4. To protect the range scoring system and radio equipment from damage due to lightning
strikes the RCO will direct system shutdown based on the following guidelines: when the range
is advised of lightning within 5 miles, the WISS scoring system will be powered down. Actions
will also be taken to reduce the chance of lightning damage to all radio equipment. When the
RCO observes that the lightning danger no longer exists, electronic systems will be restored to
service. Aircraft entering the range during this time will be restricted to dry passes and flight
lead control only.
3.4. Laser Operations Procedures.
3.4.1. Laser Systems. Use of laser designators is approved on MAFR but requires advance
coordination with the RMO through wing scheduling. All targets are approved for laser
designation. See MAFR website for approved laser systems, laser guided bomb (LGB) targets
and attack heading restrictions. Prior to conducting laser operations notify RCO or designated
authority and request approval for lasing operations.
3.4.1.1. Although specular reflective objects have been removed from the range, range personnel
will inspect the specific ground hazard zone for planned laser operations. Do not enter the
dudded areas of Jockey or Spirit for inspection. Conduct the inspection as close as practicable to
the dudded area, from a vantage point that allows maximum observation. Following this
inspection range personnel will remove, cover, or paint noted reflective objects.
3.4.1.2. Lasing will not be authorized when specular reflective objects, such as standing water,
or ice, are visible within the Laser Safety Danger Zone (LSDZ). If the water is rippling, lasing
may continue.
3.4.2. Airborne. At all times aircrew using lasers will comply with procedures in this
Addendum. The Nominal Ocular Hazard Distance (NOHD) for all lasers will be adhered to at
all times . Range personnel will comply with procedures outlined in AFI 48-139, Laser and
Optical Radiation Protection Program and AFSOCI 48-1391, Laser Radiation Protection
Program, for hazard zones.
3.4.2.1. Lasing operations on Jockey or Spirit. The LSDZ shall encompass the live target area
within the buffer boundary. All personnel within the buffer boundary will use laser protective
eyewear during lasing operations. Personnel outside of the buffer boundary are not required to
wear laser protective eyewear. For all other lasing operations, all personnel outdoors within the
applicable LSDZs, during laser operations, will use laser protective eyewear. The aircrew will
inform the RCO of laser start and stop times.
3.4.2.1.1. For any delivery where the target will be directly lazed, the aircrew will not activate
the laser until the target has been positively identified, an unrestricted line-of-sight exists, and a
steady track on the target is assured. The aircrew should cease lazing after weapon release for
unguided munitions, after weapon impact for guided weapons, or if the laser drifts towards the
edge of the clear area.
3.4.2.2. Maximum lase distance for aircraft at 500 ft is 6.5 nm. Aircraft may lase at any distance
from the target providing they maintain an altitude 600 ft AGL or above and are within R-
5104A/B and R-5105 restricted areas.
3.4.2.3. Aircraft will not lase from outside MAFR airspace.
 30                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.4.2.4. Gunship Illuminators, Infrared Zoom Laser Illuminator/Designator, Infrared Pointer,
LTD/RF in the 1.57 mode, and LTD/RF Alignment LED may be used in all operating areas
(Live/Dry fire areas).
3.4.2.5. All SOF aircraft will notify the RCO of their intent to use lasers when checking in on
MAFR. Lasers used on MAFR will be in one of two categories, a.) Training Lasers or b.)
Combat Lasers. Training Lasers are defined as lasers where the NOHD is less than the slant
range of the aircraft. All other lasers will be considered Combat Lasers. The aircraft
commander is ultimately responsible for the selection and notification of the laser being used.
The aircrew using lasers must ensure there are no aircraft below the lasing aircraft within the
NOHD. When SOF aircraft are using lasers where the NOHD is less than the slant range,
ground personnel are not required to wear laser eye protection (LEP). The RCO will announce
"Training Lasers are in use, use of binoculars or any visual magnification device is prohibited,
LEPs are not required." All non-SOF aircraft will be considered using Combat Lasers at all
times.
3.4.3. Ground Laser Operations. Ground target designators may only lase from RMO approved
locations. All ground lasing locations must be approved in the Range Laser Survey. Waiver
authority is 711 HPW/RHDO.
3.4.3.1. During man-transportable lasing operations, cease lasing when the laser line of sight
falls within 1 of the main tower complex or the western mesa complex.
3.4.3.2. During ground laser target designator operations, personnel outside of the LSDZ are not
required to use laser eye protection.
3.4.4. Directed Energy Operations. RESERVED.
3.4.5. Two laser designator detection systems are available to aid aircrew training and confirm
proper laser designator operation. The MX-11485/U Laser Evaluator System-Mobile (LESM) is
a portable unit that, with prior coordination, can be positioned at predetermined fixed locations
or on any target on the inert range, it can also be utilized on a mobile platform as a moving no
drop target. See MAFR Website for a complete description of capabilities and procedures for
use. The Laser Target Designator Scoring System (LTDSS) is a battery-powered remote unit
placed on top of a van, weather permitting, located at coordinates as published on the MAFR
webpage. Aircrew feedback is an audible pulsed tone transmitted by the LTDSS when it
receives laser energy. The UHF frequency for monitoring the LTDSS is 250.9.
3.4.5.1. LTDSS/LESM Procedures.
3.4.5.1.1. Hours of operation and scheduling. The LTDSS/LESM is available during range
operations with prior coordination. The aircrew, through wing scheduling, must schedule one
30-minute block of range time for LTDSS/LESM preparations no less than two hours before
their range time begins. The LTDSS is battery operated and cannot be left on the range for
extended periods of time. This two hour notice allows range personnel to prepare the equipment
for operation. Wing scheduling should annotate LTDSS/LESM in the remarks section of the
deconfliction schedule. Prior to the beginning of the LTDSS/LESM time the aircrew will brief
MAFR of their intentions to use the LTDSS/LESM when they call or fax in their line-up of
events and targets.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                           31


3.4.5.1.2. Procedures. The preferred method of using the LTDSS/LESM is a south to north run-
in on the west side of the range at 6,500 ft MSL. Other run-in headings and altitudes are
available with prior coordination.
3.4.5.1.3. To use the LTDSS/LESM from downwind the flight lead will advise the RCO that the
flight will perform a ‘‘laser detector pass.”
3.4.5.1.4. Flight members will delay their turn to downwind until south of the hazard area and
individually switch to UHF frequency 250.9.
3.4.5.1.5. Crews will acquire the LTDSS/LESM and fire the laser until over the detector. A
‘‘LASER OFF” call may aid in flight laser deconfliction.
3.4.5.1.6. The last aircraft in the formation will call “LASER OFF”.
3.4.5.1.7. The flight lead will then send the formation back to MAFR frequency prior to turning
base for their next event.
3.4.5.1.8. The RCO does not monitor 250.9 during passes on the LTDSS/LESM. If safety
dictates, the RCO can speak to the flight on GUARD (243.0).
3.5. Night Operations. Procedures and publications for night range operations are essentially
the same as those used in daylight operations with some exceptions. At night observe the
following additional requirements:
3.5.1. Night Lighting. The RCO or appropriate controller must be trained and certified to
control night missions. The RCO or appropriate controller must be equipped with NVDs/IR
pointers and properly trained and certified if controlling aircraft during NVD/lights out
operations.
3.5.1.1. If the RCO or appropriate controller cannot positively determine that the aircraft can
release safely, the RCO or appropriate controller will delegate ordnance release clearance to a
qualified flight lead, individual pilot, FAC or other certified control personnel by declaring
“Authorized (flight lead, individual pilot, FAC, etc.) Control.” In cases where the RCO or
appropriate controller delegate’s safe release of ordnance, the RCO or appropriate controller will
maintain overall authority on the range and can abort the release at any time, however, the pilot
assumes sole responsibility for safe release of ordnance.
3.5.1.2. With RCO or appropriate controller concurrence, aircrews may use reduced or blacked
out external lighting when conducting night range operations. If aircraft are employing covert or
blacked-out lighting, the RCO or appropriate controller must be properly equipped and trained
with NVDs and the range night lighting must be activated (if requested) and operational. Range
night lighting pattern can be seen on the MAFR website.
3.5.1.3. Night Surface Attack Procedures. All aircrews will observe restrictions identified in
AFI 11-214 for night weapons delivery patterns.
3.5.2. Night/Night Vision Device Procedures.
3.5.2.1. Night Delivery Patterns. Night conventional deliveries are normally conducted on T-20.
Incandescent target acquisition lighting is available on T-20 and controlled by the RCO. All
targets are scoreable and authorized for night deliveries.
 32                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.5.2.2. NVD light demonstrations must be pre-coordinated if desired during scheduled range
time. IR pointers will not be operated by the RCO or appropriate controller to designate target
locations during hot weapons release passes. This does not preclude other range personnel with
at least 20 minutes advance notice, from operating the pointer from the tower when possible.
However, the RCO or appropriate controller must be free to observe aircraft in the pattern.
3.5.2.3. Special consideration needs to be given to the control of night operations on the range.
The RCO or appropriate controller must ensure that aircraft and ground activities are watched
closely. While wearing NVDs the RCO or appropriate controller may experience difficulty in
observing all of the activities on the range. For this reason, the RCO may restrict ground and
aircraft activities to those that can be effectively monitored or controlled as necessary. When
possible, additional personnel may assist the RCO or appropriate controller conduct tasks
associated with night operations and aircrew training. Under no circumstances will these persons
control air or ground traffic, nor will they conduct other tasks when not fully qualified or trained
to do so. These persons may be used to assist in observing the hazard area, help locate aircraft,
operate communications equipment controls, answer the phone, operate IR pointers and conduct
similar tasks as necessary.
3.5.2.4. NVD operations are authorized during Class B range.
3.5.3. Infrared Enhanced Targets. There are four M-60 series tanks located south of the strafe
pit. Any or all tanks can be heated upon request. IR targets require at least 2 hours notification to
present the proper heat signature. Hot bomb runs will only be allowed with a north to south run
in to reduce damaging the electronic components on the targets.
3.6. Unmanned Threat Emitters.
3.6.1. MAFR has nine Mini-MUTES, AN/MST-TIA, located throughout the Pecos MOA. For
Mini-MUTES site locations, threat capabilities, and status, review the Melrose ECR website.
(See chapter 4 Electronic Combat Range Procedures).
3.7. Transition Corridor and Range Entry/Departure Operations.
3.7.1. Range Entry.
3.7.1.1. Flights approaching MAFR will enter R-5105 as assigned by the RCO. Do not enter R-
5105 without RCO or appropriate controller clearance. Avoid all noise sensitive areas when
entering the range. Contact wing scheduling for latest noise sensitive areas.
3.7.1.2. Use of R-5104A/B will be IAW with SOGOI 11-201 (AFSOC SharePoint:
https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/27SOG/OGV/default.aspx or call DSN 681-4951, Comm 575 784-
4951).
3.7.1.3. PECOS MOA Entry. Entry from the Pecos MOA is authorized provided the flight
contacts the RCO at Melrose Tower approximately two minutes before entering and states the
direction of the entry.
3.7.1.4. Military Training Route (MTR) Entry. Range entry from an MTR is from the vicinity
of the last route point as published in FLIP AP/1B. Approximately two minutes before entering
R-5105 for north and northwest entries or R-5104 for south entries, flights will contact the RCO
at Melrose Tower with ETA to the restricted area entry point. When cleared on range by the
RCO, flights will call departing the north, northwest or south IP depending on the MTR flown.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                          33


If unable to contact the range or appropriate controller at night or in Instrument Meteorological
Conditions (IMC), flights will exit the route IAW FLIP AP/1B.
3.7.1.5. Non-MTR - IFR Entry. When no MTR to MAFR is available, file to point ‘‘Z” (TCC
268/18) of the IR111 Alternate Entry ‘‘R” for a north entry, or to point ‘‘M6” (CME 057/41) of
the IR-113 Alternate Entry ‘‘M3” for south entry. NOTE 1: When entering from these points,
be alert for aircraft flying V62 and V264 (north entry) or V280 (south entry). NOTE 2: All
aircraft will monitor MAFR frequency while in MAFR restricted airspace.
3.7.1.6. Non-MTR - VFR Entry. Contact RCO or appropriate controller for clearance prior to
entering R-5104/5.
3.7.1.7. Non-MTR - Night/VMC Entry. This option is authorized only under night/VMC
conditions. Aircraft are permitted to hold IMC under Cannon RAPCON; however, aircraft must
cancel IFR and maintain VMC conditions prior to passing 8,000 feet MSL during the descent.
3.7.1.8. Night pattern. This pattern avoids all known noise sensitive areas. Fly downwind at
1,000 feet AGL minimum if using TFR. For non-TFR operations MSA is 6,300 feet MSL.
3.7.2. Range Departure.
3.7.2.1. Prior to departing the range, inform the RCO or appropriate controller of recovery
intentions. If departing day VFR or desiring a practice instrument approach at Cannon AFB
execute a VFR departure option as listed below. If departing MAFR at night, in IMC or under
IFR execute the “Taiban Recovery” or remain within the boundaries of R-5104 while contacting
the appropriate controlling agency. To fly the Taiban Recovery the user must have the Taiban
MOA scheduled. Fly the ground track, stay below 11,000 feet MSL and contact Cannon
RAPCON (departing east) or Albuquerque Center on 285.6/126.85 (departing west).
3.7.2.2. VFR Departure. Depart MAFR at VFR hemispheric altitudes above 7,000 feet MSL
and avoid the towns of Melrose and Floyd by 1 nm. If not recovering to Cannon AFB, squawk
1200, contact Albuquerque Center on 285.6/126.85 (departing west) or Cannon Approach
(departing east) and state intentions. If recovering to Cannon AFB obtain ATIS prior to
departing the range and follow the procedures for the type recovery listed below. 27 SOW
aircraft recovering in VMC from MAFR will be considered VFR unless specifically requesting
IFR services.
3.7.2.3. East Recovery. Depart MAFR at 7,500 feet MSL, heading 030 degrees and squawk
1200 or last assigned squawk by ATC. Contact Cannon RAPCON for entry into the VFR
pattern. State position and intentions while proceeding direct to the VFR entry point for the
runway in use. NOTE: When Runway 13 is in use, exercise extreme caution due to possible
traffic on radar downwind and/or base legs. Ensure contact with RAPCON immediately after
departing MAFR and proceed to the nearest VFR entry point without crossing the runway
extended centerline. If unable to contact Cannon RAPCON within 5 miles of MAFR, squawk
VFR and proceed visually to the nearest VFR entry point and contact Cannon Tower.
3.7.2.4. Instrument Approach Recovery. Depart MAFR at 7,500 feet MSL, heading 030 degrees
and squawk 1200 or last assigned squawk by ATC. Contact Cannon RAPCON. State position
and intentions while complying with the East Recovery procedures following Cannon RAPCON
directions. If an IFR clearance has not been issued by prior to the VFR entry point, squawk 1200
and contact RAPCON.
 34                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.7.2.5. MAFR Standard Day VMC Recovery for Practice Instrument Approaches. Depart the
Range at VFR hemispheric altitudes above 7,000 feet MSL, squawk 1200 or last assigned
squawk by ATC and contact Cannon RAPCON. State position and intentions while proceeding
direct to the VFR entry point for the runway in use. Traffic permitting, RAPCON will issue a
local IFR clearance and provide the requested service. NOTE: Aircraft will not be considered
IFR until an IFR clearance has been issued. If an IFR clearance hasn’t been issued by prior to
the VFR entry point, squawk 1200 and contact Tower. Aircraft requiring IFR services can expect
clearance from RAPCON when clear of SUA.
3.7.2.6. Standard VFR Recovery. Depart the Range at VFR hemispheric altitudes above 7,000
feet MSL, squawk 1200 or last assigned squawk by ATC and contact Cannon RAPCON for
entry into the VFR pattern. State position and intentions while proceeding direct to the VFR
entry point for runway in use. Avoid the towns of Melrose and Floyd by 1 nm. 27 SOW aircraft
recovering in VMC from MAFR will be considered VFR unless specifically requesting IFR
services.
3.7.2.7. The Taiban MOA will normally be scheduled concurrently with R-5104. Aircraft not
scheduled into R-5104 will remain clear of the Taiban MOA.
3.7.2.8. AC-130 hot gun recovery to Cannon AFB will normally exit the range at 5800 feet MSL
heading toward the east and minimize pointing guns toward populated areas. The use of normal
exit points is not required.
3.8. Helicopter/Tilt Rotor/Fixed Wing Operations.
3.8.1. Fixed Wing Procedures. Fixed Wing aircraft using MAFR will comply with all applicable
procedures and restrictions listed within this regulation.
3.8.1.1. Ordnance Procedures.
3.8.1.1.1. Live ordnance expenditures on MAFR will be confined to the Jockey and Spirit
impact areas. Exceptions will be addressed on case by case basis. Footprints used to determine
authorized event headings are for inert single weapons releases only unless otherwise noted.
Other multiple weapons deliveries will be approved by the RMO after review.
3.8.1.1.2. Systems checks and ordnance release circuit activation will be IAW the applicable
AFI 11-2 series, AFI 11-214 or MDS specific regulations.
3.8.1.1.3. Master Arm Initiation. Aircrews will not place the master arm switch to the ON
position until the aircraft is in a position from which a release would result in an impact within
the range hazard area.
3.8.1.1.4. Armament System Malfunctions. Armament system malfunctions will be conducted
IAW applicable AFI 11-2 series and AFI 11-214 procedures or applicable aircrew operational
procedures manual.
3.8.1.1.5. IMC Delivery. Release through IMC conditions is authorized IAW MDS specific
restrictions.
3.8.1.2. Drop Zones (DZ’s), Helicopter Landing Zones (HLZ’s) and Landing Zones (LZ’s).
3.8.1.2.1. The Melrose drop zones (DZ’s) are located within R-5104A. Ground elevation, run-
ins, restrictions, and hazards of the DZ’s are listed on each site survey. DZ or LZ control officer
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                             35


must be present and give final control clearance. NOTAMs will be required for HAHO activities
on MAFR.
3.8.2. Helicopter/Tiltrotor Operations. Helicopters and tiltrotors using MAFR will comply with
all applicable procedures and restrictions listed within this addendum.
3.8.2.1. All aircraft must receive clearance from the RCO prior to entering MAFR (R-5104A/B
or R-5105). Final clearance into the restricted areas is obtained from the RCO (range frequency
VHF 122.7 or UHF 376.15) when an RCO is on site. Unauthorized entry into the MAFR
restricted areas constitutes a violation of restricted airspace, presents a hazard to other aircraft
and ground personnel, and is expressly prohibited.
3.8.2.2. Delivery Patterns and Authorized Targets. Do not fire weapons towards the range
buildings or towards the ranches southwest of the range. Helicopter/tiltrotor crews will only fire
on approved targets. Incendiary rounds will not be employed outside of the Jockey or Spirit live
impact areas.
3.8.2.2.1. If required, helicopters/tiltrotors will coordinate with appropriate agencies, RCO or
RAPCON, for deconflicted holding patterns VFR at 500 ft AGL or below.
3.8.2.3. Armament Procedures. Arm the weapons inside the hazard area after consent from the
aircraft commander. Prior to firing weapons, fly a clearing pass over the range at 500’ AGL or
below to clear the range of reflective objects (if laser operations are planned), unauthorized
personnel and vehicles. All laser operations must be coordinated with the RCO.
3.8.2.4. Weapons Employment Patterns.          Aircrews must ensure compliance with MAFR
guidance and RCO instructions.
3.8.2.5. Altitude and Airspeed. Minimum 100 feet AGL for weapons.
3.8.2.5.1. Tiltrotor aircraft will only fire on targets with approved Weapons Danger Zone
(WDZ) footprints. The approved footprints are listed on the MAFR webpage.
3.8.2.6. Weapon Malfunctions. Keep malfunctioning weapon pointed inside the firebreaks.
Notify Melrose RCO of situation and intentions as applicable.
3.8.2.7. Other Safety Considerations.
3.8.2.7.1. Knock it off/Cease fire. Any crew member may call “KNOCK IT OFF” or “CEASE
FIRE”. In addition to procedures outlined in AFI 11-214, crews will cease firing when they hear
"CEASE FIRE" or " KNOCK IT OFF." When crews hear "CEASE FIRE" this is intended to
stop one or more weapons from firing to maneuver aircraft or conduct training. “KNOCK IT
OFF” requires aircrews to cease-fire and stops all tactical maneuvering.
3.8.2.7.2. Departing the range. Notify Melrose RCO of any fires on the range, smoke munitions
that did not light off, and your intentions upon leaving the hazard area.
3.8.2.8. Refueling Procedures. The user will coordinate for fuel at Cannon AFB and include the
Prior Permission Requirement (PPR) number with the range information.
3.8.2.9. Public Service Company of New Mexico (PSCNM) Helicopters. PSCNM helicopters
will occasionally transit MAFR. They will clear on and off with Cannon RAPCON, who will in
turn inform the RCO. PSCNM helicopters will remain north of Hwy 60-84 and below 500 ft
 36                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


AGL. RCOs will restrict range traffic north of the highway to a minimum altitude of 1,000 ft
AGL while the helicopters transit the range.
3.9. Weather. Aircrews will adhere to weather requirements IAW the applicable AFI 11-2
series and AFI 11-214 when performing weapons delivery events.
3.9.1. The RCO or appropriate controller relies on the MAFR FMQ-22 weather station to
determine actual weather conditions. If the RCO judges weather to be unsuitable for visual
patterns they will notify the flight lead or aircraft commander.
3.9.2. Weather requirements (IAW AFI 11-214 and AFI 11-2MDS Vol 3).
3.10. Minimums and Fouls. General Range Information and Restrictions Minimums/Fouls:
3.10.1. All minimum altitudes, dive angles, and cease-fire ranges for weapons delivery events
are IAW AFI 11-2 Series, unless unit minimums are more restrictive. All minimum recovery
altitude fouls assessed on the range will be based solely on the RCO’s judgment.
3.10.2. Fouls. The RCO or appropriate controller will assess fouls or dangerous fouls IAW AFI
11-2 series and AFI 11-214. Additionally, the RCO or appropriate controller uses the following
guidance to determine fouls and dangerous fouls.
3.10.2.1. Exceeding the 2000 ft (610 m) foul line during low-angle strafe is a foul. Exceeding
the 2,000 ft (610 m) foul line by more than 25 percent (firing closer than 1,500 ft (457 m) from
the target) during low-angle strafe constitutes a dangerous foul.
3.10.2.2. Performing a lazy pullout during low-angle strafe constitutes a foul or dangerous foul
depending on extent of transgression. In view of ricochet hazards associated with low-angle
strafe, lazy pullouts are not condoned and a foul will be assessed whenever the RCO or
appropriate controller determines that a strafe recovery lacks minimum positive characteristics.
A recovery from a hot pass that results in a gradual, shallow climb beyond the target constitutes a
dangerous foul.
3.10.2.3. Exceeding authorized dive angle parameters (5 minimum, 1 maximum) on a hot low
angle strafe pass is a foul. Firing from a dive angle in excess of 20 will expose the microphones
to bullet impacts and is a dangerous foul.
3.10.2.4. A double burst during strafe constitutes a foul. When the second burst on a low-angle
strafe pass is initiated past the 2,000 ft (610 m) foul line, the pilot will be charged with a
dangerous foul.
3.10.2.5. Firing on or bombing the wrong target, but not violating safety of flight requirements
warrants a gross error (GE) for that event.
3.10.2.6. Bombing the skip bomb target from dive angles exceeding 30 constitutes a foul.
3.10.2.7. Firing a rocket against a scored strafe or skip bomb target is a dangerous foul.
3.10.2.8. Excluding low-angle strafe, passes flown at dive angles less than the minimum
prescribed in AFI 11-2 series warrant an advisory. Except for low angle strafe, shallow passes
do not warrant a foul provided other minimums and restrictions are not violated.
3.10.2.9. Varying excessively from the published attack azimuth while expending or attempting
to expend ordnance is a foul. The RCO’s judgment determines excessive final attack azimuth
variations.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                             37


3.10.2.10. Any violation of flight or range safety constitutes a foul or dangerous foul depending
on the circumstance.
3.10.2.11. Expending ordnance without specific clearance is a dangerous foul. This includes
intentional multiple releases without prior approval.
3.10.2.12. When the overall performance of a flight member or an entire flight degrades control
or creates confusion, the RCO or appropriate controller may direct the flight member or entire
flight to leave the range.
3.10.2.13. Overflight or performing a bomb run with free-falling and/or forward-firing ordnance
on any occupied buildings, towers or manned location is a dangerous foul. Aircraft with
moveable guns, such as helicopters and gunships, may conduct dry fire training on occupied
buildings, towers or manned locations provided weapons are clear and safe.
3.10.2.14. Failure to advise the RCO or appropriate controller when exiting the range is a foul.
3.10.2.1. All gross errors, fouls, and dangerous fouls will be recorded on the RCO’s report form
and the pilot will immediately be advised. All fouls and dangerous fouls assessed shall be
forwarded to the user’s home base Supervisor of Flying (SOF) by the RCO. The RCO shall
direct aircrew committing two fouls or one dangerous foul to cease delivery and hold high and
dry, or depart the range. The RMO and A3 shall be advised of this action as soon as possible.
3.11. Emergency Procedures.
3.11.1. Emergency Airfields. Contact 27 SOSS Airspace Manger for a list of Emergency
Airfields in the local area.
3.11.2. Dropped Object and Inadvertent Release. Notify RCO.
3.11.3. Hung Ordnance and unsafe Gun Procedures. Aircraft recovering at Cannon AFB with
suspected or actual hung ordnance will contact Cannon RAPCON and request to fly a hung
ordnance pattern. If RAPCON is not available, avoid populated areas. Hung ordnance/Hot Gun
patterns will be executed in accordance with CANNONAFBI 13-201, or call DSN 681-4951,
Comm 575 784-4951).
3.11.3.1. Runaway Gun. In the event of a runaway gun following a firing pass, recover and fly
the appropriate geometry until the gun ceases to fire.
3.11.4. Jettison Procedures. Advise controlling agency IAW the above, except:
3.11.4.1. Airspeed. In accordance with MDS guidance.
3.11.4.2. Recommended altitude. In accordance with MDS guidance.
3.11.4.3. Post drop maneuver. In accordance with MDS guidance.
3.11.4.4. Jettison on T-92. N 34017.077 W 103 47.992 (Target 4,427 feet MSL).
3.11.4.5. External Stores Jettison Procedures: These procedures are not intended to deny pilots
the option of immediate jettison if, in their judgment, retention of external stores will jeopardize
aircraft or aircrew safety. The stores jettison area for Cannon AFB is located on the tactical
target complex on MAFR. Jettison passes will be controlled by the RCO, except as outlined in
para 3.11.4, and performed IAW Technical Order (TO) procedures.
 38                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.11.4.5.1. Day/VMC. For controlled jettison, the pilot will fly on a magnetic heading of 171 at
a safe escape altitude (1,000 feet AGL min.). Jettison the stores aiming towards any heavy
weight target.
3.11.4.5.2. Night or IMC. Radar assistance for controlled, IFR, external stores jettison or bail
out is available from Cannon RAPCON. If the aircraft requires this assistance, and the range is
active, the RAPCON shall coordinate with the range RCO for the use of the restricted airspace
and retain the aircraft on RAPCON frequency. The RCO shall clear any known traffic out of R-
5104/5105 and release the required airspace to CVS RAPCON. Pilots will fly outbound on the
CVS 290R to intercept the 25 DME arc, arc south, and initiate external stores jettison when
passing the CVS 249R heading 178.
3.11.4.5.3. Live heavyweight ordnance (500 lb.-2,000 lb.) will only be jettisoned by aircraft
during an actual emergency that presents hazard to aircraft and crew.
3.11.4.5.4. Aircraft departing Cannon AFB with live ordnance and declaring an in-flight
emergency may head directly to MAFR if jettison is required.
3.11.4.5.5. The live ordnance jettison area is T-92, located just East of the South end of the
runway.
3.11.4.5.6. All jettison passes will be controlled by the RCO, except as directed in para
3.11.4.5.2, and performed IAW TO procedures.
3.11.4.5.7. WISS will immediately switch to the T-92 camera database to record all objects and
explosions.
3.11.4.5.8. RCO will count all objects released. If any unexploded munitions are expected
outside the approved impact areas and buffer zones, then the RCO will close the range until EOD
can render the area safe.
3.11.4.5.9. Jettison cannot be performed without radio contact with the RCO when the range is
open and in DAY/VMC. When the range is inactive, contact CP at UHF: 311 or VHF: 123.275,
if possible. Contact the RCO using range frequencies. When the range is inactive a dry clearing
pass must be attempted before jettison.
3.11.4.5.10. Aircraft will fly down the T-20 run-in line on a magnetic heading of 170 and at an
altitude that ensures safe escape. Impact point is T-92. The coordinates are N 34- 17.077, W
103-47.992
3.11.4.5.11. Radio Failure. When radio failure is recognized, do not expend ordnance.
Maintain assigned altitude and spacing and attempt contact on range B/U VHF 122.7 or
emergency UHF 243.0If contact cannot be established, orbit 1,000 ft above the highest briefed
pattern. Squawk 7600 and depart range at appropriate exit point.
3.11.4.5.12. Aircraft Emergency. When an aircraft emergency is experienced, the pilot will
advise the flight lead and RCO of the nature of the emergency and intentions. If an emergency
return to Cannon is required, the pilot should notify the RCO and depart the range in the most
expeditious manner. The pilot should also contact Cannon RAPCON or Cannon Tower for
landing instructions and required assistance. The RCO has a hotline to Cannon Tower and can
advise them of the pilot’s intentions.
3.11.4.6. Air Refueling Hose Jettison Procedures.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                          39


3.11.4.6.1. Aircraft will coordinate with the RCO/RSO to jettison refueling hoses in the most
appropriate location, the primary location is the inert target area. RCO/RSO will coordinate with
A3 for jettisoned hose reporting and collection.
3.11.4.7. C-130 Round Jettison.
3.11.4.7.1. Round jettison procedures for AC-130 are used when a round fails to fire but can be
extracted from the weapon. The procedure is highly controlled and must be completed once
started. The round is extracted from the weapon and physically dropped from a port on the
aircraft onto the impact area. This is an emergency procedure (EP). The aircraft will call
“KNOCK IT OFF” on MAFR range frequency. All other aircraft on range will hold until EP
aircraft leaves the range and the round position is recorded.
3.11.4.7.2. All C-130 round jettison actions will be conducted IAW SOGOI 11-201 (AFSOC
SharePoint: https://eis.afsoc.af.mil/sites/27SOG/OGV/default.aspx or call DSN 681-4951,
Comm 575 784-4951).
3.11.4.7.3. Class A Range.
3.11.4.7.3.1. Aircraft will contact RCO with heading, KTAS and coordinates of munition
impact. Provide coordinates at jettison if available. RCO will notify 27 SOW/CP and the RMO.
3.11.4.7.3.2. The CP will notify 27 SOCES/CED to safe and remove the munition if it is not on
an approved impact area or buffer zones.
3.11.4.7.4. Class B.
3.11.4.7.4.1. Aircrew will immediately inform CP of any ejected round with heading, KTAS and
coordinates of munitions impact.
3.11.4.7.4.2. The CP will notify the RMO, (DSN 681-2878, COMM 575-784-2878 immediately
if before 1600 hrs local or NLT 0700 the next duty day if after 1600 hrs via email to the
following e-mail boxes: 27 SOAOS/RMO, 27 SOSS Melrose BG OPS, 27 SOSS Melrose ECR
OPS).
3.11.4.7.4.3. The CP will notify 27 SOCES/CED to safe and remove the munition if it is not on
an approved impact area or buffer zones.
3.11.
4.7.4.4. The RSO and all ground and target maintenance in the immediate area of ejected
munition will cease until released or declared safe by 27 SOCES/CED.

WARNING: Only EOD personnel are authorized to move any ejected or jettisoned round.
Failure to comply could result in serious injury or death.

3.11.4.7.5. If the jettisoned round is not ejected onto the hazard area, 27 SOW/CP must notify
the RMO by telephone immediately regardless of the time.
3.11.4.8. If a jettisoned bomb impacts outside the hazard area, but within range real estate, the
range mission may continue with RCO clearance provided no damage or fire has resulted.
 40                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.11.4.9. Inadvertent or Off-Range Expenditure. Crews will report all inadvertent or off-range
releases to the RCO with the following information:

       1. Time and description of incident.
       2. Type of released object.
       3. Location of impact point if known.
       4. Call sign and type aircraft. NOTE: Crews will note switch positions, safe up, and
       then RTB using hung ordnance procedures.

3.11.4.10. RCO will contact CP who will then notify the appropriate agencies per the
Inadvertent or Off Range Expenditure checklist.
3.11.5. Medical Emergency and Evacuation Plan.
3.11.5.1. Notification. If any emergency that requires immediate medical attention, fire or
downed aircraft the contractor or team safety POC shall immediately notify the RCO/RSO who
will then notify the appropriate agencies.
3.11.5.1. In the event of a medical emergency the RCO/RSO will implement the MAFR Medical
Emergency Checklist. Copies of this checklist will be maintained in the RCO tower, RCO office
and on the MAFR website.
3.11.5.2. The ROA will designate high risk activities that will require pre-staged ambulance
crews. See para 1.4.1.1.1
3.11.5.3. MAFR does not have a dedicated helicopter to respond to medical evacuation
emergencies, ground transportation is the primary means for moving injured personnel. If a
military helicopter is airborne and available, RCO will direct them to the designated pickup site.
The unit must be prepared to assist the aircraft. Depending on injuries, terrain and on-site
corpsman evaluation, the injured person should be moved to a better location for pick up.
3.11.5.3.1. Required information when requesting Emergency Medical Support.

       1. Location of pickup site (MGRS, building number, road intersection, etc).
       2. Radio frequency, phone number, call sign and suffix.
       3. Number of patients by precedence.
           1-Urgent 2-Priority 3-Routine
       4. Special equipment required.
       5. Number of patients by type (litter/ambulatory).
       6. Number and type of wound, injury or illness.
       7. Method of marking pickup sites (LZ).
       8. Patient's nationality and status (military/civilian).
       9. Terrain description.

3.11.5.4. Personnel reporting emergencies will not break communications with the RCO until
released. All medical evacuations regardless of type or reason will be reported to the RCO.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                            41


3.11.5.5. Medical transport crews will consist of one Advance Emergency Technician (AEMT)
and one Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT).
3.11.5.6. MAFR Emergency Ground Evacuation procedures.
3.11.5.6.1. In the event of an emergency evacuation all personnel will rally at Melrose Tire at
intersection of U.S. Hwy 60 and NM Hwy 267 or as directed by the incident commander.
3.11.5.6.2. The minimum number of personnel required shall remain at MAFR to assist in
emergency response as the situation dictates. Personnel shall observe minimum safe distances at
all times as determined by the competent controlling authority.
3.11.5.6.3. Personnel shall evacuate the range by the most direct safe route. All sensitive
information must be secured and security measures followed.
3.11.5.6.4. The RCO will notify the 27 SOW/CP as soon as possible after an event requires the
emergency checklist.
3.11.6. Controlled Aircraft Abandonment/Bailout. In accordance with MDS guidance.
3.11.6.1. IMC: Advise RCO of imminent activity. Proceed to MAFR T-20 (N34 18.1621W103
48.2256 4378'), fly over T-20 on a heading of 170º abandon/eject / when 1 NM south of T-20.
3.11.6.2. IMC (with no INS/GPS). Fly the CVS 290R outbound and arc south at 25 DME,
vectors available from CVS RAPCON. Eject/jettison passing the 249R HDG 178˚.
3.11.6.3. VMC. Advise RCO of imminent activity.           Fly south down the T-20 run-in line.
eject/jettison passing south of the range tower.
3.11.6.4. Maintain 2,000 feet AGL minimum and less than 250 KIAS for ejection.
3.11.7. Off DZ Drop or malfunction procedures.
3.11.7.1. Drop Zone (DZ) personnel will immediately report the incident to the RCO/RSO.
3.11.7.2. DZ personnel will provide emergency markings, marshaling, advisories and control for
evacuation of injured personnel. DZ personnel will remain in charge on scene until relieved by
MAFR personnel or other competent authority.
3.11.7.3. DZ personnel will conduct an immediate limited weather observation that includes
surface winds, mean effective winds (if equipment is available), estimated ceiling and visibility,
obstructions to vision and any observed abnormalities. If on MAFR, request their current
weather information (winds, altimeter, etc.).
3.11.7.4. DZ personnel will provide a comprehensive written narrative of the situation including,
but not limited to, time of incident, injuries to personnel, equipment/aircraft damage, civilian or
military property damage, all personnel involved, weather observations given to the aircraft and
special weather observations taken following the incident, type of mission, type of aircraft,
operating frequencies, 10-digit Universal Time Mercator grid coordinates of incident, and
estimated location in reference to the LZ/DZ/HLZ.
3.11.7.5. DZ personnel will record and document each detail for all incidents, accidents and
malfunctions, and be available to answer questions about events on the drop zone for users,
range authorities, and/or the host squadron.
3.11.7.6. DZ reports the information to the designated investigations officer.
 42                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.11.7.7. Aircraft will follow current AFI 13-217, AFJ(I) 13-210 and SOGOI 11-201 guidance
for off DZ airdrops or malfunctions.
3.11.8. Weather Impact to RCO operations.
3.11.8.1. The RCO will evacuate the control tower when surface winds reach 40 knots or at a
point that the RCO deems unsafe, or if the temperature inside the tower reaches 90 degrees. The
RCO will notify Cannon CP and A3 that the range is in a Class B operation, dry passes only.
The RCO will monitor the primary UHF frequency from the main building and notify aircraft of
the range status if they call.
3.11.9. Lost Personnel.
3.11.9.1. The lost person’s organization is responsible for conducting a search in accordance
with unit policy and procedures.
3.11.9.2. Required information provided to the RCO when requesting Lost Person’s assistance.

       1. Name, rank, and unit of lost individual.
       2. Date, time, and location last seen.
       3. Individuals physical status (injured, uninjured).
       4. Type of training being conducted at time of disappearance.
       5. Known sensitive items being carried by individual (weapons, NVGs, etc.).

3.11.10. Unexploded Ordnance (UXOs).
3.11.10.1. Handling or removing UXOs by unauthorized personnel is not permitted. Only
authorized EOD personnel will handle UXOs.
3.11.10.2. Report all UXOs to the RCO immediately upon detection. The RCO will notify EOD
personnel if removal of UXO is required to continue training.
3.11.10.3. Required UXO notification information provided to RCO.

       1. Number of UXOs.
       2. Type and caliber of UXOs.
       3. Coordinates of the UXOs.
       4. Location of terrain features.
       5. Method by which UXO area will be marked.
       6. Names of individuals who will assist EOD.
       7. Name, unit, and phone number of person making report.

3.12. Chaff, Flare and Electronic Attack Procedures:

Table 3.1. Chaff/Flare Restrictions on MAFR.

EXPENDITURE RANGE                  RANGE CLASS A        RANGE CLASS B       RANGE CLASS C
            CONDITION
AIRCRAFT         GREEN             >700 feet AGL        >2000 feet AGL      >2000 feet AGL
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                            43


FLARES                              see note 1*           See note 2*          See note 2*
                  YELLOW            >5000 feet AGL        >5000 feet AGL       >5000 feet AGL
                                                          See note 2*          See note 2*
                  RED               >5000 feet AGL        >5000 feet AGL       >5000 feet AGL
                                                          See note 2*          See note 2*
CHAFF             N/A               <2000 feet AGL        <2000 feet AGL       <2000 feet AGL


NOTE 1: 700ft AGL applies only to flare dispenses over the approved impact areas. All
dispenses outside of approved impact areas are restricted to 2000ft AGL under Class A green
conditions.

NOTE 2: EXCEPTION: Flares will not be expended without RCO approval when the National
Fire Danger Rating System (NFDRS) indicates HIGH or greater. National Fire Danger Rating
can be found on the Wildland Fire Assessment System at
http://www.wfas.net/index.php/fire-danger-rating-fire-potential--danger-32.
3.12.1. Flare expenditures within MAFR. Flares are authorized within MAFR airspace. Flights
must be specifically scheduled for flares and receive clearance from the RCO prior to dispensing
due to fire hazard. Flares will not be expended over populated areas, personnel or structures.
Minimum release altitude over MAFR is 700 feet AGL.
3.12.1.1. If there is no RCO present, flares may be expended at or above 2,000 feet AGL.
3.12.1.2. Chaff Procedures. All chaff employment must be scheduled through wing scheduling.
With RCO control there is no altitude restriction. When an RCO is not present, chaff will be
dispensed below 2,000 feet AGL.
3.12.1.2.1. The RCO may require a test dispersal to determine wind effect.
3.12.1.2.2. Chaff is not authorized when forecast winds are above 50KTS at or below their
expected level of release. Aircrews will monitor GUARD and cease chaff operations when RCO
directs or when ‘‘BIG PHOTO STOP BURST” is transmitted on GUARD. Chaff operations
may resume on the next pass unless otherwise directed. Wind conditions and complexity of air
traffic may make it necessary for RCO to disapprove/terminate chaff dispersal.
3.12.1.2.3. Flight lead or single ship will ensure that chaff is not employed under any conditions
that would cause it to drift outside of the scheduled working area. At no time will chaff be
dispensed when altitude winds exceed 50 KTS.

Table 3.2. Ground Flare/Smoke restrictions on MAFR.

 EXPENDITURE        RANGE               RANGE CLASS A       RANGE CLASS B        RANGE CLASS C
                    CONDITION
 FLARES             GREEN               NO                  NO                   NOT PERMITTED
                                        RESTRICTIONS        RESTRICTIONS
                    YELLOW              WIND                WIND
                                        LIMITATION          LIMITATION
 44                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


                                       <24-34KTS           <24-34KTS
                                       SUSTAINED OR        SUSTAINED OR
                                       GUST                GUST
                   RED                 NOT                 NOT PERMITTED
                                       PERMITTED
 SMOKE             GREEN               NO                  NO
 MUNITIONS                             RESTRICTIONS        RESTRICTIONS
                   YELLOW              WIND                WIND
                                       LIMITATION          LIMITATION
                                       <24-34KTS           <24-34KTS
                                       SUSTAINED OR        SUSTAINED OR
                                       GUST                GUST
                   RED                 NOT                 NOT PERMITTED
                                       PERMITTED
 SMOKEY SAM        GREEN               NO                  NO
                                       RESTRICTIONS        RESTRICTIONS
                   YELLOW              WIND                WIND
                                       LIMITATION          LIMITATION
                                       <24-34KTS           <24-34KTS
                                       SUSTAINED OR        SUSTAINED OR
                                       GUST                GUST
                   RED                 NOT                 NOT PERMITTED
                                       PERMITTED

3.12.2.1. Smoke Munitions. Unless otherwise specified, all smoke munitions will be launched
within range hazard areas and every effort will be made by the aircrew to deploy the devices as
close as possible to authorized targets. The RCO may deny smoke munitions and/or flare usage
when the fire hazard is high due to winds and dry foliage IAW the fire matrix and prevailing fire
condition.
3.12.2.2. MK-18 smoke munitions MK-6 flare logs and pyro pistol flares may be deployed by
helicopter crews no lower than 50 feet AGL and will be deployed only within the plowed area
surrounding T 20. NOTE: MK-6 flare logs must be deployed at the beginning of range
operations due to their 40-minute burn time.
3.12.3. Chaff/Flare Procedures in Pecos, Sumner ATCAA and Taiban MOAs.

Table 3.3. Chaff/Flare restrictions on Pecos, Sumner ATCAA, and Taiban.

 EXPENDITURE FIRE DANGER                ALTITUDE
             RATING                     APPROVED
 AIRCRAFT           LOW-                >2000 FT AGL
 FLARES             MODERATE
                    HIGH –              >5000FT AGL
                    EXTREME
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                          45


 CHAFF              N/A                 <2000 ft AGL

3.12.3.1. Flights must be specifically scheduled for chaff prior to dispensing. Chaff maybe
dispensed from below 2000ft AGL unless ATC approves chaff employment at higher altitude.
3.12.3.1.1. Wind conditions and traffic complexity may make it necessary for ATC to
disapprove the chaff drop.
3.12.3.2. Flare procedures within Pecos, Sumner ATCAA, and Taiban. Flights must be
specifically scheduled for flares prior to dispensing. Flares will not be expended over populated
areas, personnel or structures. Minimum release altitude is 2,000 feet AGL.
3.12.3.2.1. When the NDRS indicates high fire conditions or above, the minimum altitude will
be raised to above 5,000 feet AGL.
3.12.3.2.2. Aircrew will check the NFDRS status for their scheduled MOA as part of flight
planning.
3.12.3.3. Electronic Warfare Employment Procedures.
3.12.3.3.1. Electronic Attack (EA) training in the United States and Canada will be conducted
IAW CJCSM 3212.02B, Enclosure C, and all applicable directives. If EA is suspected as the
source of radio frequency interference, the nearest ATC facility or the Frequency Control and
Analysis (FCA) office can stop and put on hold any EA in emergency situations by transmitting
on guard the unclassified brevity coded words ―CEASE BUZZER. This should also be
followed by contacting the FCA immediately if ATC is the issuing authority. EA training
outside the United States and Canada will comply with all host nation/state agreements and
applicable directives.
3.12.3.3.2. Radio discipline and OPSEC will be maintained during all forms of EA training to
prevent disclosure of classified information.
3.12.3.3.3. Flight leads, individual pilots, and EWOs are responsible for ensuring that EA is not
conducted outside of the areas and times scheduled.
3.12.3.3.4. Frequency interference problems will be identified by the RMO to the responsible
organization’s operations officer for immediate resolution.
3.13. Ground Party Procedures.
3.13.1. Safety.
3.13.1.1. All ground users must receive MAFR Safety Brief and Laser Safety Brief from the
RMO. Each unit or team conducting training on MAFR shall assign an individual as the safety
POC. This person must receive a range orientation from the RMO prior to any training.
3.13.1.2. All small arms live fire events must be coordinated through the RMO.
3.13.1.3. No live fire events will occur without MAFR firefighting personnel present.
3.13.1.4. Either the ROO or SFOR can terminate range activities due to the range operations
condition matrix. Typically, the Melrose ROO and SFOR will determine if planned events are
allowed within the range operations condition matrix.
 46                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.13.1.5. The RCO and the RMO must be notified of any incident causing injury to personnel on
the range as soon as possible. The event will be recorded in the RCO log.
3.13.2. Communications.
3.13.2.1. All persons/units/teams will maintain radio communications with RCO when an RCO
is on duty at the range. When an RCO is not present, all units/teams must have a briefed Safety
Official and must maintain communication with 27 SOW Command Post. All safety officials
must be briefed by the RMO on range safety procedures and communication protocol.
3.13.2.2. The RCO will assign call signs, if necessary, for ground parties for radio
communications. The call signs in Table 3.4 are reserved.

Table 3.4. Melrose Air Force Range Reserved Call Signs.

 Unit                                            Call sign
 27 SOW/XP                                       XP
 27 SOAOS/RMO                                    Range Ops
 27 SOW/XP-RMO RCO                               Melrose Tower
 27 SOSS/OSZ LZ/DZ                               Tailpipe
 27 SOSS/OSZ Observer                            Watchman
 27 SOSS/OSJ                                     Scorpion
 27 SOSS/OPFOR                                   OPFOR
 27 SOCES/CEAN                                   Prairie Dog
 Smokey Sam Support                              Smokey
 MAFR Contractor                                 [Company Name]

3.13.2.3. All ground traffic entering the hazard area MUST request permission from the RCO
before entering. All ground traffic shall be in two-way radio communication with the RCO or be
escorted by a vehicle that has two-way radio communications with the RCO at all times. Stop
signs are posted at all entry points to the hazard area advising the drivers to “Contact the RCO
before proceeding beyond this point.” All instructions given by the RCO MUST be followed.
3.13.2.4. Prior to changing operating areas users will inform the RCO of their intentions and
receive clearance from the RCO. Users will not change operating areas without clearance from
the RCO. Users will report arrival at new operating area with the RCO.
3.13.2.5. Prior to exiting Melrose AFR, personnel will check in with the RCO and inform them
of their exit time and location. Ensure that all equipment signed out from the B&G Complex is
returned prior to exiting Melrose AFR.
3.13.2.6. Prior to entry on MAFR (exclusive use or restricted leased land, to include operating
on the firebreak), users will contact Melrose Tower on range frequency or via cell phone (575-
784-6646). Ground users will provide the RCO with their mission number, destination on
MAFR, how many personnel in their group, and the number of vehicles in the group. The RCO
will verify the mission number in the CSE database. Without a valid mission number the RCO
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                           47


will not allow ground personnel to enter MAFR. All users will, on arrival at MAFR, proceed to
the B&G Complex to receive a final safety briefing, verify their destinations with the RCO and
sign out any equipment (laser eye protection, radios, etc.).
3.13.2.7. First time users will receive the “New User Briefing” from the RMO and review this
Addendum to AFI 13-212 prior to arriving at Melrose AFR.
3.13.2.8. Environmental impact. Any visiting ground units need to let the environmental office
know in advance of any hazardous materials they are bringing and plan on using at the range and
if they are generating a waste stream.
3.13.3. The Melrose Small Arms Range.
3.13.3.1. The small arms range is available for use by any organizations with the approval of the
RMO. The following procedures will be followed during the operations of this range.
3.13.3.2. Users may install silhouette targets on the small arms range for training requirements.
Users are responsible for site cleanup. All range set up and cleanup operations must occur
during the scheduled range time.
3.13.3.3. Only the authorized weapons listed on the MAFR website will be allowed on the small
arms range. If training requires the use of other weapons the user will coordinate through the
RMO before scheduling the range.
3.13.3.4. Prior to the commencement of live fire the RCO or authorized controllers will inform
the user when the hazard area is clear of personnel. The RCO/authorized controllers will then
delegate control of the small arms range to the user for live fire operations. The RCO/authorized
controller will always maintain overall control of the range and may call a cease-fire at any time
as deemed necessary. The user will maintain radio contact with the RCO/authorized controller
and advise such of termination of live fire operations.
3.13.3.5. During small arms range operations the RCO or authorized controller will ensure safe
movement of personnel.
3.13.3.6. Simultaneous small arms range operations and aircraft operations will be coordinated
through the RMO and wing scheduling.
3.13.3.7. When small arms range operations are approved during Class A or Class B range by
the ROO, the organization in charge of the training is responsible for the safe operations and
security of the range. Fire department and HEO support is mandatory.
3.13.3.7.1. The small arms range will not be scheduled during the use of Page/Chariot drop
zones.
3.13.3.8. Fire suppression resources are required to be present at MAFR during small arms
range operations. Fire suppression resources are defined IAW the Melrose Range Operations
Condition Matrix.
3.13.4. Range SERE Operations.
3.13.4.1. SERE training on MAFR must be scheduled through wing scheduling.
3.13.4.2. On-site SERE Specialist duties and responsibilities.
 48                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


3.13.4.2.1. Ensure all training personnel under their control will comply with this addendum and
all instructions received from the range tower.
3.13.4.2.2. Maintain a record of all personnel involved in SERE training at the range.
3.13.4.2.3. Must maintain the capability of radio communications with the RCO. Obtain a range
radio from the contractor for two-way communications with the RCO if necessary.
3.13.4.2.4. Request the current range fire danger condition from the tower.
3.13.4.2.5. Request approval from the tower to cross the range and exit gate four and advise the
tower when returning through Gate 4 when crossing the hazard area.
3.13.4.2.6. Obtain approval from the tower to set off any pyrotechnic signaling devices.
3.13.4.2.7. Ensure a minimum of three foot radius free of combustible material around
pyrotechnic signaling devises or around any Mk18 smoke grenades. A minimum of a 10 foot
radius free of combustible material is required around any ground burst simulator or hand
grenade simulators.
3.13.4.2.8. Verify that MAFR firefighters are available to respond to any possible fires and
ensure that a fire extinguisher is on hand before expending pyrotechnic signaling devices, gyro
jets, ground burst simulators, hand grenade simulators, or smoke grenades.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                           49


                                         CHAPTER 4

                    ELECTRONIC COMBAT RANGE PROCEDURES

4.1. Purpose. The purpose of this addendum is to provide site-specific guidance for range users
and operators and to establish policies and procedures for Melrose Electronic Combat Range
(ECR) operations. This instruction is to be used in conjunction with applicable publications as
the primary instruction for performing all activity conducted at this range. This document may
also be supplemented by special instructions for special missions such as operational readiness
exercises, unit surges, etc. Range operators and users should reference the following documents
in conjunction with this addendum for comprehensive ECR operations guidance: AFI 13-212,
ACCI 10-707, and AFTTP 3-1 (S/NF).
4.1.1. Melrose ECR provides an electronic combat training environment that supports a variety
of military missions. The ECR ground equipment presents a realistic Electronic Order of Battle
(EOB), evaluates operability of airborne jamming equipment and creates an environment for
aircrew to train against a multitude of real world threat systems.
4.1.2. Melrose EC personnel will maintain this instruction and associated directives in a location
readily available.
4.1.3. The Ground Electronic Combat Operations (call sign GECCO) main site is located inside
restricted area R-5104 (MAFR) on the western mesa (N34 degrees-17.2’, W103 degrees-49.0’).
The main site is the location of MUTES, TRAINS, TRTG, RIIS/ITAS, and Smokey SAMS.
4.2. Scheduling. Specific time periods for ECR operations are coordinated with wing
scheduling. Scheduling ECR mission support is independent of airspace scheduling and must be
scheduled separately through wing scheduling. However, ECR activity can be scheduled in
conjunction with R5104/5105 or the PECOS/TAIBAN MOA air space. Scheduling ECR activity
does not automatically schedule R5104/5105 or MOA time. ECR must be scheduled 2 weeks in
advance. Reference section 2.1.3 for further scheduling information. Use of the SA scheduling
form is mandatory for all units not assigned to Cannon AFB. NOTE: RC-135s and AWACS do
not need to schedule the range and/or airspace in order to use ECM.
4.2.1. The flying schedule is subject to change during the vulnerability period. Check for
updates or changes prior to making an attempt to schedule activity.
4.2.2. Melrose ECR operators will attempt to support all aircrew activities requested by
aircrews. ECR personnel are authorized to conduct training and maintenance during inactive
periods. During this time the schedule and radios will be monitored. Site personnel should
anticipate no-notice initial point calls (Bootleg Aircraft) during vulnerability hours and will
attempt to accommodate mission activity. During periods of two or more hours of inactivity,
work centers may coordinate with ECR operations staff to take the equipment off-line for
maintenance. However the system shall be capable of full operation with 30 minutes of notice.
4.2.3. GECCO block times must be scheduled with wing scheduling then, EC mission support
must be coordinated with GECCO by phone, email or unclassified fax. Mission information and
activity requests should be provided to GECCO no later than 4 hours prior to mission start time.
Specific threat activity can also be scheduled via fax, phone or on the range web page at
https://melroserange.cannon.af.mil/, then select Electronic Combat (GECCO) from the left
 50                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


drop down, then select ACTIVITY REQUEST. Check the Melrose ECR website for current
range fax and phone numbers. When faxing or e-mailing EC request, follow up with a phone
call to ensure it was received.
4.3. Events. Refer to the MAFR website for current event/scenario availability.
4.4. Restrictions. See para 2.2 and 3.10 for range restrictions and fouls.        There are no
additional Electronic Combat restrictions.
4.5. Communications.
4.5.1. Frequencies for air to ground communications are as follows:

       GECCO Primary Frequency: 275.950 MHz.
       Melrose Weapons Range, UHF: 376.1 MHz.
       Melrose Weapons Range, UHF Secondary: 289.55 MHz.
       Melrose Weapons Range, VHF 122.7 MHz.
       Pecos MOA tactical frequency, UHF: 255.5 MHz.

4.5.2. Melrose EC Range operators will monitor UHF and VHF range frequencies however
routine Melrose EC Range mission radio traffic will be conducted on UHF 275.950. If
scheduled into MAFR, R5104/5105, contacts the RCO, then call Melrose EC Range to initiate
pre-coordinated threat run. Melrose EC Range will not transmit on range primary frequency
unless given specific clearance by the RCO.
4.5.3. Aircrews will cease jamming when ‘‘CEASE BUZZER” is called on GUARD frequency.
If the affected EW frequency band is identified during the call, jamming may be resumed except
on the specified frequency.
4.5.4. Do not discuss classified information over the radios.
4.5.5. When threat emitter capability is degraded or lost during mission activity GECCO will
attempt to contact and advise aircrews of the mission impact.
4.6. Tactics. Equipment Status Determination. ECR mission equipment supports a wide variety
of aircraft with a diverse array of electronic combat training needs. As a result, when equipment
sub-assemblies fail, all mission needs must be taken in to account to determine whether
equipment is partial mission capable or non-mission capable.
4.6.1. The range contractor should make every effort to support mission activity, even when
equipment operations are degraded due to sub-assembly failures. If a system is partially capable
of supporting missions carried out at MAFR, the system will be considered AMBER and
documented as such. MUTES and Mini-MUTES will not be considered non-mission capable
(RED) based on bomber scenario. When MUTES/Mini-MUTES embedded test equipment is
removed from the system, the equipment will be considered partial mission capable (AMBER).
4.6.2. Degraded equipment performance does not necessarily render a system non-mission
capable. For example, when transmitter ferrite modulator performance is degraded consideration
should be given to the specific functions of each signal, such as Mono-Pulse or Lobe On Receive
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                            51


Only, before considering transmitters RED. Reference AFTTP 3-1 Threat Reference Guide and
MUTES Signal Definition Antenna Scan Rate tables for further analysis of signal functionality.
4.6.3. In the event that clarification is needed to determine equipment status, the RMO will
make the final determination based on EW mission training needs.
4.7. Operations. Since MUTES and Mini-MUTES use IFF to acquire and track targets,
aircrews will pass their IFF codes to GECCO Operations prior to mission activity. All Cannon
aircraft shall squawk a prior coordinated Mode II code setting when utilizing Melrose ECR.
Those that do not wish to be intentionally tracked will squawk Mode II STANDBY. All aircraft
must squawk Mode C.
4.7.1. Melrose ECR supports mission activity for a variety of aircraft operating in multiple
blocks of air space. It is possible that other aircraft may inadvertently fly through the “beam” of
another aircraft’s electronic warfare activity and receive unwanted signals. The affected aircrew
flight lead may contact the RCO if unwanted EC activity is received. The RCO will coordinate
with GECCO and advise the aircrew if the signal activity is directed toward another aircraft.
4.7.2. Melrose ECR generates a site option EW scenario for aircraft that do not coordinate
specific signal activity in advance. Defensive calls are made by aircraft on GECCO or range
frequencies in response to threats. “CEASE BUZZER” calls will prompt GECCO operators to
terminate emitter signals for that particular aircrew.
4.7.3. MUTES and mini-MUTES are IFF trackers so evaluation of chaff, flare, and aircraft
maneuvers is extremely limited. When pilots react to threats, a “DEFENSIVE THREAT” call
should be made over the UHF radio, i.e., “DEFENDING ‘SYSTEM X’ BEARING 268 FOR
20!” Defensive calls will prompt GECCO operators to react in accordance with pre-coordinated
mission activity requests.
4.7.4. After landing, aircrews may call GECCO for further debrief information.
4.7.5. Bombers and other aircraft with dual UHF radio capability may call weak and undetected
signals immediately after runs are completed.
4.7.6. During periods when there are observed lighting strikes within five miles of the complex,
ECR operators will power down radars to avoid damage. Smokey SAMs will be unavailable at
this time as well. When lightning danger no longer exists radars will be returned to operational
status. NOTE: It takes the MUTES one minute to be fully operational after power is restored.
Melrose EC personnel will contact 27 SOW/ CP to advise them of power down and restoration
of site operation.
4.8. Simulators. The following range systems and capabilities are available.
4.8.1. Route Integration Instrumentation System/Integrated Tactics Assessment System
(RIIS/ITAS). RIIS is a data processing system used to transmit real-time mission information to
the RIIS Operations Center at Nellis AFB, NV. Use of RIIS/ITAS requires passage of Mode III
code settings to GECCO for proper feedback to be recorded.
4.8.2. MUTES. AN/MST-TIA, Multiple Threat Emitter System. The MUTES provides a wide
variety of Surface to Air Missile (SAM), Anti-Aircraft Artillery (AAA), Early Warning (EW)
and Airborne Intercept (AI) simulations.
 52                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


4.8.3. Mini-MUTES: AN/MST-T1 (V). Mini-MUTES are smaller, unmanned, remotely located
versions of the MUTES. Sites are located throughout the PECOS MOA. For Mini-MUTES site
locations, threat capabilities, and status review the Melrose ECR website.
4.8.4. TRAINS: AN/MSR-T4, Threat Reaction Analysis and Indicator System. TRAINS is a
receiver designed to capture, record and analyze airborne jamming and ECM.
4.8.5. TRTG: AN/VPQ-l, Tactical Radar Threat Generator. The TRTG is a "J" band AAA and
SAM threat simulator. The system is mobile with the radar shelter mounted on a transport
vehicle or trailer. Radar video is superimposed with camera video and displayed on the
television monitor for the operator. Tactical engagement feedback is available via fax. Video
tape recording is available in VHS formats upon request.
4.8.6. Smokey SAM: LMU-24. The Smokey SAM is a polyurethane rocket that simulates
surface to air attack from Man Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS). Smokey SAMS
provide a realistic visual cue to pilots to enhance combat realism and tactics training.
4.8.7. Radar Warning Receiver Low-Cost Threat Emitter (RWRLTE). RWRLTE is a stand-
alone, low-cost threat emitter with sufficient strength and fidelity to be recognized as threat radar
on CAF aircraft. RWRLTE simulate SAM/AAA systems operating from 6-18 GHz. The unit is
capable of simulating frequency characteristics of certain hostile SAM radar, AAA, and ground
radar sites. The RWRLTE is tuned to either H or I Band.
4.9. Feedback. Feedback can be provided to the ROO at DSN 681-2878, COMM 575-784-
2878.
4.9.1. Engagement Reports. GECCO will fax threat emitter engagement reports to range users
as requested.
4.9.2. Monthly Range Activity Reports (RARs) will be submitted to the ROO.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                                53


                                           CHAPTER 5

                 RANGE CONTROL/SAFETY OFFICER PROCEDURES

5.1. Responsibilities. The RCO shall be responsible for the control of all flight and ground
operations whenever Class A operations are being conducted. The RCO/RSO will control all
ground movement in Class B operations (see para 3.1.2). The primary responsibility of the
RCO/RSO is the control of range operations in accordance with all applicable regulations, and to
prevent or eliminate unsafe practices through close supervision of range operational missions and
related ground support. The control responsibility and authority of the RCO/RSO does not
assume final authority and responsibilities of the aircraft commander or flight lead for aircraft
operations except when operations repeatedly violate standard procedures or create a dangerous
situation. The RCO/RSO must be continually aware of the requirement for effective and
efficient mission accomplishment within the confines of flying, ground safety and range
capabilities. Regulations cannot cover all possible restrictions and limitations. RCO/RSOs must
use good judgment and common sense while controlling aircraft and ground activities.
5.1.1. To ensure safe range flight operations, the RCO/RSO has authority to:

       1. Control aircraft access to the range or any part of the range.
       2. Direct aircraft to leave the range at any time.
       3. Assign aircraft altitude, direction, speed, and pattern.
       4. Control target approach and weapons delivery.
       5. Close any range facility, target, strafe pit, or hazard area and aircraft use thereof at any
       time.
       6. Control ground party access to range hazard areas and facilities at any time.
       7. Call “KNOCK IT OFF” to all range operations in the event of a ground emergency
       requiring immediate attention. The RCO/RSO will assume operational control of
       emergency response until first responders are on scene and is relieved by the appropriate
       authorized on-scene commander.

5.1.2. RCO procedures are outlined and maintained by the RMO and the contractor in the range
contract performance work statement.
5.1.3. Bird Activity. The RCO will notify all flights entering the range of any possible problems
with large birds in the range impact airspace area.
5.2. Checkout/Certification Procedures and Checklist. The RCO/RSO shall follow the
established Range and Tower checklists.
5.2.1. The Chief RCO shall compose a written open book examination on applicable
instructions, regulations, topics and issues. Passing score is 85 percent. Critique incorrect
answers to 100 percent. The Chief RCO will, after being qualified, maintain and administer the
RCO Test.
5.2.2. On-range demonstration consists of day and night qualification. Day qualification shall
be a prerequisite to night qualification.
 54                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


5.2.3. Day. Each upgrading RCO shall observe a qualified RCO to demonstrate proper methods
and techniques for controlling aircraft during air-to-ground operations. After observing at least
four flights conducting range operations, the upgrading RCO shall control at least four flights
under the supervision of the qualified RCO.
5.2.4. Night, to qualify for night RCO duties, each upgrading RCO shall observe at least two
night flights and control at least two night flights under the supervision of a night qualified RCO.
5.2.5. Certification shall be documented by the Chief RCO.
5.2.6. In the event the contractor cannot provide a qualified RCO to conduct on-range training
and qualification, assistance shall be requested from the Contracting Officer’s Representative.
5.2.7. Initial RCO qualification training shall be required for RCO designated contractor
personnel regardless of prior RCO qualification.
5.2.8. To maintain currency, each RCO shall take the written examination annually and perform
RCO duty at least once every 90 days. If a RCO becomes non-current due to nonperformance of
RCO duties or expiration of written examination, the RCO shall retake the examination and re-
accomplish all on-range demonstrations.
5.2.9. On range demonstrations will be observed and certified by a fully qualified RCO or 27
SOW Wing Weapons representative.
5.3. RCO Scheduling Restrictions.
5.3.1. The RCO/RSO shall not perform RCO/RSO duties within 12 hours of consuming alcohol.
5.3.2. The RCO/RSO shall not perform RCO duty for 12 hours or more at one time. However,
personnel may perform non-RCO duties after completing 12 hours of RCO duty.
5.3.3. The RCO/RSO shall have a minimum of 12 hours of uninterrupted off-duty time prior to
any duty period in which personnel perform RCO duty.
5.3.4. The RCO/RSO that is performing tower duty must not be incapacitated by illness, injury,
exhaustion, or alcohol/drug use (including prescription and nonprescription medication).
5.4. Notification and Transportation. The RCO shall immediately notify CP and the ROO of
any emergency that requires immediate medical attention or of downed aircraft. The RCO
should also notify the CP and the ROO of any other emergency situation that the RCO deems
prudent.
5.5. Range Opening. The RCO will ensure that the opening checklist is completed prior to
declaring the range open. The RCO will announce by radio that the opening checklist is
complete by declaring, “THE RANGE IS NOW OPEN.” All personnel will maintain radio
contact with the main building or tower when on the range prior to range opening. Once the
range is opened by the RCO, personnel will not proceed on the hazard area without clearance
from the RCO. Each vehicle or crew proceeding down range will maintain radio contact with
the RCO.
5.5.1. After completion of the opening checklist, coordinate scoring functions.
5.5.2. Prior to the first strafe mission, strafe pits will be inspected to ensure proper target
alignment and berm conditions.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                               55


5.5.3. The strafe area will be cleared of projectiles, fused brass, and other hard objects. This
area will include 10 ft in front and 200 ft to the rear of each strafe target, including 50 ft to each
side of target centerline and on berms.
5.5.4. The conventional bomb or rocket circle targets will be inspected for fire alignment, bull’s
eye target condition and excessive contamination. The skip target will be inspected to ensure
proper boundary marker alignment and proper silhouette configuration.
5.5.5. Maintain radio communications with operational flights to ensure effective air-to-ground
transmissions that do not distract aircrews on final approach to the target except in the interest of
safety. Information, scores and instructions are examples of typical transmissions.
5.5.6. Confirm flight schedules with range scheduling, as applicable. The contractor shall
ensure at least one qualified RCO is on duty in the main tower during all flight operations at least
30 minutes before the start of any scheduled flight activity. An RCO must be onsite during Class
B operations to coordinate ground movement during contracted hours. Contractor personnel
shall not perform any duty concurrent with RCO duty.
5.5.7. Notify flights/using agencies of any range limitations/restrictions or conditions which may
compromise safety or effective mission accomplishment. Upon request, the RCO shall provide
wind and temperature observations.
5.5.8. During Class A operations brief entering flights with the range, traffic, altimeter and any
range conditions that might compromise safety or effective mission accomplishment. All flight
members will acknowledge the range, traffic and altimeter. The flight lead will provide call sign
and type events unless provided earlier by telephone.
5.5.9. Assign holding in accordance with local applicable regulations.
5.5.10. Monitor the delivery pattern for any unsafe practice or procedural errors that could lead
to a compromise of mission effectiveness or safety.
5.5.11. Direct pilots to leave the pattern when repeated procedural errors have not been
corrected. The RCO may direct any pilot to leave the pattern or range whenever he feels the
pilot has committed a dangerous act affecting the safety of the pilot or range personnel at any
time.
5.5.12. Notify aircrews of any known or suspected weapons malfunction, dropped objects or
unusual sightings/events that may affect mission performance or flight safety.
5.5.13. The RCO will determine the fire danger based on weather conditions, vegetation, wind
and firefighting capabilities with coordination from the SFOR. The SFOR evaluates regional fire
risk daily. If risk is excessive, certain restrictions on range operations may be imposed. These
restrictions could range from limiting the type of ordnance used, to the complete curtailment of
all ordnance use. All aircrews must review and adhere to fire restrictions regarding the use of
ordnance on the range. If an agreement cannot be reached between the RCO and SFOR, the most
conservative condition shall be implemented and the Senior Fire Officer at Cannon and the ROO
will be consulted to determine operational impact and condition changes.
5.6. Range Schedule. See para 2.1.3 for range scheduling procedures.
5.7. Aircraft Control. Radio Procedures.
 56                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


5.7.1. Radio calls. Radio calls are made IAW AFI 11-2 series and AFI 11-214 publications.
Additionally, bomber crews will call final at 8 nm or 60 seconds prior to weapons release for
simulated nuclear weapons delivery. All transmissions between the RCO and aircrews will be
acknowledged.
5.7.2. Range Clearance. All aircraft must receive clearance from the controlling agency prior to
entering MAFR (R-5104A/B or R-5105). When the range is closed, Albuquerque Center or
Cannon RAPCON may issue clearance through the area. During Class A service final clearance
into the restricted areas is obtained from the RCO (376.1, 289.55, or 122.7 backup).
Unauthorized entry into the MAFR restricted areas constitutes a violation of restricted airspace,
presents a hazard to other aircraft and ground personnel and is expressly prohibited.
5.7.3. Flight Departure. The RCO will notify flight leaders when 5 minutes of range time
remains. ‘‘LAST PASS” will be included in the final base turn radio call. If range time permits,
crews may fly a dry pass for flight rejoin (day/VMC).
5.7.4. If the aircraft is going to make a dry pass, the RCO shall use the phrase “CONTINUE
DRY” to clear the aircraft.
5.8. Range Fouls. See para 3.10
5.9. Ground Party Control. The RCO shall control all ground movement within the exclusive
use and restricted leased areas.
5.9.1. All personnel will maintain radio contact with the RCO at all times during Class A and
Class B operations.
5.9.2. 27 SOCES/CEAN will coordinate with wing scheduling to schedule visits to restricted
leased land outside of allowable lessee hours. Once scheduled, visitors/users must maintain
radio contact with RCO at all times during Class A or Class B operations. Visits during
authorized lessee hours do not require prior coordination.
5.10. Restricted/Curtailed Operations. The RMO will schedule restricted/curtailed operation
events through wing scheduling. Wing scheduling will schedule the event in CSE.
5.11. Strafing Operations Inspections (Strafe Impact Area): The strafe pits shall have 12
inches of loose, sandy soil and the surface cleared of spent projectiles, rocks 3 inches in diameter
or larger and any other hazardous debris. The latter shall be accomplished by hand policing
earthen surfaces in the area 50 feet either side of centerline, 75 feet in front of and 100 feet
behind each strafe target prior to the first scheduled daily strafe mission. The RCO or designated
contractor representative shall inspect the impact area(s) immediately after hand policing and
before the first scheduled strafe mission to ensure compliance. The strafe pits will be inspected at
least every 30 days if no strafe missions have occurred.
5.12. Range Visitors. See para 2.2.1.3.1 for visitor procedures.
5.12.1. Range Demonstration and Visitor Procedures. All Range visitor tours must be
coordinated through the RMO. During visitor tours for live fire observation, visitor locations
must be analyzed using the appropriate weapons footprint/hazard area program to ensure the
spectators are not within the hazard area during operations.
5.13. Range Closure. The range can only be closed by the RMO, Incident Commander, or as
directed by the 27 SOW/CC. Range closures will be confirmed with the RCO or authorized
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                         57


controllers and reported to CP. The RCO shall follow the Range Closing and Tower Closing
Checklists.
5.13.1. For an emergency requiring first responders (fire, aircraft crash or severe personnel
injury), the RCO, LZ/DZ Controller, JTAC or Incident Commander may close all or a portion of
the range.
5.14. Reports.
5.14.1. The RCO will assist in the completion of the following reports. These reports shall be
submitted to the contractor administrative office for disposition.
5.14.2. Weapons Delivery Scoring Record. The Joint Advanced Weapon Scoring System
(JAWSS) technician will ensure this form is completed and certify the form by signature. The
Weapons Delivery Scoring Record, commonly referred to as the Monthly Heavyweight Report
or Monthly Heavyweight Scores, are compiled by the JAWSS technicians and sent to
acc.a3ar@langley.af.mil and wdzdata@csr-fl.com.
5.14.3. Monthly Range Activity Report. The RCO will ensure the form is completed, with
explanations, where required.
5.14.4. Range Control Officers Report. The RCO will complete the daily report/foul log
including special explanatory comments, where appropriate. Each RCO will record laser on and
off times, unusual events, occurrences, range discrepancies or corrective actions on the RCO’s
report to provide continuity of information for subsequent RCO shifts and information retrieval.
Each RCO will review and be aware of the report for range limitations and restrictions prior to
assuming RCO duties. The closing RCO will forward this report to the RMO mailbox.
5.14.5. Weapons Range Activity Report. While the RCO is not directly responsible for the
completion of this report, he/she should be prepared to provide assistance if required. The
responsibility for the submission of this report may lie with the contractor or the government.
5.14.6. Annual Restricted Airspace Utilization Report. The RCO assists 27 SOAOS Airspace
Manager with identifying key range usage information.
5.14.7. Special Reports. The RCO should be prepared to assist in any special reports which may
be requested to improve the total concept of the range mission in support of training.




                                            ALBERT M. ELTON II, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 58               AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-214, Air Operations Rules and Procedures, 14 August 2012
AFI 11-2 series, Aircrew Training/Operations Procedures, 22 November 2012
AFI 13-201, Airspace Management Operations, 21 August 2012
AFI 13-212, Range Planning and Operations, 16 November 2007
AFI 91-202, US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFI 48-139, Laser and Optical Radiation Protection Program, 25 July 2012
ACCI 10-707, Air Combat Command Electronic Attack Training and Emissions Control
(EMCON) Procedures, 4 August 2011
AFTTP 3-10.3, Integrated Defense Counterthreat Operations (CTO), 22 December 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AGL—Above Ground Level
AI—Airborne Intercept
APT—Armor Piercing Tracer
ATCAA—Air Traffic Control Assigned Airspace
ATIS—Automatic Terminal Information Service
B&G—Bombing and Gunnery
BDU—Bomb Dummy Unit
B/U—Back-up
CAS—Close Air Support
COR—Contract Officer Representative
CVS—Cannon AFB/TACAN
DME—Distance Measuring Equipment
DMPI—Designated Mean Point of Impact
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
DSN—Defense Switching Network
EC—Electronic Combat
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013   59


ECM—Electronic Counter Measures
EOB—Electronic Order of Battle
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
ETA—Estimated Time of Arrival
EW—Early Warning
FAC(A)—Forward Air Controller
FAR—Federal Aviation Regulation
FLIP—Flight Information Publication
FW—Fighter Wing
GECCO—Ground Electronic Combat Control Operations
GE—Gross Error
HAS—High Angle Strafe
HEI—High Explosive Incendiary
IAW—In Accordance With
IAF—Initial Approach Fix
IFE—In-flight Emergency
IFF—Identify, Friend or Foe
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
IMC—Instrument Meteorological Conditions
IP—Initial Point
IRSSS—Improved Remote Strafe Scoring System
ITAS—Integrated Tactics Assessment System
JAWSS—Joint Advanced Weapons Scoring System
JTAC—Joint Terminal Attack Controller
LAS—Low Angle Strafe
LFE—Large Force Exercise
LESM—Laser Target Designator Scoring System
LGB—Laser Guided Bomb
LTDSS—Laser Target Designator Scoring System
MOA—Military Operations Area
MSA—Minimum Safe Altitude
MSL—Mean Sea Level
 60               AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


MTR—Military Training Route
MUTES—Multiple Threat Emitter System
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act
NLT—No Later Than
NM—Nautical Mile
NOTAM—Notice to Airman
NOHD—Nominal Ocular Hazard Distance
NVD—Night Vision Devices
NWD—Nuclear Weapons Delivery
OG—Operations Group
OP—Observation Position
PIREPS—Pilot Reports
RIIS/ITAS—Route Integration Instrumentation System/Integrated Tactics Assessment System
PL—Precautionary Landing
PSCNM—Public Service Company of New Mexico
RAPCON—Radar Approach Control
RAR—Range Activity Report
RBS—Radar Bomb Scoring
RCO—Range Control Officer
RIIS—Range Integration Instrumentation System
ROA—Range Operations Area
ROO—Range Operations Officer
RTB—Return to Base
SA—Scheduling Authority
SAM—Surface to Air Missile
SERE—Survive, Evade, Resist and Escape
SFOR—Senior Fire Officer Range
SOF—Special Operations Forces/Supervisor of Flying
SOG—Special Operations Group
SOW—Special Operations Wing
STS—Special Tactics Squadron
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                           61


TFR—Terrain Following Radar
TGT—Target
TP—Target Practice
TPT—Target Practice Tracer
TRAINS—Threat Reaction Analysis and Indicator System
TRTG—Tactical Range Threat Generator
UHF—Ultra-High Frequency
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
VHF—Very-High Frequency
VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions
WISS—Weapons Impact Scoring System

Terms
60 Series—Refers to EOD classified regulations.
GUARD—Emergency radio frequencies, UHF 243.0 MHz or VHF 121.5 MHz.
INSTRUMENT FLIGHT RULES—Rules governing the procedures for conducting instrument
flight. Also a term used by pilots and controllers to indicate type of flight plan.
INSTRUMENT          METEOROLOGICAL                CONDITIONS—Meteorological           conditions
expressed in terms of visibility, distance from cloud, and ceiling less than the minima specified
for visual meteorological conditions.
IR Pointer—A hand held Infra-red (laser) device that is used to elucidate targets so as to be seen
by night vision devices.
Mark 80 Series—Grouping of bombs using the 80 series numbers, for example, Mark 82, Mark
84, etc.
Mission Essential Personnel—Those personnel on a range directly required for the employment
of ordnance (air/surface/sea) in a test, training or evaluation scenario. This may include JTACs,
TACPs, range control officers, scorers, and any other personnel identified as required by the
ROA with written preapproval.
NAVIGATION(TACAN)—An ultra-high frequency electronic rho-theta air navigation aid
which provides suitably equipped aircraft a continuous indication of bearing and distance to the
TACAN station.
Site Manager—A DoD civilian or aircrew member can be filled by the ECR QAE, B&G QAE
and/or the DoD civilian ROO (dual hated, as applicable). The RM(s) will be responsible for the
day-to-day operations of the range, as well as applicable QAE duties.
VISUAL FLIGHT RULES—Rules that govern the procedures for conducting flight under
visual conditions. The term "VFR" is also used in the United States to indicate weather
conditions that are equal to or greater than minimum VFR requirements. In addition, it is used by
pilots and controllers to indicate type of flight plan.
 62                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


VISUAL METEOROLOGICAL CONDITIONS—Meteorological conditions expressed in
terms of visibility, distance from cloud and ceiling equal to or better than specified minima.
VOR—A ground-based electronic navigation aid transmitting very high frequency navigation
signals, 360 degrees in azimuth and oriented from magnetic north. Used as the basis for
navigation in the National Airspace System. The VOR periodically identifies itself by Morse
Code and may have an additional voice identification feature. Voice features may be used by
ATC or FSS for transmitting instructions/information to pilots.
VORTAC—A navigation aid providing VOR azimuth, TACAN azimuth and TACAN distance
measuring equipment (DME) at one site.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                      63


                                    ATTACHMENT 2
                     RANGE OPERATING CONDITIONS MATRIX

Figure A2.1. MAFR Operating Conditions Matrix.




For a digital link, go to the Melrose Range Web Page: MAFR Operating Conditions Matrix.
 64                 AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


                                       ATTACHMENT 3
                        OTHER ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

A3.1. Tactical Range Safety Officer.
A3.1.1. Tactical Range Safety Officer Training.
A3.1.1.1. Tactical Range Safety Officer (TRSO). TRSO certification program will be used to
train and qualify personnel in TRSO duties for utilization and training on Melrose Air Force
Range. All units with personnel serving on the ground must identify a primary and alternated
TRSO to be designated by the attending unit’s commander. The primary and alternate TRSO will
go through a TRSO certification program run by the Melrose Air Force Range Management
Office. This will be conducted at the user’s level. Minimum rank for a TRSO is E-6 for military,
GS-07 for government or contractor designed in support of MAFR. Exception is USAF E-5,
TACP, PJ, SERE or CCT. Exceptions may be granted by the Range Manager. If the ground
team is 12 persons or less, there may be only one TRSO and no alternate. A TRSO (primary or
alternate) must remain with their team while they are on the range at all times. Upon completion
of MAFR TRSO training, the TRSO will be issued a card and this certification for MAFR will be
valid for 3 years. The TRSO will maintain this card while training on MAFR.
A3.1.1.2. The RMO will provide designated TRSOs a MAFR specific training and safety
briefings on the use of the training complex as part of certification.
A3.1.1.3. Training will include but not be limited to:

       1. Impact Areas.
       2. Live Fire Ranges.
       3. Communication Procedures.
       4. TRSO Qualification Requirements.
       5. TRSO Duties.
       6. TRSO Responsibilities.
       7. Range Familiarization.

A3.1.1.4. Upon Completion of training, the TRSO will be required to take a written test.
A3.1.1.5. The MAFR RMO will monitor the effectiveness of range safety certification programs
for TRSOs.
A3.1.2. TRSO Requirements:
A3.1.2.1. The TRSO must be present for all training events, including live-fire and non-live-fire
events. The TRSO will be allowed to fill capacity as a trainer/demonstrator for tasks on the
range. The TRSO shall have no additional duties during the live firing exercises. (Exception,
for events such as Air Drop, with additional built in safety mechanisms, the TRSO may
participate in the training, but once the event is complete (example air drop is over) the TRSO
must resume Safety Officer Duties. The TRSO must be qualified and knowledgeable in the
weapons systems, for which they are being held responsible, as well as the safe ammunition
handling and use procedures.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                          65


A3.1.2.2. Weapons system qualified: The individual, military or civilian, who has completed a
standard program of instruction for a particular weapon system, this certification will be
provided by the home unit.
A3.1.2.3. Weapon system knowledgeable: An individual, military or civilian, who has
completed familiarization training established by the unit commander.
A3.1.2.4. For use of lasers, the TRSO must be familiar with laser safety will be knowledgeable
of the associated laser hazards and proper employment of laser being used.
A3.1.2.5. The TRSO holds responsibility and accountability for the conduct of the activity and
the adherence to governing regulations and guidance for all activities conducted on the MAFR.
A3.1.2.6. For aviation weapons systems, the TRSO must be weapons systems knowledgeable.
A3.1.3. TRSO Duties:
A3.1.3.1. The TRSO is responsible for the enforcement of applicable safety regulations
contained in this Addendum, other applicable field, technical, and ordnance publications.
A3.1.3.2. Ensure the overall safe conduct of training and proper use of the training complex.
Receive a range safety brief from the RMO.
A3.1.3.3. Confirm with the RCO when it is safe to fire in accordance with applicable regulations
and MAFR range requirements.
A3.1.3.4. Ensure receipt of final clearance to fire from the RCO.
A3.1.3.5. Ensure proper supervision of personnel performing misfire, hang-fire, and cook-off
procedures.
A3.1.3.6. Ensure required communications are established and maintained.
A3.1.3.7. Ensure safe laser operations.
A3.1.3.8. Ensure adequate medical support is available for task being performed.
A3.1.3.9. Ensure ammunition and explosives are properly handled, transported, stored, and
accounted for within the training complex from the time of receipt to the time of expenditure or
turn in.
A3.1.3.10. Maintain a written log of pertinent safety and control data concerning the operation
of firing ranges, weapons training facilities, maneuver areas, authorized operating times, impact
area entries and exits, and cease-fire authorizations.
A3.1.3.11. Ensure plans for firing exercises and maneuvers are coordinated with RCO.
A3.1.3.12. A TRSO will only provide a “CEASE FIRE” call based upon observing unauthorized
individuals on a respective range. The RCO controls all entry into target areas.
A3.1.3.13. Ensure all ammunition malfunctions and accidents are reported to RCO.
A3.1.3.14. Implement risk management for all phases of the training event. The TRSO shall
have a detailed ORM worksheet signed by the unit commander covering all phases of training in
their possession at all times while training is conducted.
A3.1.3.15. Ensure all personnel wear the appropriate personnel protective equipment (PPE) for
activity being performed. Ref AFI 11-214 for Calls For Fire PPE.
 66                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


A3.1.3.16. Before granting clearance to fire the TRSO must:

       1. Establish two-way communication with the RCO.
       2. WDZ is clear of all unauthorized personnel.
       3. Ensure the authorized ammunition and explosives are being used.
       4. Firing settings and weapons are within prescribed safety limits and verified.
       5. Permission is received from RCO to commence live fire operations.

A3.1.3.17. Report the following information to the RCO as requested:

       1. Training area/range being used.
       2. Unit designation.
       3. Time in/expected length of stay.
       4. Time out.
       5. Number of personnel.
       6. Type of ordnance/ammunition.
       7. Type of training.
       8. Name, rank of TRSO.

A3.1.3.18. The TRSO will contact the RCO every hour during live fire exercises and report
status.
A3.1.3.19. The TRSO must maintain communication with RCO at all times. When the range is
firing and communication is lost, the TRSO will order a cease-fire until communication is
reestablished.
A3.1.3.20. Order immediate cease-fire or check-fire when any unsafe condition occurs.
A3.1.3.21. In the event of an emergency situation or accident, the TRSO will call cease-fire and
notify the RCO.
A3.1.3.22. Report to the RCO the number and type of munitions expended daily or upon
completion of training.
A3.1.3.23. During LASER operations:
A3.1.3.23.1. Ensure unit personnel employing lasers receive thorough safety briefings to include
explanations of specific lasers -related hazards, equipment, and detailed range safety procedures.
A3.1.3.23.2. Know and observe horizontal and vertical safety limits of the lasers range.
A3.1.3.23.3. Ensure unit SOPs comply with range safety procedures and reference follows unit
SOPs for LASER operations and training exercises.
A3.1.3.23.4. Ensure all personnel engaged in lasers operations maintain communications with
RSO.
A3.1.3.23.5. TRSO must have knowledge the lasers response plan in case of an incident.
A3.1.3.24. Ensure a current and qualified, rappel master or Helicopter Rope Suspension
Training (HRST) master is present at all times during rappel or HRST operations.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                           67


A3.1.3.25. During the absence of an RCO the TRSO must ensure two way communications with
other units on MAFR and have the ability to communicate with CP.
A3.1.3.26. In the event of a medical evacuation, the TRSO or an appointed representative will
suspend fire and follow procedures as outlined in para 3.11.12.1 of this addendum.
A3.1.3.27. In the event of accident the TRSO must call a cease fire and notify the RCO as soon
as possible, if no RCO available, then the TRSO must make contact with CP. The TRSO must
provide the following information:

       1. Location/grid coordinates of injured person.
       2. Victim’s name, rank, last four of SSN, and unit.
       3. Type/body part of injury/illness.
       4. The condition of victim.
       5. Type of first aid given and whether medical personnel are on scene.
       6. Known medical history (allergies, medications, and blood type).
       7. Location of possible LZ and method of marking LZ.

A3.1.3.28. The TRSO must fill out the following paperwork in the event in the event it is
required.

   1. Training Accident Report Attachment.
   2. Laser Firing Log.

A3.1.4. Risk Assessment:
A3.1.4.1. A home station operational risk assessment (ORM) must be performed by each
visiting unit. This must detail what each unit is planning on doing and it must be signed by the
first O-5 or O-6 in the chain of command.
A3.2. Range Lead.
A3.2.1. The RL program is designed to allow personnel access to the range in an
administrative/oversight capacity. The RL program will provide a certain level of training so
personnel operating on the range in a non-tactical/administrative capacity can do so safely with a
minimal impact to ongoing operations and minimal risk to themselves. A ROO or RCO must be
present while the RL is operating on MAFR. The RL will be restricted to areas on MAFR
required for performance of their duties. The RL will serve as the POC for personnel they escort
on MAFR. All groups requesting to use MAFR must identify personnel to serve as a RL.
A3.2.2. The RMO will provide designated RLs MAFR specific training and safety briefings on
the use of the training complex as part of certification. While encouraged, it is not mandatory
that all RL personnel have a MAFR visit as part of their training. Training for the RL will
include but not be limited to the following:

       1. Impact areas and buffer zones.
       2. Small arms live fire ranges.
       3. Communication procedures.
 68                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


       4. RL qualifications requirements.
       5. RL duties and responsibilities.
       6. Range familiarization.

A3.2.3. RL Qualifications Requirements:
A3.2.3.1. Each person desiring RL certification must have a signed letter from their supervisor
stating the requirement to operate on MAFR in an administrative capacity. The minimum rank
for a RL is E-4, GS-5 or contractor. This can be waived by the RMO Director on a case by case
basis.
A3.2.3.2. Each individual serving as a RL must pass a test administered by the RMO concerning
familiarization with the MAFR. The RL is also responsible for ensuring appropriate medical
support is available during high risk activities and appropriate PPE is worn when required.
A3.2.4. RL Duties and Responsibilities:
A3.2.4.1. The RL must ensure two way communications with the RCO (or ROO) during any
visit to MAFR.
A3.2.4.2. The RL and all escorted personnel must sign in at the B&G administration building
each time upon entry. The RL will not deviate from established route of travel for the specific
area of use, except in case of Emergency.
A3.2.4.3. The RL will ensure the safety and accountability of any person they escort on to
MAFR.
A3.2.4.4. The following are examples of tasks that may require RL training:

       1. DZSO.
       2. LZSO.
       3. Local unit administrative Calls for Fire.
       4. Contracting inspection.
       5. CE infrastructure support.

A3.2.5. At the conclusion of training each RL will take a test demonstrating knowledge of safe
operations on MAFR. Upon the successful completion of training, each RL will be issued a
card. This will be valid for three years and must be with each person when they visit MAFR. If
an individual requires/requests any additional training they can contact the RMO to schedule the
training they require.
A3.3. Range Management Office portion of the Opposition Force(OPFOR) Augmentation
Program:
A3.3.1. All personnel serving as OPFOR augmentees must complete the training as spelled out
by the Cannon AFB OPFOR Augmentation Program OI administered by the 27 SOSS. At no
time will personnel be allowed to serve as OPFOR on the range without direct oversight of
primary duty OPFOR supporting a specific mission. OPFOR augmentees will never be allowed
on the range to serve in an autonomous/unilateral fashion.
AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013                                    69


                                   ATTACHMENT 4
                                  RPA OPERATIONS

Please refer to CANNONAFBI 13-201, Chapter 6, RPA Flying Operations, or call DSN 681-
4951, Comm 575 784-4951).
 70                AFI13-212_AFSOCSUP_I_CANNONAFB_ADDENDA-A 16 MAY 2013


                                      ATTACHMENT 5
                                 ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES

A5.1. All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV) Program:
A5.1.1. This memorandum is intended to supplement current guidance and does not relieve the
user of any requirements outlined in AFI 91-207. ATVs are separated into two categories for the
purpose of this guidance, ride inside or ride on top.
A5.2. Ride inside ATVs consists of those ATVs that are equipped with a roll cage and a seatbelt
for all passengers. Examples are: Razors and Rangers. Requirements for ride inside ATVs on
MAFR are:

       1. ATV safety course certification.
       2. Helmet, with chin strap such as a Pro-tech during low light operations.
       3. Eye protection designed to minimize dust interfering with the driver as well as impact
       protection.
A5.3. Ride on top ATVs and all other ATVs that do not meet the requirements of ride inside as
outlined above. Examples are: dirt bikes, quads and Gators. Requirements for ride on top ATVs
are:

       1. ATV safety course certification.
       2. DoT approved helmet.
       3. Eye protection designed to minimize dust interfering with the driver as well as impact
       protection.
       4. Full fingered gloves.
       5. Sturdy boots that extend over the ankle.
       6. Long sleeve upper garment.
       7. Full length lower garment.
A5.4. Visiting tactical ground teams are allowed to deviate from the above guidance when
tactical training requires and operations are within published standard operating procedures of
the parent command. Prior to deviating from the above guidance, the requirement to deviate will
be outlined in the event CONOP and reviewed by range personnel to ensure safety parameters
are maintained. Commanders of other organizations desiring deviations from the above
requirements should submit a request to the Range Manager.
A5.5. Personnel found not to be in compliance with the requirements above will cease
operations until all requirements are satisfied. If personnel are not capable of complying with
requirements in this section, they will be escorted to the MAFR administration area where they
will be required to either wait until the reminder of their unit is complete with operations on
MAFR or depart the range.
