BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2F-16
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  VOLUME 2

                                                                                  2 JUNE 2008
                                                                 Certified Current, 21 July 2010
                                                   Incorporating Change 1, 23 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                 F-16 UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                           CRITERIA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/A2                                                      Certified by: HQ USAF/A2F
                                                                             (Mr Neil R. Greene)
                                                                                       Pages: 53


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in F-16 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting F-16 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                                                  AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. References to
Theater Airborne Reconnaissance System (TARS) intelligence support have also been deleted as
the requirement is no longer valid. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                                     4
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................         4
       1.2.     ...............................................................................................................................   4
       1.3.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................          4
       1.4.     ...............................................................................................................................    4
       1.5.   Evaluation Instructions. .........................................................................................                   5
       1.6.   Additional Training. ...............................................................................................                 5
       1.7.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ..................................................................................                       5

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                  6
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................          6
       2.2.     ...............................................................................................................................    6
       2.3.   External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) Evaluation. ....................................................                                 7
       2.4.   Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) Evaluation. .........................................................                                  8
       2.5.     ...............................................................................................................................    8
       2.6.   Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. .........................................................................                         8
Table 2.1.    Intelligence Evaluations. ........................................................................................                   8

Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                                     11
       3.1.     ...............................................................................................................................   11
       3.2.     ...............................................................................................................................   11
Table 3.1.    General Grading Criteria. .......................................................................................                   11
       3.3.   Specialized Qualification Evaluation Criteria. .......................................................                              16
Table 3.2.    External Intelligence Trainer Grading Criteria ......................................................                               16
Table 3.3.    Intelligence Evaluator Grading Criteria .................................................................                           16
Table 3.4.    Aerospace Control Alert Mission Planning and Intelligence Execution Evaluation
              Criteria. ..................................................................................................................        17

Chapter 4—DELETED                                                                                                                                 18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                    19
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008   3


Attachment 2—GRADESHEETS    25
 4                                                                 AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008



                                             Chapter 1

                                  GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators and examinees with procedures and
evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and periodic
evaluations. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and this instruction. (T-2)
     1.1.1. Objective. The examinee must demonstrate the ability to perform required duties
     safely and effectively, IAW applicable instructions and directives. (T-2)
     1.1.2. Applicability. This volume is applicable to all individuals performing intelligence in a
     CAF F-16 unit.
     1.1.3. Air Force Intelligence (AF/A2) delegates approval authority to the MAJCOM/A2 for
     MAJCOM authored supplements to this AFI. MAJCOMS will ensure copies are provided to
     AF/A2, Headquarters Air Combat Command (HQ ACC)/A2 and all other appropriate
     MAJCOMs upon publication. Per AFPD 14-2, supplements will not be less restrictive than
     the lead AFI and should be limited to unique requirements only.
1.2. Recommended Changes. Recommendations for changes to this volume will be submitted
to HQ ACC/A2 through MAJCOM/A2 on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication.
1.3. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all waiver
correspondence. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if
such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.4.   Procedures.
     1.4.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified Intelligence Evaluator (IE),
     the examinee must have completed all Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized
     Training requirements, as outlined in AFI 14-2F-16 Volume 1, F-16 Unit Intelligence
     Training. Additionally, the examinee must have on file a satisfactory gradesheet (see
     Attachment 2) from an intelligence qualification trainer or supervisor for each area listed in
     Table 2.1. The gradesheets will be filed in the on-line documentation system. (T-2)
     1.4.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for conducting all
     intelligence evaluations. To ensure standard and objective evaluations, intelligence
     evaluators will be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
     1.4.3. The IE will brief the examinee on the conduct, purpose, and requirements of the
     evaluation, as well as applicable evaluation criteria, prior to commencing. The examinee will
     accomplish required planning IAW the duty position being evaluated. The examinee will
     provide IEs with a copy of necessary data or materials. (T-2)
     1.4.4. Required areas for evaluation are shown in Table 2.1. Evaluations should take place
     in conjunction with peacetime, in-garrison events to the maximum extent possible. When it
     is impossible to evaluate a required area in a peacetime event (e.g., actual pre-deployment
     briefing or post-mission air- crew debrief), examinations may be conducted via an alternate
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                         5


   method (i.e., simulated, staged or by verbal examination) in order to complete the evaluation.
   (T-2)
   1.4.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-2)
1.5. Evaluation Instructions. Standards and performance parameters are contained in AFI 14-
202, Volume 2, and this instruction. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the standards provided in this volume and assign an
appropriate grade for the area. Derive the overall intelligence evaluation grade from the area
grades based on a composite for the observed events and tasks IAW this instruction. (T-2)
   1.5.1. IEs will use the grading criteria in this instruction to determine individual area grades.
   IE judgment must be exercised when the wording for general graded areas is subjective and
   when specific situations are not covered.
   1.5.2. If the examinee receives an unqualified area grade in any of the critical areas
   identified by this volume, an overall qualification level of "Q-3" will be assigned.
   1.5.3. In addition to the guidance provided by this instruction, IEs will be expected to use
   their personal experience and knowledge in the assessment of examinee performance. (T-3)
   1.5.4. General Criteria. The following general grading criteria will be used to grade
   individual items:
       1.5.4.1. Qualified (Q). Performance is correct. Quickly recognizes and corrects errors.
       1.5.4.2. Qualified, with discrepancies (Q-). Performance is safe, but indicates limited
       proficiency. Makes errors of omission or commission.
       1.5.4.3. Unqualified (U). Performance is unsafe or indicates lack of knowledge or ability.
   1.5.5. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, to assist in grading the
   individual areas during the evaluation. The form used by the evaluator will be a blank AF
   Form 4381, not the one completed on the individual during MQT/ST. The gradesheet
   templates specific to F-16 intelligence tasks are found in Attachments 3 and 4 of AFI 14-2F-
   16 Volume 1. (T-3)
1.6. Additional Training. Intelligence Evaluators are responsible for recommending additional
training at their discretion. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202,
Volume 2. (T-3)
1.7. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall unqualified grade (Q-3) will
be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is success- fully accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on a mission
evaluation (INIT MSN or MSN), he may not perform mission duties or specialized duties
unsupervised until remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on a
specialized evaluation, he may not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are
accomplished, but he may perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-2)
 6                                                                AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


                                            Chapter 2

                               EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. Evaluation requirements are depicted in Table 2.1. The intelligence evaluation
must include all required areas. However, if it is impossible to accomplish a required area in a
real-world setting, the IE may elect to evaluate the area(s) by an alternate method (i.e., staged,
simulated, verbally, etc.), in order to complete the evaluation. If the IE determines the required
item cannot be adequately evaluated by an alternate method, the examinee will require an
additional examination to complete the requirements. (T-2)
2.2.   Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
     2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
     and periodic mission qualification evaluations to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in F-16
     weapons systems, threat knowledge, visual recognition (VR), personnel recovery (PR) and
     force protection intelligence (FPI) academics. Research, Analysis and Dissemination (RAD)
     involves knowledge intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the
     evaluation and will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable graded area as indicated on
     individual gradesheets. For mission qualification evaluations (initial and periodic),
     examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit’s master question file that covers:
     F-16 weapons systems, threats, and personnel recovery academics. Examinees will take a
     separate visual recognition test. Both examinations will be recorded on the AF Form 4350
     IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Knowledge examinations may also be required during
     specialized qualification evaluations. Reference for required
     2.2.2. Performance Task Evaluation. Units will assemble evaluation materials using current
     intelligence, unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR) scenarios that incorporate all
     appropriate evaluation requirements from Evaluations during exercises or deployments are
     not prohibited; however, units should apply operational risk management principles to the
     scheduling of the evaluation. (Real world contingencies may provide a unique opportunity to
     conduct an evaluation; however, factors beyond the control of the examinee and IE may
     preclude its successful completion.) The following guidelines are provided to assist in
     constructi
        2.2.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). The number of coordinates in the OB plotting
        exercise should be of sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that
        the time taken is beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. Examinee should have a
        variety of threats to plot to ensure correct symbology is used. The exercise may include
        both geographic coordinates (geocoords) and Military Grid Reference System (MGRS)
        coordinates. The scenario may include erroneous information to mirror the fog of war by
        including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats for the particular AOR,
        thereby allowing the Intelligence Evaluator to assess the examinee’s ability to identify
        errors and question the validity of information. When using a scenario developed by the
        examinee, OB coordinates listed on the Mission Evaluation Worksheet will be evaluated
        by the Intelligence Evaluator for accuracy.
        2.2.2.2. Automated Order of Battle. Examinee should be provided with a variety of OB
        sources from which to pull data. When using an examinee-developed scenario, evaluate
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                        7


       the examinee’s ability to develop and save threat files, insert accurate data, quality
       control displays and question the information’s veracity for a particular AOR. Ensure the
       opportunity exists for the examinee to be evaluated on his or her ability to manipulate the
       OB displays and print using the intelligence support systems available. Evaluate the
       examinee’s ability to convert coordinates between geocoords and MGRS and
       DD/MM/SS to DD/MM.mm.
       2.2.2.3. Intelligence Briefings. The examinee should assemble briefings from
       information provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports, imagery, and
       other sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may be used to fulfill this
       requirement. Evaluated briefings include: initial situation briefing, deployment briefing,
       mission planning cell (MPC) initial briefing (feasibility briefing), mission briefing, and
       situation briefing.
       2.2.2.4. Air Tasking Order, Airspace Control Order and Special Instructions
       (ATO/ACO/SPINS). Scenario or actual contingency/exercise materials may be used for
       this purpose. Provide enough information that the examinee’s unit is not the sole unit
       tasked on the ATO. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency
       in identifying and breaking out the elements of ATO/ACO/SPINS to include unit tasking,
       air space control, combat search and rescue (CSAR) and intelligence information.
       2.2.2.5. Mission Package Construction/Mission Briefing. Actual contingency planning
       materials or exercise/range imagery may be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to
       evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in planning, coordinating and conducting the entire
       mission planning process.
       2.2.2.6. Debriefing. Conduct pilot debriefings following actual flying missions whenever
       possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with pilots to identify a
       particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity to represent
       the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR tasking.
       Grade the examinee’s ability to control the debrief, ask amplifying questions and
       recognize irrelevant information.
       2.2.2.7. Reporting. Construct mission reports (MISREPs) using information provided in
       pilot debriefings. Complete MISREPs IAW MAJCOM/theater intelligence reporting
       directives.
2.3. External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) Evaluation. EIT evaluations will be conducted IAW
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, as supplemented. Only qualified EITs may conduct unsupervised
intelligence training for pilots. Upon completion of EIT profiles, as outlined in AFI 14-2F-16,
Volume 1, the EIT will be evaluated on his or her ability to present training in each applicable
sub-category (threat knowledge, visual recognition (VR), collection & reporting (C&R) and
personnel recovery (PR)). Evaluators will give the examinee no less than 4-hour notice of the
subject matter or briefing topic for the evaluation. (T-3)
   2.3.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
   training in one or more individual EIT events (e.g. VR) at a time. The individual must
   complete the specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing
   element by an Intelligence Evaluator. Document the evaluation in the on-line documentation
 8                                                                   AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


     system. The individual must maintain currency for the subject matter according to AFI 14-F-
     16, Volume 1, and must be reevaluated periodically IAW this instruction. (T-2)
     2.3.2. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation.
     2.3.3. An EIT receiving a grade of U or “with additional training” in any grading area will
     receive an overall Q-3 for the instructor evaluation and will not perform EIT duties
     unsupervised until additional training is complete. This restriction is placed in the Comments
     section and “yes” is marked in Restrictions on the AF Form 4350.
     2.3.4. Evaluate all EIT trainers using the criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
2.4. Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) Evaluation. ACA evaluations will consist of a
performance task evaluation and be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Subsequent
evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation. The ACA and all
applicable MSN areas must be evaluated. (T-2)
2.5. DELETED
     2.5.1. DELETED
     2.5.2. DELETED
     2.5.3. DELETED
2.6. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified to be IEs upon completion of the IE specialized training
profiles, successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO). IEs
will be evaluated using criteria in Chapter 3. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part
of the periodic mission evaluation. (T-3)
     2.6.1. Grade intelligence evaluators using criteria in

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
 SUBJECT                          INIT MSN               MSN                   ST

                                  CIC     FS     MPC     CIC     FS     MPC    EIT   ACA IE

 Knowledge Evaluations

 F-16 Weapons Systems             R       R      R       R       R      R      ---   ---      ---
 Academics
 AOR Threats Knowledge            R       R      R       R       R      R      ---   ---      ---

 Visual Recognition (VR)          R       R      R       R       R      R      ---   ---      ---

 Personnel Recovery (PR)          R       R      R       R       R      R      ---   ---      ---

 Force Protection Intelligence    R       R      R       R       R      R      ---   ---      ---
 (FPI)
 Performance Task
 Evaluations
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                      9


Manual Order of Battle (OB)   R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Automated OB                  R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Changeover Briefing           R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Deployment Briefing           R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Initial Situation Briefing    R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Situation Briefing            R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Air Tasking Order             R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---
(ATO)/Air Control Order
(ACO)/Special Instructions
(SPINS) and Other Tasking
Documents
MPC Initial Briefing          R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Mission Package               --      ---   R         ---   ---   R       ---    ---     ---
Construction
Weaponeering                  ---     ---   R         ---   ---   R       ---    ---     ---

Mission Briefing              R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Step Briefing                 R       R     R         R     R     R       ---    ---     ---

Debriefing                    R       R     ---       R     R     ---     ---    ---     ---

Intelligence Reports          R       R     ---       R     R     ---     ---    ---     ---

Specialized Task
Evaluations
Instructional Ability         ---     ---   ---       ---   ---   ---     R      ---     ---

Evaluator Ability                                                                        R

Aerospace Control Alert        ---     ---   ---     ---    ---    ---    ---    R       ---
(ACA) Mission Planning and
Intelligence Execution
Note: Gradesheet elements for each area are included in attachments 2 and 3 of this volume.
Passing criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.

R = Required area of evaluation

INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
10                                                             AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation

CIC = Combat Intelligence Center

FS = Fighter Squadron

MPC = Mission Planning Cell

EIT = External Intelligence Training Trainer Qualification Evaluation

ACA = Aerospace Control Alert

IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                            11



                                               Chapter 3

                                      EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1.     General Grading Standards.
       3.1.1. The grading criteria in this chapter are divided into two sections: General Grading
       Criteria and Specialized Training Grading Criteria. Use all sections for criteria applicable to
       the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
       3.1.2. Where major areas are divided into sub-areas, assign only one grade to the major
       areas. Annotate discrepancies in sub-areas on the back of the AF Form 4350. (T-3)
       3.1.3. Gradesheets are included in Attachment 2 of this instruction to assist the IE in
       determining the overall qualification and in documenting the AF Form 4350. (T-3)
3.2.     General Grading Areas.

Table 3.1. General Grading Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q         Correctly answers at least 85% of questions in test based on MQF.
 Q-        Not applicable.
 U         Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 VISUAL RECOGNITION
 Q         Correctly identified 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 Q-        Not applicable.
 U         Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 MANUAL OB
 Q         Without the use of automated intelligence support systems and IAW Mil Standard
           2525C, accurately plotted all threats/items within .5nm of center point of coordinates,
           consistently used correct OB symbology, identified inconsistencies or errors in OB.
           Plotted to appropriate level of detail IAW unit requirements. Accurate use of DD/
           MM/SS vs DD/MM.mm. Accurately maintained OB to unit specifications, including
           classification and currency.
 Q-        Plotted 95% of the order of battle within .5nm of center point of coordinates, the
           remaining 5% within 3nm. Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little
           prompting.
 U         Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors or
           inconsistencies in OB. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision or
           intervention.
 AUTOMATED OB
12                                                            AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Q    Demonstrated proficiency in using applicable intelligence support systems to maintain
     orders of battle, including “current as of” times and classification. Successfully
     downloaded, printed, exported and displayed data. Correctly converted geocoords and
     MGRS coordinates. Able to manipulate data, display threat rings and perform terrain
     masking analysis. Able to use applicable tools to aid in mission planning.
Q-   Required some assistance, but no impact on mission success.
U    Required significant assistance. Lacked proficiency in operating intelligence support
     systems to the detriment of mission success.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q    Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas. Demonstrated clear
     understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass on to next shift. Showed ability
     to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
     limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identified significant
     information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Correctly annotated
     message traffic log, identified significant events and issued threat update codes (TUCs).
     Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-   Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
     prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.
     relocation, attacks, etc.) vs. poor planning.
U    Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Deficiencies not due to
     extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even with minor prompting. Omissions
     would have affected next shift. Missed significant information or failed to disseminate
     information to proper audience. Poor understanding of /limitations of unit assets and/or
     the impact information may have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
     classification.
DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q    Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist or local
     procedures. Tailored, relevant content. Easily understood by audience. Effective use of
     visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience. Hit key points including synopsis of
     military and political situation generating the deployment, and enemy activity and force
     disposition in AOR and along deployment route. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps
     in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research
     methods and sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information.
     Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when
     conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification and security
     markings on all products produced.
Q-   Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission. Needs
     improvement in organization or delivery.
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                     13


U     Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Inappropriate classification. Omitted key
      areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed
      significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor understanding of
      capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
      mission. Fabricated information.
INITIAL SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Covered all applicable items. Effective use of visual aids. Demonstrated ability to
      identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
      understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to discriminate
      irrelevant information. Understood and provided detailed information tailored to the
      audience. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when
      conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification and security
      markings on all products produced.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact. Needs improvement
      in organization or delivery.
U     Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of
      analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed significant information or
      failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor understanding of
      capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
      mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well-tailored analysis
      relevant to audience. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
      limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identified significant
      information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Fielded questions
      correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Briefing poorly organized, hard to follow, somewhat redundant, but no impact on
      mission. Able to recover when prompted.
U     Briefing very confusing, major omissions that would hamper audience understanding of
      the situation. Unable to recover, major mission impact. Significant lack of analytical
      ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed significant information or failed to
      disseminate information to proper audience. Poor understanding of
      capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
      mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
ATO/ACO/SPINS BREAKOUT
14                                                            AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Q    Demonstrated ability to access correct ATO/ACO/SPINS and any changes. Correctly
     extracted mission tasking, airspace control measures and other information relevant to
     unit or tasking.
Q-   Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact mission
     planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U    Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have jeopardized mission
     planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention.
MISSION PLANNING CELL (MPC) INITIAL BRIEFING
Q    Relayed appropriate target, weaponeering and threat information to audience. Clearly
     organized and professionally delivered, with appropriate visual aids and mission
     materials. Concise yet thorough. Clear understanding of target and primary threats.
Q-   Briefing could be better prepared or organized. Some difficulty with use of mission
     materials.
U    Organization or lack of preparation seriously impacted audience understanding of the
     briefing. Poor understanding of the requirements or lack of adequate mission materials
     delayed mission planning timeline. Major omissions of information critical to the
     planning cycle.
MISSION PACKAGE CONSTRUCTION
Q    Demonstrated clear understanding and proper use of mission planning materials. Chose
     scales and views appropriate for mission. Knew proper channels for requesting
     information or materials. Accurate portrayal of target, terminal area threats and hazards
     as well as ingress and egress factors to consider. Provided all mission materials in
     correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials neat and well organized. Considered
     all factors that could impact successful mission accomplishment. Provided thorough
     terrain analysis WRT threats, route and target area.
Q-   Errors or minor omissions in mission materials which would not preclude mission
     accomplishment. Minor problems in organizing mission materials and identifying and
     ordering requirements. Corrected when prompted.
U    Major omissions or errors which would have impacted mission. Poor understanding of
     mission requirements or sources for mission materials. Chose incorrect scales or views
     for target. Incorrectly plotted target or threats. Did not know how to request information
     or target materials.
WEAPONEERING
Q    Chose correct weaponeering solutions. Successfully referenced the Joint Munitions
     Effectiveness Manual (JMEM).
Q-   Deficiencies in depth of knowledge and comprehension of weaponeering procedures.
     Did not adversely affect overall task accomplishment.
U    Did not understand how to use weaponeering reference materials. Chose incorrect
     weaponeering solution.
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                     15


MISSION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail, covered
      all applicable items: takeoff, ingress, target area, egress, and appropriate PR
      considerations. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential
      impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed
      ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Correctly annotated
      message traffic log, identified significant events and issued TUCs. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions or errors but was able to recover with minor prompting.
U     Very confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information, unable to recover with
      prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
      Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of F-16 mission
      capabilities. Incorrect classification.
STEP BRIEFING
Q     Well organized and concise; presented relevant facts in timely fashion. Appropriate for
      the particular mission. Highlighted changes and updates since mission briefing.
Q-    Made updates with prompting- not proactive. Omissions would not have affected
      mission effectiveness.
U     Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated lack of
      understanding of F-16 mission capabilities.
DEBRIEFING
Q     Thoroughly prepared and was able to extract pertinent mission results in timely manner.
      Quickly identified perishable information. Controlled the debrief, asked amplifying
      questions, and recognized irrelevant information. Collected all significant intelligence
      with sufficient detail to accomplish reporting requirements IAW theater directives.
      Correctly annotated message traffic log, identified significant events and issued TUCs.
      Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some amplifying questions that would
      have enhanced detail of information gathered.
U     Not prepared. Disjointed flow. Failed to identify perishable information. Completely
      missed a debrief. Not enough detail to accomplish reporting requirements.
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
Q     Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
      available with minimal to no extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting
      timelines. Correctly annotated message traffic log, identified significant events and
      issued TUCs. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
 16                                                                AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Q-      Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to extenuating
        circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting, but pertinent
        information was included.
U       Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills confused meaning of information or
        omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct users
        through appropriate channels). Incorrect classification.

3.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to
tasks associated with the duty positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications.
(T-2)

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Trainer Grading Criteria

 EXTERNAL INTELLIGENCE TRAINER (EIT)
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY
 Q                Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and
                  made timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives. Effectively
                  fielded and accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated
                  subject matter knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data
                  from reference materials.
 Q-               Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures,
                  requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or
                  organization of instruction. Did not adversely affect training.
 U                Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not
                  plan training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected
                  training. Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack
                  of knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from instructor
                  effectiveness.


Table 3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Grading Criteria

 INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR
 EVALUATOR ABILITY
 Q                Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently
                  and made timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Completed
                  appropriate evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and recorded
                  performance. Comments were clear and pertinent.
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                     17


 INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR
 EVALUATOR ABILITY
 Q-              Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures,
                 requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or
                 organization of evaluation. Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor
                 errors or omissions in evaluation records. Comments were incomplete or
                 slightly unclear.
 U               Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee.
                 Did not plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely
                 affected the evaluation process. Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements,
                 mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted
                 from evaluator effectiveness. Did not complete required forms or records.
                 Comments were invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document
                 performance.


Table 3.4. Aerospace Control Alert Mission Planning and Intelligence Execution Evaluation
Criteria.
 AEROSPACE CONTROL ALERT MISSION PLANNING AND INTELLIGENCE
 EXECUTION
 Q    Coordinated, directed, supervised, or conducted (as required) activities IAW local
      procedures. Demonstrated proficiency in individual duty position responsibilities.
      Clearly understood ACA mission tasking and was able to address all factors relevant
      to the mission. Well organized and fully prepared. Made appropriate selection and
      effective use of planning materials and resources. Provided all mission materials in
      correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials neat and well organized.
      Considered all factors that could impact successful mission accomplishment.
      Provided thorough analysis. Identified shortfalls in information, recommendations for
      production/information requests. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products produced.
 Q-   Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact ACA mission planning and
      intelligence execution. Able to recover with minor prompting.
 U    Poorly organized or unprepared. Made errors or omissions that could have prevented
      an effective mission. Displayed faulty or limited knowledge of factors relevant to the
      mission. Improper use of mission planning tools or materials. Significant lack of
      analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of
      capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
      mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification on products produced.
18                           AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008



     Chapter 4 DELETED




          DAVID A. DEPTULA, Lt Gen, USAF
          DCS, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                              19


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS), https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm
DoDI 3305.02, DoD General Intelligence Training, 28 November 2006
DoDI 3115.10E, Intelligence Support to Personnel Recovery, 24 March 2006
JP 3-50, Personnel Recovery, 20 December 2011
MIL STD 2525B, Common Warfighting Symbology, 1 July 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARC—Air Reserve Components
ASA—Air Sovereignty Alert
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Qualified
BQ—Basic Qualification
C&R—Collection and Reporting
 20                                                            AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


CAF—Combat Air Forces
CC—Commander
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
DMPI—Desired Mean Point of Impact
DPPDB—Digital Point Positioning Data Base
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
E&R—Evasion and Recovery
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INIT—Initial (Evaluation)
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IP—Initial Point
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
JMEM—Joint Munitions Effects Manual
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MPC—Mission Planning Cell
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                       21


N/A—Not Applicable
NAF—Numbered Air Force
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NLT—Not Later Than
N/N—No Notice
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS/OSF—Operations Support Squadron/Flight
QUAL—Qualification (Evaluation)
Q—Qualified
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TARS—Theater Airborne Reconnaissance System
TDY—Temporary Duty
TUC—Threat Update Code
USAF—United States Air Force
VR—Visual
WRT—With Respect To
WSV—Weapons System Video

Terms
Air Sovereignty Alert (ASA)—The integrated tasks of surveillance and control, the execution
of which enforces a nation's authority over its territorial airspace. ASA refers to the specialized
training tailored to address specific intelligence requirements to support the ASA mission.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of F-16 unit intelligence personnel who have
satisfactorily completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain CMR status.
Basic Qualification (BQ)—The status of F-16 unit intelligence personnel who have
satisfactorily completed IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not perform
mission duties unsupervised. BQ is a prerequisite for all personnel to complete MQT. The
 22                                                               AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


member must perform at a minimum level as established in AFI 14-2F-16, Volume 1, F-16 Unit
Intelligence Training. BQ is not a long term qualification status.
Certification—Procedure used to document competency in a particular task. Not
interchangeable with “qualification,” which requires Form 4350 documentation.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of F-16 unit intelligence personnel who have
satisfactorily completed MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks
and knowledge required by AFI 14-2F-16, Volume 1.
Continuation Training (CT)—CT provides the volume, frequency and mix of training
necessary for intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency in their assigned qualification level.
The Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) outlines the minimum CT requirements. RIP is designed
to focus training on capabilities needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. Continuation
Training (CT) is separate from skill level upgrade training, although CT may fulfill some skill
level upgrade training requirements. CT and RIP are discussed further in Chapter 4 of AFI 14-
2F-16, Volume 1.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a
given event.
Debriefed Discrepancy—Remedial action taken by an intelligence evaluator to remedy a
discrepancy noted during an evaluation. This action is accomplished during debrief of the
evaluation wherein the intelligence evaluator provides briefing/instruction concerning the
discrepancy and determines that the examinee has gained the necessary knowledge or
proficiency to remedy said discrepancy. The discrepancy area/subarea description is annotated
with “Debriefed” in the Evaluator’s Remarks section of the AF Form 4350 Comments.
External Intelligence Trainer (EIT)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence
personnel who have completed the EIT Specialized Training and maintain currency as an EIT.
Only EITs may conduct unsupervised intelligence training for pilots.
External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains external
intelligence trainer qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member as an external intelligence trainer (i.e., INIT EIT and RQ EIT)
as directed in AFI14-2F-16 Volume 1. The designator for the external intelligence trainer
evaluation is “EIT” as used with the AF Form 4350 and AF Form 4349.
External Intelligence Training—Intelligence training given by intelligence personnel to pilots,
aircrew, or other non-intelligence AFSC personnel.
Initial Evaluation—The first evaluation of any type for a duty position (e.g., INIT MSN, INIT
EIT).
Initial Qualification Training (IQT)—Initial training necessary to qualify F-16 intelligence
personnel in a basic F-16 intelligence position without regard to a unit’s specific mission. IQT
includes the AFSC awarding courses and training conducted during formal syllabus courses at
the F-16 Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU).
Intelligence Evaluator (IE)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence personnel who
have completed the IE Specialized Training. Only IEs may conduct intelligence qualification
(mission or specialized) evaluations (initial or periodic).
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                        23


Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Evaluation—An evaluation that certifies and maintains intelligence
evaluator qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify
an intelligence member as an intelligence evaluator (i.e., INIT IE and RQ IE) as directed in
AFI14-2F-16 Volume 1. The designator for the intelligence evaluator evaluation is “IE” as used
with the AF Form 4350 and AF Form 4349.
Intelligence Qualification Trainer—Intelligence personnel designated by the SIO to conduct
qualification training for other intelligence personnel. Intelligence Qualification Trainers must
meet requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202 Volume 1.
Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN)—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
qualification (CMR or BMC) of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member (i.e., INIT MSN, RQ MSN). The MSN is administered to
ensure the individual’s ability to support full mission planning and employment in accomplishing
the unit’s operational mission as directed by AFI 14-2F-16, Volume 1. The designator for the
mission qualification evaluation is “MSN” as used with the AF Form 4350 and AF Form 4349.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel to
perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. AFI 14-2F-16 Volume 1 prescribes
minimum MQT requirements.
Proficiency—The quality of having competence and a command of the fundamentals derived
from practice and familiarity. A measure of how well a task is completed. An individual is
considered proficient when he/she can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed,
accuracy, and safety.
Qualification Evaluation (QUAL)—An evaluation that qualifies the examinee as basic
qualified (BQ). The QUAL is administered to ensure basic qualification in support to the F-16
and duty position of the intelligence professional. The designator for the qualification evaluation
is “QUAL” as used with the AF Form 4350 and AF Form 4349.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)—The SIO is the highest-ranking Air Force officer holding
the 14N3 or 14N4 AFSC or Series 0132 Civilian serving in an Air Force intelligence position.
The SIO's authority extends to all directly subordinate units. Installations with intelligence
activities in different chains of command will have separate SIOs. In this capacity, the SIO
provides senior guidance on all policy development, interpretations, and applications. Further,
the SIO serves as the chief advisor and mentor for AF intelligence officers, enlisted and civilians
(as appropriate) in terms of career development and progress.
Specialized Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
specialized qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify
an intelligence member for a particular skill or duty position. Specific types of specialized
qualification evaluations are identified in the applicable AFI 14-2F-16, Volume 1.
Specialized Training—Training in any skill necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned mission
that is not required for every F-16 intelligence specialist. Specialized Training is accomplished
after Mission Qualification Training and after the member has attained CMR or BMC status, and
is in addition to CMR or BMC requirements.
Theater Airborne Reconnaissance System (TARS)—TARS is a podded reconnaissance sensor
suite designed for under-the-weather, medium to high threat, daytime imagery collection. TARS
 24                                                             AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


refers to the specialized training (and the evaluation for 1N1XX imagery analysts only) tailored
to address specific imagery and operations intelligence requirement to support the TARS
mission.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                                                      25


                                         Attachment 2
                                       GRADESHEETS

A2.1. F-16 MQT Performance and Specialty Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT
performance task and ST gradesheets in this attachment are to be used when filling out AF
Forms 4381. Intelligence qualification trainers will use AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s
progress through training events. File the completed gradesheets in the trainee’s training record.
(T-2)

Figure A2.1. Academics Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
 26                                               AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.2. Academics Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                    27


Figure A2.3. Visual Recognition Gradesheet
 28                                                     AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.4. Manual OB Maintenance Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                     29


Figure A2.5. Manual OB Maintenance Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
 30                                                     AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.6. Automated OB Maintenance Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                        31


Figure A2.7. Automated OB Maintenance Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
 32                                                         AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.8. Changeover Briefing Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                   33


Figure A2.9. Changeover Briefing Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
 34                                                          AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.10. Deployment Briefing Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                    35


Figure A2.11. Deployment Briefing Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
 36                                                   AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.12. Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                   37


Figure A2.13. Situation Briefing Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
 38                                                         AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.14. Situation Briefing Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                         39


Figure A2.15. ATO/ACO/SPINS Breakout Gradesheet
 40                                                           AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.16. MPC Initial Briefing Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                             41


Figure A2.17. Mission Package Construction Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
 42                                                       AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.18. Mission Package Construction Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008               43


Figure A2.19. Weaponeering Gradesheet
 44                                                       AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.20. Mission Briefing Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                 45


Figure A2.21. Mission Briefing Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
 46                                      AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.22. Step Briefing Gradesheet
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                           47


Figure A2.23. Debriefing Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
 48                                                 AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.24. Debriefing Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008                                       49


Figure A2.25. Intelligence Reporting Gradesheet (page 1 of 2)
 50                                                         AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.26. Intelligence Reporting Gradesheet (page 2 of 2)
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008      51


Figure A2.27. EIT Gradesheet
 52                           AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008


Figure A2.28. IE Gradesheet
AFI14-2F-16V2 2 JUNE 2008   53


Figure A2.29. DELETED

Figure A2.30. DELETED

Figure A2.31. DELETED

Figure A2.32. DELETED

Figure A2.33. DELETED

Figure A2.34. DELETED

Figure A2.35. DELETED
