BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-219,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   VOLUME 2

                                                                            23 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                                Certified Current 21 APRIL 2011

                                                          Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                        COMBAT CONTROL AND SPECIAL
                                                    TACTICS OFFICER STANDARDIZATION
                                                                     AND EVALUATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ USAF A3O-AS                                               Certified by: HQ USAF/DA3O
                                                                (Gerald F. Pease, Jr., SES, USAF)
Supersedes:    AFI 13-219, 1 October, 1998                                               Pages: 18


This instruction implements AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic, Airfield, Airspace and Range Management.
It establishes the USAF Combat Control (CCT) and Special Tactics Officer (STO)
standardization and evaluation (Stan/Eval) program. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) applies to
Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve (AFR) Combat Control/Special Tactics Officers
assigned to a deployable Unit Training Code. Send recommended changes, additions, deletions,
and any other conflict or duplication of other reports to HQ AF/A3O-AS, 1480 Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1480, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. MAJCOMs may supplement this instruction. MAJCOMs will send one copy of their
printed supplement to HQ AF/A3O-AS.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act (PA) of 1974. The authority to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in this
instruction is 37 USC 301a. Privacy Act system notice F036 AF PC C, Military Personnel
Records System, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Distribution Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of a name of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the USAF or the Department of Defense.
 2                                                   AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
has been renumbered to Volume 2 (AFI 13-219 Volume 1, Combat Control and Special Tactics
Officer Training). Most revisions are with format and oversight of the CCT/STO Stan/Eval
program. This change also defines key staff personnel and delineates their Stan/Eval
requirements.
AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                      3



                                            Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This instruction establishes the Stan/Eval program for all USAF CCT and STO. It
exists to provide a method of quality control in a force which maintains a myriad of skills and
qualifications.
   1.1.1. Although CCT and STO are separate and distinct Air Force Specialties with unique
   skill sets and capabilities, they do maintain some similar skill sets. These skill sets are
   defined as the ability to shoot, move (to include methods of tactical insertion and extraction)
   and communicate for all Special Tactics (ST) missions.
   1.1.2. This evaluation program is a structured means of providing quality control. It has
   clearly defined roles and responsibilities to ensure commanders have an evaluation program
   that is objective and effective.
   1.1.3. At the heart of the program is the supervisor. The supervisor is the functional expert
   from whom the trainee receives his knowledge, work ethic, and leadership skills. Supervisors
   build the foundation which the trainee will use during his career. A strong and positive
   relationship between supervisor and trainee ensures a quality force.
   1.1.4. Stan/Eval is a total concept in which everyone is responsible for maintaining
   standards. Objective evaluations are a method of checks and balances. Utilizing and
   reinforcing the OJT program achieves program support from Air Force-level downwards and
   avoids making policies and procedures that do not correlate with Air Force training
   principles. The CCT and STO Stan/Eval Program provides an indicator of training
   effectiveness and unit capability. The program is a commander’s tool to determine if
   assigned operators are capable of performing duties in support of the unit’s Mission Essential
   Task List (METL).
1.2. Specific objectives. The objectives of the CCT and STO evaluation program include:
   1.2.1. Ensuring continuity of METL capability by establishing inter-command standards.
   1.2.2. Providing a system to assess both individual and unit proficiency levels.
   1.2.3. Recommending improvements to training programs, lesson plans, standard operating
   procedures, and directives based on evaluation results.
   1.2.4. Providing after action review feedback to senior, lateral, and subordinate headquarters
   through cross-command, cross-tell reports.
   1.2.5. Standardize evaluation procedures across the force.
1.3. Waiver Authority. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, MAJCOM/A3 is the
waiver authority for this instruction. Forward waiver requests to the basic guidance in this
instruction through applicable Stan/Eval channels to the MAJCOM/A3 or equivalent.
MAJCOMs will forward a copy of approved waivers to HQ USAF/A3O-AS. Waiver authority
for supplemental guidance is as specified in the supplement.
1.4. Roles, Responsibilities and Program Structure. The Stan/Eval program works in
conjunction with the Air Force OJT system. In short, the supervisor trains or selects a trainer, the
 4                                                          AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


trainer accomplishes the training, and an evaluator certifies that the trainee is capable of
performing the task (when required). Following this principle, trainers certified in a specific task
(not AFSC dependent) can provide training whether at home station, during a deployment, or at
any other time considered conducive to training. In order for the evaluations to be effective and
objective, the system relies (when possible) on evaluation from outside the immediate chain of
command. The CCT or STO Stan/Eval examiner will be highly experienced with a thorough
understanding of CCT/STO training and the ST mission. This individual should be trained and
proficient in both career progression and the role of the AFS.
     1.4.1. MAJCOM. AFSOC is designated lead command for ST and will provide the
     following MAJCOM Stan/Eval functions:
        1.4.1.1. Assign a CCT or STO to the MAJCOM Stan/Eval staff.
        1.4.1.2. Review and maintain evaluation publications and supplements.
        1.4.1.3. Establish and monitor command evaluation programs consistent with command
        METLs.
        1.4.1.4. Conduct evaluation program staff assistance visits for subordinate units.
        1.4.1.5. Conduct formal inspections on subordinate units.
        1.4.1.6. Consolidate unit trend analysis semi-annually and provide feedback to senior,
        lateral and subordinate headquarters through cross-command and cross-tell reports.
        1.4.1.7. Supervises the Stan/Eval functions in gained units of Air Reserve Component
        Forces to ensure the unit’s program is in compliance with the gaining command’s
        Stan/Eval program.
     1.4.2. Special Tactics Groups Will:
        1.4.2.1. Appoint by letter a Stan/Eval CCT. Maintain the appointment letter in the
        member’s AF Form 623, On-the-Job Training Record as indicated in AFI 13-219
        Volume 1, Combat Control and Special Tactics Officer Training.
        1.4.2.2. Establish and maintain an evaluation system to assess individual and unit
        proficiency levels.
        1.4.2.3. Develop, administer and maintain standardized open book evaluations for unit
        personnel.
        1.4.2.4. Maintain cross-tell program and provide semi-annual trend analysis to
        MAJCOM functional managers and Stan/Eval representatives.
        1.4.2.5. Recommend improvements to training programs, lesson plans, standard
        operating procedures, equipment and directives based on evaluation results and/or trends.
        1.4.2.6. Evaluate pipeline training, formal school programs, continuation training
        activities and specialized training programs to meet changing mission commitments.
        1.4.2.7. Develop and maintain a publications library.
     1.4.3. Units Will:
        1.4.3.1. Develop, sustain and maintain an effective Stan/Eval program.
AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                    5


     1.4.3.2. The unit commander will appoint the CCT Stan/Eval Monitor by letter which
     will be maintained in the member’s AF Form 623 as indicated in AFI 13-219 Volume 1.
  1.4.4. Unit Stan/Eval Monitor. Serves as the commander’s focal point in ensuring a viable
  Stan/Eval program. While this individual has direct access to the commander, they can
  function at any level. This individual should be highly trained and proficient in ST skills, but
  it is not a necessity that they be qualified in all aspects. The Stan/Eval Monitor relies upon
  trained evaluators and trainers to perform the bulk of the duties and may delegate other duties
  as deemed necessary, but not the responsibility. Because this individual has primary
  oversight of the Stan/Eval program, they are required to be qualified as an evaluator or
  certifier. Unit Stan/Eval Monitor Will:
     1.4.4.1. Work directly for, and inform, the commander of factors adversely affecting
     operational capability and recommend corrective action.
     1.4.4.2. Ensure compliance with governing guidance on AF OJT documentation and
     procedures.
     1.4.4.3. Analyze evaluation data semi-annually for adverse trends and recommend
     corrective action. Submit a copy of analysis to Group Stan/Eval.
     1.4.4.4. Ensure a unit IG cross-tell information system is maintained.
     1.4.4.5. Ensure appropriate reference material is available.
     1.4.4.6. Recommend improvements to unit operations and procedures.
     1.4.4.7. Evaluate METL and advanced skill qualifications through the use of spot
     evaluations.
     1.4.4.8. Provide feedback to commander on effectiveness of unit training programs.
     1.4.4.9. Approve employment evaluation scenarios to meet unit METL requirements.
     1.4.4.10. Conduct a Review Board when required.
  1.4.5. Unit Evaluators. Quality evaluation begins by selecting people who have a higher
  degree of experience and by separating training and evaluation functions. Evaluators are
  individuals who have received training in an AF task certifier course and are trained to
  conduct task evaluations in which they are qualified. Evaluators will be certified annually on
  an AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training. Unit evaluators will:
     1.4.5.1. Ensure individuals maintain established standards of proficiency through
     evaluation and observation.
     1.4.5.2. Submit proposed evaluation scenarios to the Stan/Eval Monitor.
     1.4.5.3. Develop and recommend improvements for unit operations and procedures.
     1.4.5.4. Evaluate METL and advanced skill qualifications through the use of spot
     evaluations.
     1.4.5.5. Evaluate effectiveness of unit training programs.
     1.4.5.6. Provide feedback to examinee on the results of the evaluation.
     1.4.5.7. Ensure safety is never compromised and enforce all standards.
6                                                            AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


    1.4.6. Unit Trainers. The trainer (usually the supervisor) is the front-line operator and, as
    such, is an integral part of Stan/Eval. Trainers must maintain required task qualification in
    the tasks they teach and be able to effectively train others. Commanders, with the help of
    experienced NCOs, formally appoint trainers by letter and ensure they are trained and
    certified to train. Trainers will be certified annually on an AF Form 1098.
       1.4.6.1. Use METL; Tasks, Conditions, and Standards (TCS); and other unit-identified
       tasks to prepare and instruct the trainee in the skills necessary to conduct the unit’s
       missions.
       1.4.6.2. Submit proposed training plans and schedules for approval.
       1.4.6.3. Recommend improvements for unit operations and procedures.
       1.4.6.4. Provide feedback to the trainee on the results of the training conducted.
    1.4.7. Trainee. Perhaps the most important member of the Stan/Eval program is the trainee.
    Trainee's exist at all levels and are an indicator of all the units’ processes. With few
    exceptions, the trainee reflects the level of instruction and the quality of the unit. The trainee
    is responsible for active participation in the learning process, this is necessary for the trainee
    to become a productive member of the team.
       1.4.7.1. Give the trainer or supervisor feedback on the training you receive.
       1.4.7.2. Ensure that feedback is received from the trainer and evaluator and that you
       understand your responsibilities.
AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                      7


                                           Chapter 2

                                        EVALUATIONS

2.1. Evaluations. Evaluations ensure that CCT and STO personnel are trained to achieve and
maintain the qualifications and capability to safely and effectively accomplish their assigned
mission. Core evaluations should focus on the unit’s METL tasks that are most likely to occur.
Other evaluations should be related to tasks required for upgrade or special mission
qualification/s.
2.2. Initial Evaluation. An initial evaluation is required for all newly assigned CCT and STO
graduates of the Special Tactics Training School (STTS).Prior to completion of the initial
evaluation, CCT/STO will complete all unit specific training IAW AFI 13-219 Volume 1. The
initial evaluation will consist of the following:
   2.2.1. Open Book Evaluation. Conducted IAW paragraph 2.3.1.
   2.2.2. Physical Fitness Evaluation. Conducted IAW paragraph 2.3.2.
   2.2.3. Employment Evaluation. Conducted IAW paragraph 2.3.3.
2.3. Core Evaluations. Core evaluations are given every 18 months to evaluate those core
skills necessary to remain proficient in assigned tasks. CCT and STO who are operationally
deployed when due for Stan/ Eval will maintain currency until returning to home station as
approved by the commander. The minimum core evaluation consists of an open book
examination, physical fitness evaluation, and an employment evaluation. Each of these
evaluations provides a "snapshot" as to an individual's level of fitness and competency at a
particular time. Used in conjunction with spot evaluations, they can give a supervisor or
commander an objective perspective on the individual and the training process.
   2.3.1. Open Book Examinations. These examinations will consists mainly of safety related
   issues. Because regulations and emergency procedures change, these examinations will be
   administered as an open book test with the intent of reinforcing procedures and guidelines
   that are critical to performing duties safely. Failures will retest within 60 calendar days. Unit
   commanders will determine if CCT or STO will perform operational taskings prior to passing
   a retest. Individuals who fail a second time will not perform operational taskings and will be
   recommended for review board action.
   2.3.2. Physical Training (PT) test. Total fitness for combat includes both physical fitness and
   mental fitness, if either attribute is lacking, combat effectiveness suffers proportionately. The
   capacity for skillful and sustained performance and the ability to rapidly recover from
   exertion is important to successfully accomplish ST missions. The PT test is an easily
   attainable program that may be given at a wide variety of locations and simulates a variety of
   physical tasks. Each member will be administered a PT test consisting of the exercises shown
   in Figure 2.1. The recommended order for conducting the evaluation is as follows: chin-ups,
   sit-ups, push-ups, 3 mile run, and 1500 meter swim. Calisthenics events will be tested one
   right after the other with approximately a 2 minute time lapse between events. Upon
   completion of all the calisthenics events, a 10 minute rest period is given prior to starting the
   3-mile run. Upon completion of the 3-mile run, a 30 minute rest period is given prior to
   starting the 1500M swim.
8                                                        AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


    2.3.2.1. To pass the PT Test successfully, an individual must meet the requirements for
    all events. Failure to meet physical fitness standard for any one event constitutes failure
    of entire test.
    2.3.2.2. PT Test Procedures.
       2.3.2.2.1. Chin/Pull-ups (two minute time limit). This exercise is executed on a pull-
       up bar. The individual grasps the bar with the hands about shoulder width apart. This
       is a two-count exercise. The exercise begins in the "dead hang" position. Count one:
       pull the body directly upward until the chin is over the bar. Count two: lower the
       body until the body is again in the "dead hang" position. Individuals will not swing
       excessively or bicycle feet as the chin is pulled over the bar. Repeat as many times as
       possible. This exercise is designed to measure strength and endurance in the back,
       triceps, and biceps muscles used when performing specific mission tasks.
       2.3.2.2.2. Sit-ups (four minute time limit). Starting position: back flat on the ground,
       hands on the head, head off the ground and knees bent at approximately a 90 degree
       angle. Another individual during the exercise holds the feet (optional). This is a two-
       count exercise. Count one: sit up until the back is vertical to the ground. Count two:
       return to the starting position. There is no authorized rest position. If an individual
       raises buttocks from ground or removes hands from the head during a repetition, the
       repetition is not counted. Designed to measure strength and endurance in abdominal
       and hip flexor muscle groups used when performing specific mission tasks.
       2.3.2.2.3. Push-ups (two minute time limit). Place hands on the floor, slightly wider
       than shoulder width apart, with your fingers pointing forward. You must lower your
       upper body until your upper arm is at least parallel to the floor and elbows bent at 90
       degrees before pushing back up to the starting position. If you do not come down that
       far the push-up will not count. Start in the up position with your elbows fully
       extended, feet no more than 12 inches apart, and your weight supported by your arms
       and toes. You must keep your back straight at all times and lower your upper body
       until your upper arm is at least parallel to the floor, then return to the up position with
       arms fully extended. This is one repetition. Keep your hands and feet on the floor if
       you need to rest. Resting must be done in the UP position.
       2.3.2.2.4. Three Mile Run. Performed with running shoes and running shorts. This
       exercise is designed to measure aerobic endurance used when performing mission
       tasks; specifically employment or evasion situations.
       2.3.2.2.5. 1500 Meter Swim. The swim will be performed with swim trunks, face
       mask or goggles (snorkel optional), and fins using any stroke. If swim is performed in
       open water, a life preserver or flotation device must be worn and 10 minutes will be
       added to maximum times in Figure 2.1. This exercise is designed to measure aerobic
       endurance in a maritime environment.
    2.3.2.3. Grading. Exercise, run, and swim times will be rounded off to lower point value.
    A composite score will determine the overall score.
    2.3.2.4. Substandard Performance. Individuals who fail will be entered into a supervised
    remedial PT program and reevaluated within 60 calendar days. Individuals must complete
    an entire PT evaluation when retested. Operational taskings for individuals failing a
AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                    9


      portion of an evaluation will be determined by the unit commander. Individuals who fail
      a second time will not perform operational taskings and will be recommended for review
      board action.

Figure 2.1. Physical Fitness Evaluation Criteria. EXERCISE COUNT




   2.3.3. Employment Evaluation. Performance evaluation of CCT/STO in the employment
   phase is the most important aspect of the overall Stan/Eval. Scenarios should be conducted to
   evaluate as many of the unit’s combat tasks as possible, to include air, land, and sea
   environments. Operators should deploy with the necessary equipment to perform a tactical
   profile. Tactical profiles should include practice or rehearsal in the related tactics and
   procedures which are common to, and directly associated with the planning, preparation,
   insertion, execution, and extraction phases of a tactical operation. Joint operations should be
   included when practical, as well as, evaluation sites that are not normally used for routine
   proficiency training. The operator/s employment evaluation determines an individual’s
   ability to function within a tactical environment, in a position commensurate with rank and
   unit position. It is also the primary means for commanders to internally evaluate an
   operator/s ability to accomplish assigned missions.
      2.3.3.1. The minimum requirements for the completion of an employment evaluation are:
      mission briefing, equipment preparation, insertion, tactical event, and a debriefing.
      2.3.3.2. Employment evaluations may be conducted during scheduled exercises with the
      prior concurrence of exercise planners. Evaluators should not be included in the tactical
      scenario.
      2.3.3.3. At least one evaluator is recommended for every six operators being evaluated.
      Evaluators will grade personnel on their individual assignments during the team
      employment.
 10                                                         AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


       2.3.3.4. Inability to complete the insertion because of weather, aircraft cancellation, or
       other uncontrollable circumstances will not result in failure of the employment. The
       employment may be evaluated as long as the briefing was completed, the insertion was
       attempted, tactical event completed, and a debriefing was conducted.
       2.3.3.5. Grading. Employment evaluations are graded pass or fail.
           2.3.3.5.1. Substandard Performance. The evaluator will critique errors, incorrect
           procedures, and minor safety violations after the debriefing. A major safety violation
           is grounds for failure and will be corrected on the spot. Annotate areas requiring
           improvement and corrective action to be performed. Individuals who fail will be re-
           administered the evaluation within 60 calendar days. Failure of an individual does not
           result in failure of the entire evaluation group.
           2.3.3.5.2. Follow-up. Individuals who fail the employment phase of evaluation may
           only be tasked in support of a training mission under direct supervision of a qualified
           and current individual. Operational and contingency tasking of these individuals
           require a waiver from the appropriate authority. Supervisors are responsible for
           ensuring individuals are afforded adequate training opportunities to reach the
           standard. Individuals who fail a second time will be recommended for review board
           action.
2.4. Spot Evaluations. Spot evaluations are used to provide feedback to an individual’s
supervisor or trainer on the task competency of that individual and the effectiveness of a
supervisor’s or trainer’s program. Additionally, spot evaluations are used as a method of
providing the commander feedback on an individual’s advanced skills or a specific team’s
mission capabilities through random evaluations of mission training and exercises. They may be
conducted at any time. Personnel or teams receiving spot evaluations must be notified prior to
the start of the mission briefing. Areas found to be substandard will result in decertification with
additional training required prior to requalification.
2.5. Requalification Evaluation. Individuals who fail an initial or core evaluation require a
requalification evaluation. The individual will receive training and be recommended for
requalification evaluation by his supervisor within 60 calendar days of failure. CCT/STO that fail
an initial evaluation will be retested on the entire initial evaluation (Open book, PT,
employment). CCT/STO who fail a core evaluation will complete the portion of the core
evaluation he failed, i.e. open book evaluation, PT etc.
2.6. Trainer and Evaluator Evaluations. Trainers and evaluators are evaluated on their
effectiveness to train or evaluate, as well as, their ability to perform in their primary specialty.
Trainers and evaluators are key members of the training program. The ability to effectively train
or evaluate others is a skill and, as such, may be evaluated like any other skill.
   2.6.1. Unit Stan/Eval Monitors will ensure all trainers and evaluators are evaluated on an 18-
   month recurring basis.
   2.6.2. MAJCOM or group level evaluators may evaluate a random sampling of subordinate
   unit’s members when directed by the MAJCOM Stan/Eval.
2.7. Key Staff Evaluations. Due to the nature of the job for those CCT/STO in key staff
positions, they only required to complete the PT portion of the Stan/Eval IAW paragraph 2.3.2
AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                    11


of this instruction every 18 months. Key staff personnel are defined as those assigned to
MAJCOM staff or higher positions, and others as identified by the MAJCOM, which would not
normally be considered required to deploy as an “operator”. All CCT/STO assigned to AETC are
also considered to be in key staff positions.
2.8. Administration of Evaluations. A sound and practical evaluation program is a
prerequisite for effective evaluation. Evaluators must have the judgment necessary to meet
unexpected or induced emergencies and the ability to exercise judgment through mature
realization of their own and their trainee’s limitations. An evaluator’s familiarity with the
concepts of tactical employment and sound judgment are critical factors to proper assessment of
performance.
   2.8.1. All evaluations resulting in task decertification must be in compliance with AF OJT
   guidance.
   2.8.2. Evaluators will not evaluate personnel they have trained except in extreme
   circumstances.
   2.8.3. An evaluation will not be changed to a training mission to avoid recording
   unsatisfactory performance, or a scheduled training mission, to an evaluation, to record
   satisfactory performance.
2.9. Failure of Evaluation. Failure of an individual task does not necessarily constitute failure
for the entire evaluation. Individuals who fail a core evaluation require a requalification
evaluation.
   2.9.1. If an individual core task is failed, the individual will be decertified in that task and
   considered non-mission ready.
   2.9.2. Failure of Requalification Evaluation. Failure of a requalification evaluation will
   result in a recommendation for review board action.
2.10. Evaluation Briefings and Debriefings. Briefing and debriefing are critical aspects not
only in missions, but in a proper Stan/Eval program as well. Evaluators will brief and debrief
examinees on all aspects of evaluations. The evaluator will ensure examinees understand what is
to be evaluated and the parameters of the evaluation. During debriefs, the evaluator will ensure
the examinee understands all comments or remarks. Attendance of the examinee's supervisor is
recommended during the debrief. When debriefing, each person should be given an opportunity
to contribute their comments, observations, and recommendations. Conducting a proper debrief
allows maximum benefit from the information collected and may be used to identify excellence
or deficiencies in a training segment. Training records and documentation are an important part
of the debrief process.
2.11. Documentation Procedures. Documentation is a performance indicator not only of the
trainee, but the supervisor, trainer, and evaluator. Concise and factual documentation provides a
history of tasks accomplished and the conditions in which they were accomplished. Improper or
sloppy documentation results in a poor or incomplete picture of the individual and should not be
tolerated.
   2.11.1. AF Form 623. The AF Form 623 maintains basic source documents to provide a
   current history of each operator’s qualifications. An AF Form 623 is established for each
 12                                                         AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


   CCT/STO assigned to the unit IAW AFI 13-219 Volume 1. Maintain AF Form 623 in a
   location readily accessible to supervisors, trainers, evaluators, and the individual members.
   2.11.2. AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluation. The AF Form 803 is used to record an
   evaluation in brief and concise statements and is maintained in the individual’s AF Form
   623. All entries must be legible and signed and dated by the trainee and evaluator in order to
   be considered valid. Self explanatory blocks are not addressed. When additional comments
   are required, they are referenced and filed with the original AF Form 803 on an AF Form
   623a, On-the-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet.
   2.11.3. Job Qualification Standard Task Items Evaluated. Write in the appropriate type of
   evaluation (initial, core, requalification, or spot), reference if applicable, and task evaluated.
       2.11.3.1. Remarks. Fill in a concise and factual history of tasks accomplished and the
       conditions in which they were accomplished. Annotate results of the evaluation (mission
       ready/non mission ready). Trainee and supervisor initial in the remarks section.
       2.11.3.2. Unsatisfactory Performance. A trainer or evaluator who is decertified will not
       perform those duties until a requalification evaluation is successfully completed as
       appropriate.
   2.11.4. AF Form 623a. The AF Form 623a is used to expand upon comments logged on the
   AF Form 803. The AF Form 623a is used for recommendations and explanation of
   restrictions or for recommendations for review board action. Use the AF Form 623a to record
   positive performance as well as negative. In order for the comments to be considered valid,
   the evaluator and trainees must sign and date all entries.
2.12. Unsatisfactory Performance During an Evaluation. If an evaluator observes a
procedure that jeopardizes safety, they will immediately relieve the individual responsible and
either appoint another qualified individual or assume the duties if qualified.
AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                  13


                                          Chapter 3

                                     REVIEW BOARDS

3.1. General. A review board is a panel of experienced senior CCT/STO personnel that
evaluate qualifications of unit members who fail to meet prescribed standards. Review boards do
not take the place of adequate training or documentation. When viewed as a whole, review
boards are a part of the checks and balances used in the Stan/Eval program, albeit a last step.
Review boards are designed to look at the overall process delivering an impartial judgment.
Review boards not only look at the trainee, but at the training process to see if the failure is
institutional or procedural. The primary evaluator will conduct the review board which consists
of the operations officer or senior NCO (AFSC specific), the senior enlisted member, and the
primary evaluator. If a board member cannot be present, the commander may designate an
alternate. The individual’s direct supervisor may observe the proceeding of the board, however,
he is a nonvoting member. The commander may also observe the proceedings but is a nonvoting
member as the board recommends action to the commander.
3.2. Review Board Actions. The board will evaluate and analyze all factors bearing on a
situation and provide the commander with recommendations.
   3.2.1. Convene a Review Board when:
       3.2.1.1. Directed by the commander.
       3.2.1.2. A member fails any requalification evaluation.
       3.2.1.3. Any incident that compromised safety or resulted in injury to personnel or
       damage to equipment through negligence or violation of directives occurs.
   3.2.2. The review board will determine the circumstances and adequacy of training and
   submit recommendations to the commander for further action. Recommendations may
   include removal of an advanced skill qualification, additional supervised training, or removal
   of the AFSC.
   3.2.3. Actions resulting in the recommendation for removal of an AFSC will be forwarded to
   the next higher headquarters or MAJCOM level as appropriate.
 14                                                        AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


                                           Chapter 4

                                AFTER ACTION REVIEWS

4.1. General. An After Action Review (AAR) is a method of conducting continuous evaluation
and improvement to equipment and procedures. It must be considered a way of life in the unit.
An AAR is the basis for commanders and team leaders to assess unit capability and is used to
provide feedback and solicit ideas to improve performance on unit METL. The AAR consists of
five parts. (Attachment 2 is a sample after action).
   4.1.1. Event Description.
   4.1.2. Discussion. Explain desired objectives/goals.
   4.1.3. Results. Describe actual events and accomplishments.
   4.1.4. Recommended improvement areas.
   4.1.5. Conclusions. Describe corrective actions that will be taken.
4.2. AAR Cross-Tell. To enhance unit effectiveness and continually improve training,
headquarters use feedback from subordinate unit’s AAR to distribute cross-tell. This allows
adjustments in resources, personnel and training methods and can be used to refine mission and
standardize equipment and procedures among the force.
   4.2.1. Unit Training Monitors. Consolidate lessons learned from AARs semi-annually, and
   up-channel reports to 720 STG/DOCV and MAJCOM functional manager if assigned to
   other than AFSOC.
   4.2.2. 720th Special Tactics Group. Consolidate reports and disseminate semi-annually to all
   Special Tactics organizations.
   4.2.3. Unit Level Consolidated Report Format. Unit reports consist of a discussion and
   recommendation for each of three areas: Trends, Tactics/Procedural Improvement, and
   Equipment Improvement. Each trend and/or improvement should be discussed and a
   recommendation provided.
4.3. Information Collection, Records, and Forms.
   4.3.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   4.3.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in
   accordance with the AFRIMS RDS located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
   af61/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009                                                           15




4.3.3. Adopted and Prescribed Forms.

4.3.3.1. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder
AF Form 623a, On-the-Job-Training Record- Continuation Sheet
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

4.3.3.2. Prescribed Forms:

No forms are prescribed by this publication.




                                               DANIEL J. DARNELL, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
 16                                                     AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-219 Volume 1, Combat Control and Special Tactics Officer Training, (draft)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic, Airfield, Airspace and Range Management, 7 Aug 2007
AFRIMS RDS, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Review
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
ATC—Air Traffic Control
CCT—Combat Controller
DOCV—Standards Division
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
LZ—Landing Zone
MAJCOM—Major Command
METL—Mission Essential Tasks List
OP—Observation Post
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OJT—On-the-Job-Training
PT—Physical Training
Stan/Eval—Standards and Evaluation
STG—Special Tactics Group
STO—Special Tactics Officer
TCS—Tasks, Conditions, and Standards
TM—Team Member
AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                     17


Terms
Certification—A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.
Mission-ready—Synonymous with operationally ready, with respect to missions or functions
performed in combat.
Core Evaluations—Core evaluations consist of the open book examination, physical training
test (PT Test), and a team employment evaluation.
Evaluator—An individual who evaluates training and certifies qualifications or specific tasks.
Failure—An individual fails an evaluation when he is unable to satisfactorily complete any
phase of an evaluation.
Initial Evaluation—An evaluation administered to personnel who have never been qualified
combat ready IAW with this instruction and respective MAJCOM training directives.
Mission Essential Task List—An unconstrained statement of tasks required to complete
wartime mission.
Nonmission-ready—A status resulting from failure during evaluation in items or events needed
to perform the unit mission.
OJT—Individual training in designated job skills provided to individual members when serving
in job positions in operational units.
Qualification Expiration—The date qualification expires. Normally the last day of month, 18
months from the last successful evaluation.
Recurring Evaluation—An evaluation administered within a specified period of time on a
recurring basis (e.g. annually, semi-annually).
Requalification Evaluation—An evaluation required due to an unsatisfactory rating on a
previous evaluation or an evaluation expiration.
Spot Evaluation—An evaluation given as a quality control measure to evaluate members on
specific tasks or qualifications, but not to satisfy a recurring evaluation requirement.
Standard—An exact value, physical entity or abstract concept that authority, custom, or
common consent sets up and defines to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring qualities
or quantities, developing practices or procedures, or evaluation results. A fixed quality or
quantity.
Tasks, Conditions, and Standards—A method of evaluating performance. Defines a specific
task to be accomplished, the conditions the task is to be accomplished under, and the standard
that is to be met for the task.
Trainee—An individual who is undergoing training.
Trainer—A trained and qualified person who teaches others to perform specific tasks.
Unit Stan/Eval Monitor—An individual appointed by the commander to oversee the standards
and evaluation program.
18                                                       AFI13-219V2 23 FEBRUARY 2009


                                       Attachment 2
                          SAMPLE AFTER ACTION REPORT


After Action Review - Oct 95 Event -Team Employment Evaluation

Objective - Conduct R&S of Field 21.

Event Description: On 30 Sep 95, a training R&S mission was performed at Field
21. Team composition included a combat control 7-level Team Leader, a combat
control 5-level, a combat control 3-level in upgrade training, and a 5-level
pararescueman. Objective of the mission was to assess the field for landing of fixed
wing airlift establishment of a casualty collection point for follow-on operations.
Insertion was by MH-60 helicopter to a remote LZ. Team movement to the objective
covered 10 kilometers over tropical scrub. Reconnaissance was by mechanical and
electronic methods. Extraction was by MH-53. Total field time was approximately
72 hrs.

Discussion: Inserting by fastrope to a small LZ covered by thick brush, the rope
appeared to rest on the ground when in fact it was resting on the scrub brush. This
left a difference of three feet to the ground. On roping into the LZ, the first TM
landed on the brush and turned an ankle. All others landed with no subsequent
problems.

Recommended Improvement Areas: The TM with the ankle injury hampered
movement to the objective. Although just out of school, the 3-level moved well with
the team and used good patrolling techniques throughout the movement phase. One
area of weakness, however, was that when assuming point the 3-level did not turn
around often enough for directions from the TL.

Actions at the OP were routine with good security. The video transmitter failed on
day 2 stopping video feed, all subsequent information was sent back by still-photo.
(Additional info can be requested by secure methods.)

Extraction was executed in a satisfactory manner.

Conclusions: Ensure the ropemaster has a good visual on the area below the helo
prior to roping. Allow adequate time for movement to an objective area. This is an
important consideration when planning the operation. The ankle injury emphasized
the need for planning a third to half again as much time. Also, adequate first aid
capability or better must be available to ensure mission accomplishment. In the
possibility the injury would have been debilitating, consider alternate plans for
mission accomplishment. Electronic reconnaissance measures must be redundant to
be effective. The TL must weigh the factors carefully when developing the plan.
Individual on point must keep a constant watch to the front as well as to the re
