BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-303
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                  1 APRIL 1999

                                                                                               Intelligence

                                                                RELEASE OF INTELLIGENCE TO US
                                                                                CONTRACTORS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOIIS (Ms. Elizabeth A. Hall)                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/XOI
                                                                              (John P. Casciano, Maj Gen)
Supersedes AFI 14-303, 27 December 1993.                                                          Pages: 5
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 14-3, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Intelligence Informa-
tion. It applies to everyone involved with the security, use, and dissemination of Collateral Intelligence
within the Air Force, including government contractors, the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserves.
It assigns responsibilities for releasing selected intelligence information and related material to eligible
US contractors, and outlines the special requirements the contractor must fulfill to safeguard intelligence
information. These requirements add to Department of Defense Industrial Security Directives (DoD
5220.22M and DoD 5220.22R).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates the Director of Central Intelligence Directive (DCID)1/7, Security Controls on
the Dissemination of Intelligence Information, dated 30 June 1998. The revision reduces the approval
process for release of intelligence to contractors.


1. Officials Authorized to Approve Release.
   1.1. The Director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaisance, DCS/Air and Space Operations
   (HQ USAF/XOI) is the Air Force Senior Official of the Intelligence Community (SOIC). The HQ
   USAF/XOI implements and carries out the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) policies and proce-
   dures for using, protecting, and disseminating intelligence. The HQ USAF/XOI is the Air Force final
   authority for approving the release of intelligence to contractors.
   1.2. The Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) of each Major Command (MAJCOM) and Field Operating
   Agency (FOA), and their field command designees, can release intelligence to their command con-
   tractors without specific approval from the HQ USAF/XOI if the intelligence meets the criteria listed
   in DCID 1/7, and (1) the intelligence is not marked with restricted control markings; (2) the intelli-
   gence is not restricted to the executive branch of the US Government.
2                                                                             AFI14-303 1 APRIL 1999


       1.2.1. The SIO, or designee, performs the following functions:
           1.2.1.1. Evaluates the sponsoring agency’s request for intelligence by examining the DD
           Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification, to determine if the specific intelli-
           gence is appropriate for the contract. If not, the SIO identifies the intelligence the contractor
           actually needs to satisfy the contract.
           1.2.1.2. Documents all intelligence released to the contractor, including oral and visual disclo-
           sure, until the contract is completed or the material is returned to the Air Force.
    1.3. Only the HQ USAF/XOI can release information to contractors from the following documents
    without identifying it as national intelligence
       1.3.1. National Intelligence Analytical Memoranda. (Memoranda that may reflect or could be
       construed as reflecting US analytic judgments, often viewed as official policy pronouncements of
       the US Government. Information is usually taken from National Intelligence Estimates.)
    1.4. If they do not have an SIO, Air Staff activities, MAJCOMs, and FOAs must refer requests to HQ
    USAF/XOIIS for release approval.

2. Preparing Requests. The sponsoring agency requests intelligence support from the SIO. Each
requestor must provide the following information and certification:
    2.1. DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification
    2.2. Certification of “need-to-know,"
    2.3. Identification of the requested intelligence, if known, which will be used in the performance of
    the contract by the contractor, and a description of the type of work to be performed by the contractor.

3. Referral to Originator. Intelligence that carries the following marking requires written permission of
the originating agency before release to all contractors within or outside of government owned or con-
trolled facilities:
    3.1. Caution-Proprietary Information Involved (PROPIN).
    3.2. Intelligence that carries the following marking requires written permission of the originating
    agency before release to a contractor outside of government owned or controlled facilities:
       3.2.1. Dissemination and Extraction of Information Controlled by Originator (ORCON).
       3.2.2. Sponsoring agencies shall delete any reference to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA),
       the phrase “Directorate of Operations” and any of its components, the place acquired, the field
       number, the source description, and field dissemination from all CIA Directorate of Operations
       reports passed to contractors, unless prior approval to do otherwise is obtained from CIA.
    3.3. If you cannot sanitize the documents, you can request release for intelligence bearing these mark-
    ings through the originator. Provide a courtesy copy of the request to the MAJCOM.

4. Special Requirements for Intelligence.
    4.1. A contractor is not authorized to further disclose or release classified Intelligence Information
    (including release to a subcontractor) without prior written authorization of the releasing agency.
AFI14-303 1 APRIL 1999                                                                                     3


   4.2. All inquiries concerning source, acquisition, use, control or restrictions pertaining to Intelligence
   Information shall be directed to the releasing agency.
   4.3. In addition to DoD Manual 5220.22, Industrial Security Manual for Safeguarding Classified
   Information, the Director, Central Intelligence, sets up additional requirements and controls for intel-
   ligence that you give to contractors and these requirements must be specifically included on the DD
   Form 254, DoD Contract Security Classification Specification. (See DCID 1/7.)

5. Returning Intelligence to the Air Force. Final disposition of intelligence information shall be gov-
erned by the sponsoring agency.



                                                MARVIN R. ESMOND, Lt General, USAF
                                                DCS/Air and Space Operations
4                                                                         AFI14-303 1 APRIL 1999


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DCID 1/7, Security Controls on the Dissemination of Intelligence Information
DoD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM
DoD 5220.22-R, Industrial Security Regulation
DIA Regulation 50-2, Information Security Program
AFPD 14-3, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Intelligence
AFI 14-301, Request for Collateral Intelligence Documents
AFI 14-302, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information
AFPD 31-4, Information Security
AFPD 31-6, Industrial Security
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management
AFH 31-602, Industrial Security Program
AFPD 31-7, Acquisition Security

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
CIA—Central Intelligence Agency
DCI—Director of Central Intelligence
DCID—Director of Central Intelligence Directive
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DOE—of Energy
FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HQ USAF/XOI—Director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, DCS/Air and Space
Operations
HQ USAF/XOIIS—Intelligence Security Division, DCS/Air and Space Operations
INR/STATE—Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of State
MAJCOM—Major Command
NSA—National Security Agency
ORCON—issemination and Extraction of Information Controlled by Originator
AFI14-303 1 APRIL 1999                                                                                   5


PROPIN—Caution-Proprietary Information Involved
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SOIC—Senior Official of the Intelligence Community

Terms
Intelligence Community—The intelligence community includes the following organizations:
 Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
 National Security Agency (NSA).
 Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).
 Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of State (INR/State).
 The intelligence activities of the Military Departments and the unified and specified commands.
 Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
 Department of Treasury, and the Department of Energy (DOE).
National Intelligence—Integrated departmental intelligence that covers the broad aspects of national
policy and national security, is of concern to more than one department or agency, and transcends the
exclusive competence of a single department or agency.
National Intelligence Estimate—A strategic estimate of the capabilities, vulnerabilities, and probable
courses of action of foreign nations which is produced at the national level as a composite of the views of
the intelligence community.
Release—The oral, visual, or physical disclosure of intelligence.
Selected Intelligence Information and Related Materials (Intelligence)—Foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence information, and information describing US foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence activities, sources, methods, and equipment for acquiring and handling such
intelligence, foreign military intelligence hardware, and photography or recordings resulting from such
intelligence collection.
Senior Official of the Intelligence Community (SOIC)—The head of an agency, office, bureau, or
other intelligence element as identified in Section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, 50
USC 401a(4), and Section 3.4(f) (1 through 6) of Executive Order 12333.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)—The senior person charged with intelligence responsibilities for his
or her command or organization.
