BY ORDER OF THE                                                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-201
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                            1 DECEMBER 2002

                                                                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                                                        INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION AND
                                                                                                        APPLICATIONS



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOIIA-P (Maj Robert Kellas)                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/XOI (Maj Gen Sams)
Supersedes AFI 14-201, 1 February 1998                                                                         Pages: 23
                                                                                                          Distribution: F

This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Air Force Intelli-
gence Applications and Requirements Planning (previously AFPD 14-2). This AFI acts as an Air Force
supplement to DoD-0000-151C-YY, and provides implementing language for the entire DoD-0000-151
series of directives. This AFI provides a brief overview of the Air Force intelligence production and appli-
cation process and describes Air Force roles and missions as they relate to the intelligence production pro-
cess. Refer to the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) DoD-0000-151 series on JWICS:
http://www. dia.ic.gov/homepage/dimd.html, AFPD 14-1, and AFI 14-series for additional clarification
when using this instruction. Refer to Attachment 1 for a glossary of references, abbreviations, acronyms
and terms. Ensure that all records created by this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN
37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.”

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision clarifies the Air Force implementation of the Department of Defense Intelligence Produc-
tion Program (DoDIPP), clarifies unique aspects with regard to Air Force use of the DoDIPP process for
both production and application requirements, and promulgates Air Force production priority criteria. In
addition, this AFI introduces the basic production requirement management process (Attachment 3 and
DoD-0000-151C-YY), implements significant process changes, and includes an Air Force and DoD
Stock Products List (Attachment 5).

Section A     General                                                                                                                         3
      1.      Applicability. ..............................................................................................................   3
      2.      Background. ................................................................................................................    3

Section B     Intelligence Production and Dissemination Requirements Process                                                                  3
      3.      Request for Information (RFI). ...................................................................................              3
2                                                                                            AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


Section C   Production Requirements (PR) Process                                                                                             4
     4.     Production/Application Centers will produce or provide intelligence products,
            applications, and services based on validated/approved customer requirements. ......                                            4
     5.     The Production/Application Center enters an Initial Response (IR) within five (5)
            working days upon receipt of the PR in COLISEUM that includes the name,
            telephone number, and e-mail address of the Point of Contact (POC). .....................                                       4

Section D   Customer Guidance                                                                                                                4
     6.     For the purpose of this AFI, the customer, supported by the SIO, is the actual end user
            of intelligence. ............................................................................................................   4

Section E   Disputes/Arbitration                                                                                                            4
     7.     Disputes involving Air Force customers and/or Air Force Production/Application
            Centers that cannot be resolved along normal chain of command lines are submitted
            to the appropriate Validation Office (VO) for resolution. ........................................                              4

Section F   Responsibilities                                                                                                                5
     8.     Air Force customers will: ..........................................................................................            5
     9.     Supporting Intelligence Office (SIO) will: ................................................................                     5
    10.     Headquarters, USAF Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
            (AF/XOI) will: ...........................................................................................................       5
    11.     Major Commands will: ..............................................................................................              6
    12.     Numbered Air Forces will: ........................................................................................               6
    13.     Air Combat Command (ACC)/8th Air Force (8 AF) .................................................                                  7

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              9

Attachment 2— USAF/MAJCOM PRODUCTION PRIORITIZATION SURVEY
             QUESTIONS                                                                                                                      14

Attachment 3— THE REQUIREMENTS MANAGEMENT PROCESS FLOW CHART                                                                                16

Attachment 4— INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION FUNDING GUIDANCE                                                                                      17

Attachment 5— STOCK PRODUCTS LIST                                                                                                           20

Attachment 6— PRODUCT RESPONSE (PPR) FORMAT                                                                                                 22

Attachment 7— INTELLIGENCE REQUIREMENTS MANAGEMENT TIMELINES                                                                                23
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                                3


Section A—General

1. Applicability. This AFI applies to all Air Force organizations when requesting intelligence production.
This instruction also applies to all Air Force customers when requesting production of intelligence con-
cerning foreign threats. All intelligence requirements and production must comply with AFPD 14-1 and
DoDIPP 0000-151C-YY.

2. Background. The Department of Defense Intelligence Production Program (DoDIPP) is to establish
policies, responsibilities, priorities, and relationships for the DoD Intelligence Production Community
(DoDIPC) to support the DoD. This AFI details guidance and procedures for all Air Force organizations.
   2.1. The Air Force, employing the DoDIPP process, will leverage a variety of intelligence and intel-
   ligence-related resources to fuse the best information into both ongoing operations and acquisition
   efforts to ensure customer satisfaction.
   2.2. The Air Force requires clearly established, standardized procedures to integrate its intelligence
   functions into the DoDIPP. Air Force customers will use the DIA-developed Community On-Line
   Intelligence System for End Users and Managers (COLISEUM) as the primary tool to research,
   develop, submit and review, validate, and assign information requirements to Production/Application
   Centers. In addition, COLISEUM is used for production and application responses as well as for man-
   agement actions required throughout the production and dissemination process.

Section B—Intelligence Production and Dissemination Requirements Process

3. Request for Information (RFI). Air Force customers, to include MAJCOM gained Air Reserve Com-
ponent units, requiring intelligence production or application will submit an RFI, document the RFI in
COLISEUM and forward through the customer’s chain of command for review and command approval.
The Supporting Intelligence Office (SIO, Attachment 1, Glossary) attempts to answer the customer’s
request with existing intelligence. The MAJCOM is the final authority as to whether requirements meet
Air Force specifications. If information is available, the customer is provided the information and the RFI
is closed. If the customer does not have COLISEUM capabilities, the SIO enters the RFI into COLISEUM
and forwards it for the customer. If information is not available, the RFI is forwarded to AF/XOIIA-P, the
Air Force Validation Office (AFVO), for validation. Upon validation, the RFI becomes a Production
Requirement (PR). Air Force Production/Application Centers produce or provide intelligence products,
applications, and services based on customer requirements that have been validated in accordance with
(IAW) this instruction.
   3.1. Non-Air Force requirements supporting a Unified Command will be forwarded through the Uni-
   fied Command for validation and assignment to the appropriate Production/Application Center(s).
   3.2. Production Dissemination. The following guidance relates to the primary dissemination of prod-
   ucts to customers. For more information on receipt of products, consult the MAJCOM Dissemination
   Program Manager.
       3.2.1. Production/Application Centers must ensure expedient delivery of intelligence products,
       applications, and services to the customer. The customer determines the primary means of dissem-
       ination.
4                                                                      AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


       3.2.2. Production/Application Centers are responsible for notifying the customer when produc-
       tion is complete and the product is available for use. The primary digital dissemination method is
       INTELINK (collateral and/or SCI), with CD-ROM, other magnetic media, and hardcopy as sec-
       ondary media/methods. All substantive, finished intelligence products should be posted on
       INTELINK along with customer media requirements.
       3.2.3. Production/Applications Centers will format digital products consistent with DoD-directed
       architectures. Production/Application Centers and customers must acquire the requisite communi-
       cation and computer equipment to assure timely access to intelligence products, applications, and
       services.

Section C—Production Requirements (PR) Process

4. Production/Application Centers will produce or provide intelligence products, applications, and ser-
vices based on validated/approved customer requirements. In the event an Air Force validated PR crosses
lines of responsibility between centers, the AFVO appoints a lead center or splits the requirement in coor-
dination with the customer. The Production/Application Center clarifies with the customer all aspects of
the PR to assure full knowledge and understanding of the requirement to include content, product classi-
fication, media, format, due date(s), etc. All analytic and customer contact affecting the scope and sched-
ule is documented in COLISEUM.

5. The Production/Application Center enters an Initial Response (IR) within five (5) working days upon
receipt of the PR in COLISEUM that includes the name, telephone number, and e-mail address of the
Point of Contact (POC). The Production/Application Centers then generates a Follow-up Response (FR)
within 20 working days of the IR. The Production/Application Center then generates a Proposed Product
Response (PPR, Attachment 6) within 45 working days after the IR which represents a coordinated con-
tract between the customer and the Production/Application Center. The PPR contains sufficient details to
permit customer acceptance, rejection, or modification to include estimated production costs in the event
additional funding is required. This negotiation process and the portion of the requirement not satisfied is
documented in the “Remarks” section of COLISEUM PR record, indicating the date and name of approv-
ing authority. Reference Attachment 7 for a complete Intelligence Requirements Management Timeline.
The Production/Application Center ensures expedient delivery of the agreed upon intelligence products,
applications, and services to the customer.

Section D—Customer Guidance

6. For the purpose of this AFI, the customer, supported by the SIO, is the actual end user of intelligence.
As such, the customer may fall at any echelon of command, and is responsible for accomplishing all func-
tions in Section F, Attachment 2, and Attachment 7 of this AFI appropriate to that echelon.

Section E—Disputes/Arbitration

7. Disputes involving Air Force customers and/or Air Force Production/Application Centers that cannot
be resolved along normal chain of command lines are submitted to the appropriate Validation Office (VO)
for resolution.
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                                 5


   7.1. In cases where both the customer and producer are Air Force organizations, AF/XOI will render
   a decision; further appeals can be directed to the DIA Production Functional Manager (PFM) IAW
   DoD-0000-151C-YY.
   7.2. In cases involving an Air Force organization and a non-Air Force organization, AF/XOI, together
   with the affected Air Force parties, will represent the Air Force organization in the arbitration process
   to the DIA PFM according to procedures defined in DoD-0000-151C-YY. The DIA PFM will issue a
   final binding decision.

Section F—Responsibilities

8. Air Force customers will:
   8.1. Translate mission intelligence needs into actionable RFIs in accordance with DoDIPP guidelines
   for writing production requirements.
   8.2. Review existing intelligence products, and services to ensure they cannot satisfy the requirement
   prior to RFI submission.
   8.3. Prioritize RFIs. Attachment 2 outlines the Air Force-approved model.
   8.4. Provide timely response to Production/Application Center requests for PR clarification, PPR
   negotiation, and customer feedback.
   8.5. Respond to a Production/Application Center’s PPR within 10 working days IAW Attachment 7.
   8.6. Provide feedback to a Production/Application Center within 30 working days after receiving
   final product IAW Attachment 7.
   8.7. Resource for production as needed IAW Attachment 4.

9. Supporting Intelligence Office (SIO) will:
   9.1. Advise customers on Air Force, DoD, and national-level intelligence community production,
   guidance, procedures, and capabilities.
   9.2. Satisfy customer-generated RFIs using existing intelligence, if available.
   9.3. Assist customers with RFI development, and enter RFIs into COLISEUM if the customer does
   not have COLISEUM capability.
   9.4. Ensure customer reviews and responds to PPR within 10 working days IAW Attachment 7.
   9.5. Act as liaison between customers and Production/Application Centers, as required, to facilitate
   intelligence production requirement tracking, timely completion, and product delivery.
   9.6. Obtain feedback from customers within 30 working days following product delivery and ensure
   feedback is passed to the Production/Application Centers and other interested organizations.

10. Headquarters, USAF Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/XOI)
will:
   10.1. Formulate and establish guidance for Air Force intelligence production.
6                                                                      AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


    10.2. Validate, prioritize, and assign all Air Force PRs to the appropriate Production Centers within 3
    working days after receiving an RFI. Prioritize, and task all Air Force application requirements to the
    appropriate organization within 3 working days after receiving an RFI.
    10.3. Conduct periodic reviews of production process and metrics with MAJCOMs and Production/
    Application Centers at least annually.
    10.4. Measure customer (requirement) satisfaction.
    10.5. Advocate Air Force production/application concerns and positions within national forums.
    10.6. Conduct program evaluations to ensure production/application processes and systems are pro-
    viding the most effective support to Air Force requirements. Provide each new customer with a sum-
    mary view of this AFI and Customer Funding Guidance (Attachment 4) at the earliest opportunity.
    This should occur as soon as the subject is identified to AF/XOI as intelligence sensitive as would
    occur during the Intelligence Support Steering Group nomination process.
    10.7. Provide adjudication of disputes and represent the Air Force in national forums as required with
    regard to disputes between Air Force customers and Air Force producers.
    10.8. Together with the affected Air Force parties, represent the Air Force in national forums as
    required with regard to disputes between Air Force producers and non-Air Force customers or
    between Air Force customers and non-Air Force producers.
    10.9. Advocate national-level action on behalf of collection and exploitation requirements identified
    by Production/Application Centers. As appropriate, leverage Air Force collection and exploitation
    resources toward satisfaction of those requirements.
    10.10. Provide programming guidance and assistance, advocating necessary resources within the Air
    Force and General Defense Intelligence Program (GDIP) programming cycle.

11. Major Commands will:
    11.1. Ensure RFIs support tasked missions and meet basic quality standards for completeness IAW
    DoD-0000-151C-YY.
    11.2. Assist in obtaining access to and training on COLISEUM and INTELINK at all classification
    levels.
    11.3. As the chain-of-command reviewing authority, determine the appropriate VO Air Force require-
    ments to the AFVO at AF/XOIIA-P; non-Air Force to the Unified Command, and approve, prioritize
    (Attachment 2) and forward RFIs via COLISEUM within 3 working days after receiving an RFI IAW
    Attachment 7.
    11.4. Ensure subordinate units accomplish timely customer satisfaction assessments IAW DoDIPP
    policies using COLISEUM and monitor/report PR status to customers.
    11.5. Resource for production as needed IAW Attachment 4.

12. Numbered Air Forces will:
    12.1. Ensure RFIs support tasked missions and meet basic quality standards for completeness IAW
    DoD-0000-151C-YY.
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                             7


   12.2. Assist in obtaining access to and training on COLISEUM and INTELINK at all classification
   levels.
   12.3. Approve, prioritize (Attachment 2) and forward RFIs through COLISEUM to the appropriate
   SIO for approval and forwarding to the appropriate VO.
   12.4. Ensure subordinate units accomplish timely, customer satisfaction assessments IAW DoDIPP
   policies using COLISEUM.
   12.5. Resource for production as needed IAW Attachment 4.

13. Air Combat Command (ACC)/8th Air Force (8 AF)
   13.1. Air Intelligence Agency (AIA) in coordination with ACC/IN will:
      13.1.1. HQ AIA
          13.1.1.1. Direct production/application activities of AIA Centers and Wings.
          13.1.1.2. Prioritize and advocate resources IAW this AFI.
          13.1.1.3. Orchestrate production synergies within AIA centers/units.
      13.1.2. National Air Intelligence Center (NAIC) will:
          13.1.2.1. Produce intelligence products, applications, and services in response to validated
          requirements.
          13.1.2.2. Program resources in compliance with programming guidance and customer-driven
          needs. NAIC will allocate resources for intelligence production that are properly documented
          in production/collection management systems such as MASINT Requirements System and
          COLISEUM IAW this AFI.
          13.1.2.3. To the maximum extent possible, incorporate customer-stated, Air Force priorities
          into production schedules (Attachment 2).
          13.1.2.4. Submit and track intelligence collection requirements for PR’s that cannot be satis-
          fied due to an intelligence shortfall.
          13.1.2.5. Provide periodic feedback and status updates through COLISEUM IAW Section C,
          Paragraph 5. of this AFI.
      13.1.3. The Air Force Information Warfare Center (AFIWC) will:
          13.1.3.1. Produce intelligence products, applications, and services as tasked.
          13.1.3.2. Program resources in compliance with programming guidance and customer-driven
          needs.
          13.1.3.3. Submit and track collection needs for COLISEUM requirements that cannot be sat-
          isfied due to an intelligence shortfall.
          13.1.3.4. Provide periodic feedback and status updates through COLISEUM IAW Section C,
          Paragraph 5. of this AFI.
          13.1.3.5. To the maximum extent possible, incorporate customer-stated, Air Force priorities
          into production schedules (Attachment 2).
8                                                                     AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


    13.2. 480th Intelligence Group (480 IG) will:
       13.2.1. Produce intelligence products, applications, and services as tasked.
       13.2.2. Program resources in compliance with programming guidance and customer-driven
       needs.
       13.2.3. Submit and track collection needs for COLISEUM requirements that cannot be satisfied
       due to an intelligence shortfall.
       13.2.4. Provide periodic feedback and status updates through COLISEUM IAW Section C, Para-
       graph 5. of this AFI.
       13.2.5. To the maximum extent possible, incorporate customer-stated, Air Force priorities into
       production schedules (Attachment 2).



                                                    RONALD E. KEYS, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                    DCS/Air and Space Operations
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                   9


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD-0000-151-01, Department of Defense Intelligence Production Program (DoDIPP)
DoD-0000-151A-99, DoDIPP: Production Responsibilities
DoD-0000-151C-99, DoDIPP: Requirements Management
DoD-0000-151E-96, DoDIPP: Special Production Programs
DoD 5000.1, Defense Acquisition, Mar 96
DoD Verification, Validation and Accreditation (VV&A) Recommended Practices Guide, Nov 96
DoD 5000.2-R, Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs and Major Automated
Information Systems, 10 Jun 01
DIAR 55-3, Intelligence Support for Defense Acquisition Programs
Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms
Joint Publication 2.0, Joint Doctrine for Intelligence Support to Operations
AFDD 2.5.2, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Operations
AFDD 50, Air Force Intelligence Doctrine
AFPD 10-22, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Operations, 1 Dec 98
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence Applications and Requirements Planning, 1 Jun 99
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 1 Sep 98
AFI 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements, 13 Aug 99
AFI 63-123, Evolutionary Acquisition Process for C2 Systems, 1 Apr 00
AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, & Effectiveness, 1 Feb 00

Abbreviations and Acronyms
8 AF—8th Air Force
480 IG—480th Intelligence Group
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIWC—Air Force Information Warfare Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
10                                                             AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002



AFVO—Air Force Validation Office
AIA—Air Intelligence Agency
COLISEUM—Community On-Line Intelligence System for End Users and Managers
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DIAR—Defense Intelligence Agency Regulation
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoDIPC—Department of Defense Intelligence Production Community
DoDIPP—Department of Defense Intelligence Production Program
FR—Follow-up Response
GDIP—General Defense Intelligence Program
IAW—In Accordance With
IFC—Intelligence Functional Code
IFM—Intelligence in Force Modernization
IR—Initial Response
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NAIC—National Air Intelligence Center
NFIP—National Foreign Intelligence Program
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PPR—Proposed Product Response
PFM—Production Functional Manager
POC—Point of Contact
PR—Production Requirement
RFI—Request for Information
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SIO—Supporting Intelligence Office
USAF—United States Air Force
VO—Validation Office
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                                  11


Terms
Application Center—An organization that is not an officially recognized DoDIPP producer of
intelligence, but has an important role in providing intelligence/information to customers.
Chain-of-Command—A hierarchy of echelons. With respect to Intelligence Production, the
chain-of-command reviews registered requests for information, clarifies requests when necessary, and if
not able to answer all or part of the requirement, submits it to the next higher echelon unit until it reaches
the appropriate Validation Office.
Command, Control, Communications, Computers & Intelligence Support Plan (C4ISP)—A n A i r
Force and DoD required document that provides a mechanism to identify and resolve implementation
issues related to an acquisition program’s C4ISR infrastructure support and information technology
system interface requirements. It identifies C4ISR needs, dependencies, and interfaces focusing attention
on interoperability, supportability and sufficiency concerns.
Community On-line Intelligence System for End Users and Managers (COLISEUM)—T h e D o D
approved migration intelligence system for documenting, validating, assigning, and tracking production
and application requirements. It provides the Department of Defense Intelligence Production Community
(DoDIPC) with an on-line, automated capability to accomplish these functions. COLISEUM is web based
and available on the SECRET and TS/SCI systems. COLISEUM accounts can be established by
requesting a user account at the following URLs:
Collateral System: http://coliseum-s.dia.smil.mil/index.pl
TS/SCI System: http://www.coliseum.ic.gov/
Contributing Production Center—An organization responsible for creating a portion of an intelligence
product that is then forwarded to a Lead Production Center for integration into the overall final product.
Core Knowledge—The application of intelligence analysis methods to evaluate current and future (1)
foreign force development, composition, deployment, and employment; (2) foreign weapon systems
characteristics, performance, vulnerabilities, and employment; (3) technological developments and
acquisitions and the ability to weaponize and employ acquired technologies; and (4) characterization of
the major subsystems of foreign weapon systems and how they interact at the “black box” level (e.g.,
describe the radar’s input/output characteristics and target handling capability).
Customer—The end-user of an intelligence product.
Department of Defense Intelligence Production Program (DoDIPP)—The policies, procedures, and
processes used to obtain and produce timely intelligence products to satisfy customer needs during
peacetime, crisis, or war.
Follow-up Response (FR) —A remark generated by a Production/Application Center entered in
COLISEUM within 20 working days of an IR that includes the name, telephone number, and email
address of the analytic POC.
General Defense Intelligence Program (GDIP)—The broadest based National Foreign Intelligence
Program in the Defense Department. GDIP’s primary mission is to provide timely, usable all-source
military intelligence that supports the peacetime and wartime requirements of the warfighters, defense
acquisition community, and the national policy makers.
Initial Response (IR) —A remark generated by a Production/Application Center entered in COLISEUM
12                                                                     AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


within five (5) working days upon receipt of a PR that includes the name, telephone number, and email
address of the POC.
Intelligence Support Steering Group (ISSG)—A management oversight meeting, chaired by AF/XOI,
to ensure intelligence responsibilities to support developing force modernization initiatives are
understood and baseline costs to conduct intelligence infrastructure analysis are outlined. ISSGs should
be convened as early as possible to ensure intelligence support issues will help shape the initiative.
Lead Production Center—The primary production organization responsible for integrating the
contribution of all production centers with its own so a single product is created for the customer.
National Intelligence Council (NIC)—The intelligence community’s forum for mid-term and long-term
strategic thinking.
Product—Substantive intelligence prepared by one or more Production/Application Centers, and
delivered in direct response to a customer’s validated requirement.
Production Center—A DoDIPP recognized producer of intelligence. Production Centers review
requirements, plan for intelligence production, produce intelligence, and measure customer satisfaction
with intelligence products.
Proposed Product Response (PPR)—A contract between the Production/Application Center and the
customer. A PPR states what is to be produced, the media to be used, the frequency of production, the
target production date, anticipated collaboration, collection requirements as required and product
classification/ releasability. The PPR establishes the baseline for further negotiations with the customer,
i.e., need for customer funding, cost estimates for final product, notification of any delays, etc.
(Attachment 6).
Production Functional Manager (PFM)—The single individual in each level of the chain of command
responsible for Intelligence Production for that organization.
Production Requirement (PR)—The term used to describe an RFI that cannot be met by available
finished intelligence and that has been validated by the appropriate DoDIPP VO and assigned/tasked to a
Production/Application Center for action.
Request for Information (RFI)—The requirement process begins with a customer expressing a need
which is entered into COLISEUM as an RFI. Once it’s determined that all or part of the answer is not
available in existing intelligence sources, a VO assigns the RFI as a PR to the appropriate lead production
center.
Resource Constrained —Describes a PR that cannot be answered by a Production/Application Center
due to lack of personnel, funding, or other shortfall.
Revalidation—To record that a current requirement, which requires long-term production, is still valid. If
the PR suspense date is in the future, the suspense date is not changed, but the following statement
appears in the comments: “PR has been recertified as valid by the customer (name and date) per SIO’s
response. PR returned to Production/Validation Center as assigned.”
Stock Products List —Those critical/recurring intelligence products that Production/Application
Centers are required to periodically update IAW Attachment 5 of this AFI.
Supporting Intelligence Office (SIO)—An office designated to provide intelligence to a customer and
generally in the customer’s chain-of-command. The SIO conducts the final chain-of-command review of
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                               13


a requirement prior to submission to the next echelon of Command or the Validation Office as
appropriate. The Supporting Intelligence Office can be a single DoD or military intelligence officer, a
small element, or a self-contained DoD intelligence organization established to provide intelligence to a
customer or operational military organization. It is designated by the appropriate echelon of command to
function as the DoDIPP Supporting Intelligence Office as defined in DoD-0000-151C-YY. Note: While
the roles often coincide, it is not mandatory that the Supporting Intelligence Office(r) be the same as the
Senior Intelligence Officer in a given Air Force organization.
Validation —The process the VO uses as final arbiter of RFIs. This includes reviewing the request,
making any necessary refinements, and assigning the requirement to the responsible Production/
Application Center.
Validation Office (VO)—Each Service, Unified Command, the Defense Intelligence Agency, and each
participating allied country has an established Validation Office as the final arbiter of intelligence
requirements. It is important the VO perform the role of “honest broker” in this program. AF/XOIIA is the
VO for all Air Force production RFIs.
14                                                                        AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


                                                Attachment 2

           USAF/MAJCOM PRODUCTION PRIORITIZATION SURVEY QUESTIONS

A2.1. MAJCOMs will use this worksheet to develop their requirements’ priority and annotate into COL-
ISEUM as the last item in the requirements section. See AFVO Home Page for latest changes/ modifica-
tions at URL
Unclassified: https://www.xo.hq.af.mil/xoi/xoiia/AFVO.htm;
SIPRNET: https://www.afxo.pentagon.smil.mil/xoi/xoiia/AFVO.htm; and
JWICS: http://www.xoi.ic.gov/xoii/products/xoiiap/AFVO.htm.

A2.2. To the maximum extent possible, Air Force Production/Application Centers will incorporate cus-
tomer-stated priorities into production schedules.
     A2.2.1. Does requirement support a crisis or contingency?
     No: 4 pts
     Yes, planning has begun, but no forces have been deployed: 3 pts
     Yes, planning has begun, troops preparing to deploy/operations imminent, or operations such as in
     Korea: 2 pts
     Yes, troops are deployed/active operations are ongoing: 1 pt
     A2.2.2. Does the requirement support a force modernization effort? (For support to force moderniza-
     tion, the requirement must have direct bearing on fielding and/or milestone decisions. Policy does not
     include tactical decision-making in the planning or conduct of operations).
     No: 2 pts
     Yes: 1 pt
     A2.2.3. Does the requirement support national, OSD, and/or service-level policy decisions? (For
     these purposes, policy is senior decision-making of a precedent-setting nature at the joint, unified, ser-
     vice, or command level.)
     No: 2 pts
     Yes: 1 pt
     A2.2.4. What is the mission impact if this requirement is not satisfied on time?
     Minimal impact, information enhances, but not critical to plan, program, decision or operation: 4 pts
     Minor impact, information needed to plan, program, make decision or conduct operation: 3 pts
     Major impact, information critical to full success of plan, program, decision, or operation: 2 pts
     Go/No Go, without information plan, program, decision, or operation cannot be made, executed, or
     will fail: 1 pt
     A2.2.5. Does the requirement support deliberate planning, e.g., OPLANS, CONPLANS, Mission
     Area Plans, Strategic Master Plan, or Road Map Development?
     No: 2 pts
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                            15


  Yes: 1 pt
  A2.2.6. What is the customer’s stated priority (normalized to a 4-point scale)?
  4: 4 pts
  3: 3 pts
  2: 2 pts
  1: 1 pt
  A2.2.7. Does the requirement support operational training or an exercise?
  No: 2 pts
  Yes: 1 pt
  A2.2.8. Does the requirement support National Intelligence Council (NIC) established priorities?
  Tier 3/Worldwide: 4 pts
  Tier 2: 3 pts
  Tier 1: 2 pts
  Tier 0: 1 pt
16                                    AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


                       Attachment 3

     THE REQUIREMENTS MANAGEMENT PROCESS FLOW CHART
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                                17


                                              Attachment 4

                     INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION FUNDING GUIDANCE

A4.1. BACKGROUND: Modern Air Force weapons systems are exhibiting significant increases in both
the quantity and the level of detail of intelligence they require throughout their lifecycles. Additionally,
many programs require tailored intelligence data. Satisfaction of these expanding requirements has
become very difficult due to limitations of current intelligence community resources. To ensure adequate
intelligence resources are in place when required, intelligence requirements must be thoroughly identified
and programmed as early in a program’s lifecycle as possible. This attachment addresses: 1) the intelli-
gence requirements identification process; 2) guidance for funding intelligence production; and 3) guid-
ance for supporting intelligence production with customer funding in cases of resource shortfalls, or
where the production/application required is unique to a specific program.

A4.2. PURPOSE: Three fundamental areas must be addressed to ensure that the required intelligence,
validated according to DoD, DIA, and Air Force policy (DoDD 5000.1, DoD 5000.2-R, DIA regulation
55-3, AFI 14-201) is available for effective Air Force weapon systems development and operation.
   A4.2.1. The customer must identify requirements for intelligence, with sufficient lead-time to ensure
   the needed intelligence capability is in-place.
   A4.2.2. Resource guidance must be established to identify funding sources and mechanisms to pro-
   vide required intelligence capabilities.
   A4.2.3. Priorities must be determined to allocate limited resources to optimize the ability to satisfy
   customers’ requirements.

A4.3. REQUIREMENTS:
   A4.3.1. Force modernization planners and operators, in concert with intelligence personnel, must
   identify intelligence production needs at the earliest possible stage. All known derived intelligence
   requirements must be recorded in the program’s Command, Control, Communications, Computers,
   and Intelligence Support Plan (C4ISP) and updated as requirements change.
   A4.3.2. For required intelligence production, customers and producers will use the established formal
   mechanism--the DoD Intelligence Production Program (DoDIPP).
   A4.3.3. All customer intelligence production requirements must be documented in COLISEUM.
   Documented customer requirements for intelligence production help customers determine costs and,
   if necessary, serve as the basis for resource program proposals throughout the Future Years Defense
   Program. Funding sources for various types of intelligence requirements, during various stages of a
   weapon system’s lifecycle, are defined in the Resource Guidance section.

A4.4. RESOURCE GUIDANCE:
   A4.4.1. All Air Force force modernization efforts for intelligence-sensitive weapon systems must
   include the projected costs of intelligence support throughout their developmental lifetimes. All Air
   Force force modernization initiatives for intelligence sensitive weapon systems must work in concert
   with the appropriate intelligence organizations to project the intelligence costs entailed by the devel-
   opment, production, and operation of those systems. This must be done as part of the lifecycle cost
18                                                                      AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


     estimation mandated in the DoD 5000-series regulations. Subsequent determination will be made as to
     specific funding approaches, based on this guidance. The C4ISP captures the derived intelligence
     requirements, deficiencies, and solutions of a force modernization initiative throughout its acquisition
     lifecycle and records the funding approach.
        A4.4.1.1. Production/Application Centers will apply an Air Force-approved model/process to
        determine Production/Application Center costs chargeable to the Air Force in general, and costs
        chargeable to the customer(s). Costs directly attributable to a specific weapon system(s) are incor-
        porated into the overall lifecycle costs used for that weapon system(s). Resources programmed
        will address Production/Application Center aggregate infrastructure needs as well as external
        resources required to meet specific system requirements. Production/Application Center costs
        shall be provided to the customer and reflected in the C4ISP.

A4.5. PROGRAMMING GUIDANCE:
     A4.5.1. Using programmed resources, Production/Application Centers will generate Core Knowl-
     edge (value-added analysis and assessments - single source, multi-source, and all-source) IAW NFIP/
     GDIP/DoDIPP policies as applicable. Specific responsibilities are outlined in the DODIPP Production
     Responsibilities document (DoD-0000-151A-99).
        A4.5.1.1. Core Knowledge Definition: The application of intelligence analysis methods to eval-
        uate current and future (1) foreign force development, composition, deployment, and employ-
        ment; (2) foreign weapon systems characteristics, performance, vulnerabilities, and employment;
        (3) technological developments and acquisitions and the ability to weaponize and employ
        acquired technologies; and (4) characterization of the major subsystems of foreign weapon sys-
        tems and how they interact at the “black box” level (e.g., describe the radar’s input/output charac-
        teristics and target handling capability).
        A4.5.1.2. The content and format of the Core Knowledge must be provided to weapon systems
        developers and operators according to established DoD Intelligence Community database stan-
        dards. Customers requesting non-standard database formats will bear the cost of that format.
        A4.5.1.3. A number of stock products drawn from the Core Knowledge will be available to cus-
        tomers. The Air Force Intelligence Community and its customers will meet annually to determine
        the stock products. After being initially agreed upon, these stock products must continue to be pro-
        duced in accordance with annually validated requirements. These represent only a minimum that
        customers can expect on a recurring basis. Other products may be available without additional
        customer funding IAW DoDIPP policies.
        A4.5.1.4. Production/Application Centers will program for the resources necessary to develop
        and sustain the capability to generate Core Knowledge for their areas of responsibility. The pro-
        gram will be based on documented intelligence requirements.
     A4.5.2. In the event available programmed resources cannot adequately meet a customer require-
     ment, the Production/Application Center must formally document in COLISEUM the requirement as
     “Resource Constrained”.
        A4.5.2.1. If the requirement falls within the bounds of Core Knowledge and is declared Resource
        Constrained, customers have the option of providing funding. Generally, these funds go to an
        external assistance contract administered by either a Production/Application Center or by the cus-
        tomer.
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                               19


     A4.5.2.2. If the contract is administered by the Production/Application Center, that Center will
     provide adequate proof of fiscal responsibility to the customer providing the funds.
     A4.5.2.3. If the customer administers the contract, a member of the responsible Production/Appli-
     cation Center will be named as the Contract Monitor or Contracting Officer’s Technical Represen-
     tative.
     A4.5.2.4. The GDIP Production Center with primary responsibility for the pertinent Intelligence
     Functional Code (IFC) is responsible for overseeing external production and approving its sub-
     stance, methodology, format, and submitting it for validation.
     A4.5.2.5. Regardless of which organization administers the contract, a Memorandum of Agree-
     ment will establish the terms of the external production to include the quality assurance measures
     and any overhead costs.
     A4.5.2.6. Customer funding is intended to be an interim solution. A programmatic solution
     should be worked as soon as the requirement is fairly well defined. If a programmatic solution is
     not reached after 3 fiscal years, AF/XOI will develop a future course of action in coordination
     with the customer and Production/Application Center.
     A4.5.2.7. If the customer needs to pay for a product, terms of agreement shall be developed
     between the customer and Production/Application Center to include definite timelines and
     requirements relating to product completion and recourse for customer dissatisfaction with either
     product quality or timeliness.
  A4.5.3. For those intelligence requirements not fulfilled by Core Knowledge, the customer will pro-
  gram for resources using established programming procedures. Customers may provide current year
  funding in lieu of a programmatic solution. However, this is only an interim measure, with the guid-
  ance cited above (Section A4.4.) being in effect. Customers must actively pursue programmatic solu-
  tions.
  A4.5.4. If the customer will change during the duration of the external production (for example, from
  the implementing to the operating command), then both customers must jointly develop a program-
  matic solution to ensure a seamless transition.

A4.6. PRIORITIES:
  A4.6.1. All Air Force intelligence requirements are subject to prioritization according to Attachment
  2 of this AFI. The resulting prioritization of customer requirements is a factor in the production prior-
  itization of the Production/Application Centers, and the decision whether to accomplish the produc-
  tion “in-house” or externally.

A4.7. RESOURCE REPORTING:
  A4.7.1. Accounting must include the resources furnished by the customer, the amount paid to the con-
  tract, and the amount of administrative overhead. Reporting to the customer must be made no later
  than 30 days after the funds are obligated.
20                                                                    AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


                                             Attachment 5

                                      STOCK PRODUCTS LIST

A5.1. AF/XOI, in conjunction with customers and Production/Application Centers will review these
Stock Products annually to ensure the list reflects validated customer requirements, and that the Intelli-
gence Production Community makes these products available.

A5.2. AIR FORCE STOCK PRODUCTS LIST
Ballistic Missile Threat Models
Commercial Imagery
Computer Threat Analysis Tool (CTAT)
Counterspace Threat Models
Domestic Range Imagery
Dynamic Information Operations Decision Environment (DIODE)
Future Aerospace Technology Base Assessments
Future Deployment and Force Capabilities Studies (DIA/DODFIP)
Geospatial Products –Air Force Controlled Image Base (AFCIB), Combat Mission System
(CMS), Digital Terrain Elevation Data (DTED), Multi-Spectral/Hyper Spectral Imagery (MSI/HSI)
Joint Threat Incident Database (JTID)
RAVEN database
SENSOR HARVEST
SIGINT Threat Assessments
System Threat Assessment Reports (STARs)
System Threat Assessment (STA)
Standard/Validated Characteristics and Performance Relational Data (Currently Military Equipment Para-
metric and Target Materials)
Threat Environment Descriptions (TEDs)
Threat Recognition Materials

A5.3. DoD STOCK PRODUCTS LIST
Campaign Level Models/Engagement Level Models
Country Acquisition and Future Force Estimates
Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming Database (EWIRDB)
Foreign Technology Database
Future Global Security Assessments (DIA/DODFIP)
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                 21


Geospatial Products -- DPPDB, CIB, CADRG Integrated Air Defense Systems (IADS), DTED, Feature
Data and Vector Maps
Military Equipment Parametric and Engineering Database (MEPED)
Mission Level Models
Modernized Integrated Database (MIDB)
Multi-Service Force Deployment (MSFD) Scenarios
National Futures Database (DIA/DODFIP)
National Intelligence Estimates (NIE)
Quadrennial Defense Review Documents (DIA)
System Handbooks
System/Phenomenology Level Models
22                                                                    AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002


                                                Attachment 6

                               PRODUCT RESPONSE (PPR) FORMAT

A6.1. Production Number: Use the customer’s PR number (e.g. E001-97-0001).

A6.2. Subject: Use the customer’s PR subject.

A6.3. Statement of Requirements.

A6.4. Product Priority: List customer’s stated numeric and the COLISEUM derived priority.

A6.5. Product:
     A6.5.1. Subject
     A6.5.2. Abstract
     A6.5.3. Comments
     A6.5.4. Product Media
     A6.5.5. Frequency
     A6.5.6. Target dissemination date
     A6.5.7. Target audience (narrative description)
     A6.5.8. Classification and releasability of product
     A6.5.9. AOR (Unified Command area of responsibility)
     A6.5.10. Country (ies)
     A6.5.11. Product (Number) Identification Code
     A6.5.12. COLISEUM ID
     A6.5.13. URL (if product is put on line)

A6.6. Collaborative Production/Application Center(s): List all collaborative Production/Application
Centers that will provide input, what the input will include (in general terms), and when the input should
be provided to the primary production/application center.

A6.7. PPR classification: The overall classification of the PPR. Ensure that individual paragraph classi-
fication markings are included in the PPR as applicable.

A6.8. VO: The assigning Validation Office.

A6.9. Production POC: Name, organization, mailing address, electronic message address, e-mail
address, commercial and DSN phone numbers of the primary production center point of contact.
AFI14-201 1 DECEMBER 2002                                                                        23


                                           Attachment 7

              INTELLIGENCE REQUIREMENTS MANAGEMENT TIMELINES


                                        ORGANIZATION
ACTION                                       TIME ALLOWED


Customer or Supporting Intelligence Office
Registration of RFI                            ASAP after receiving the requestor’s RFI


Major Command
Review, approve and forward RFI to VO          Within 3 working days after receipt of the RFI


Validation Office
Validate, assign/task Production Requirement   Within 3 working days after receiving the RFI
(PR) or reject RFI                             *Upon validation, the RFI becomes a PR


Air Force Production /Application Centers
Initial Response (IR)                          Within 5 working days upon receipt of PR;
                                               Assignment/Tasking from VO


Follow-Up Response (FR)                        Within 20 working days of the IR


Proposed Product Response (PPR)                Within 45 working days after receipt of the IR

Customer or Supporting Intelligence Office
Customer’s response to the PPR                 10 working days after receipt of the PPR
Customer Feedback                              Within 30 working after receiving Final Product
