BY ORDER OF THE                                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 1-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    8 MAY 2014

                                                                              Air Force Culture

                                                      COMMANDER’S RESPONSIBILITIES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading from the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/IG                                              Certified by: AF/CV (General Larry O.
                                                                                      Spencer)
                                                                                      Pages: 6


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive 1, Air Force Culture,
and echoes the standards in AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards. This publication establishes broad
responsibilities and expectations of commanders in the Air Force. This publication applies to all
Air Force uniformed personnel (Regular, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard) and
civilian personnel. Although this guidance amplifies expectations of commanders, nothing in
this AFI should be deemed to create a right or entitlement for the individual that does not
otherwise exist in law or policy. This AFI may not be supplemented at any level. Refer all
recommended changes about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. As a foundational publication,
this publication has been granted an exception to policy regarding tiering of wing/unit level
requirements in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, paragraph
1.9.6. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the Publication OPR.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

1. Scope of Applicability.
   1.1. This instruction applies specifically to commissioned officers holding command
   positions in the Regular or Reserve Components (Active Duty, Reserve, and Air National
   Guard), but the principles and methods described herein should be applied by leaders at all
   levels (i.e. civilian directors of military organizations, non-commissioned officers, etc.).
 2                                                                                AFI1-2 8 May 2014


2. Commander Conduct.
     2.1. Special authorities and responsibilities are inherent with command. In addition to
     leading people to accomplish an assigned mission, commanders have the lawful authority
     and responsibility to promote and safeguard the morale, physical well-being, and the general
     welfare of persons under their command.
     2.2. Commanders are expected to display exemplary conduct as outlined in US law:
     All commanding officers and others in authority in the Air Force are required:

          (1) to show in themselves a good example of virtue, honor, patriotism, and subordination;

          (2) to be vigilant in inspecting the conduct of all persons who are placed under their command;

          (3) to guard against and suppress all dissolute and immoral practices, and to correct, according
          to the laws and regulations of the Air force, all persons who are guilty of them; and

          (4) to take all necessary and proper measures, under the laws, regulations, and customs of the
          Air Force, to promote and safeguard the morale, the physical well-being, and the general
          welfare of the persons under their command or charge.
                                                                          - Title 10 USC § 8583
     2.3. Accordingly, commanders must be above reproach, both morally and ethically, and
     exemplify Air Force Core Values and standards in their professional and personal lives.
3. Commander’s Duties and Responsibilities.
     3.1. Execute the Mission. Commanders hold the authority and responsibility to act and to
     lead their units to accomplish the mission. Air Force commanders have threefold mission
     execution responsibilities: primary mission, Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) readiness, and
     mission assurance command and control. Commanders must apply good risk management,
     accept risk and manage resources to adjust the timing, quality, and quantity of their support
     to meet the requirements of the supported commander.
         3.1.1. Primary mission execution. This is the mission described in the Mission
         Directive, Designed Operational Capability statement, or specified by order of a superior
         commander. This may be a day-to-day, in-garrison mission, or it may be an
         expeditionary, deployed mission. Commanders must ensure their unit is able to execute
         its primary mission at any time.
         3.1.2. AEF readiness. The AEF model provides an adaptable, agile force, able to
         respond to dynamic worldwide events. Commanders must train and develop their
         Airmen to support AEF taskings.
         3.1.3. Mission Assurance Command and Control. Within the scope of their authority,
         commanders must, at all times, maintain the ability to command and control their units
         against all relevant threats and hazards to assure mission success.
     3.2. Lead People. Effectively leading people is the art of command. Commanders must
     maintain effective communication processes and ensure unit members are well disciplined,
     trained and developed. At all times, commanders must lead by personal example and pay
     judicious attention to the welfare and morale of their subordinates. Commanders will enforce
AFI1-2 8 May 2014                                                                               3


   the Air Force cultural standards on conduct, performance, and discipline outlined in AFI 1-1,
   Air Force Standards. Further, commanders will establish and maintain a healthy command
   climate which fosters good order and discipline, teamwork, cohesion and trust. A healthy
   climate ensures members are treated with dignity, respect, and inclusion, and does not
   tolerate harassment, assault, or unlawful discrimination of any kind.
      3.2.1. Communication. Commanders must develop a two-way vertical and lateral
      communication system which is agile enough to respond to changes in the environment
      in a timely manner. In order to develop understanding, intent, and trust, commanders
      must transmit goals, priorities, values, and expectations, while encouraging feedback.
      3.2.2. Discipline.      Commanders must cultivate a culture of compliance and
      accountability while promoting unit and mission pride. Command climate, customs and
      courtesies, uniform wear, physical fitness, and attention to detail are some indicators of
      the discipline of a unit.
      3.2.3. Training. Commanders must ensure their units are adequately trained. Unit
      training should take a building-block approach. Individuals must be proficient in career-
      field specific skills before incorporating those skills into team and unit training. Unit
      training spanning the entire scope of the unit mission should include total force, joint, or
      partner-nation opportunities whenever possible. Training should replicate the distributed,
      chaotic and uncertain nature of expected operating environments.
      3.2.4. Development.        Commanders will support the professional and personal
      development of subordinates. Professional development includes formal mentoring,
      professional military education, academic opportunities, and other broadening
      opportunities. Personal development strengthens physical, mental, social and spiritual
      resiliency in an effort to build well-rounded Airmen.
      3.2.5. Quality of Life Engagement. Commanders have the unique authority and
      responsibility to engage in the lives of their subordinates, where appropriate, to improve
      quality of life, promote unit morale, and ensure all members are treated with dignity and
      respect. Commanders must be aware of on- and off-duty factors affecting the climate and
      morale of their units.
   3.3. Manage Resources. Commanders are entrusted with resources to accomplish a stated
   mission. Those resources include: manpower, funds, equipment, facilities and environment,
   guidance, and Airmen’s time. Commanders must consider risk in their stewardship of scarce
   resources to ensure effective and efficient mission accomplishment. As part of managing
   their resources, higher echelon commanders must ensure adequate resources are provided to
   subordinate commanders. Likewise, subordinate commanders must inform higher echelon
   commanders of resource shortfalls.
      3.3.1. Manpower. A commander’s stewardship of personnel to meet evolving mission
      requirements is vital to mission success. Accurate reporting of manning levels, personnel
      rotations and readiness is vital when communicating with higher headquarters.
      3.3.2. Funds.     Commanders must base their budgetary decisions on mission
      requirements. Budgets must be credible, defensible, executable, and should contribute to
      cost-effective mission execution. Accountability and judicious management of funds
4                                                                           AFI1-2 8 May 2014


       must be command emphasis items aligned with command priorities. Make every effort to
       return excess funds to higher echelon commanders for reallocation.
       3.3.3. Equipment. Equipment and supplies must be properly accounted for, well
       maintained, and adequate for the assigned mission. Like manning and training levels,
       equipment status is a vital part of readiness reporting to higher headquarters.
       3.3.4. Facilities and Environment. Commanders must develop sustainable installations
       and implement appropriate asset management principles for built and natural assets.
       Regularly scheduled inspections, maintenance, and upgrades must be coordinated with
       appropriate agencies.
       3.3.5. Guidance. Unit members must have access to all command, technical, legal and
       procedural guidance necessary for mission accomplishment.        When necessary,
       commanders will publish guidance to document unit-specific processes and standards.
       Commander’s intent is one vital piece of guidance commanders must provide to
       subordinates to ensure unity of effort.
       3.3.6. Airmen’s Time. While Airmen are always subject to duty, leaders cannot treat
       their subordinates’ time as an unlimited resource. Commanders must strive to maintain a
       stable and predictable work schedule for subordinates, while balancing mission
       requirements and additional duties. Any significant long-term change in mission
       requirements requiring more man-hours than those authorized by manpower standards
       should prompt commanders to initiate a request for additional manpower or other
       mitigating measure.
    3.4. Improve the Unit. Continuous process improvement is a hallmark of highly successful
    organizations. Wasteful, ineffective or unsafe ways of doing business cannot be tolerated.
    Commanders must foster a culture of innovation and challenge inefficiencies. A process for
    identifying and fixing deficiencies should be established and followed. Commanders must
    make data-driven decisions and manage risk while ensuring their unit’s authorities, missions,
    plans and goals stay strategically aligned. A robust self-assessment program will identify the
    root cause of deficiencies and enable sharing of best practices with other organizations.
    Commanders are also expected to inspect their units and subordinates to ensure maximum
    effectiveness, efficiency, economy and discipline of the force are maintained. Commanders
    should strive to leave their unit better than they found it.
       3.4.1. Strategic Alignment. Commanders must strive for strategic alignment within their
       organizations. This includes aligning authorities with mission requirements. Vision and
       mission statements should lead to strategic plans that include yearly calendars and annual
       budgets. Performance metrics should also be established and monitored to enable data-
       driven decisions. In addition, metrics should be reviewed in light of updated mission
       requirements to ensure the unit is measuring relevant mission outputs.
       3.4.2. Process Operations. Leaders must be aware of critical processes, and constantly
       seek to improve and standardize those processes to produce more reliable results.
       Remove any bottle-necks or limiting factors and ensure risk management principles are
       applied during daily operations. All risks, including safety and risks to personnel, should
       be considered when analyzing and improving processes.
AFI1-2 8 May 2014                                                                             5


      3.4.3. Commander’s Inspection Program. Commanders have the legal authority and
      responsibility to inspect their subordinates and subordinate units. A robust commander’s
      inspection program finds deficiencies and improves mission readiness. Part of this effort
      must be a self-assessment program where individual Airmen report their compliance with
      guidance. An independent verification of those reports provides commanders with
      additional confidence in their validity. The findings from self-assessments and
      inspections should drive a root-cause analysis which feeds back into the processes
      described in paragraph 3.4.1.
      3.4.4. Data-Driven Decisions. Commanders are expected to make data-driven decisions.
      When constraints do not allow, commanders may be forced to make decisions with
      limited data, and are expected to use experience, judgment and all available resources to
      guide them.
4. Commander’s Intent.
   4.1. With a clear understanding of the intent of an assigned mission, commanders have the
   responsibility and authority to act, and to trust subordinates to complete their assigned
   missions. To that end, all commanders will:
      4.1.1. At all times display exemplary conduct as defined above.
      4.1.2. Establish a healthy command climate.
      4.1.3. Have a propensity for action.
      4.1.4. Deliberately execute the duties and responsibilities outlined above, to include all
      aspects of executing the mission, leading people, managing resources, and improving the
      unit.
      4.1.5. Apply the tenets of effective command and control as defined in Joint Publication
      1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, and Air Force Doctrine Volume 1,
      Basic Air Force Doctrine, to increase the ability of commanders to make sound and
      timely decisions and enhance unity of effort.




                                             MARK A. WELSH III General, USAF
                                             Chief of Staff
 6                                                                        AFI1-2 8 May 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10 USC § 8583, Requirement of Exemplary Conduct
JP 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, 25 March 2013
AFDD 1, Air Force Doctrine Volume 1, Basic Doctrine, 14 October 2011
AFDD 1, Air Force Doctrine Volume 2, Leadership, 8 November 2011
AFDD 1, Air Force Doctrine Volume 3, Command, 29 October 2013
AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards, 7 August 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 29 August 2013
AFPD 1, Air Force Culture, 7 August 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
