BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1301
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 14 JUNE 2013
                                                           Incorporating Change 1, 23 April 2014

                                                                                        Operations

                                                    AIR FORCE DOCTRINE DEVELOPMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: LeMay Center/CC                                                        Certified by: AF/A3/5,
                                                                            (Gen Burton M. Field)
Supersedes:    AFI 10-1301, 9 August 2010                                                 Pages: 12


This Air Force instruction (AFI) outlines responsibilities and implements guidance from Air
Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-13, Air Force Doctrine. It provides procedures to Airmen for
developing and coordinating doctrine for the Air Force. It identifies the roles and responsibilities
of the Commander, Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education (LeMay
Center/CC) as executive agent for doctrine to the Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
(CSAF), and those who support the Air Force doctrine process. It addresses doctrine focused at
the basic and operational levels as promulgated by the LeMay Center; it does not prescribe
responsibilities and processes for developing tactics, techniques, and procedures. To ensure a full
understanding of the processes and terms used, users of this instruction should familiarize
themselves with the referenced Air Force and joint publications. This document applies to all
personnel and organizations responsible for doctrine development. This publication applies to
the Air Force Reserve and the Air National Guard.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This AFI may be supplemented at any
level, but all supplements must be routed to the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and
Education for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                                               AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFI 10-1301 by adding a new chapter on the development of tactics,
techniques, and procedures. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.
AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013                                                                          3



                                            Chapter 1

                                     RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Mission. The LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education (LeMay Center)
represents the Air Force in the development of basic and operational level doctrine, and acts as
the Air Force’s lead organization on doctrinal issues and positions. Key tasks include:
Developing and publishing basic and operational level doctrine for the Air Force; assisting Air
Force major commands (MAJCOMs) in their development of tactical doctrine, Air Force
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTPs) derived from Air Force doctrinal publications;
representing the Air Force in the development of joint and multinational doctrine; assisting in
integrating the proper representation of doctrine in exercise scenarios, wargames, experiments,
models, and simulations; and assisting Air University (AU) in the development, execution, and
monitoring of Service-wide doctrine education policies and material.
1.2. Doctrine Development Authority. Doctrine is developed under the auspices of the CSAF.
Per AFPD 10-13, the LeMay Center commander (LeMay Center/CC) serves as the CSAF’s
executive agent for doctrine. Therefore, the LeMay Center/CC is directly responsible to the
CSAF and may speak on behalf of the CSAF on matters of doctrine. For any matters dealing
with basic and operational level doctrine, Air Force organizations will coordinate directly with
the LeMay Center. On all other LeMay Center issues not related to doctrine, the LeMay
Center/CC reports to the commander, Air University (AU/CC).
1.3. Definition of Doctrine. The fundamental principles by which the military forces or
elements thereof guide their actions in support of national objectives. It is authoritative but not
directive and requires judgment in application. (Derived from Joint Publication 1-02, DOD
Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms)
   1.3.1. Air Force doctrine consists of those beliefs, distilled through experience, lessons
   learned, wargames, and experimentation, and passed on from one generation of Airmen to
   the next, that guide what we do; it is our codified practices on how best to employ airpower.
1.4. Objective of Doctrine. Air Force doctrine forms the basis for how the Air Force
contributes to achieving joint force objectives across the range of military operations. It is
imperative that Airmen understand it. Air Force doctrine also contributes to the development of
joint and multinational doctrine and guides the development of AFTTPs and multi-Service TTPs.
1.5. Roles and Responsibilities. The development, education, and wargaming application of
doctrine are led by the LeMay Center but is a shared responsibility throughout Air Force
organizations. Air Force organizations should ensure the integration of airpower is appropriately
addressed in doctrine. Air Force MAJCOMs, reserve components, and two-letter Headquarters
Air Force organizations should bring doctrinally relevant issues to the attention of the LeMay
Center.
   1.5.1. CSAF. The CSAF is the senior authority for the Air Force doctrine program and
   provides overall direction. Additionally, the CSAF:
       1.5.1.1. Is the final approval authority for basic and operational level Air Force doctrine.
       The CSAF may delegate approval authority to the LeMay Center/CC for select doctrine
       products.
4                                                                    AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013


       1.5.1.2. Chairs the annual Doctrine Summit, a forum to review the status of Air Force
       doctrine and to review and provide guidance on current and emerging doctrinal issues
       and concepts.
    1.5.2. AF/A1, Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services.
       1.5.2.1. Ensures, through the Commissioning Training and Education Committee, that
       doctrine education is represented in curricula of the Air Force commissioning sources.
       1.5.2.2. Ensures Basic Military Training requirements for doctrine are approved by the
       Basic Military Training Triennial Review Committee or, if out of cycle, through the Air
       Force Learning Committee in accordance with (IAW) AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
       Program.
    1.5.3. AF/A3/5, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans, and Requirements. Coordinates
    with the LeMay Center on staffing of multinational doctrine projects for the North Atlantic
    Treaty Organization (NATO) other than allied joint publications, and Air and Space
    Interoperability Council’s air standards and advisory publications.
    1.5.4. AF/A9, Director, Studies and Analysis, Assessments, and Lessons Learned.
       1.5.4.1. Coordinates with the LeMay Center to obtain doctrine advice and assistance on
       force structure analyses, lessons learned initiatives, and operational analyses as required
       to support Air Force objectives outlined in AFPD 90-16, Studies and Analyses,
       Assessments and Lessons Learned.
       1.5.4.2. Maintains an AF/A9 Representative to LeMay Center to provide constant
       support to the LeMay Center with current lessons learned or to conduct specified lessons
       learned collections that contribute to improved doctrine.
    1.5.5. MAJCOMs, reserve components, and Air Staff Organizations. Contribute their
    aggregate experience to the development of doctrine publications. Component Numbered Air
    Forces, Direct Reporting Units, and Air Force Field Operating Agencies should participate in
    doctrinal efforts as appropriate for the subject matter. These organizations:
       1.5.5.1. Assist in the research, development, and assessment of basic and operational
       Service level doctrine and associated joint and multinational doctrine publications.
       1.5.5.2. Ensure education programs under their purview are consistent with Air Force
       doctrine through consultation with, and support from, the LeMay Center.
       1.5.5.3. Designate subject matter experts to assist in drafting or revising Service, joint,
       and multinational doctrine projects as requested by the LeMay Center.
       1.5.5.4. Maintain an office responsible for coordination of all relevant doctrinal matters.
    1.5.6. Commander, Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education:
       1.5.6.1. Serves as the Air Force executive agent for doctrine and advises CSAF of key
       doctrine issues.
       1.5.6.2. Represents the official Air Force position in joint doctrine. Additionally,
       represents the United States’ position for airpower issues in multinational doctrine.
AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013                                                                         5


     1.5.6.3. Coordinates doctrine development directly with the Joint Staff/J7 Joint and
     Coalition Warfighting, the Army’s Training and Doctrine Command, the Naval Doctrine
     Command, the Marine Corps Combat Development Command and United States Special
     Operations Command (USSOCOM).
     1.5.6.4. Communicates directly with Air Force MAJCOMs, reserve components, and Air
     Staff organizations, other Services, USSOCOM, the Joint Staff, and other countries on
     matters related to Service, joint, and multinational doctrine development and education,
     as appropriate.
     1.5.6.5. Certifies all doctrine publishing actions. This certification validates the products
     are official Air Force doctrine.
     1.5.6.6. Serves as Lead Agent (LA), when tasked by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
     Staff (CJCS), for the development of selected joint and multinational doctrine, IAW
     CJCS Instruction (CJCSI) 5120.02, Joint Doctrine Development System.
     1.5.6.7. Represents the Air Force as a member of the Joint Action Steering Committee
     for management and approval of multi-Service doctrine published by the Air Land Sea
     Application Center (ALSA).
     1.5.6.8. Participates in the Air Force Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group to
     discuss the doctrinal relevance of lessons learned IAW AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons
     Learned Program.
  1.5.7. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education:
     1.5.7.1. Serves as the Air Force’s single point of contact for Service, joint, multinational,
     and multi-Service doctrine research, development, staffing, publication, dissemination,
     and advocacy.
     1.5.7.2. Serves as the Air Force’s primary review authority for joint doctrine
     publications, when designated as LA by the Joint Staff IAW Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
     of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 5120.01, Joint Doctrine Development Process.
     1.5.7.3. Serves as Service coordinating review authority for joint doctrine when the Air
     Force is not designated LA.
     1.5.7.4. Serves as the focal point for formulating and implementing policy related to Air
     Force terminology and provides the overall direction, management, and implementation
     of the Air Force Military Terminology Standardization program. Approved terms,
     definitions, and acronyms are published in Joint Publication (JP) 1-02, IAW CJCSI
     5705.01, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology.
     1.5.7.5. Maintains an appropriate website for doctrine dissemination and collaboration.
     1.5.7.6. Liaises with other Service and joint professional military education schools and
     foreign militaries to facilitate an understanding of airpower. Maintains Air Force
     representation at selected US Army Schools and Centers, providing liaison and advice on
     Air Force doctrine, Service organization, mission, equipment capabilities, and joint
     doctrine.
6                                                             AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013


    1.5.7.7. Participates in the United States Air Force Warfare Center-led Tactics Review
    Board, and appropriate working groups, to facilitate the integration of doctrine into
    AFTTPs, IAW AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program.
    1.5.7.8. Conducts the coordination process for ALSA AFTTPs.
    1.5.7.9. Collaborates and plans multinational doctrine development and education with
    NATO national representatives, NATO command representatives, Air and Space
    Interoperability Council representatives, US Service representatives, and unified
    combatant command representatives.
       1.5.7.9.1. Serves as US principal delegate (Head of Delegation) to the NATO Air
       Operations Working Group IAW CJCSI 2700.01, International Military Agreements
       for Rationalization, Standardization, and Interoperability (RSI) Between the United
       States, Its Allies, and Other Friendly Nations, when assigned by AF/A5X, Director of
       Operational Planning, Policy and Strategy.
AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013                                                                          7


                                           Chapter 2

                               DOCTRINE DEVELOPMENT

2.1. Air Force Doctrine Development and Revision. The guiding principle is to ensure Air
Force doctrine remains timely, accurate, and relevant. Air Force doctrine projects, which include
the development of new or the revision of existing Service doctrine, will use the procedures
outlined in the paragraphs below. If necessary, the LeMay Center/CC may approve deviations.
2.2. Doctrine Summit. The CSAF-chaired Doctrine Summit is held annually to review the
status of Air Force doctrine, and to review and provide guidance on the prioritization and
validation of doctrinal issues. The Summit is attended by MAJCOM commanders, and other
senior Air Force officials as CSAF deems appropriate. The product of the Summit provides
overarching senior leadership direction for Air Force doctrine.
2.3. Air Force Doctrine Development Process. New doctrine may be developed or existing
doctrine revised, either at the direction of the CSAF or as a result of a recognized shortfall in
doctrinal guidance. Air Force doctrine projects will be accomplished through the following
procedures:
   2.3.1. The LeMay Center, MAJCOMs, reserve components, or Headquarters Air Force 2-
   letter organizations may propose new doctrine products and revisions with general officer
   endorsement. Proposals must be submitted to the LeMay Center Director of Doctrine
   Development (LeMay Center/DD).
   2.3.2. LeMay Center/DD will analyze any recommended new doctrine content. The analysis
   will be presented to organizations with equities regarding the topic under examination and
   will include an assessment as to whether the proposal meets the following criteria:
       2.3.2.1. Describes specific Air Force operations and provides specific operational or
       strategic-level effects in support of a specific objective (relevance).
       2.3.2.2. Describes operational level doctrine as opposed to tactical doctrine
       (appropriateness).
       2.3.2.3. Describes a set of operations and command authorities distinct from those that
       currently exist for another similar function, mission, or task, or that fit completely under
       the umbrella of higher-level doctrine (distinctiveness).
       2.3.2.4. Sufficient operational material exists that it cannot be adequately described
       within the context of existing discussion, thus warranting a stand-alone doctrinal
       discussion (sufficiency).
   2.3.3. The LeMay Center will consolidate responses regarding the proposal and the LeMay
   Center analysis from organizations with sufficient equities, and make a recommendation to
   the LeMay Center/CC on whether or not to proceed with the proposal.
   2.3.4. The LeMay Center will explore relevant sources including lessons learned files from
   past or ongoing operations; extant and emerging joint, multinational, and Air Force doctrine;
   and other sources, as appropriate, to contribute to the proposed content.
8                                                                   AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013


    2.3.5. Coordination actions will be targeted to organizations as designated by the LeMay
    Center in coordination with MAJCOMs, reserve components, and select Air Staff
    organizations or other appropriate Service component. LeMay Center/DD will make
    information regarding coordination of these products available to all Air Force organizations.
    Non-targeted organizations wanting to coordinate on a specific doctrine producct should
    advise the LeMay Center/DD of this fact, who will add it to the coordination action.
       2.3.5.1. Coordination may be for specific content or an entire document.
       2.3.5.2. The level of coordination and approval required for any given doctrine product
       will be determined by the LeMay Center/CC.
       2.3.5.3. Administrative changes identified by, or brought to the awareness of, LeMay
       Center/DD, will be incorporated into the Air Force doctrine library without additional
       coordination.
       2.3.5.4. Substantive changes involving information that is not contentious (e.g., a newly
       approved joint definition that does not affect Air Force doctrinal text) will also be
       incorporated without additional coordination.
       2.3.5.5. Upon completion of coordination, LeMay Center will conduct a post-
       coordination statutory/regulatory review with AFPAA and AF/JAA.
    2.3.6. LeMay Center/DD will notify all organizations when changes have been made to Air
    Force doctrine.
    2.3.7. Doctrine products will be periodically reviewed by the LeMay Center to ensure
    currency. Two factors will drive this review:
       2.3.7.1. Joint doctrine development timeline: If an Air Force doctrine topic can be
       affected by or influence changes to joint doctrine it should be reviewed for currency and
       accuracy before the comparable joint publication revision process is complete.
       2.3.7.2. Regular review: If Air Force doctrine has not been reviewed for two years,
       LeMay Center/DD will review it for currency and present recommendations to the
       LeMay Center/CC for approval.
AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       9


                                          Chapter 3

                     TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND PROCEDURES

3.1. Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures. Tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) are
tactical doctrine that describes the proper employment of specific resources, individually or in
concert with other resources, to accomplish detailed objectives. Tactical doctrine considers
particular objectives and conditions and describes how resources are employed to accomplish a
tactical objective.
3.2. Types of TTPs. Air Force TTPs are developed as one of three types: weapon system
TTPs, support TTPs, and multi-Service TTPs. While Air Force TTPs are developed by various
sources, all Air Force TTPs should be consistent with and support basic and operational level
doctrine.
   3.2.1. Weapon system TTPs are developed by weapons system subject matter experts and
   are published by the 561st Joint Tactics Squadron (JTS) at Nellis AFB NV. These TTPs are
   specifically linked to weapon systems and may be classified. These TTPs are numbered as
   AFTTP 3-1 and 3-3 series publications, coordinated and assigned by HQ ACC/A3TW and
   561 JTS. They are approved by the appropriate MAJCOM/A3. Formatting and formal
   coordination of weapon system TTPs will be in accordance with procedures outlined in AFI
   33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
   3.2.2. Support TTPs are developed by either the 422 JTS at Joint Base
   McGuire/Dix/Lakehurst NJ, by a MAJCOM, or Air Staff organization. These TTPs are
   intended to support military actions not necessarily directly linked to specific weapon
   systems. These TTPs are assigned numbers as coordinated and approved jointly by the
   LeMay Center and the developer or issuer. Formatting and formal coordination of support
   TTPs will be in accordance with procedures outlined in AFI 33-360.
   3.2.3. Multi-Service TTPs are developed by the Air Land Sea Application (ALSA) Center at
   Joint Base Langley-Eustis VA. These TTPs are approved by two or more military Services
   and enter each Service’s library as a Service TTP. Multi-Service TTPs are formatted similar
   to joint doctrine publications. Formal coordination for multi-Service TTPs will be in
   accordance with ALSA standard operating procedures. Formal coordination for Air Force-
   approved multi-Service TTPs will be in accordance with AFI 33-360, and will be managed
   by the LeMay Center/DD.




                                            MARK A. WELSH, III
                                            General, USAF
                                            Chief of Staff
 10                                                                 AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013


                                      ATTACHMENT 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, Organization, and Command, 14 Oct 11
AFI 11-260, Tactics Development Program, 15 Sep 11
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 Sep 10
AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 Sep 10
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFPD 10-13, Air Force Doctrine, 25 Aug 08
AFPD 90-16, Studies and Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned, 31 Aug 11
CJCSI 2700.01, International Military Agreements for Rationalization, Standardization, and
Interoperability (RSI) Between the United States, Its Allies, and Other Friendly Nations, 18 Jan
12
CJCSI 5120.02C, Joint Doctrine Development System, 13 Jan 12
CJCSI 5705.01D, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology, 10 Nov 10 (Current
as of 6 Dec 2012)
CJCSM 5120.01, Joint Doctrine Development Process, 13 Jan 12
JP 1-02, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 Nov 10 (as amended through 15
Mar 13)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
AFTTP—Air Force tactics, techniques, and procedures
ALSA—Air, Land, Sea Applications Center
AU—Air University
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff instruction
CJCSM—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff manual
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
DOD—Department of Defense
IAW—in accordance with
AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013                                                                         11


JP—Joint publication
LA—Lead agent
MAJCOM(s)—— Air Force major command(s)
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OPR—office of primary responsibility
RDS—records disposition schedule
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command

Terms
Basic Doctrine—States the most fundamental and enduring beliefs that describe and guide the
proper use, presentation, and organization of air and space forces in military action. It describes
the “elemental properties” of air and space power and provides the Airman’s perspective.
Because of its fundamental and enduring character, basic doctrine provides broad and continuing
guidance on how Air Force forces are organized, employed, equipped, and sustained. Because it
expresses broad, enduring fundamentals, basic doctrine changes relatively slowly compared to
the other levels of doctrine. As the foundation of all air and space doctrine, basic doctrine also
sets the tone and vision for doctrine development for the future.
Doctrine—The fundamental principles by which the military forces or elements thereof guide
their actions in support of national objectives. It is authoritative but not directive and requires
judgment in application. A more complete discussion may be found in AFDD 1, Air Force Basic
Doctrine, Organization, and Command.
Joint Doctrine— Fundamental principles that guide the employment of United States
military forces in coordinated action toward a common objective and may include
terms, tactics, techniques, and procedures (CJCSI 5120.02, Joint Doctrine Development System).
Joint Publication (JP)— A compilation of agreed to fundamental principles, considerations,
and guidance on a particular topic, approved by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that
guides the employment of a joint force toward a common objective ( CJCSI 5120.02).
Lead Agent—An individual Service, combatant command, or Joint Staff directorate assigned to
develop and maintain a joint publication.
Multinational Doctrine—Fundamental principles that guide the employment of forces of two or
more nations in coordinated action toward a common objective. They are ratified by
participating nations.
Multi—Service Doctrine—Fundamental principles that guide the employment of forces of two
or more Services in coordinated action toward a common objective and not written in the joint
construct. They are ratified by two or more Services, and are promulgated in multi-Service
publications that identify the participating Services, e.g., Army-Navy doctrine.
NATO air operations working group—NATO working group that meets annually to discuss,
coordinate, and agree upon proposals for new doctrine projects and review the status of existing
doctrine agreements within NATO.
 12                                                                   AFI10-1301 14 JUNE 2013


Operational Doctrine—Doctrine that guides the proper organization and employment of air and
space forces in the context of distinct objectives, force capabilities, broad functional areas, and
operational environments. Operational doctrine provides the focus for developing the missions
and tasks that must be executed through tactical doctrine. Doctrine at this level changes a bit
more rapidly than basic doctrine, but usually only after deliberate internal Service debate.
Tactical Doctrine—Describes the proper employment of specific Air Force capabilities and
their inherent assets, individually or in concert with other capabilities and assets, to achieve
desired effects and objectives. Tactical doctrine considers particular objectives (e.g. stopping the
advance of an enemy armored column) and conditions (threats, weather, terrain, etc.) and
describes how Air Force assets are employed to accomplish the tactical objective (B-1s dropping
anti-armor cluster munitions, etc.). Tactical doctrine, in the form of techniques and procedures,
also gives detailed guidance on how to develop functional capabilities and accomplish combat
support tasks (civil engineers repairing facilities, services technicians providing beddown
support, etc.). Tactical doctrine is codified as tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) in Air
Force TTP 3-X series manuals. Because tactical doctrine is closely associated with employment
of technology, change may occur more rapidly than to the other levels of doctrine. Also, due to
their sensitive nature, some of these documents are classified.
