BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2AFSO/PR
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                         VOLUME 1

                                                                                           1 JUNE 2009
                                                                                            Intelligence

                                                       AFSOF/PR UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                           publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFSOC/A2                                             Certified by: AF/A2DF (Col Theresa A. Meyer)
                                                                                             Pages: 40


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training. It establishes the
minimum Air Force (Regular AF, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserves) standards for training
and qualifying all personnel performing intelligence operations in Air Force Special Operations Forces
(AFSOF) units with the exception of MQ-1 and EC-130J units. MQ-1 units will be governed by AFI
14-2MQ-1, Volume 1, and AFI 11-2MQ/RQ-1, Volume 1. This instruction also establishes the
minimum Air Force standards for training and qualifying personnel performing intelligence duties in all
Air Combat Command (ACC), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), US Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) and
Air Reserve Component (ARC) personnel recovery (PR) units. The Air National Guard (ANG) is
considered a MAJCOM for the purposes of this instruction.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction
implements Systems of Records Notice (SORN) F014 AF/A2FM A, Weaponizing Intelligence Combat
Capability—Training Documentation System (WICC-TDS). Restrictions expressed in an instruction can
be made more, but not less, restrictive by supplement. The provisions of higher-level publications take
precedence over lower-level publications. This policy document supports all Air Force Intelligence
Training Transformation (IT2) efforts as mandated by DoD and other national policy directives.
2                                                                AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009



                                                 Chapter 1

                                       GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. Responsibilities.
    1.1.1. AFSOC/A2 will:
       1.1.1.1. Be responsible for the overall administration of this volume IAW AFPD 14-2,
       Intelligence Rules and Procedures.     AFSOC/A2 will coordinate intelligence training
       requirements for PR units with ACC/A2, PACAF/A2, USAFE/A2, NGB/A2 and AFRC/A2 as
       appropriate.
       1.1.1.2. Chair a training conference every other year to review this instruction, AFSOF and PR
       unit intelligence training requirements and programs for AFSOF and PR units. Conference
       participants will include applicable active and reserve component representatives. AFSOC/A2
       will coordinate requirements for PR units with ACC/A2, PACAF/A2, USAFE/A2, NGB/A2 and
       AFRC/A2 as appropriate.
       1.1.1.3. Develop and maintain the master question file (MQF) applicable to AFSOF unit
       intelligence operations.
       1.1.1.4. Develop and maintain standardized training materials applicable to AFSOF unit
       intelligence operations.
    1.1.2. ACC/A2 will:
       1.1.2.1. Develop and maintain the master question file (MQF) applicable to PR unit intelligence
       operations.
       1.1.2.2. Develop and maintain standardized training materials applicable to PR unit intelligence
       operations.
    1.1.3. . User MAJCOM/A2 will:
       1.1.3.1. . Process all change requests.
       1.1.3.2. . Determine formal training requirements to meet expected unit taskings.
       1.1.3.3. . Author, approve and publish supplements to this AFI as applicable (AF/A2 delegates
       approval authority to the MAJCOM/A2 for MAJCOM-authored supplements to this AFI).
       MAJCOMS will ensure copies are provided to USAF/A2 and all other appropriate MAJCOMs.
       Per AFPD 14-2, supplements will not be less restrictive than the lead AFI and should be limited
       to unique requirements only.
       1.1.3.4. . Act as the waiver authority for all intelligence training requirements outlined in this
       instruction for subordinate units. Courtesy copy AF/A2 and lead command (AFSOC/A2) on all
       waiver correspondence. Include ACC/A2 as a courtesy copy for all waivers concerning
       intelligence operations in support of personnel recovery operations.
    1.1.4. Operations Group (OG) Chief of Intelligence Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) will:
       1.1.4.1. Develop and execute programs to ensure training objectives are met. If applicable,
       assist operational unit intelligence sections and subordinate units in management of training
       programs, and ensure programs meet unit needs and provide necessary staff support.
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                         3


     1.1.4.2. Except when otherwise mandated, designate the qualification to which each intelligence
     position will train. Upon request provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as
     appropriate, with a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and Basic Mission Capable (BMC)
     manning positions. For AFRC units, provide AFRC/A2 and ACC/A2 with a list of CMR and
     BMC manning. Review programs and manning position designations annually.
     1.1.4.3. Appoint in writing an Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager to oversee
     program execution.
     1.1.4.4. Monitor currencies and requirements for all assigned/attached intelligence personnel.
     1.1.4.5. Ensure intelligence personnel only participate in events and tasks for which they are
     qualified and current, unless under the direct supervision of qualified and current intelligence
     personnel.
     1.1.4.6. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel and
     those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to achieve CMR or
     BMC status and to ensure provisions of this instruction have been met.
     1.1.4.7. Determine how many and which CMR or BMC intelligence personnel will carry
     specialized qualifications.
     1.1.4.8. Identify the levels of supervision necessary to accomplish the required training, unless
     specifically directed.
     1.1.4.9. When necessary, request a waiver to the basic guidance in this instruction by submitting
     requests through applicable training channels to MAJCOM/A2. (For AFRC units via the
     NAF/A2 to AFRC/A2). Correspondence will be in message or memo format.
     1.1.4.10. Identify and report training shortfalls that have a major impact on training to the
     MAJCOM/A2. Courtesy copy NAF/A2, as applicable. For AFRC units, identify and report
     training shortfalls to NAF/A2 and AFRC/A2. Reference Attachment 3.
     1.1.4.11. Ensure accomplishment of ancillary training IAW AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training
     Development, Delivery and Evaluation. Consult with the local unit training manager (UTM) and
     Unit Deployment Manager (UDM) for guidance on ancillary training specific to the unit and
     base.
  1.1.5. Unit Intelligence Training Program Manager will:
     1.1.5.1. Develop an annual intelligence personnel training program.
     1.1.5.2. Develop written guidance detailing how the internal intelligence training program will
     be conducted.
     1.1.5.3. Coordinate with the SIO to establish the training frequency of each training item except
     where dictated by this or any other AFI. Training methods may include, but are not limited to:
     briefings, demonstration-performance, formal and informal lectures.
     1.1.5.4. Submit a written evaluation of the wing/group intelligence personnel training program
     to the SIO at the end of each training cycle. At a minimum, the SIO will forward the training
     report to the OG/CC.
  1.1.6. Attached squadron intelligence personnel will:
     1.1.6.1. Ensure adequate continuity and supervision of individual training needs and
     proficiencies of assigned/attached intelligence personnel.
4                                                                  AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


       1.1.6.2. Assist the wing/group/squadron in developing the unit training programs.
       1.1.6.3.   Monitor individual assigned/attached intelligence personnel currencies and
       requirements.
       1.1.6.4. Only participate in events and tasks for which they are qualified and current, unless
       under the direct supervision of qualified and current intelligence personnel.
    1.1.7. Individual intelligence personnel will:
       1.1.7.1.  PCS with an electronic copy of their qualification training and evaluation
       documentation to assist the gaining unit in assessing qualifications and training requirements.
       1.1.7.2. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this instruction.
       1.1.7.3. Only participate in events and tasks for which they are qualified and current unless
       under the direct supervision of qualified and current intelligence personnel.
1.2. Processing Changes.
    1.2.1. Subordinate units will forward recommendations for changes to this volume to assigned
    MAJCOM/A2 on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
    1.2.2. MAJCOM/A2 will forward approved unit recommendations to AFSOC/A2 and courtesy-copy
    AF/A2 and ACC/A2 as applicable.
    1.2.3. AFSOC/A2 will:
       1.2.3.1. Coordinate all changes to the basic instruction with all relevant MAJCOM/A2s.
       Forward changes to AF/A2 for approval. Process recommendation for change after approval by
       USAF/A2.
       1.2.3.2. Address time sensitive changes by immediate action message.
1.3. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress intelligence
personnel from Initial Qualification Training (IQT) to Mission Qualification Training (MQT) to achieve
CMR or BMC status which will be maintained via continuation training and validated by periodic
evaluations. Qualification training is separate from skill level upgrade training, although qualification
training may fulfill some skill level upgrade training requirements.
    1.3.1. IQT provides the initial training necessary to qualify intelligence personnel for basic duties in
    an intelligence position without regard to a unit’s mission. Upon completion of IQT, intelligence
    personnel attain Basic Qualification (BQ) status. BQ is a prerequisite for MQT. BQ is not a long-
    term qualification status. IQT is discussed further in Chapter 2 of this instruction.
    1.3.2. MQT provides the training necessary to qualify or requalify intelligence personnel in a
    specific duty position to perform the missions assigned to a specific unit. Intelligence personnel
    maintain BQ status until they complete MQT. Completion of MQT is a prerequisite for CMR or
    BMC status. MQT for all AFSOF and PR intelligence personnel is discussed further in Chapter 3 of
    this instruction. Additional MQT training required for special tactics intelligence personnel is
    discussed in Chapter 6, and for PR personnel in Chapter 7. Table 1.1. summarizes the knowledge
    and task training for AFSOF and PR personnel.
    1.3.3. Continuation Training (CT) provides the volume, frequency and mix of training necessary for
    intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency in their assigned qualification level. The Ready
    Intelligence Program (RIP) outlines the minimum CT requirements. RIP is designed to focus
    training on capabilities needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. CT is separate from skill
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                            5


   level upgrade training, although CT may fulfill some skill level upgrade training requirements. CT
   and RIP for all AFSOF and PR intelligence personnel are discussed further in Chapter 4 of this
   instruction. Additional CT/RIP requirements for special tactics intelligence personnel are discussed
   in Chapter 6, and for PR personnel in Chapter 7. Table 4.1. summarizes continuation training for
   AFSOF and PR personnel.
   1.3.4. Specialized training is training on any skill necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions
   that is not required for every intelligence unit member. Specialized training is accomplished after
   Mission Qualification Training and after the member has attained CMR or BMC status, and is in
   addition to CMR or BMC requirements. Specialized training for all AFSOF and PR intelligence
   personnel is discussed further in Chapter 5 of this instruction. Additional specialized training for
   special tactics intelligence personnel is discussed in Chapter 6, and for PR personnel in Chapter 7.
   Table 1.1. summarizes the specialized training for AFSOF and PR personnel.

Table 1.1. AFSOF/PR MQT and Specialized Training.
Training Events                                  AFSOF          ST            PR
Knowledge MQT
Unit Weapon Systems Academics                    x              x             x
Intel Integration in Anti-Terrorism/Force        x              x             x
Protection
AOR Threat                                       x              x             x
AOR Visual Recognition                           x              x             x
Personnel Recovery/Recovery Operations           x              x             x
Humanitarian Relief/Civil SAR                    x              x             x
ISR Integration                                  x              x             x
Close Air Support (CAS) Fundamentals                                          x
Research, Analysis & Dissemination (RAD),        x              x             x
IPOE, Geospatial Intelligence
Task MQT
Manual OB                                        x              x             x
Automated OB                                     x              x             x
Changeover Briefing                              x              x             x
Deployment Briefing                              x              x             x
Initial Situation Briefing                       x              x             x
Situation Briefing                               x              x             x
ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR                           x              x             x
Mission Planning                                 x              x             x
Mission Folders                                  x              x             x
Mission Briefing/Alert Briefing/ST Team In-brief x              x             x
Step Briefing                                    x              x             x
Mission Tracking                                 x              x             x
Debriefing                                       x              x             x
Intelligence Reports                             x              x             x
Geospatial Data Management                                      x
Terrain Analysis                                                x
ST Commander’s Back Brief                                       x
6                                                                  AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


Phase I Reintegration Cell Operations                                       x
Specialized Training
External Intelligence Trainer (EIT)               x            x            x
Intelligence Evaluator (IE)                       x            x            x
Intelligence Support to Theater Operations        x            x            x
Special Tactics Team Debriefer                                 x

1.4. Position Qualification. Wing SIOs will designate which positions are CMR or BMC. At a
minimum, all active duty and Air National Guard flying squadron and active duty and Air National
Guard ST squadron intelligence personnel will be CMR. AFRC flying squadron and ST squadron
intelligence personnel may be BMC with the ability to attain CMR currency within 30 days.
    1.4.1. Combat Mission Ready (CMR). CMR is the status of intelligence personnel who have
    satisfactorily completed MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the mission qualification
    tasks and knowledge outlined in this instruction.
       1.4.1.1. CMR intelligence personnel maintain currency by accomplishing all designated tasks
       within the prescribed timelines. See Chapter 4, Table 4.1., for RIP currency requirements and
       Chapter 5, Table 5.1., for Specialized Training currency requirements. Failure to complete this
       training or maintain these currencies will result in regression to non-CMR (N-CMR) status
       unless waived by the SIO. While N-CMR, personnel may perform only individual tasks in
       which they are current and qualified.
       1.4.1.2. Personnel should meet CMR currency requirements before deploying. However, in the
       case of short-notice deployments where this is not possible, the SIO can allow BMC personnel to
       deploy. If the SIO is forced to deploy an individual who hasn't met CMR currency requirements,
       the SIO will ensure the member's deployed chain-of-command is aware of the member's
       currency status.
    1.4.2. Basic Mission Capable (BMC). BMC is the status of intelligence personnel who have
    satisfactorily completed MQT, are qualified in the core mission skills of their unit, but do not
    maintain CMR status. BMC personnel must be able to attain CMR currency within 30 days.
       1.4.2.1. BMC designations are assigned to intelligence personnel who primarily perform
       wing/group supervision or staff functions that directly support intelligence operations. Personnel
       must be able to attain CMR currency within 30 days.
       1.4.2.2. BMC personnel must maintain currencies by accomplishing all designated tasks within
       the prescribed timelines. See Chapter 4, Table 4.1. of this instruction for RIP currency
       requirements and Chapter 5, Table 5.1., for specialized training currency requirements. Failure
       to complete BMC required training results in regression to non-BMC (N-BMC) status. While N-
       BMC, the individual may perform only individual tasks in which they are current and qualified.
    1.4.3. Intelligence personnel who regress to N-CMR or N-BMC status will accomplish the
    requirements IAW Chapter 4 before being re-awarded CMR or BMC status.
    1.4.4. Qualification training and evaluation requirements are summarized in Table 1.2. SOF and PR
    Intelligence Training Requirements.
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                         7


                                                 Chapter 2

                               INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. This chapter outlines initial qualification training (IQT) of AFSOF and PR unit
intelligence personnel. IQT for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training is completed
(i.e. the AFSC-awarding courses) and will consist of the AFSOC Intelligence Formal Training Unit
(IFTU). At the completion of IQT, the individual is certified as BQ. In exceptional circumstances,
when IFTU training is not available within a reasonable time period, the IFTU portion of IQT may be
conducted at the local unit IAW this chapter. When authorized, local IQT will be conducted by unit
intelligence training personnel using materials provided by the lead MAJCOM. The following guidance
applies only to other than formal course AFSOC IFTU IQT:
2.2. Waiver Approval for IQT.
   2.2.1. MAJCOM/A2 is the approval authority to conduct local IQT, and is the waiver authority to
   change the formal requirements of locally conducted IQT.
   2.2.2. Requests to conduct local IQT will include the following:
       2.2.2.1. Justification for the local training in lieu of formal course training.
       2.2.2.2. Summary of individual’s intelligence career field experience.
       2.2.2.3. Date training will begin and expected completion date.
       2.2.2.4. Requested exceptions to formal course syllabus, with rationale.
2.3. Prerequisites. Course prerequisites will be IAW the appropriate formal course syllabus.
2.4. Intelligence Training.
   2.4.1. Training will be completed within the time specified by the IFTU syllabus. Failure to
   complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2 (ANG:
   NGB/A2; AFRC: NAF/A2 and AFRC/A2) with person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned
   actions and estimated completion date.
   2.4.2. Personnel in IQT will perform intelligence functions under supervision until completing the
   qualification evaluation (QUAL).
   2.4.3. Formal course syllabus mission objectives and tasks are minimum requirements for IQT;
   however, additional training events may be added at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on
   student proficiency, experience or non-progression.
   2.4.4. Personnel completing local IQT will be evaluated according to the same criteria as individuals
   completing the formal IFTU course. Evaluation and qualification will be annotated in the on-line
   documentation system.
8                                                                 AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


                                               Chapter 3

                             MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. Mission qualification training (MQT) is training necessary to qualify intelligence
personnel in an assigned duty position to perform the unit mission. Guidance in this chapter is provided
to assist SIOs in executing the MAJCOM/A2 approved minimum MQT requirements for all AFSOF and
PR intelligence personnel newly assigned the BQ. See Chapter 6 of this instruction for additional MQT
required for special tactics intelligence personnel, and Chapter 7 for additional MQT required for PR
personnel. Units may further tailor their programs for intelligence personnel with current qualifications,
prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training. Applicable portions of MQT
may be used to create a re-qualification program for personnel who have regressed from CMR or BMC
to specifically address deficiencies which caused regression.
    3.1.1. Intelligence personnel must have completed IQT before MQT can be completed.
    3.1.2. MQT timing starts within 45 days (90 days for AFRC and ANG) of the individual’s first duty
    day at the gaining unit. If personnel elect to take leave prior to being entered into MQT, the timing
    will begin after the termination of the leave. For first term airmen being entered into MQT, the
    timing will begin upon completion of the First Term Airman Course (or equivalent) at their gaining
    unit. Training is complete upon successful accomplishment of MQT tasks, a successful INIT MSN
    IAW AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2, and AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and SIO endorsement to CMR or
    BMC, as appropriate.
       3.1.2.1. For AFRC, notify AFRC/A2 and NAF/A2 if training exceeds 120 days with seasoning
       or 180 calendar days without seasoning. For individual mobilization augmentees (IMAs), notify
       MAJCOM intelligence IMA Program Manager and AFRC/A2.
       3.1.2.2. For ANG, notify NGB/A2 if training exceeds 180 calendar days.
       3.1.2.3. For AFSOC, ACC, PACAF, and USAFE, notify MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds 120
       calendar days.
    3.1.3. Personnel in MQT may participate in exercises if supervised while performing intelligence
    functions. The level of supervision is at the SIO’s discretion.
    3.1.4. Assigned IMAs will be trained and equipped to established command standards for the
    positions they will assume. IMAs will have the same training timelines as AFRC and ANG
    members (ARC).
    3.1.5. Personnel may complete other local area orientation and training while completing MQT.
3.2. Mission Qualification Training Evaluation. Personnel are qualified as CMR or BMC upon
successful evaluation of required tasks, to include completed gradesheets (AF Form 4381), a successful
INIT MSN in accordance with AFI 14-202, Volume 2, AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2, and
endorsement from the SIO. Reference AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2, for a more detailed explanation
of evaluations.
3.3. Knowledge and Task Training.
    3.3.1. Knowledge MQT. Units will develop blocks of instruction, derived from lead MAJCOM-
    developed training materials, covering areas pertinent to the mission as determined by the SIO.
    Blocks of instruction will include all unique local area procedures relevant to the tasks and will
    ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge area proficiency via separate tests on each area
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                              9


  (e.g. Unit Weapon Systems Academics, AOR Threat). Trainers record training on the AF Form
  4381, see Attachment 2 of AFI 14-2AFSOF-PR, Volume 2, AFSOF-PR Intelligence Evaluation
  Criteria for AFSOF-PR unit intelligence specific gradesheets. The MQT program for all AFSOF
  and PR intelligence personnel will include the following knowledge areas at a minimum:
     3.3.1.1. Unit Weapon Systems Academics. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate an
     understanding of the unit’s specific weapon systems to include, as applicable: missions,
     capabilities and limitations; communication equipment; unit self-protection jammer, chaff/flares;
     unit radar warning receiver; air-to-air and air-to-ground weapons. The trainee will demonstrate
     knowledge and understanding of how Air Force and joint doctrine drive the unit’s missions and
     employment. Specific tasks: Demonstrate understanding of the unit’s specific capabilities and
     limitations in relation to the specific unit missions. Successfully complete test from unit MQF
     (85 percent minimum to pass).
     3.3.1.2. Intelligence Integration in Anti-Terrorism/Force Protection. Event objective: The
     trainee will demonstrate understanding of the role of intelligence in providing effective force
     protection and demonstrate knowledge of force protection issues and terrorism threats to unit
     missions. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge on specific AOR threat and force protection
     information by successfully completing a test derived from the MQF (85 percent minimum to
     pass).
     3.3.1.3. AOR Threat. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate understanding of
     applicable theater-specific enemy/blue/gray threats to include but not limited to
     terrorist/insurgent tactics, electronic warfare, aircraft, helicopters, air-to-air missiles, surface-to-
     air missiles, anti-aircraft artillery, rocket propelled grenades (RPGs) and ground equipment and
     weapons capabilities, limitations and employment techniques. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     detailed understanding of AOR threats, specifically related to unit capabilities and limitations.
     AOR threat training will emphasize the appropriate threats from the perspective of the supported
     operators. Review applicable radar and IR theory as appropriate to understand threats
     thoroughly. Successfully complete a test from unit MQF (85 percent minimum to pass).
     3.3.1.4. AOR Visual Recognition. Event objective: The trainee will identify applicable
     distinguishing features of enemy/blue/gray weapon systems which require mandated visual
     recognition training. Specific tasks: Intelligence personnel must be able to visually identify
     aircraft (rotary and fixed-wing, including joint/allied assets) by name or numerical designator
     and determine whether the aircraft is a threat or non-threat (training should incorporate all
     aspects/angles, theater-specific paint schemes/fin flashes, and various configurations). Training
     will include identification of ground equipment. Training will also include virtual recognition
     tools to include ground-based threats, when available, for understanding of visual recognition
     features during a launch sequence. Demonstrate ability to visually recognize enemy/blue/gray
     weapon systems by successfully completing a timed visual recognition test via visual
     presentation system (85 percent minimum to pass).
     3.3.1.5. Personnel Recovery/Recovery Operations (PR/RO). Event objective: The trainee will
     demonstrate understanding of theater specific techniques, academics, isolated personnel
     (ISOPREP) requirements, and evasion plan of action (EPA) requirements which will prepare
     operators for the possibility of evasion, captivity and escape in hostile territory. The trainee will
     also demonstrate knowledge of theater specific requirements, tactics, techniques and procedures
     associated with recovery operations conducted in friendly, neutral and hostile environments.
     Specific tasks: Successfully complete test from unit MQF (85 percent minimum to pass).
10                                                                 AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


        3.3.1.6. Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Integration. Event objective: The
        trainee will demonstrate basic knowledge of blue tactical, theater, and national collection
        platforms and sensors and their contribution to AFSOF/PR. The trainee will understand how to
        read raw intelligence reports, (e.g., initial photographic intelligence reports (IPIR), SIGINT
        reports, informal chat reports) and demonstrate basic knowledge of where intelligence report
        information can be found. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to research, find and analyze each
        of the following: IPIR, Imagery Product Library (IPL) Annotated Image, KliegLite (KL) report,
        and SIGINT Product Report. Successfully complete a test with questions from MQF (85 percent
        minimum to pass).
        3.3.1.7. Humanitarian Relief/Civil Search and Rescue (SAR). Event objective: The trainee will
        demonstrate knowledge of considerations for intelligence support to Humanitarian Relief/Civil
        SAR operations. Specific tasks: The trainer will provide instruction on providing intelligence
        support to humanitarian relief/civil SAR operations. The trainee will demonstrate knowledge of
        unique imagery product requirements/sources, site survey/bare base set-up considerations,
        unclassified force protection products from state/local law enforcement, and intelligence
        oversight considerations. Successfully complete a test with questions from MQF (85 percent
        minimum to pass).
        3.3.1.8. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination. Event objective: The trainee will become
        familiar with available resources and methods for researching, analyzing, and disseminating
        intelligence that reduces uncertainties about major potential adversaries, including military,
        political, geographic and asymmetric threats. The trainee will understand the four steps of the
        intelligence preparation of the operational environment (IPOE) process, including mission,
        enemy, terrain, troops and time available (METT-T) considerations, and observation and fields
        of fire, concealment and cover, obstacles, key terrain, avenues of approach (OCOKA) terrain
        analysis. The trainee will understand how geospatial intelligence is a significant factor in both
        the METT-T & OCOKA analysis. Specific tasks: As part of subsequent MQT events, the
        trainee will demonstrate proficiency in researching, analyzing and disseminating tailored
        intelligence to operators, commanders and base support agencies through reports and briefings.
        Analyze incoming intelligence, identify significant events and develop briefings and/or read files
        to disseminate critical intelligence.     Demonstrate understanding of the IPOE process,
        considerations and associated terms and apply METT-T & OCOKA analysis to AFSOF/PR
        operations. The trainer will introduce available intelligence sources and methods of analysis and
        dissemination. Emphasis will be placed on analyzing and using geospatial data and services to
        support the mission. Appropriately submit requests for information (RFI). The trainer will
        introduce and explain the key players in the local flow of intelligence (i.e. squadron, group,
        wing, supporting Air Operations Center Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Division
        (AOC ISRD), unified command joint intelligence center, etc.) and explain OB production
        responsibilities.
     3.3.2. Task MQT. Units will develop blocks of instruction, derived from lead MAJCOM-developed
     training materials, covering areas pertinent to the mission as determined by the SIO. Blocks of
     instruction will include all unique local area procedures relevant to the tasks. Blocks of instruction
     will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-
     2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2. The MQT program for all AFSOF and PR intelligence personnel will
     include the following task events at a minimum:
        3.3.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
        proficiency in Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) tasks including constructing, posting, updating
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                        11


     and quality controlling order of battle displays without intelligence system support IAW unit
     established order of battle standards. Specific tasks: Plot order of battle using correct
     symbology (MIL STD 2525B, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual,
     FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics), extract military grid reference system (MGRS)
     coordinates and geographic coordinates. Demonstrate understanding of order of battle
     production responsibilities for the AOR.
     3.3.2.2. Automated OB. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in using
     intelligence support systems (e.g. Falcon View) to download, construct, post, update and quality
     control automated order of battle displays. Specific tasks: Exploit intelligence software
     applications to post and maintain order of battle and convert MGRS coordinates and geographic
     coordinates.
     3.3.2.3. Changeover Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     developing, coordinating and conducting a changeover briefing. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     proficiency in organizing, prioritizing and presenting key information at shift changeover.
     Provide incoming personnel with a summary of events to prepare them for their shift. Include
     issues needing immediate attention, pending tasks, personnel and equipment problems, work
     center status and briefing times. Deliver changeover briefing IAW local timelines, format and
     content requirements.
     3.3.2.4. Deployment Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     developing, coordinating and conducting a deployment briefing. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     understanding of unit operation plans/operation orders/warning orders/deployment orders
     (OPLAN/OPORD/WARNORD/DEPORD) and/or support tasking by tailoring intelligence to the
     unit’s specific mission, roles and combat profiles. Include: synopsis of military and political
     situation generating the deployment, enemy activity and force disposition (air, ground, naval and
     asymmetric, as applicable) in area of responsibility (AOR) and along deployment route, enemy
     tactics and employment strategies, potential and or anticipated enemy reactions to the
     deployment, possible en-route hazards, known threats (terrorist or regular military forces) in
     vicinity of bed down location and of bailout or alternate landing sites, reporting instructions and
     essential elements of information (EEI), and additional items as dictated by the local situation.
     Deliver deployment briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content requirements.
     3.3.2.5. Initial Situation Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate understanding
     of developing, coordinating and conducting an initial situation briefing. Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate proficiency in briefing the initial situation to the commander and staff. Present the
     current situation, including major events leading to the crisis, any national decisions, enemy
     force disposition, current situation at deployment location, local area situation (e.g., terrorist
     activity, subversion threats, etc.), anticipated enemy reactions, additional items indicated by the
     local situation, possible enroute flight hazards for previously scheduled and transient flights.
     Deliver initial situation briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content
     requirements.
     3.3.2.6. Situation Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     developing, coordinating and conducting a situation briefing. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     proficiency in providing the latest intelligence to assist commanders, staff and operators as
     applicable in their decision making. Incorporate significant military and or political events,
     enemy force disposition (ground, air and air defense, naval, as applicable), indications of
     impending enemy attack, enemy tactics and/or employment strategies, potential course of enemy
12                                                              AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


     action, local area situation (terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.).     Deliver situation
     briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content requirements.
     3.3.2.7. Air Tasking Order/Air Control Order/Special Instructions/Air Support Request/ Special
     Tactics Support Request (ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR). Event objective: The trainee will
     demonstrate proficiency in identifying and breaking out the applicable elements of the
     ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR.                 Specific   tasks:       Demonstrate     breakout    of
     ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR with both manual and automated techniques and tools IAW
     prescribed local timelines and format requirements. Demonstrate detailed understanding of how
     to break out ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR. Identify and extract unit tasking, air space control,
     PR and intelligence from air tasking orders/messages and SPINS or STSR, as applicable.
     3.3.2.8. Mission Planning. Event objective: As applicable to unit mission(s), the trainee will
     demonstrate proficiency in performing route analysis, performing target/objective area analysis,
     briefing planners, participating in mission planning and aiding in mission folder construction.
     Specific tasks: As applicable to unit mission(s), demonstrate proficiency in researching,
     analyzing and providing a review of the tactical problem/scenario, briefing the
     ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR, briefing threat considerations (integrated air defense system
     (IADS), air, surface-to-air missile (SAM), anti-aircraft artillery (AAA), asymmetric threats,
     tactics, terrain and weather), providing route recommendations, and describing mission folder
     contents. Coordinate with operators to recommend/approve mission route based on threats and
     terrain analysis. Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing mission planning software to assess
     mission routing. Deliver mission briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content
     requirements.
     3.3.2.9. Mission Folders. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     constructing mission folders and providing the appropriate mission materials for the
     target/objective. Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce GI&S materials and identify ordering
     requirements, storage and maintenance procedures, and electronic media requirements. The
     trainer will introduce the roles and responsibilities of each echelon in the target/objective
     development process. The trainer will introduce unit mission planning processes to include
     plotting targets/objectives and objectives and landing zones/drop zones (LZ/DZ), obtaining
     target/objective materials, coordinating mission materials, assembling and quality controlling
     mission folders. The trainee will identify and plot unit tasking and obtain necessary mission
     materials. Construct mission folder. Conduct appropriate research and analysis in unit-level
     target/objective development. Recommend mission route based on threat, terrain and
     target/objective analysis. Obtain required imagery. Demonstrate proficiency in using mission
     planning software to construct mission folder.
     3.3.2.10. Mission Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     developing, coordinating and conducting a mission briefing (also referred to as ―special tactics
     team in-brief‖ in ST units or ―alert briefing‖ in PR units). Specific tasks: Appropriately research
     and analyze intelligence relevant to the mission briefing. Provide operators, as appropriate, a
     briefing which includes the general situation since the last briefing, target/objective information,
     general situation in the target/objective area, en route and target/objective area threats
     (SAMs/AAA/air/naval/laser and spectrum interference threats/etc.), and other factors essential to
     mission success. Deliver briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content
     requirements.
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                      13


     3.3.2.11. Step Briefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     developing, coordinating and conducting a step briefing. Specific tasks: Construct and deliver a
     briefing that highlights changes since the mission briefing. Appropriately identify, research and
     analyze intelligence updates that may include: target/objective changes (name, location,
     significance), new threats (air, air defense, ground, etc.), EPA changes and any other changes
     impacting the mission. Deliver step briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content
     requirements.
     3.3.2.12. Mission Tracking. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     monitoring mission execution and in communicating with other agencies and coordination
     centers. Specific tasks: Effectively monitor and use communication systems (for example, chat
     tools including information work space (IWS)) to maintain situational awareness on ongoing
     missions. React as necessary to support the mission. Log communications with national and
     theater-level participants. Demonstrate proper chat etiquette. Access correct servers and chat
     windows to find specific information or support/monitor specific missions. Demonstrate ability
     to monitor blue force tracking feed (e.g. Blue Force Tracker (BFT)) to glean valid information
     and intelligence. Demonstrate ability to filter relevant PR/threat information from national
     intelligence broadcasts as required/available (e.g. Integrated Broadcast System (IBS), Radiant
     Ether).
     3.3.2.13. Debriefing. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in planning,
     coordinating and conducting a combat mission debrief. Specific tasks: Extract relevant mission
     intelligence from unit operators. Ask amplifying questions relevant to the mission. Identify
     time-sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently.
     3.3.2.14. Intelligence Reports. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
     developing and transmitting mission reports (MISREPS) and other applicable intelligence
     reports. Specific tasks: Generate, review, validate and transmit hard and soft copy intelligence
     reports. Ensure thorough and concise products meet requirements from the theater intelligence
     reporting directive (TIRD). In the event there is not a theater reporting directive or COCOM
     reporting directive, use the US Message Text Format (USMTF).
14                                                                 AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


                                                 Chapter 4

                                     CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC intelligence
personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of internal intelligence training in basic
intelligence task and knowledge items. These training topics ensure familiarization with local unit
intelligence functions, AFSOF/PR capabilities and threat system capabilities. The second aspect of CT
consists of specific mission-related training required to accomplish the unit’s assigned missions. The
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to accomplish the
unit’s tasked missions. CMR and BMC intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks and
successfully accomplish periodic mission qualification evaluations (MSNs) in accordance with AFI 14-
202, Volume 2, and AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2, to maintain currency and qualification. See
Chapter 6 of this instruction for additional CT considerations for special tactics intelligence personnel,
and Chapter 7 for additional CT considerations for PR personnel.
4.2. Internal Intelligence Training Program. The internal intelligence training program is intended to
facilitate maintaining designated qualification and currency status of all intelligence personnel. While
the SIO is ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training, individual
training is the responsibility of the trainee and supervisor. This guidance is intended to provide a basic
starting point and may be modified by the SIO based on unit requirements. Training for these events
will consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios.
     4.2.1. The Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager will oversee program execution.
     Where assigned, the USAF Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course graduate will provide input into
     the internal intelligence training program.
     4.2.2. Internal Intelligence Training Plan. The Internal Intelligence Training Program Manager will
     develop an annual internal intelligence training plan, which includes all training items for each
     intelligence duty position in the unit and is in compliance with local internal training plan guidance.
        4.2.2.1. The internal intelligence training program manager, in coordination with the SIO, will
        establish the training frequency for each internal training item except where dictated by this or
        any other instruction.
        4.2.2.2. Written examinations will be compiled from the lead MAJCOM-maintained MQF as a
        minimum. The Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager will augment the MQF with
        specific questions relevant to the unit mission.
     4.2.3. Internal Intelligence Training Program Requirements. The internal intelligence training
     program should continue to emphasize IQT tasks as identified in Chapter 2 and MQT tasks as
     identified in Chapters 3, 6, and 7 (as applicable) of this instruction. In addition, the Internal
     Intelligence Training Program will cover theater indoctrination training and current intelligence
     briefings.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program (RIP). The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel perform
specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their duty positions.
In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, RIP tasks should be conducted in
a realistic training environment in conjunction with unit operator training (e.g. Special Operations
Planning Exercises, Full Mission Profiles, Deployment Exercises, local live fly exercises, etc.) as much
as possible. Individuals are responsible for documenting RIP task completion. The standard task
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                              15


requirements listed in Table 4.1. AFSOF/PR Ready Intelligence Program Requirements, establish the
minimum frequency requirement for CMR and BMC personnel. All intelligence personnel filling duty
positions that are designated as CMR or BMC will accomplish the requirements as shown in Table 4.2.
Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC currency and
additional training will be required as determined by the SIO.
4.4. Currency. Table 4.1. defines frequency requirements for all intelligence personnel to maintain
current CMR or BMC status. If an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the
individual may not perform that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Intelligence personnel
must demonstrate proficiency in all delinquent RIP items with an SIO-designated supervisor to regain
currency. For example, if an individual accomplished a semi-annual RIP item (e.g., Debriefing) on 15
Oct 07, he/she must accomplish that task again by 15 Apr 08 to remain current. If the task is not
completed in the specified timeframe, the individual becomes non-current and must demonstrate
proficiency of the task with an SIO-designated supervisor prior to conducting the task unsupervised.

Table 4.1. AFSOF/PR Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
SUBJECT                                              Frequency to                   Frequency to
                                                     Maintain CMR                   Maintain BMC
Manual OB                                             Semi-annually                 Annually
Automated OB                                          Semi-annually                 Annually
Changeover Briefing                                   Semi-annually                 Annually
Deployment Briefing                                   Semi-annually                 Annually
Initial Situation Briefing                            Semi-annually                 Annually
Situation Briefing                                    Semi-annually                 Annually
ATO/ACO/SPINS/STSR Breakout                           Semi-annually                 Annually
Mission Planning                                      Semi-annually                 Annually
Mission Folder Construction                           Semi-annually                 Annually
Mission Briefing/Alert Briefing/ST Team In-brief Quarterly                          Annually
Step Briefing                                         Quarterly                     Annually
Mission Tracking                                      Semi-annually                 Annually
Debriefing                                            Quarterly                     Annually
Intelligence Reports                                  Quarterly                     Annually
Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every 3 months, semi-annually is
defined as once every 6 months and annually is defined as once every 12 months.


4.5. Re-qualification. Intelligence personnel are unqualified upon expiration of their qualification
evaluation. This includes specialized qualifications. For all intelligence personnel, re-qualification
requirements are as follows:
    4.5.1. Unqualified up to 2 Years. Complete training in all delinquent items, additional training as
    directed by the SIO and be task evaluated.
    4.5.2. Unqualified over 2 Years. Re-accomplish MQT and the INIT MSN.
4.6. Regression. If an intelligence specialist does not meet currency requirements throughout the
training cycle, the SIO may direct the specialist be regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC (as applicable).
Regression and the steps taken to correct the situation will be documented in a memorandum for record
in the individual's qualification training and evaluation record.
    4.6.1. CMR/BMC intelligence specialists regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC for failing to remain current
    must complete a SIO-approved re-qualification program to return them to CMR/BMC standards.
16                                                          AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


     The tasks accomplished during the re-qualification program may be credited toward task
     requirements for the training cycle.
4.7. Proration of End-of-Cycle Requirements. Prorate training requirements IAW para. 4.4. AFI 14-
202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training.
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                          17


                                               Chapter 5

                                     SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training Programs. This chapter outlines specialized training programs for
specialized qualifications that apply to all AFSOF and PR intelligence units. These qualifications are in
addition to core missions for the unit and do not apply to all intelligence personnel assigned or attached
to the unit. These programs are intended to provide the SIOs the minimum approved specialized
training programs for individuals with no previous qualifications and may be tailored for intelligence
personnel with current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal
training. Unless governed by a formal syllabus, these programs will consist of unit-developed
academics and scenarios. See Chapter 6 of this instruction for additional specialized training required
for special tactics intelligence personnel, and Chapter 7 for additional specialized training required for
PR personnel.
5.2. External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) Specialized Training. This program establishes the
minimum guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to EITs within the unit.
Only qualified EITs may conduct unsupervised external intelligence training for operators. All
intelligence personnel assigned or attached to a special operations squadron must be qualified as EITs.
Intelligence personnel who are graduates of USAF Weapons School and have been awarded the ―W‖
prefix are certified to be EITs. Currency requirements apply to maintain this specialized qualification;
see Table 5.1.
   5.2.1. Requirements. Intelligence personnel selected for EIT specialized training must:
       5.2.1.1. Complete MQT.
       5.2.1.2. Be current and qualified in their training status (CMR or BMC).
       5.2.1.3. Before teaching PR, EITs must complete Code of Conduct Training (CoCT) Level B
       training (academics needed by personnel who have a moderate risk of capture during peacetime
       or combat). Reference AFI 36-2209, Survival and Code of Conduct Training.
       5.2.1.4. Complete all or some of the following unit-developed EIT profiles depending on
       whether the SIO wishes an individual to attain a full or partial EIT specialized qualification. EIT
       1 is mandatory for all. Operational unit assigned/attached personnel do not have the partial
       qualification option. Units may add considerations/techniques for specialized training to
       applicable areas.
   5.2.2. External Intelligence Trainer Profiles:
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 – External Intelligence Training Concepts and Methods—Event objectives: The
       trainee will become familiar with the various instruction techniques required to fulfill external
       intelligence training requirements. Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce types of briefings,
       techniques and academic scenarios typical of external intelligence training. The trainee will
       demonstrate an understanding of how to establish EIT requirements, to include formats and
       minimum standards, as cited in AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 3, AFSOF/PR Unit Intelligence
       Procedures. The trainee will ensure all instruction delivered is relevant and related to
       AFSOF/PR unit capabilities and limitations.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 – AOR Threat – Event objectives: The trainer will introduce instruction
       techniques for threats to the unit mission: threat aircraft (fixed and rotary wing), strategic and
       tactical surface to air missile (SAM) systems, traditional and non-traditional ground threats and
18                                                                AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


        Anti-Aircraft Artillery (AAA) systems, as applicable. Specific tasks: The trainee will develop
        and deliver TOD for air threat, strategic and tactical SAMs and AAA systems, tailored to the
        unit’s mission. Reference AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 3, for briefing requirements.
        5.2.2.3. EIT 3 – Collection and Reporting – Event objectives: The trainee will demonstrate
        proficiency in developing and presenting a collection and reporting training instruction session.
        Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce instruction techniques for collection and reporting
        requirements to enable unit operators to initiate operator-originated reports (INFLTREP) or
        special tactics team-originated reports and will familiarize them with the information
        requirements of the intelligence-generated MISREP and INTREP and other reports as required
        locally. The trainee will develop and present a collection and reporting briefing. Briefing
        requirements include operator-originated reports (INFLTREP, etc.), intelligence-generated
        reports (MISREP, INTREP, etc.), and essential elements of information (EEIs), etc. Reference
        AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 3, for reporting requirements.
        5.2.2.4. EIT 4 – Visual Recognition – Event objectives: The trainee will demonstrate
        proficiency in visually recognizing enemy/blue/gray equipment. The trainee will demonstrate
        proficiency in establishing visual recognition training requirements (to include formats and
        minimum standards as cited in AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 3, AFSOF/PR Unit Intelligence
        Procedures) and developing and presenting a visual recognition training session. Specific tasks:
        The trainer will introduce instruction techniques for visual recognition of enemy/blue/gray
        weapon systems mandated by unit training programs and will train to the same standard required
        of unit operators. The trainee will develop and present a visual recognition training session for
        unit operators and special tactics teams. Training requirements include enemy/blue/gray aircraft
        recognition features, surface threat recognition features, ground equipment recognition features,
        naval vessel recognition features, etc. Training will incorporate all aspects/angles, theater-
        specific paint schemes/fin flashes, and various configurations along with the name or numerical
        designator of all enemy/blue/gray weapon systems presented. Trainee will successfully complete
        a visual recognition test (85 percent minimum to pass).
        5.2.2.5. EIT 5 – PR – Event objectives: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in developing
        instructional material in coordination with tactics, aircrew life support (ALS) and SERE
        personnel and providing academic instruction on PR processes and Code of Conduct
        Continuation Training. Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce instruction techniques for PR.
        The trainee will coordinate with appropriate personnel to develop and present a unit operator PR
        training session. For units with an assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1), coordinate any PR related
        training to unit operators.
        5.2.2.6. EIT 6 – Intelligence Integration in Force Protection – The trainee should be Anti-
        Terrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) Level II trained. Event objective: The trainee will
        demonstrate proficiency in developing instructional material and providing academic instruction
        on intelligence support to force protection. Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce instruction
        techniques for intelligence support to force protection. The trainer will include intelligence
        principles and procedures for force protection; summary of hostile forces in AOR and other hot
        spot areas; examples of hostile forces’ tactics and weapons employment; intelligence force
        protection resources; Terrorist Threat Levels; and unit force protection considerations. The
        trainee will develop and present a force protection intelligence training session.
     5.2.3. References. Ensure AFTTP 3-1.2, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics, is the primary
     reference for threat knowledge training and ensure this training is current with the latest edition.
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                           19


   AFTTP 3-1.2, or any other applicable volume, can be supplemented with other classified and
   unclassified authoritative publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC)
   products, Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc., so long as the source is
   appropriately referenced. Ensure AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, And Escape (SERE)
   Program, is used in conducting PR training. Ensure AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force
   Protection, and AFI 10-245, Air Force Anti-Terrorism Standards, and MAJCOM supplements are
   used.
   5.2.4. External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation. EIT evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-
   202, Volume 2, and AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EITs upon
   successful evaluation of required tasks, an initial external intelligence training instructor evaluation
   (INIT EIT) and endorsement from the SIO. Only Intelligence Evaluators (IEs) may conduct INIT
   EIT and EIT evaluations. Personnel not assigned or attached to an operational squadron may be
   qualified to instruct in individual training (threat, C&R, VR, and/or PR), as determined by the SIO.
   All external intelligence trainers must be qualified prior to conducting unsupervised training. In
   certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct training in one or more
   events, but not require a full EIT qualification. The individual must complete the specific training
   identified for the event and be evaluated on the task/briefing element by an IE. Document the
   evaluation IAW local procedures. The individual must maintain currency for the subject matter
   according to Table 5.1. and must be reevaluated IAW the AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and AFI 14-
   2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2.
   5.2.5. External Intelligence Trainer Currency. Table 5.1. External Intelligence Trainer Event
   Currencies, defines currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to maintain current
   EIT status. EITs must also successfully complete periodic External Intelligence Trainer evaluations
   (EITs) in accordance with AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2. If an external intelligence trainer loses
   currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform training unsupervised until currency is
   regained. To regain currency EITs must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by
   another EIT current and qualified in the same training requirement.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Trainer Event Training and Currencies.
Event              Specialized Training                    Currency Requirement
AOR Threat         Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 and            Quarterly
                   specific tasks.                         Instruct 1 threat training
                   INIT EIT Evaluation                     event per 3 month period
Collection and     Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 and            Annually
Reporting (C&R)    specific tasks                          Instruct 1 C&R training
                   INIT EIT Evaluation                     event per 12 month period
Visual Recognition Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 and            Semi-annually
(VR)               specific tasks.                         Instruct 1 VR training event
                   Pass VR test                            per 6 month period
                   INIT EIT Evaluation
PR                 Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 and            Annually
                   specific tasks                          Instruct 1 PR training event
                   INIT EIT Evaluation                     per 12 month period
Intelligence       Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 and            Annually
Integration in     specific tasks.                         Instruct one FP training
Force Protection   INIT EIT evaluation                     event per 12-month period
20                                                               AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every 3 months,
semi-annually is defined as once every 6 months and annually is defined as once every
12 months.

     5.2.6. External Intelligence Trainer Documentation. The intelligence personnel training program
     manager will ensure EIT training is documented in the on-line documentation system.
5.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training . This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to IE within the unit. Only
qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to grade standardization and
evaluation criteria.
     5.3.1. Requirements: Intelligence personnel identified by the SIO for progression to IE specialized
     training must:
        5.3.1.1. Complete MQT.
        5.3.1.2. Be current and qualified in their qualification status (CMR or BMC).
        5.3.1.3. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence
        Standardization/Evaluation Program, as supplemented, and AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2.
        5.3.1.4. Meet task certifier requirements as outlined by AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force
        Training Program On the Job Training Administration.
        5.3.1.5.    Complete the following unit developed IE profiles.                  Units may add
        considerations/techniques for specialized training to applicable areas.
     5.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator Training Profiles
        5.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Event objective: The trainee will understand evaluation
        criteria, grading procedures and gradesheet preparation for an INIT MSN and MSN evaluations.
        Specific tasks: The trainer will introduce evaluation criteria, grading procedures and gradesheet
        preparation for either an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
        evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations. The trainee will
        observe an INIT MSN or a MSN evaluation.
        5.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT/Intelligence Support to Theater Operations (ISTO) Observation. Event
        objective: The trainee will understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and gradesheet
        preparation for an INIT EIT, INIT ISTO, EIT and ISTO. Specific tasks: The trainer will
        introduce evaluation criteria, grading procedures and gradesheet preparation for an INIT EIT,
        INIT ISTO, EIT and ISTO. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues,
        and techniques for conducting evaluations. The trainee will observe an INIT EIT, EIT, INIT
        ISTO or ISTO evaluation.
        5.3.2.3. IE 3 – IE Proficiency. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
        successfully conducting an evaluation. Specific tasks: The trainer will observe the trainee
        conduct an evaluation and provide a thorough debrief and critique. The trainee will demonstrate
        knowledge of evaluation criteria, grading procedures and grade sheet preparation. The trainee
        may perform the evaluation with the trainer as the examinee in a simulated evaluation.
     5.3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. Intelligence Evaluator evaluations will be conducted IAW
     AFI 14-202, Volume 2, as supplemented, and AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2. The intelligence
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                        21


   evaluator is qualified to perform intelligence evaluator duties after completing training, successful
   completion of the initial intelligence evaluator evaluation (INIT IE) and endorsement from the SIO.
   5.3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Documentation. The intelligence personnel training program manager
   will ensure evaluator specialized training is documented on the on-line documentation system.
5.4. Intelligence Support to Theater Operations (ISTO) Specialized Training. This specialized
training program establishes the minimum guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to
support theater operations to include Joint Personnel Recovery Centers (JPRC). Units will develop local
procedures for certifying selected personnel. Only ISTO certified personnel may deploy in support of
JPRC operations.
   5.4.1. Requirements: Intelligence personnel selected for ISTO specialized training must:
       5.4.1.1. Complete MQT.
       5.4.1.2. Be current and qualified in their training status (CMR or BMC).
       5.4.1.3. Complete ISTO profiles.
   5.4.2. ISTO Profiles.
       5.4.2.1. ISTO 1 - Air Operations Center (AOC)/JPRC Familiarization—Event objectives: The
       trainee will become familiar with AOC and JPRC operations, roles & responsibilities. Specific
       tasks: The trainer will provide instruction on AOC and JPRC operations, positions and
       responsibilities. The trainee will also successfully complete a test (85% minimum to pass).
       5.4.2.2. ISTO 2 – Intelligence Support to Rescue Coordination (RC)—Event objectives: The
       trainee will demonstrate proficiency in providing intelligence support to Rescue Coordination
       operations. Specific tasks: The trainee will become familiar with at least the following: RC
       automated intelligence systems (e.g. Falcon View, Skyview, Task View); intelligence RC
       products communicating JPRC changeover, significant activity, duty status, ISR/Blue Forces
       Support to personnel recovery operations (PRO), etc; tactical and national ISR asset capabilities
       and contributions to PRO. The trainee will also successfully complete a test (85% minimum to
       pass).
   5.4.3. Intelligence Support to Theater Operations Certification. Personnel are certified as ISTO-
   qualified upon successful completion of required training and endorsement by the SIO. There is no
   separate ISTO evaluation requirement.
   5.4.4. ISTO Documentation. The intelligence personnel training program manager will ensure
   ISTO specialized training is documented in the on-line documentation system.
22                                                               AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


                                               Chapter 6

                SPECIAL TACTICS ADDITIONAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

6.1. General. This chapter outlines additional mission qualification training (MQT), continuation
training (CT) and specialized training requirements for Special Tactics unit intelligence personnel.

Table 6.1. Special Tactics Intelligence Training.
MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING EVENTS
KNOWLEDGE EVENTS                              TASK EVENTS
Unit Weapon Systems Academics                 Manual OB (GEOINT)
Intel Integration in Anti-Terrorism/FP        Automated OB
AOR Threat                                    Changeover Briefing
AOR Visual Recognition                        Deployment Briefing
PR/RO Academics                               Initial Situation Briefing
ISR Integration                               Situation Briefing
Research, Analysis and Dissemination          ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR
                                              Mission Planning
                                              Mission Folders
                                              Mission Briefing/ST Team In-brief/Alert-
                                              briefing
                                              Step Briefing
                                              Debriefing
                                              Intelligence Reports
                                              *Geospatial Data Management
                                              *Terrain Analysis
                                              *ST Commander’s Back Brief
SPECIALIZED QUALIFICATIONS
External Intelligence Trainer (EIT)
Intel Evaluator (IE)
Intelligence Support to Theater Operations (ISTO)
*Special Tactics Team Debriefer
* unique to Special Tactics

6.2. Special Tactics Mission Qualification Training (MQT). In addition to the MQT events
described in Chapter 3 of this instruction, Special Tactics units will develop blocks of instruction,
derived from lead MAJCOM-developed training materials, covering areas pertinent to the Special
Tactics mission as determined by the SIO. Blocks of instruction will include all unique local area
procedures relevant to the tasks. Table 6.1. is a comprehensive list of MQT events and specialized
training qualifications for Special Tactics intelligence personnel.
     6.2.1. Special Tactics Knowledge MQT. There are no additional knowledge MQT blocks for
     Special Tactics personnel.
     6.2.2. Special Tactics Task MQT. Blocks of instruction will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish
     tasks IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2. Special Tactics MQT
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                           23


   programs will include, in addition to those detailed in Chapter 3 of this instruction, the following
   task areas at a minimum:
       6.2.2.1. Geospatial Data Management. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
       proficiency in providing the correct geospatial information and services to special tactics
       operators. Specific tasks: Acquire, format and disseminate the correct GI&S products to the
       correct tasking unit(s). Meet timeline and resolution requirements. Employ the appropriate
       intelligence dissemination system(s).
       6.2.2.2. Terrain Analysis. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency in
       analyzing detailed terrain data. Specific tasks: Correctly identify potential threats/hazards to the
       mission. Accurately position target/objective areas and facilities elevated on the terrain.
       Effectively utilize 360-degree azimuth/elevation masks for access analysis. Deliver analysis to
       appropriate users.
       6.2.2.3. ST Commander’s Back Brief. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
       proficiency in developing, coordinating and conducting a ST commander’s back brief prior to
       mission execution. Specific tasks: Provide commanders, as appropriate, a feasibility briefing
       which includes the general situation since the last briefing, output from mission planning (e.g.
       target information, general situation in the target area, en route and target area threats
       (SAMs/AAA/air/naval/laser and spectrum interference threats/etc.)) and other factors affecting
       mission success. Deliver briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content
       requirements.
6.3. Special Tactics Continuation Training. In addition to the currency requirements defined in
Chapter 4 of this instruction, special tactics personnel must perform each of the following tasks at the
specified frequencies (minimum) to maintain CMR or BMC currency.

Table 6.2. Special Tactics Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
SUBJECT                                    Frequency to               Frequency to
                                           Maintain CMR               Maintain BMC
Geospatial Data Management                 Semi-Annually              Annually

Terrain Analysis                           Semi-Annually              Annually

ST Commander’s Back Brief                  Semi-Annually              Annually

Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every 3 months,
semi-annually is defined as once every 6 months and annually is defined as once every
12 months.

6.4. Special Tactics Specialized Training Program. Special tactics intelligence personnel have one
specialized training program in addition to those outlined in Chapter 5 of this instruction.
   6.4.1. Special Tactics Team Debriefer (STTD). This program establishes the minimum guidelines
   for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to special tactics team debriefers within
   the unit. Only qualified special tactics team debriefers may conduct unsupervised debriefings for
   special tactics teams. All intelligence personnel assigned or attached to a special tactics squadron
24                                                                   AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


     must be qualified as special tactics team debriefers. Currency requirements apply to maintain this
     specialized qualification; see Table 6.1.
        6.4.1.1. Requirements: Intelligence personnel selected to be a special tactics team debriefer
        must:
             6.4.1.1.1. Complete MQT.
             6.4.1.1.2. Be current and qualified in their training status (CMR or BMC).
             6.4.1.1.3. Attend formal HUMINT reporting training (ex. Enhanced Analyst and Interrogator
             Training (EAIT) at Ft. Huachuca).
        6.4.1.2. Special Tactics Team Debriefer training profiles.
             6.4.1.2.1. STTD 1 – Debriefing—Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency
             in planning, coordinating and conducting a special tactics team debrief. Specific tasks:
             Extract relevant mission intelligence (to include HUMINT) from special tactics teams. Ask
             amplifying questions relevant to the mission. Identify time-sensitive information and
             disseminate appropriately and expediently.
             6.4.1.2.2. STTD 2 – Reporting—Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate proficiency
             in developing and transmitting mission reports (MISREPS) and other applicable intelligence
             reports involving HUMINT. Specific tasks: Generate, review, validate and transmit hard
             and soft copy HUMINT-based reports using appropriate systems. Ensure thorough and
             concise products meet requirements from the theater intelligence reporting directive (TIRD).
             In the event there is not a theater reporting directive, use the US Message Text Format
             (USMTF).
        6.4.1.3. Special Tactics Team Debriefer Evaluation. Special tactics team debriefer evaluations
        will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, as supplemented, and AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR,
        Volume 2. The special tactics team debriefer is qualified to conduct HUMINT oriented
        debriefings after completing training, successful completion of the initial special tactics team
        debriefer evaluation (INIT STTD) and endorsement from the SIO.
        6.4.1.4. Special Tactics Team Debriefer Currency. Table 6.3. Special Tactics Team Debriefer
        Event Currencies, defines currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
        maintain current STTD status. STTDs must also successfully complete periodic Special Tactics
        Team Debriefer (STTD) evaluations in accordance with AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2. If a
        STTD loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform special tactics team
        debriefing unsupervised until currency is regained. To regain currency STTDs must satisfy
        overdue training requirements while supervised by another STTD current and qualified in the
        same training requirement.

Table 6.3. Special Tactics Team Debriefer Event Training and Currencies.
Event                  Specialized Training                 Currency Requirement
Debriefing             Complete STTD 1 and specific         Quarterly
                       tasks.                               Conduct 1 debriefing
                       INIT STTD Evaluation                 training event per 3 month
                                                            period
Reporting              Complete STTD 2 and specific         Semi-annually
                       tasks.                               Conduct 1 reporting training
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                               25


                  INIT STTD Evaluation              event per 6 month period

     6.4.1.5. Special Tactics Team Debriefer Documentation. The intelligence personnel training
     program manager will ensure STTD specialized training is documented in the on-line
     documentation system.
26                                                             AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


                                              Chapter 7

            PERSONNEL RECOVERY ADDITIONAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

7.1. General. This chapter outlines additional mission qualification training (MQT), continuation
training (CT) and specialized training requirements for PR unit intelligence personnel.

Table 7.1. Personnel Recovery Intelligence Training.
MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING EVENTS
KNOWLEDGE EVENTS                              TASK EVENTS
Unit Weapon Systems Academics                 Manual OB (GEOINT)
Intel Integration in Anti-Terrorism/FP        Automated OB
AOR Threat                                    Changeover Briefing
AOR Visual Recognition                        Deployment Briefing
PR/RO Academics                               Initial Situation Briefing
ISR Integration                               Situation Briefing
Research, Analysis and Dissemination          ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR
Humanitarian Relief/Civil SAR                 Mission Planning
*Close Air Support Fundamentals               Mission Folders
                                              Mission Briefing
                                              Step Briefing
                                              Mission Tracking
                                              Debriefing
                                              Intelligence Reports
                                              *Phase I Reintegration Cell Operations
SPECIALIZED QUALIFICATIONS
External Intelligence Trainer (EIT)
Intel Evaluator (IE)
Intelligence Support to Theater Operations (ISTO)
*unique to Personnel Recovery

7.2. PR Mission Qualification Training (MQT). In addition to the MQT events described in chapter
3 of this instruction, PR units will develop blocks of instruction, derived from lead MAJCOM-developed
training materials, covering areas pertinent to the PR mission as determined by the SIO. Blocks of
instruction will include all unique local area procedures relevant to the tasks. Table 7.1 is a
comprehensive list of MQT events for PR intelligence personnel.
     7.2.1. PR Knowledge MQT. Blocks of instruction will ensure the PR trainee is able to demonstrate
     knowledge area proficiency via separate tests on each area. PR MQT programs will include, in
     addition to those detailed in Chapter 3 of this instruction, the following knowledge areas at a
     minimum:
        7.2.1.1. Close Air Support Fundamentals. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
        knowledge of close air support terms and concepts and how PR operations are integrated.
        Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of CAS by successful completion of test (85% minimum
        to pass). Note: This area will be evaluated as part of the overall MQT knowledge test using
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                         27


       CAS specific test questions from the MQF.          There will not be an additional evaluation
       examination for this area.
   7.2.2. MQT Task Training. Blocks of instruction will ensure the PR trainee is able to accomplish
   tasks IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2AFSOF/PR, Volume 2. PR MQT programs will
   include, in addition to those detailed in Chapter 3 of this instruction, the following task areas at a
   minimum:
       7.2.2.1. Phase I Reintegration Cell Operations. Event objective: The trainee will demonstrate
       proficiency in providing intelligence support to Phase I Reintegration cell operations. Specific
       tasks: Plan and execute intelligence support to Phase I Reintegration cell operations via scenario
       developed to test the trainee’s ability to support all aspects of the mission.
7.3. PR Continuation Training. In addition to the currency requirements defined in Chapter 4 of this
instruction, PR personnel must perform each of the following tasks in table 7.2. at the specified
frequencies (minimum) to maintain CMR or BMC currency.

Table 7.2. PR Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
SUBJECT                              Frequency to          Frequency to
                                     Maintain CMR          Maintain BMC
Phase I Reintegration Cell           Annually              Annually
Operations
Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every 3
months, semi-annually is defined as once every 6 months and annually is
defined as once every 12 months.

7.4. PR Specialized Training Program. There are no additional PR specialized training programs in
addition to those outlined in Chapter 5 of this instruction.
28                                                              AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


                                              Chapter 8

                   INFORMATION COLLECTION, RECORDS, AND FORMS

8.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
8.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS
RDS located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
8.3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
8.3.1. Adopted Forms.
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4349 Record of Intelligence Evaluation
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet
8.3.2. Prescribed Forms.
There were no prescribed forms implemented by this publication.




                                            DAVID A. DEPTULA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                  29


                                       ATTACHMENT 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-245, Air Force Anti-Terrorism Standards, 21 June 2002
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 15 August 2007
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, And Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development, Delivery and Evaluation, 1 October 2002
AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On the Job Training Administration, 4 February
2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFTTP 3-1, Volume 2, Threat Reference Guide and Counter-tactics, 25 December 2006
DoDI 3305.02, DoD General Intelligence Training, 28 November 2006
DoDI 3115.10E, Intelligence Support to Personnel Recovery, 24 March 2006
MIL STD 2525B, Common Warfighting Symbology, 1 July 2005
US Army Field Manual, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFORMS—Air Force Operations Resource Management System
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSOF—Air Force Special Operations Forces
AIS—Air Intelligence Squadron
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Operations Center
AOR—Area of Responsibility
AOS—Air Operations Squadron
ARC—Air Reserve Components
30                                                       AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


ASR—Air Strike Request
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BQ—Basic Qualification
BMC—Basic Mission Qualified
BDA—Battle Damage Assessment
BFT—Blue Force Tracker
C3—Command, Control, and Communications
C3I—Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CC—Commander
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CoC—Code of Conduct
COMSEC—Communications Security
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CRAF—Civil Reserve Air Fleet
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
CV—Vice Commander
DEPORD—Deployment Order
DMPI—Desired Mean Point of Impact
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
FP—Force Protection
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IADS—Integrated Air Defense System
IAW—In accordance With
IBS—Integrated Broadcast System
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                             31


IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT—Initial (evaluation)
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IPL—Imagery Product Library
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
IR—Infrared
IRMM—Intelligence Reference Materials Manager
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
ISRD—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Division
ISTO—Intelligence Support to Theater Operations
IWS—Information Work Space
JPRC—Joint Personnel Recovery Center
KL—KliegLite
LOAC—Law of Armed Conflict
LZ/DZ—Landing Zone/Drop Zone
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
METT—T—Mission, Enemy, Terrain, Troops and Time available
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
N/A—Not Applicable
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
32                                                         AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


NGB—National Guard Bureau
NLT—Not Later Than
OB—Order of Battle
OCOKA—Observation and fields of fire, Concealment and cover, Obstacles, Key terrain, Avenues of
approach
OG—Operations Group
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPORD—Operations Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PC—I3—Personal Computer Integrated Imagery and Intelligence
PR—Personnel Recovery
RC—Rescue Coordination
RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RO—Recovery Operations
RPG—Rocket Propelled Grenade
QUAL—Qualification (Evaluation)
SAFE—Selected Area For Evasion
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIGINT—Signals Intelligence
SII—Statement of Intelligence Interest
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SPINS—Special Instructions
SQ/CC—Squadron Commander
ST—Special Tactics
STSR—Special Tactics Support Request
TDY—Temporary Duty
TIRD—Theater Intelligence Reporting Directive
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                         33


TTP—Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USMTF—US Message Text Format
VR—Visual Recognition
WARORD—War Order
WG—Wing

Terms
Anti—terrorism/ Force Protection—Actions taken to prevent or mitigate terrorism and other hostile
actions against Department of Defense personnel (to include family members), resources, facilities, and
critical information. These actions conserve the force's fighting potential so it can be applied at the
decisive time and place and incorporate the coordinated and synchronized offensive and defensive
measures to enable the effective employment of the joint force while degrading opportunities for the
enemy.
Area of Responsibility (AOR)—The geographical area associated with a combatant command within
which a combatant commander has authority to plan and conduct operations.
ATO/ACO/SPINS/ASR/STSR Breakout—Identifying and breaking out the elements of the air tasking
order, airspace control order, special instructions, air strike request (ASR) and special tactics support
request (STSR).
Automated OB—Order of battle maintained using intelligence support systems.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of unit intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain CMR status.
Basic Qualification (BQ)—The status of unit intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily completed
IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not perform mission duties unsupervised. BQ is
a prerequisite for all personnel to enter MQT. The member must perform at a minimum level as
established in this volume. BQ is not a long term qualification status.
Certification—Procedure used to document competency in a particular task. Not interchangeable
with ―qualification,‖ which requires Form 4350 documentation.
Civil Search and Rescue (Civil SAR)— Search operations, rescue operations, and associated civilian
services provided to assist persons and property in potential or actual distress in an operational non-
hostile environment. Also called civil SAR.
Close Air Support (CAS) Fundamentals—Personnel recovery (PR) familiarization training on close
air support terms and concepts and how PR operations are integrated.
Changeover Briefing—A briefing to provide incoming personnel a synopsis of events and issues to
prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing immediate attention, pending tasks, personnel and
equipment problems, work center status and briefing times
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of unit intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT and maintain qualification and currency as outlined in this instruction.
34                                                                  AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


Continuation Training (CT)—Continuation Training provides the volume, frequency, and mix of
training necessary for intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency in their assigned qualification level.
The Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) outlines the minimum CT requirements. RIP is designed to focus
training on capabilities needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. Continuation Training (CT)
is separate from skill level upgrade training, although CT may fulfill some skill level upgrade training
requirements. CT and RIP are discussed further in Chapter 4 of this volume.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency requirements
should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a given event.
Debriefing—The process to convert mission information into intelligence for dissemination to affected
parties. The intelligence specialist will extract relevant mission intelligence from unit operators, ask
amplifying questions relevant to the mission, identify time-sensitive information and disseminate
appropriately and expediently.
Deployment Briefing—A briefing to provide intelligence to unit operators, key staff, and deploying
personnel prior to deployment. Intelligence is tailored to the unit’s specific mission, roles and combat
profiles in accordance with the unit OPLAN/OPORD tasking. It includes a synopsis of the military and
political situation generating the deployment, enemy activity and force disposition (air, ground and
naval, as applicable) in the AOR and along deployment route, enemy tactics and employment strategies,
potential and or anticipated enemy reactions to the deployment, possible en-route hazards to flight,
bailout or alternate landing issues (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas), known threats (terrorist or
regular military forces) in vicinity of bed down location, reporting instructions and essential elements of
information (EEI) and additional items as dictated by the local situation.
External Intelligence Trainer (EIT)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence personnel
who have completed the EIT Specialized Training and maintain currency as an EIT. Only EITs may
conduct unsupervised intelligence training for unit operators.
External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation—An evaluation that certifies and maintains external
intelligence trainer qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member as an external intelligence trainer (i.e., INIT EIT) as directed in AFI14-
2AFSOF/PR Volume 1. The designator for the external intelligence trainer evaluation is ―EIT‖ as used
with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
External Intelligence Training—Intelligence training given by intelligence personnel to unit operators.
Geospatial Data Management (ST)— Training for special tactics intelligence personnel on acquiring,
formatting and disseminating the correct geospatial information and services (GI&S) products to the
correct tasking unit(s).
Humanitarian Relief—Material or logistical assistance provided for humanitarian purposes.
Initial Qualification Training (IQT)—Initial training necessary to qualify AFSOC intelligence
personnel in a basic AFSOC intelligence position without regard to a unit’s specific mission. IQT for
intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training is completed (i.e. the AFSC-awarding courses)
and will consist of the AFSOC Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU).
Initial Situation Briefing—The briefing conducted at the outset of a crisis that outlines the initial
situation to the commander and staff. It includes the current situation, including major events leading to
the crisis, any national decisions, enemy force disposition, current situation at deployment location, local
area situation (e.g., terrorist activity, subversion threats, etc.), anticipated enemy reactions, possible en-
route flight hazards for previously scheduled and transient flights.
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                          35


Intelligence Evaluator (IE)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence personnel who have
completed the IE Specialized Training. Only IEs may conduct intelligence qualification (mission or
specialized) evaluations (initial or periodic).
Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Evaluation—An evaluation that certifies and maintains intelligence
evaluator qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an
intelligence member as an intelligence evaluator (i.e., INIT IE and RQ IE) as directed in this volume.
The designator for the intelligence evaluator evaluation is ―IE‖ as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF
Form 4350.
Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE)—An analytical methodology
employed to reduce uncertainties concerning the enemy, environment, and terrain for all types of
operations. Intelligence preparation of the operational environment builds and extensive data base for
each potential area in which a unit may be required to operate. The database is then analyzed in detail to
determine the impact of the enemy, environment, and terrain on operations and presents it in graphic
form. Intelligence preparation of the operational environment is a continuing process.
Intelligence Reports—Reports generated by intelligence personnel to provide information to higher
headquarters (e.g., Mission Reports (MISREPs) and Intelligence Reports (INTREPs)).
Intelligence Support to Theater Operations (ISTO)— Current and qualified (CMR or BMC)
intelligence personnel who have completed the ISTO Specialized Training. Only ISTO certified
personnel may deploy in support of theater operations to include and Joint Personnel Recovery Centers
(JPRC).
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR)—Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
functions are principal elements of U.S. defense capabilities, and include a wide variety of systems for
acquiring and processing information needed by national security decision-makers and military
commanders.
Internal Intelligence Training Program—The internal intelligence training program is a unit-
developed and maintained program. It is intended to facilitate all personnel in maintaining their
qualifications and currencies. This volume provides a basic starting point for AFSOC intelligence units
as well as PR intelligence units and may be modified by the SIO based on the unit’s requirements.
Internal Intelligence Training Program Manager—The Internal Training Program Manager is
appointed by the SIO to oversee the execution of the Internal Training Program.
Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC)—The primary joint force organization responsible for
planning and coordinating personnel recovery for military operations within the assigned operational
area.
Manual OB—Order of battle maintained using maps and charts.
Mission Briefing—A briefing to provide unit operators with the latest intelligence affecting the mission.
Special tactics units refer to their mission briefing as a ―special tactics team in-brief‖ and personnel
recovery units often refer to their mission briefing as an ―alert briefing.‖ Accurate and timely
intelligence should be provided on the general situation since the last briefing, target/objective
information, general situation in the target/objective area, en route and target/objective area threats
(SAMs/AAA/air/naval/laser and spectral interference threats/etc.), and other factors essential to mission
success.
Mission Folder Construction—The mission folder provides the operators with the intelligence
materials necessary to accomplish the mission. The mission folder includes route maps,
36                                                                AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


target/objective/LZ/DZ imagery, recommended mission route and other local mission folder
requirements.
Mission Planning—The planning accomplished by intelligence personnel to support the operational
mission. Mission planning provides operators with the intelligence materials necessary to accomplish
the mission and may include route maps, imagery, and other local mission folder requirements.
Operators should receive the latest intelligence and most accurate information available on routes,
target/objective areas, en-route threats, evasion and recovery and other factors essential to planning the
mission.
Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN)—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the qualification
(CMR or BMC) of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an intelligence
member (i.e., INIT MSN, RQ MSN). The mission qualification evaluation is administered to ensure the
individual’s ability to support full mission planning and employment in accomplishing the unit’s
operational mission. The designator for the mission qualification evaluation is ―MSN‖ as used with the
AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel to perform
their specific unit mission in an assigned position. This training is a prerequisite for CMR or BMC
status.
Mission Tracking—Maintaining situational awareness of ongoing missions by monitoring mission
execution and communicating with other mission related agencies and coordination centers.
Personnel Recovery (PR)—The aggregation of military, civil, and political efforts to obtain the release
or recovery of personnel from uncertain or hostile environments and denied areas whether they are
captured, missing, or isolated.
Phase I Reintegration Cell Operations (PR)—The process of transporting the recovered isolated
person to a safe area to conduct initial medical assessment and debriefings. During Phase I, intelligence
debriefs collect any appropriate tactical or perishable intelligence and/or any appropriate isolated
personnel identification and status information.
Proficiency—The quality of having competence and a command of the fundamentals derived from
practice and familiarity. A measure of how well a task is completed. An individual is considered
proficient when he/she can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed, accuracy, and
safety.
Qualification Evaluation (QUAL)—The qualification evaluation is administered to ensure basic
qualification (BQ) of the examinee. The QUAL is administered to ensure basic qualification in support
to the AFSOC and duty position of the intelligence professional. The designator for the qualification
evaluation is ―QUAL‖ as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP)—Task requirements that apply to CMR and BMC intelligence
personnel. The RIP outlines minimum CT requirements and is designed to focus training on capabilities
needed to accomplish the AFSOC unit’s core tasked missions. The RIP establishes the minimum
number of task requirements per training cycle for BMC and CMR qualified personnel. All intelligence
personnel filling duty positions that are designated CMR or BMC will accomplish these requirements.
Recovery Operations (RO)—Operations conducted to search for, locate, identify, rescue, and return
personnel, sensitive equipment, or items critical to national security.
Research, Analysis, Dissemination (RAD)—The ability to brief and report intelligence concerning
major potential threat adversaries, to include military, political and geographic by researching, analyzing
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                                                                             37


and disseminating tailored intelligence to unit operators, commanders, and base support agencies
through reports and briefings.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)—The SIO is the highest-ranking Air Force officer holding the 14N3
or 14N4 AFSC or Series 0132 Civilian serving in an Air Force intelligence position. The SIO's
authority extends to all directly subordinate units. Installations with intelligence activities in different
chains of command will have separate SIOs. In this capacity, the SIO provides senior guidance on all
policy development, interpretations, and applications. Further, the SIO serves as the chief advisor and
mentor for AF intelligence officers, enlisted and civilians (as appropriate) in terms of career
development and progress.
Situation Briefing—The briefing which provides the latest intelligence to assist commanders, staff and
unit operators in their decision making. It incorporates significant military and or political events,
enemy force disposition (ground, air and air defense, naval, as applicable), indications of impending
enemy attack, enemy tactics and or employment strategies, potential course of enemy action, local area
situation (terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.).
Specialized Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the specialized
qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an intelligence
member for a particular skill or duty position. Specific types of specialized qualification evaluations
will be identified in the applicable AFI 14-2XX, Volume 1.
Specialized Training—Training in any skills necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions that is
not required for every AFSOC intelligence specialist. Specialized Training is accomplished after
Mission Qualification Training and after the member has attained CMR or BMC status, and is in
addition to CMR or BMC requirements.
Special Tactics Commander’s Back Brief—The feasibility briefing given by special tactics
intelligence to commander(s) prior to mission execution. It includes the general situation since the last
briefing, output from mission planning (e.g. target information, general situation in the target area, en
route and target area threats (SAMs/AAA/air/naval/laser and spectral interference threats/etc.)) and other
factors affecting mission success.
Special Tactics Team Debriefer (STTD)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) special tactics
intelligence personnel who have completed the STTD Specialized Training. Only qualified special
tactics team debriefers may conduct unsupervised debriefings for special tactics teams.
Step Briefing—A briefing given to unit operators immediately prior to departure for tasked mission.
The step briefing provides operators with last minute intelligence affecting their mission and highlights
changes in the intelligence situation since the mission briefing.
Terrain Analysis (ST)—Training for special tactics intelligence personnel to analyze and disseminate
detailed terrain data, identifying potential threats/hazards to the mission, and positioning target/objective
areas and facilities elevated on the terrain.
Unit Operators—-Individuals assigned/attached to an operational unit (e.g., aircrew, special tactics
operators, pararescuemen, etc.)
38                                                                AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


                                              ATTACHMENT 2
                                          TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

Table A2.1. Mission Qualification, Specialized Training and RIP Currency Requirements.
                                                                  RIP
                                              MQT   Specialized
Requirement                                                       Currency
Unit Weapon System Academics                  X
Intel Integration in Anti-Terrorism / Force
                                              X
Protection
AOR Threat Training                           X
AOR Visual Recognition Training               X
Personnel Recovery/Recovery Ops               X                   X
Humanitarian Relief / Civil SAR (PR)          X                   X
Research, Analysis and Dissemination          X
Manual OB                                     X                   X
Automated OB                                  X                   X
Changeover Briefing                           X                   X
Deployment Briefing                           X                   X
Initial Situation Briefing                    X                   X
Situation Briefing                            X                   X
ATO/ACO/SPINS/STSR/ASR                        X                   X
Mission Planning                              X                   X
Mission Folders                               X                   X
Mission Briefing                              X                   X
Step Briefing                                 X                   X
Debriefing                                    X                   X
Mission Tracking (PR)                         X                   X
Intelligence Reports                          X                   X
Geospatial Data Management (ST)               X                   X
Terrain Analysis (ST)                         X                   X
ST Commander’s Back Brief (ST)                X                   X
CAS Fundamentals (PR)                         X
Phase I Reintegration Cell Ops (PR)           X                   X
EIT – AOR Threat Training                           X             X
EIT - Collection and Reporting Training             X             X
EIT - Visual Recognition Training                   X             X
EIT - PR Training                                   X             X
EIT – Intel Integration in FP Training              X             X
Intelligence Evaluator (IE)                         X
Intelligence Support to Theater Ops (ISTO)          X
Special Tactics Team Debriefer (STTD)               X             X
AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009                              39


                                     ATTACHMENT 3
                       EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

Figure A3.1. Example Training Shortfall Report.
40                                                    AFI14-2AFSOF-PRV1 1 JUNE 2009


                                      ATTACHMENT 4
                     QUALIFICATION TRAINING FLOW OF EVENTS

Figure A4.1. Qualification Training Flow of Events.
