BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-202,
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND                                                    VOLUME 1


                                                        AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                             SUPPLEMENT

                                                                                       1 AUGUST 2010

                                                                                            Intelligence

                                                                        INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A2XS                                                      Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A2X
                                                                             (Lt Col Derek C. Gardner)
                                                                                              Pages: 6
This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures. It establishes the Air Force Intelligence Personnel Training (IPT) Program and is
applicable to all Air Force active, Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve officer, enlisted,
and civilian intelligence personnel assigned to Air Force intelligence functions and activities. As part
of the IPT Program, this instruction establishes Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission
Qualification Training (MQT), Specialized Training, and Continuation Training (CT) requirements
for intelligence personnel to support Air Force objectives. AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, does not apply to personnel currently on flying status.
The WICC-TDS record-keeping system referenced in this instruction holds System-of-Record Notice
(SORN) number F014 AF/A2FM A, WICC-TDS. Restrictions expressed in an instruction can be
made more, but not less, restrictive by supplement. The provisions of higher-level publications take
precedence over lower-level publications. This policy document supports all Air Force Intelligence
Training Transformation (IT2) efforts as mandated by DoD and other national policy directives.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use
of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
2                                                     AFI 14-202V1_AFGSCSUP 1 AUGUST 2010

 1.2.1. Submit waiver requests to this supplement through applicable training channels to
 AFGSC/A2X. ARC units will submit via their NAF and MAJCOM (AFRC and or NGB) to AFGSC.
 1.3.2.3.1. (Added) AFGSC/A2Q will develop and maintain an Intelligence Formal Training Unit
 (IFTU) course to provide specialized substantive conventional and nuclear bomber and ICBM
 intelligence training related to primary jobs for bomber units, ICBM units, Numbered Air Forces
 (NAFs), Air and Space Operations Center (AOCs), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) and AFGSC in
 order to fill in gaps from basic intelligence training. This course, taught at the SCI-level, will be
 offered four to five times annually at Barksdale AFB, Louisiana.

 1.3.2.3.1.1 (Added) Intelligence personnel assigned to bomber units, ICBM
 units, Numbered Air Forces (NAFs), Air and Space Operations Center (AOCs),
 Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) prior to the transfer over to AFGSC will
 maintain mission qualification status and are not required to attend the IFTU;
 however, the intelligence personnel are encouraged to attend.

 1.3.2.3.1.2 (Added) Intelligence personnel being assigned to AFGSC subordinate
 bomber units, ICBM units, Numbered Air Forces (NAFs), Air and Space Operations
 Center (AOCs), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) and HQ Staff are required to
 attend the IFTU as initial qualification training. All waivers for not
 attending the training will be approved by AFGSC/A2.

 1.3.2.4.1. (Added) AFGSC/A2 will coordinate formal courses for intelligence personnel relevant to
 the mission. Training may include, but is not limited to, courses at the Defense Threat Reduction
 Agency (DTRA), Defense Nuclear Weapons School (DNWS), Combat Targeting Course (CTC), and
 Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Operations Course (IROC). Additional organizations
 and formal courses will be added to meet mission requirements as needed.
 1.3.2.4.1.1. (Added) AFGSC/A2 encourages assigned intelligence personnel to attain at least a Basic
 Nuclear Weapon Certificate through the Nuclear Weapons Certification Programs taught at the
 DNWS. Those in key positions within intelligence organizations are recommended to attain the
 Advanced Nuclear Weapons Certificate.
 1.3.2.4.1.1.1. (Added) The Nuclear Weapons Certification Programs are designed for personnel with
 responsibilities dealing with nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons policy, nuclear weapons operations,
 and nuclear weapons surety. These certifications are particularly valuable for personnel working
 within the nuclear weapons enterprise such as: nuclear weapons intelligence, nuclear weapons
 maintenance, nuclear weapons operations, and nuclear weapons security. The certifications include
 on-line CBTs and in-residence classes, and range from basic to advanced nuclear weapons
 certificates. More information is available at https://dnws.abq.dtra.mil/:
 1.3.2.4.1.1.2. (Added) Unit personnel will conduct familiarization visits/training with
 USSTRATCOM J2 and J7 to prepare for exercise scenario development tasks. Unit intelligence
 personnel should observe a STRATCOM strategic exercise in the Global Operations Center (GOC) as
 part of their training requirements.
AFI 14-202V1_AFGSCSUP 1 AUGUST 2010                                                                    3


1.3.2.4.2 (Added) AFGSC/A2XF will maintain an on-line listing of training opportunities such as
COCOM Regional Joint Intelligence Training Facilities (RJITF) and on-line CBTs to include Joint
Intelligence Virtual University (JIVU) and Joint Imagery Analysis Courseware (JIAC).
1.3.2.6.1. (Added) AFGSC/A2 IFTU instructors will monitor students who are not progressing
satisfactorily or fail to achieve passing grades during the course. Extra study time and preparation
time will be afforded to those students within reason. Students who do not pass the IFTU course will
be sent back to their home unit without being designated as IQT. The individual will retake the IFTU
course at a future time as determined by the individual’s chain of command and course availability
within AFGSC/A2.
1.3.5. (Added) External training in support of contingency, crisis and wartime tasks is required at
NAFs, wings and squadrons. Intelligence staffs will develop training initiatives for missile crews, air
crews, and those missile, and aircrew personnel that are deployed in support of mission tasks.
Training should include crew information requirements, situational awareness, threat briefings,
supporting intelligence data, systems and programs usage, and available intelligence resources.
1.3.5.1. (Added) At least annually, intelligence personnel assigned to HQ 20AF and associated
missile wings, should observe a missile crew "check ride" and alert crew duties (to include pre-
departure briefing, deployment, and crew changeover) for orientation purposes and to develop a
familiarity and methodology in order to provide an adequate external training program. However, all
Launch Control Center (LCC) visits by unit intelligence personnel will be accomplished at the
discretion of the OG/CC. Intelligence personnel will not observe and/or be present when the missile
crew conducts Emergency Action Message (EAM) processing or Positive Control Material (PCM)
inventory.
1.3.5.2. (Added) Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) at AFGSC wings will serve as the external
intelligence training program manager. NAFs will appoint in writing an external intelligence training
program manager to oversee program execution.
1.3.5.3. (Added) The unit external intelligence training operating instruction will be coordinated with
any agency (e.g., Weapons/Tactics, SERE, ALS) that assists intelligence personnel in providing
training to crews. This OI will also be coordinated with any agency for which intelligence provides
training (e.g., Security Forces, Civil Engineers, etc.).
1.3.5.4. (Added) The unit training plan will ensure each training item is taught at least annually or as
specified in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)V1. Specific threat systems will be listed individually in
the training plan. The training plan will also list specific training objectives for each major area of
intelligence training. Training methods can include, but are not limited to: threat-of-the day briefings,
current intelligence briefings, academic training sessions, theater orientation briefings and weapons
system videos.
1.3.5.4.1. (Added) AFGSC units will use AFTTP 3-1 and other documents identified in the AFGSC
Standard Intelligence Document List (SIDL) as primary training references.
1.3.6. (Added) Internal training is required for all DRU, NAF, wing and squadron personnel with
Intelligence Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSCs). In addition to conducting and supervising the AFSC
skill-level (enlisted) upgrade training program, units will develop a duty position qualification and
certification program for all assigned intelligence and intelligence support personnel. Design the
4                                                    AFI 14-202V1_AFGSCSUP 1 AUGUST 2010

 program to ensure personnel are assigned and certified on specific tasks and duties, in addition to the
 five intelligence core competencies.
 1.3.6.1. (Added) Provide oversight and training of intelligence participation in unit force protection
 working groups.
 1.3.6.2. (Added) Conduct Intelligence Staff Training (IST) IAW AFI 36-2201V3, Air Force Training
 Program on the Job Training Administration, if applicable. Ensure supervisors conduct and
 document an initial evaluation on every individual within 10 days of the individual reporting for duty,
 including individuals who change duty positions within the organization or PCA/PCS. Air National
 Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) organizations will complete the initial
 evaluation within 60 days of the individual reporting for duty.
 1.3.7. (Added) AFGSC DRUs, NAFs, wings and squadrons will consolidate training requirements for
 all assigned intelligence personnel. Wings will submit unit and wing training requirements to parent
 NAF. NAFs will provide an annual consolidated NAF, wing and squadron Formal Training
 Requirements Package to the AFGSC Command Training Manager, AFGSC/A2XF. DRUs will
 submit directly to AFGSC/A2XF. Failure to provide the required information prevents the command
 from programming and budgeting required resources. Submit training requests as soon as the
 requirement has been identified. All units will use AF Form 3933, MAJCOM Mission Training
 Request, to request specific training slots. Unit personnel may work directly with the Command
 Training Manager (AFGSC/A2XF) for specific course training. ANG units will submit training
 requirements through ANG channels.
 1.3.7.1. (Added) AFGSC/A2XF, ISR Forces, is responsible for developing the Command
 Intelligence Education Training Plan and policy for formal schools. A2XF will coordinate input with
 the AFGSC/A2Q, A2X, and A2O, as appropriate to support the development of a comprehensive
 program. A2XF will also collaborate with USSTRATCOM J2 and other Joint Force Command J2s to
 ensure AFGSC is providing forces required. AFGSC/A2 will approve final command requirements.
 1.3.7.2. (Added) Supervisors should submit training requests as soon as the requirements have been
 identified. Active duty units will coordinate all requests for training through the wing/group SIO to
 AFGSC/A2XF and AFGSC/A2Q. Active duty wing/group SIOs will submit a consolidated annual
 training requirement using the method prescribed by AFGSC/A2XF, with a courtesy copy to
 AFGSC/A2Q. Failure to provide the required information prevents the command from programming
 and budgeting required resources and will result in the unit funding the required training. ANG units
 will submit annual training requirements through their Base Education and Training Manager
 (BETM). AFRC units will submit annual training requirements through HQ AFRC/DOI.
 1.3.7.2.1. (Added) AFGSC assigned intelligence personnel who attend training funded by
 AFGSC/A2 will prepare an after action report (AAR) on the training to AFGSC/A2X and A2XF.
 A2XF will provide the AAR format.
 1.3.7.3. (Added) AFGSC/A2XF is responsible for establishing command intelligence training policy,
 developing a command training plan, assisting units in obtaining and developing training which is
 required, but not locally available, validating training requirements and ensuring command
 intelligence personnel are familiar with training opportunities and deficiencies.
 1.3.7.4. (Added) AFGSC/A2XF is the command lead for Air Education Training Command (AETC)
 intelligence-related Utilization and Training Workshops (U&TW).
AFI 14-202V1_AFGSCSUP 1 AUGUST 2010                                                           5


1.3.7.4.1. (Added) AFGSC/A2XF may request highly experienced and qualified intelligence
personnel (Active Duty, ANG or Reserve) from across the command to attend AETC ISR U&TW.
1.3.7.4.1.1. (Added) AFGSC/A2XF will provide the SME with supporting material and training prior
to participation in the U&TW. This may be conducted in-person or electronically.
1.3.7.4.1.2. (Added) The AFGSC SME will prepare an AAR on the AETC ISR U&TW to
AFGSC/A2X and A2XF. A2XF will provide the AAR format.
1.3.7.4.2. (Added) AFGSC/A2XF will coordinate the AFGSC/A2 command training requirements to
be advocated by the AFGSC/A2 staff and AFGSC SMEs attending ISR U&TWs. This is to avoid
anecdotal requirements to maximize AFGSC ISR requirements for limited AETC training resources.
1.3.7.4.3. (Added) AFGSC/A2XF will maintain an on-line listing of training requirements and
training solutions for submission and tracking.
6                                                AFI 14-202V1_AFGSCSUP 1 AUGUST 2010

                                Attachment 1
            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

 References
 DoDI 3305.02, General Intelligence Training
 AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures
 AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training
 AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program
 AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules
 AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel Officer and Enlisted
 AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training
 AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation
 AFI 36-2201, Volume 2, Air Force Training Program Training Management
 AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On the Job Training Administration
 AFI 36-2201, Volume 5, Air Force Training Program Career Field Education and Training
 AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
 Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)

 Abbreviations and Acronyms
 AETC—Air Education and Training Command
 AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
 AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
 AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
 AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
 ANG—Air National Guard
 AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
 BETM—Base Education and Training Manager
 CT—Continuation Training
 CTC—Combat Targeting Course
 DNWS—Defense Nuclear Weapons School
 DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
 DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency
 EAM— Emergency Action Message
 ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
 IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit
 IQT—Initial Qualification Training
 IPT—Intelligence Personnel Training
 IROC—ISR Operations Course
 LCC—Launch Control Center
 MAJCOM—Major Command
 MDS—Mission Design Series
 MQT—Mission Qualification Training
 NAF—Numbered Air Force
 PCM— Positive Control Material
 SERE—Survival Escape Resistance Escape
 SIDL—Standard Intelligence Document List
AFI 14-202V1_AFGSCSUP 1 AUGUST 2010                                                      7


SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
U&TW— Utilization and Training Workshops




                                  RICHARD R. AYRES, Col, USAF
                                  Director, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
