BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2KC-10,
305TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                   VOLUME 3

                                                                MCGUIRE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                                19 APRIL 2010

                                                                              Flying Operations

                                                        KC-10 OPERATIONS PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 305 OG/OGV                                                        Certified by: 305 OG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Scott W. Hill)
                                                                                       Pages: 28


AFI 11-2KC-10, Vol 3, 18 January 2006, with Change 1, dated 1 May 2009, is supplemented as
follows: The purpose of this supplement is to identify 305th/514th Operations Group (OG) KC-
10 local operating procedures. It applies to aircrew members, support personnel and managers
involved with employing the KC-10. It applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units,
but does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) units.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all
Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification
and approval.

1.11. (Added) 305 OG and 514 OG Local Operating Procedures. This supplement provides
local operating guidelines for McGuire AFB assigned KC-10 aircrews and all local management
levels concerned with KC-10 operations. This supplement and McGuire AFB Instruction
(MAFBI) 13-202, Base Airfield Operations Instruction, outline local KC-10 procedures. Crews
should also refer to the Flight Crew Bulletin (FCB) Volumes I and III for additional local
 2                                   AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


requirements. Unless otherwise directed in this supplement, waiver authority for the contents of
this supplement is the 305 OG/CC for all local training missions.
2.12. (Added) Flight Authorizations. The intent of AFI 11-401_AMCSUP1, Aviation
Management, and its definition of an ―A‖ Code is to delineate the Pilot-In-Command (PIC) who
is in overall command of the mission, crew and aircraft. In accordance with AFI 11-401,
Aviation Management, units will use the remarks section of the flight orders to annotate any
change in PIC during a mission and refrain from using a supplemental code to annotate ―In
Command While In The Seat‖ or similar verbiage to facilitate this change of command.
2.12.1. (Added) At no time should the crew have any doubt as to who is in command of the
aircraft. If a change of command of the mission occurs, then a crew brief will be accomplished
to ensure all crewmembers are aware of the change. To prevent Crew Resource Management
(CRM) issues and confusion among the crew, the change of PIC will not occur during a flight
duty period unless the off-going PIC is leaving the crew.
2.12.2. (Added) Once the flight authorization is completed and authenticated, any
authenticating official may make changes. The authenticating official authorizing the change
must initial all changes. Exception: When time and circumstances dictate, the designated
Aircraft Commander (AC) or 514 OG Launch Officer (L/O) may make short notice changes to a
flight authorization. For changes on local missions, 305 OG Aircraft Commanders (AC) will
receive verbal approval from the squadron Director of Operations (DO) or other orders
authenticating official.
2.12.3. (Added) Aircraft Commanders on local missions may attach their flight orders to the
DD Form 175, Flight Plan, Military, turned in at Airfield Management Operations (AM Ops).
514 OG crew will attach the flight orders to the DD Form 175 and turn it in to the Launch
Officer.
2.13. (Added) Operational C2 Reporting. In addition to the information identified in
Chapter 2 of this regulation, crews will also provide Command Post (CP) with the following
items:
2.13.1. (Added) Number of Aircrew.
2.13.2. (Added) Number of Baggage Pallets.
2.13.3. (Added) Number of Cargo Pallets.
2.13.4. (Added) Registered mail.
2.13.5. (Added) Special Handling Requirements.
2.13.6. (Added) Deconfiguration Requirements.
2.13.7. (Added) If a sortie is going to land at its scheduled land time (or +/- 15 minutes from
scheduled time), aircrews will contact the Command Post NLT 30 minutes from their land time
with expected block-in time, fuel load, and maintenance status/codes. Earlier contact may be
required if serious write-ups exist that need coordination with maintenance.
2.13.7.1. (Added) If a sortie is not going to land at its scheduled landing time (+/- 15 minutes),
aircrews will make every attempt to contact Command Post NLT 1 hour from their projected
land time. This may be accomplished via Ultra High Frequency (UHF) radio as a primary, L-
band Satellite Communications (SATCOM), UHF phone patch, etc.
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                     3


2.13.7.2. (Added) Inbound calls and information are received at Command Post (CP) and
relayed to Maintenance Operational Coordination Center (MOCC) and Air Terminal Operations
Center (ATOC).
2.13.7.2.1. (Added) MOCC notifies the Production Supervisor, who notifies -21 of Increased
Accommodation Unit (IAU) download request.
2.13.7.2.2. (Added) ATOC coordinates for pickup of passengers and their bags, and then
dispatches ramp services for cargo retrieval.
2.13.7.3. (Added) All engine write-ups, including those still open from previous mission legs,
need to be called in for coordination for possible engine run parking. For these purposes, engine
write-ups also include environmental and pneumatic discrepancies.
2.13.7.3.1. (Added) In the event of an unusual engine occurrence, the Engine Discrepancy
Check sheet will be made available to, and completed by all KC-10 crews during Maintenance
Debrief at home station and deployed locations.
2.13.7.3.2. (Added) Unusual engine occurrences include: Exhaust Gas Temperature (EGT)
overtemp (>960), N1 or N2 overspeed, or engine shutdown in flight.
2.14. (Added) KC-10 Preset UHF and HF Radio Frequencies. The McGuire AFB Ultra
High Frequency (UHF) and High Frequency (HF) preset channel frequencies are identified in
Attachment 5 and Attachment 6.
3.7.6. (Added) Sequence of Events. Maximizing the departure reliability of the KC-10 requires
many agencies to perform their duties at a time consistent with mission timing. The Sequence of
Events (SOE) was developed to provide aircrew and support agencies with guidelines for
launching on-time missions. The Sequence of Events is posted in the 305 and 514 AMW Wing
Ops and Maintenance (MX) Plan (WOP) and may be revised via Flight Crew Information File
(FCIF). CP tracks several specific events, often noted as crunch points, on every mission.
Aircrews will comply with the SOE’s for mission type and will advise CP if a target time was
not met. Also, notify CP of any problems, maintenance or otherwise, experienced at the aircraft.
4.11. (Added) McGuire AFB Operating Restrictions. MAFBI 13-202, Base Airfield
Operations Instruction, contains air traffic procedures that apply to aircrews and maintenance
personnel operating on McGuire AFB airport facilities.
5.18.5. When fuel jettison is necessary, the designated fuel jettison area will be used except in
an emergency. Designated jettison area for McGuire AFB (IAW MAFBI 13-202) is east of
PREPI (CYN 100/54), 7 mile legs, right turns, 5,000’-17,000’ MSL. Maintain a record of the
event and complete the AMC IMT 97, In-Flight Emergency and Unusual Occurrence Worksheet
for Wing Safety.
5.21.1. Functional Check Flight (FCF) procedures are N/A for the 514 OG.
5.21.1.5. A list of qualified FCF personnel is located in FCB Vol III. The aircraft commander
will contact 305 OG/OGV before accomplishing an FCF. A 305 OG/OGV KC-10 pilot or
engineer will give an FCF briefing to the entire crew before a FCF is flown.
5.26. (Added) Flightline Restrictions.
5.26.1. (Added) Smoking on the McGuire AFB flightline is prohibited.
 4                                    AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


5.26.2. (Added) Aircrew members will wear their line badge at all times within a restricted area
on the flightline.
5.26.3. (Added) A reflective belt or suitable substitute will be worn on flightlines during hours
of darkness or periods of reduced visibility when not inside the aircraft.
5.26.4. (Added) During Winter Operations at McGuire AFB (15 Nov through 1 Apr - subject to
change via FCIF notification), crewmembers should carry their winter flight jacket, knit cap,
USAF approved thermal underwear and winter gloves on all missions scheduled to
depart/recover off-station.
5.27. (Added) Landing Gear Chocking Procedures.
5.27.1. (Added) After landing and blocking into the parking spot, aircraft commanders will
ensure that the main landing gear chocks are in place prior to releasing the parking brake. This
can be accomplished with either (1) verbal confirmation from ground crew announcing, ―Main
landing gear chocks in place, release brakes‖ or (2) visual confirmation of chock placement.
5.27.2. (Added) T.O. 1C-10(K)A-2-32, Landing Gear, states ―do not chock nose or center gear
wheels‖. The main gear wheels should be chocked during ground operations. During preflight
when the brakes are set, the Flight Engineer will call for chocks and gear pins to be removed by
maintenance. At that time the Main Landing Gear (MLG) wheel chocks will be removed and
will not be repositioned to the nose gear wheels. Caution: Be extremely careful during cargo
loading operations. Ensure the main gear wheels are chocked before brakes are released.
Coordination with the Flight Engineer/Boom Operator and Maintenance personnel is paramount
for these procedures to be implemented safely.
5.28. (Added) Weather Watch and Warning.
5.28.1. (Added) The McGuire AFB Base Weather Station will issue thunderstorm and lightning
activity weather information through command post, tower, Automatic Terminal Information
Service (ATIS), and the Airfield Operational Risk Management (ORM) Assessment. A weather
―watch‖ for lightning is issued 30 minutes prior to thunderstorm activity within a 5 Nautical Mile
(NM) radius of McGuire AFB. A Weather ―Warning‖ for lightning is issued when lightning is
observed within 5 NM of McGuire AFB.
5.28.2. (Added) During a Weather ―Warning‖ for lightning, personnel in affected locations will
cease all outside activities and seek shelter. Enclosed aircraft, buses and other vehicles with
metal tops and bodies are considered suitable shelter during thunderstorm activity. Wheel wells
are extremely hazardous during thunderstorms and should be avoided.
5.28.2.1. (Added) When lightning is observed within 5 NM; maintenance will stop all flight
line operations and evacuate the flight line until the termination of the lightning hazard.
Furthermore, all flight line aircraft fuel and lox servicing personnel will cease operations.
5.28.2.2. (Added) Aircrews that are not at the aircraft will remain indoors or in the crew bus
until the lightning threat passes. Crews will be notified of the lightning threat by the most
expeditious means. If the crew is already at the aircraft, they will remain in the aircraft with all
doors closed. The crew may continue interior preflight duties, safety permitting, while awaiting
lightning hazard passage.
5.28.2.3. (Added) In the event an aircraft lands during lightning threat periods, the tower will
direct taxi operations. The aircrew can expect parking and/or crew transportation delays upon
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                       5


clearing the runway and should be notified of the lightning within 5 nautical miles advisory
through CP upon landing. Under no circumstances will any aircraft block into a parking spot
without a marshaller. Crew members/flying crew chiefs will not be deplaned to block the
aircraft into parking during this storm period.
5.29. (Added) Bird Watch Conditions and Responsibilities.
5.29.1. (Added) Aircrews should avoid transition training (practice patterns, approaches and
landings) during the Phase II period; defined as the period of plus/minus 1 hour of official
sunrise, and again at plus/minus 1 hour of official sunset. In addition, missions should be
scheduled to avoid known peak bird activity periods at transition airfields. AM Ops, tower
facilities, National Wildlife Research Center (419-625-0242), and the Airfield Suitability and
Restrictions Report (ASRR) provide additional sources of information on bird activity periods
for both AMC and non-AMC locations. No local transition training will be accomplished during
the Phase II Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) window. In addition to McGuire this restriction
applies to Lakehurst, Atlantic City, and Willow Grove.
5.29.2. (Added) Prior to conducting transition at airfields without a BASH program,
planner/aircrews will obtain any available bird activity information prior to and during
operations at the airfield. Upon arrival at the airfield, aircraft commanders must recheck the
condition by any means possible. Aircrews experiencing high bird activity at these locations will
advise the controllers of the bird activity so they can announce this information to other aircrews
and update the ATIS if necessary. After the mission, aircrews should notify their respective
safety office BASH representative concerning any high bird activity.
5.29.3. (Added) The Avian Hazard Advisory System (AHAS) is operational for the entire
CONUS. AHAS has a dynamic Bird Avoidance Model (BAM), which uses historical data to
predict bird activity. The AHAS model takes current and forecast weather conditions, as well as
near-real time Next Generation Weather Radar (NEXRAD) radar data, to further refine the bird
prediction. Tests show that AHAS can predict bird conditions 24 hours in advance (for
predictions in excess of 24 hours, the AHAS and BAM models are the same). AHAS includes 3
sources of bird strike risk data: > 24 hours; < 24 hours; current hour. Reference AHAS data at:
http://www.usahas.com.
5.29.4. (Added) Aircrews will report increased bird activity to Air Traffic Control (ATC) or
Pilot-to-Dispatch using and will include: Call Sign, Location, Altitude, Time of Sighting, Species
and number of birds. If known, and Behavior of birds (i.e., soaring, on the runway, etc.).
5.29.5. (Added) Aircrews involved in a bird strike will complete the appropriate bird strike
report (AF IMT 853, Air Force Wildlife Strike Report). If the bird strike results in damage to the
aircraft, the aircraft commander will notify the wing safety officer at DSN 650-7233 or through
CP, and complete/submit the AF IMT 853. (514 OG aircrews will contact Wing Operations
Center (WOC) at DSN 650-2992)
5.29.6. (Added) Following a bird strike, aircrews should land as soon as conditions permit or as
practicable to have the aircraft inspected by Major Weapon System (MWS) specific qualified
maintenance personnel. Bird strike damage cannot be accurately assessed in flight, and
undetected damage may result in a complex airborne emergency; only qualified maintenance
personnel on the ground can make reliable damage assessments. Aircraft commanders must
recognize the potential risk associated with diverting to home station following a bird strike at a
 6                                  AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


transition base. In addition, aircrews should not change the aircraft configuration until it has
been determined that it is safe to do so. However, crewmember judgment should always prevail
in any situation in making a decision concerning safety of the aircrew and aircraft.
5.30. (Added) C-Check Procedures. Squadrons will develop a C-Check continuity book.
5.30.1. (Added) When departing C-Check and you experience a system malfunction prior to or
after departure, contact the McGuire AFB Command Post. (Commercial 609-754-3935, DSN:
312-650-3935) They will contact McGuire MX to determine who will fix the aircraft.
5.30.1.1. (Added) McGuire Maintenance will make a determination of recovery base for repair
of non-critical systems. In an emergency situation, aircraft commanders will comply with
published guidance, exercise sound judgment and cockpit resource management practices and
will recover at the most suitable airfield based on the nature of the emergency.
5.30.1.2. (Added) The Boeing Aerospace Support Center Operations Control Center
(BASC/OCC) must be notified (commercial 210-932-6199/6322/6323) whether or not you will
return or continue to McGuire AFB. Attempt a 3-way conference call with McGuire
Maintenance and BASC/OCC if possible by use of aircraft radios. If additional assistance is
needed, contact the 305 OG/OGV at commercial 609-754-2267 or DSN 312-650-3272 or
command post after hours for the on-call representative.
5.30.1.3. (Added) Wherever you elect to land your aircraft, ensure McGuire AFB (i.e.
SQ/CC/DO) is aware of your decisions and location.
5.30.2. (Added) Passengers are no longer authorized travel to San Antonio, TX on KC-10 C-
Check inputs as Space A or Duty Pax status. Additional Crew Member (ACM) is approved with
concurrence of the Aircraft Commoner.
6.4.1. (Added) Ensure the e-pubs date on latest FCIF matches the date in the ―WRI_KC-
10_Release.txt‖ file on you electronic media. In order to check paper pubs perform a page count
using your current e-pubs or the McGuire FCIF e-Library on the 305 Stan/Eval website.
6.4.2. (Added) The official 514 OGV KC-10 Publications Checker is located on the ―K‖ drive
at K:\STANEVAL\514 OG Pubs Checker. This document is updated as changes are released
and may constitute source guidance for write-in changes not otherwise covered in Supplements,
Changes, or Posted Messages.
6.11.4. (Added) Coordinate with AM Ops for US/worldwide Flight Publication (FLIP)
publications. AM Ops maintains two types of KC-10 FLIP bags (US local and worldwide).
6.11.4.1. (Added) Worldwide FLIP bags are required for Outside Contiguous United States
(OCONUS) sorties. This bag contains necessary FLIP for global operations. Aircrews will
inventory the bag to ensure adequate coverage.
6.11.4.2. (Added) During local training flights, aircrews will use the US local FLIP bag. This
bag contains FLIP for the local area. Aircrews will inventory the bag to ensure coverage. For
CONUS flights, Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training (JA/ATT), Special Assignment
Airlift Mission (SAAM), Temporary Duty (TDY), etc. outside the local area; coordinate with
AM Ops/Crew Comm for complete US FLIP coverage.
6.11.4.3. (Added) If FLIP requirements change from the printed flight schedule, the
aircrew/mission planners will notify AM Ops on mission planning day to coordinate changes.
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                      7


6.22. McGuire AFB Operational Risk Management (ORM) Program. 305 Operations
Group has implemented the McGuire AFB Airfield ORM Program. The program’s intent is to
collect critical information during predetermined periods, and forecast (assess) the associated
risk for conducting air operations. If actual conditions differ from those forecast, the risk
assessment will be re-accomplished to reflect the true risk picture.
6.22.1. (Added) Airfield risk will be assessed according to the following categories: LOW,
MODERATE, HIGH and CRITICAL. In addition to providing the senior leadership with risk
information, it will also be disseminated to our aircrews via ATIS, and the AM Ops Plasma
screen. Aircrews receiving risk information over ATIS, without having the opportunity to view
the risk assessment in AM Ops, can receive more details by contacting Pilot to Dispatch
(PTD)on UHF 372.2.
6.22.2. (Added) It is important to remember that this risk information is advisory and does not
require mandatory actions (as with the BASH program). It exists to enable those involved to
have the most complete information available to aid their decision-making processes. For
example, the airfield ORM status may be critical for the next six hours due to the possibility of
isolated thunderstorms, low ceilings, wet runway, and forecast wind shear. At the time an
aircrew returns, there may not be thunderstorms at McGuire AFB and normal operations are
appropriate.
6.29.3. (Added) Hazardous cargo taxi operations are described in MAFBI 13-202. McGuire
AFB departures with hazardous cargo are restricted on westbound flights to two routings. At
McGuire AFB file the appropriate routing below and include ―Hazardous Cargo‖ as the first
remark on flight plan. No restrictions exist for eastbound flights.
6.29.3.1. (Added) For routing via Pottstown: RBV V276 ARD V143 PTW.
6.29.3.2. (Added) For routing via Modena: RBV V276 ARD V143 to intercept Modena
(MXE) R-056 inbound to MXE.
6.43.8.1. (Added) COMSEC will be carried as directed by the AMC Operations Order
(OPORD), Fragmentary Order (FRAG), AF Form 4291, Aircrew Communications Document
Receipt, Concept of Operations (CONOPS), Threat Working Group (TWG), or Tanker Airlift
Control Center (TACC). Aircraft commanders will determine COMSEC requirements for each
mission and coordinate with 305 OSS Crew Comm. Crew Comm will have the Simple Key
Loader (SKL) loaded with Mode-4 and ready to issue to all locals. Crew Comm will have the
SKL loaded with Mode-4/SECURE VOICE/HAVE QUICK and ready to issue for all formation
sorties.
6.43.8.2. (Added) If COMM Kit requirements change from the printed flight schedule, the
aircrew/mission planners will notify Combat Crew Comm on mission planning day to coordinate
changes.
6.46.2.4.1. (Added) Aircrews inbound to McGuire AFB should notify CP two to three hours
prior to block-in time of their specific aircrew/aircraft customs, immigration, and agriculture
requirements.
6.46.2.4.2. (Added) If the aircraft is a direct from overseas arrival, after being cleared by the
agriculture inspector, the entire aircrew will deliver the cargo manifest (if applicable), general
declaration, and individual customs declarations to the Customs office located in the Passenger
 8                                   AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


Terminal. The aircrew may download baggage onto the crew bus before proceeding to Customs.
Everyone will wait until cleared by Customs and Immigration. During the period of Customs
non-duty hours (2000L to 1200L and Sunday or holidays), it may be necessary for the aircrew to
wait for the customs and immigration officials to arrive.
6.46.2.4.3. (Added) If aircraft and aircrew have cleared Customs at another base prior to
landing at McGuire AFB and the cargo is on a permit-to-proceed, the aircrew must stop by
Customs during normal duty hours (1200L to 2000L), and deliver the inbound documentation,
the cargo manifest (if applicable), and the general declaration. During non-duty hours (2000L to
1200L), have a crewmember stop by Customs and slide the paperwork under the office door.
Ask CP to pose cargo questions to Aerial Port Squadron (APS), who will contact Customs.
6.46.2.4.4. (Added) When operating on a permit-to-proceed through a close-in base, it is
recommended that the aircraft commander contact McGuire AFB CP and relay customs
requirements. This may prevent a delay for Customs clearance on arrival at McGuire AFB. A
permit-to-proceed is not a final Customs clearance.
6.46.2.4.5. (Added) When an aircraft arrives more than 10 minutes ahead of schedule or diverts
into McGuire AFB, ATOC is authorized by Agriculture to disembark all passengers and
crewmembers requiring Agriculture clearance and move them to the Customs area of the
passenger terminal. This policy also applies if the Agriculture officer is delayed for more than
10 minutes. Passengers and crewmembers will be detained in the Customs area while awaiting
clearance by Agriculture unless arrangements have been made with the US Customs Service by
the agency, in which case Customs will clear passengers for Agriculture. Planes awaiting
Agriculture clearance will remain closed and sealed. Baggage and mail may be passed out the
crew door prior to sealing. However, all other doors (excluding an emergency) will remain
closed until the Agriculture officer arrives. KC-10 aircraft will be sealed by placing a piece of
tape on the door jam of the primary exit. Write the date, time, name, rank and ―Aircraft sealed
for Agriculture. Do not enter.‖ on the tape.
6.48.3. (Added) Lost Items.
6.48.3.1. (Added) Aircrew members will ensure positive control and accountability of personal
equipment and tools used while performing duties on aircraft. If a tool or item is discovered as
lost/missing on an aircraft, conduct a thorough search of the area. If the item is still determined
to be lost or missing make an Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) Form 781A, Maintenance
Discrepancy and Work Document, write up describing the item and where it was lost.
6.48.3.2. (Added) Any item found in the aircraft by the aircrew or maintenance should be
turned into maintenance debrief. Debrief personnel will attempt to find the owner of the item by
checking for markings/names on the lost item. Any item not claimed in 30 days will be turned in
to base supply for reclamation.
6.58. (Added) McGuire AFB Ground Operations.
6.58.1. (Added) Ground maintenance engine runs must be approved by AM Ops. Before
starting engines, AM Ops will advise the tower, and engine run aircrews must contact the tower
and advise the tower prior to advancing any throttles above idle power.
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                      9


6.58.2. (Added) Departing aircraft will contact Ground Control with their call sign, ATIS code
and parking spot before engine start. Lead aircraft of a formation will identify individual call
signs and parking spots of cellmates before engine start and taxi.
6.58.3. (Added) Before taxiing, contact Clearance Delivery for all clearances, including local
approach delays. Prior to departing the local pattern, contact Clearance Delivery for your
outbound Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) clearance. Notify Tower prior to last approach that you
are departing (vice returning to radar).
6.58.4. (Added) The term Controlled Departure Time (CDT) may be used for refueling
missions that must meet an Air-to-Air Refueling Control Time (ARCT) as the first planned
activity after takeoff, to provide priority handling. Aircrews will notify ground control no later
than 15 minutes prior to their CDT and inform the controller of their actual CDT. If problems
occur during prelaunch sequence and it appears the mission will delay, notify ground control as
soon as practical before planned departure time.
6.58.5. (Added) Aircrews should not run aircraft checklists while taxiing in congested areas
(i.e., between parking rows or when attention must be devoted to clear the taxi route).
6.58.6. (Added) KC-10s will not make 180 degree turns on taxiways or the asphalt portion of
runway 6/24 or runway18/36. Additionally, aircraft will minimize turns in the hammerheads for
runway 06/24 to those that are mission essential.
6.59. (Added) Non-Engine Running Crew Change (NERCC) Missions.
6.59.1. (Added) A NERCC sortie is a local mission scheduled to takeoff from 1 to 2 hours after
the previous sortie lands. NERCC sorties maximize training and airframe availability. NERCC
sorties will not be scheduled for less than one hour from block-in to takeoff.
6.59.2. (Added) NERCC sorties will not be used for Formal Training Unit (FTU) missions or
evaluations without prior approval from Chief, FTU or the respective unit Stan/Eval, as
applicable. (N/A 514 OG)
6.59.3. (Added) The on-coming aircrew will:
6.59.3.1. (Added) Check aircraft status with the Command Post.
6.59.3.2. (Added) Obtain parking location, and expected block-in time, if applicable.
6.59.3.3. (Added) Advise the crew bus driver to wait for the off-going aircrew at the aircraft, if
appropriate.
6.59.3.4. (Added) Receive a briefing from the off-going crew representative, at the aircraft.
6.59.3.5. (Added) Perform an exterior inspection, to include the Center Accessory
Compartment (CAC).
6.59.3.6. (Added) Perform interior scans (verify switch positions) and all appropriate checklists
starting with ―Cockpit Preparation‖.
6.59.3.7. (Added) Be responsible for Center of Gravity (CG) and Takeoff and Landing Data
(TOLD) calculations.
6.59.4. (Added) The off-going crew will:
6.59.4.1. (Added) Perform ―Parking – Engine Shutdown‖ checklist.
 10                                  AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


6.59.4.2. (Added) Re-initialize/align the Inertial Navigation Units (INU).
6.59.4.3. (Added) AC or designated representative will brief the on-coming crew, at the
aircraft. The off-going AC/rep is required to remain at the aircraft until the on-coming crew
arrives at the aircraft.
6.59.4.4. (Added) Leave the FLIP bag and Flight Management System 800 (FMS-800) data
card at the aircraft. (Exception: 514 OG crews use different FLIP bags and do not leave them at
the aircraft.)
6.59.4.5. (Added) Leave all previous activity information for the next crew, to include:
6.59.4.5.1. (Added) Flight time/AFTO IMT 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data
Document.
6.59.4.5.2. (Added) Number of receiver contacts and type tankers.
6.59.4.5.3. (Added) Number of tanker boom/drogue contacts and type receivers.
6.59.4.5.4. (Added) Completed maintenance debrief form.
6.59.5. (Added) If a scheduled NERCC sortie is terminated early due to loss of tanker/receiver
activity, maintenance problems, etc. (i.e., mission changes beyond the crew’s control requires
early termination of the off-going crew’s sortie), maintenance will perform the required
inspections. The off-going crew will coordinate with command post for approval to depart the
aircraft early, accomplish normal post flight duties, and will be required to attend the
maintenance debrief. The off-going crew will leave the FLIP bag and FMS-800 data card at the
aircraft if the airframe is still expected to be used for the follow on sortie.
6.59.6. (Added) Only the aircrew from the final NERCC mission of the day will attend
maintenance debrief and debrief all previous sorties and discrepancies for that aircraft for the
day. Therefore, it is imperative that all information is completely and accurately passed from
one aircrew to the next. It is also mandatory that any person entering a discrepancy on the
AFTO IMT 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, legibly print their name and
duty phone number in the forms so maintenance can follow-up with any questions that might
arise.
6.59.7. (Added) If any new aircraft discrepancies are annotated in the AFTO IMT 781s that
require corrective action prior to the next sortie, or any fuel onload/offload is required between
NERCC sorties, maintenance will trouble shoot and attempt repair (as required) and perform the
required quick-turn or thru-flight inspection. Maintenance will then ensure a new exceptional
release is accomplished prior to flight.
6.59.8. (Added) For a NERCC sortie, maintenance will:
6.59.8.1. (Added) Block-in aircraft/establish communication.
6.59.8.2. (Added) Remain with the aircraft.
6.59.8.3. (Added) Chock aircraft.
6.59.8.4. (Added) Block-out aircraft.
6.59.8.5. (Added) Install/remove landing gear pins.
6.59.8.6. (Added) Position B1-1 stand/airstairs and fire bottle.
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                    11


6.59.9. (Added) Helpful Telephone Numbers. 76 ARS Pilot Shop, DSN 650-4936; 2 ARS
Scheduling, DSN 650-5876; FTU, DSN 650-6720; 78 ARS Pilot Shop, DSN 650-4060; 32 ARS
Scheduling, DSN 650-6903; 514 WOC, DSN 650-2992; AM Ops, DSN 650-2712; Command
Post, DSN 650-3935/3936; MOCC, DSN 650-4044/2383.
6.60. (Added) Full Stop Taxi-Back (FSTB) Landings. Full stop taxi-back landings will be
coordinated with CP (if required to load or deplane personnel) at least 30 minutes before landing
time. This will allow CP time to notify the MOCC and appropriate squadron. Maintenance
should be informed if parking or maintenance actions are not required.
6.61. (Added) Post Flight Duties. Complete post flight duties by dropping off
FLIP/Comm/COMSEC/Personal Computer Memory Card International Association (PCMCIA)
cards at AM Ops and attending maintenance debrief. At least one crewmember from each crew
position should attend the debriefing. The aircraft commander will review the AFTO 781 for
accuracy prior to review at debrief.
6.61.1. (Added) Post mission paperwork will be turned into Squadron Aviation Resource
Management System (SARMS) for processing. As a minimum, this package will include:
6.61.1.1. (Added) AFTO Form 18, KC-10 Structural Assessment Record.
6.61.1.2. (Added) AF Form 3578, Tanker Activity Report (514 OG – Fill out lost training on
reverse).
6.61.1.3. (Added) AF Form 4091, KC-10 Flight Engineer Worksheet.
6.61.1.4. (Added) AF Form 4327A, Crew Flight (FA) Authorization.
6.61.1.5. (Added) Mission Accomplishment Reports (MARs)/514 OG-Event Accomplishment
Reports (EAR).
6.61.1.6. (Added) Copy of that day’s flying schedule or Mission Detail.
6.61.1.7. (Added) Ocean Planning Chart (OPC) and associated documentation.
7.13.1. Aircrews on missions originating from McGuire that require arming IAW directives will
send two crewmembers to the Armory to pick up weapons prior to going to the aircraft. The only
exception to the two-person rule is if you call the Armory at extension DSN 650-3113 at brief
time and make arrangements with Armory personnel for only one crewmember to pick up the
weapons. Crew members will ensure they have their AF Form 522, USAF Ground Weapons
Training Data, ID card, and copy of your orders.
8.6.3.6. Boom operators/mission planners should contact the receiver unit or responsible party
prior to flight, and obtain all known information for the AF IMT 791, Aerial Tanker In-Flight
Issue Log . The AF IMT 791 is the bill for fuel offloaded; if filled out incorrectly, the 305 AMW
will not be properly reimbursed. Each squadron maintains a list of receiver unit Department of
Defense Activity Address Code (DODAAC) codes and tail numbers in an appropriately marked
book near the FCIF library. It is updated monthly and is used for accurate completion of the AF
IMT 791.
9.3.3.8. Local Missions with Distinguished Visitor (DV) Kit Installed. Maintenance should give
maximum effort to reconfigure the aircraft to comply with J configuration requirements per the
Addenda A. This includes removal/replacement of the tables with seats. Missions will not be
delayed for this reason. At a minimum, remove the IAU pallets prior to departure.
 12                                   AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


9.3.5. (Added) Touch-and-Go Guidelines/Restrictions. Whenever possible, runways used to
conduct off-station transition should be at least 10,000 feet long. If instructor pilots elect to use
shorter runways, they must be aware of the associated risks and thoroughly review/brief Go/No-
Go decision (especially at heavy gross weights). Touch-and-go certified aircraft commanders,
without instructor pilot supervision, are additionally restricted to have at least 10,000 feet of
runway, in order to conduct touch-and-go landings.
9.4.1.1. Normally, touch-and-go landings will not be performed on operational missions.
However, touch-and-go’s may be performed for currency on the deployment or redeployment
legs only if it does not affect mission accomplishment. There are several areas to consider
before doing a touch-and-go, i.e., brake/tire wear, antiskid operation, passengers and/or cargo,
etc. Off-station transition on operational missions will not be conducted without approval by the
squadron operations officer, or higher (514 AMW crews notify the WOC for coordination).
9.12. Off-Station Transition Procedures. Prior to conducting off-station transition, aircrews
will review the AMC Airfield Suitability and Restrictions Report, DOD – IFR Supplement, FLIP
AP/1 Supplementary Airport, Notices to Airmen (NOTAM), AHAS, Approach Procedures (to
include published departure procedures/Trouble T’s), and terrain/obstacles at the airfield.
Contact the airfield prior to the flight for advisories. Airfields that have no BASH program must
be contacted for bird activity hazards. Off-station, FSTBs must be approved by the squadron
operations officer, or Chief, FTU (as applicable) (N/A 514 OG). Off-station transition may be
accomplished at any military or joint use airfield. Approval authority for transition at civil fields
is the squadron operations officer, Chief FTU, or AFRC aircraft commander, as appropriate. Use
Noise Abatement procedures to the maximum extent possible at all off-station transition bases.
9.13. (Added) Transition and Cancelled Activities. The PIC does not need OG/CC approval
to conduct transition training on the front/back end of a sortie if transition was previously
planned or scheduled. If a scheduled activity cancels, the PIC does not require OG/CC approval
to conduct transition training in lieu of that event.
10.3.2.1.1. Aircrews operating in the Central Command (CENTCOM) Area of Responsibility
(AOR) will carry mobility bags as directed by the AMC Operations Order. Aircrews operating
in other Areas of Responsibility (AOR) will carry mobility bags as directed by Fragmentary
Order (FRAG), Mission Detail, CONOPS, TWG, and/or TACC.
11.2.3. (Added) FMS-800 Data Card Pickup and Update Procedures.
11.2.3.1. (Added) FMS-800 PCMCIA data card administration. The point of contact (POC) for
this program is the Air Force Mission Support System (AFMSS) Site Support Representative in
tactics. They also manage the mission planning laptops and Portable Flight Planning Software
(PFPS). Tactics is responsible for updating the PCMCIA cards with the current database. Crews
are responsible for these data cards, although cases may arise when data cards may have to be
substituted or replaced; it is incumbent on aircrews to keep track of all equipment that they sign
for. For assistance direct questions to the Wing Tactics Staff at DSN 650-2959/4575.
11.2.3.2. (Added) Aircrews are required to pickup an FMS-800 PCMCIA data card on all home
station departures, locals and C-Check pickup. Pickup a second card from tactics if next period’s
data is available (available about 10 days prior to the expiration date) if departing the local area
on a mission. Data cards will be issued on sign out log based on tail number. All aircrews will
return data cards to AM Ops when they return, except as noted in this section.
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                     13


11.2.3.2.1. (Added) The Jeppesen Nav Data card expiration date is 10 days after the Digital
Aeronautical Flight Information File (DAFIF) expiration. However, Global Positioning System
(GPS) approach data and Standard Instrument Departures (SID)/Standard Terminal Arrivals
(STAR) in which the FMS is the sole source of navigation data will require a current unexpired
Navigation (NAV) database.
11.2.3.2.2. (Added) Mission planning laptops or any computer that can read/write to a
PCMCIA card drive may be used. An instructional handout will be issued with the data cards to
all departing crews. Travis AFB (KSUU) and McGuire AFB (KWRI) AFMSS offices can also
update the cards. Procedures for updating the data cards are outlined in the KC-10 FMS-800
Data Card Update Procedures Handout. This handout will also be issued with the updated
Compact Disk (CD) to deployed locations or obtained electronically from the home station
AFMSS office. If a card has been updated the FMS-800 will be unable to access the
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) database if more than one data cartridge file is
displayed on a single PCMCIA card. Make sure that just the most current file is on the card.
11.2.3.3. (Added) Stage Operations. Leave the Flight Management System (FMS) card with
the aircraft. In the event that a Travis AFB crew flies a McGuire AFB KC-10, the data cards
should remain with the aircraft located in the PCMCIA card slots and annotated in the AFTO
781A. Return all data cards to AM Ops upon arrival at the aircraft’s home station.
11.2.3.4. (Added) Deployed Operations. To enhance spare capability, extra cards should be
sent to the deployed operations staff. Deploying crews will supply crews returning home with
their data cards. Deployed operations staff will coordinate the method of FMS-800 PCMCIA
data card update for deployed aircraft with the home station AFMSS office.
11.2.4. (Added) FMS-800 Flight Plan Cards. Crewmembers may use the certified desktop
machines or any mission planning laptop to create PFPS flight plans on a PCMCIA card using
the Aircraft Weapons Electronics (AWE) utility with PFPS. Cards should be available in each
squadron. When using the AWE utility, all other data on the card must be erased for the flight
plan to function properly with the FMS-800. Alternate flight plans may be saved using the FMS-
800 to the card designated on start page four. This can be a separate flight plan card or a single
data card. The preferred method is a separate flight plan and data card. If a flight plan is saved
onto a data card, a catalog will be added to the end of the Jeppesen data file.
11.7. (Added) Air Traffic Violations. If informed by ATC there is a possible deviation then
comply with AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules. Under no circumstances reveal your personal
identity to ATC. If told to contact ATC regarding an alleged violation or deviation, reveal only
your aircraft and/or mission number. If notified of ATC violation, aircrews will:
11.7.1. (Added) Contact Squadron Stan/Eval or DO at earliest possible convenience. 514
AMW, contact 514 OGV or the Duty Officer.
11.7.2. (Added) Ensure OpRep3 (home line) is filed by next base AMC Command Post
11.7.3. (Added) Keep all aircraft records and flight plans (i.e. DD Form 1801, International
Flight Plan, Oceanic Planning Charts, CFP, etc.)
11.7.4. (Added) Call back to 305 Wing Safety.
13.4.1.3.1. (Added) AMC and AFRC policy state that unless the boom is required to physically
inventory the equipment, the form is not required to be signed.
 14                                  AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


13.4.1.3.2. (Added) IAW KC-10 checklists, a cursory check is all that is required to ensure
there is a sufficient quantity of tie-down equipment on board to safely accomplish the mission. If
tie-down equipment is removed from the aircraft, (i.e. with cargo and not returned), the boom
operator will annotate the AF Form 4069, Tie-down Equipment Checklist, with the ICAO
Identifier, the quantity of equipment, and signature. This facilitates home station recovery of the
equipment.
13.4.1.5. (Added) When the aircraft is scheduled for a cargo mission, the aircrew will
coordinate with aerial port to ensure that the JA/ATT box has been inventoried. The crew will
ensure that the AF IMT 4069, is stowed in the extra equipment container (crew chief box) near
the tie down devices and the AMC Form 12-1, Air Transportable Galley/Lavatory (ATGL) Unit
Checklist, is in the 781 (aircraft forms) binder, with the AFTO 46, Prepositioned Life Support
Equipment.
13.4.1.5.1. (Added) During preflight, the aircraft commander or his designated representative
will review the AMC Form 12-1 and verify that the appropriate inventories of passenger comfort
items and aircraft tie-down equipment are on board.
13.4.1.5.2. (Added) Upon return to home station, the flight aircrew will complete the applicable
sections of the AF IMT 4069 and leave it in the crew chief box.
13.17. (Added) Inbound Cargo Procedures. The following will be the sequence of events for
unloading from KC-10 with Increased Accommodation Unit (IAU) after passengers are
deplaned:
13.17.1. (Added) After the Wide Body Main Deck Loader (T-40/Cochran/Wilson or 60K
Tunner) is positioned at aircraft, the -21 Big Gray Truck (BGT) will be positioned in place
behind loader. The seat pallets will then be downloaded.
13.17.2. (Added) If Dash 21/BGT is unavailable, seats will be placed on 25K, 40K, or dunnage.
If raining, seats will be covered or placed inside. There should be no stoppage of download if -
21 is delayed.
13.17.3. (Added) If Materials Handling Equipment (MHE) from Ramp Services is delayed, the
BGT can handle baggage pallets weighing up to 2,500 pounds.
13.17.4. (Added) Returning aircrews should make effort to place baggage pallet(s) on left side
of aircraft immediately behind IAU to expedite passenger clearing and release.
13.17.5. (Added) Returning KC-10s may have pallets of maintenance equipment. The pallet(s)
may be downloaded by the BGT and returned to the proper maintenance section to expedite
download rather than wait for Ramp Services if less than 1500 lbs.
13.17.6. (Added) Every KC-10 with passengers should be met by airstairs. If Passenger
Service airstairs are not available, CP can coordinate airstairs from -21. Airstairs at McGuire
AFB are owned by maintenance and ATOC, so if one agency cannot respond, perhaps another
can.
13.17.7. (Added) If no passengers are onboard, maintenance stairs may be inadequate and a
safety concern. Aircrews should request airstairs if returning from deployments and aircrew
baggage is excessive.
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                   15


13.17.8. (Added) If returning KC-10s have numerous crewmembers and one or more pallets of
mobility/contingency bags, Ramp or Passenger Services will bring the pallet(s) to a covered area
by Customs to aid aircrew download and expedite post-mission duties.
14.4.8. (Added) Aircraft commanders are ultimately responsible for accomplishing the required
training while employing as many fuel saving methods as possible within the constraints of
safety, sound judgment, and mission requirements. Aircrews should reference the guidance
memorandum to this AFI for fuel conservation information and techniques, and follow the
procedures and guidance in the T.O. 1C-10(K)A-1 and T.O. 1C-10(K)A-1-1.
14.4.9. (Added) 305 OSS/514 OSS Scheduling develops mission activity to eliminate excessive
delays. Orbit delays of 15 minutes are developed to ensure timing can be met. Scheduled fuel
loads are the minimum required to complete the mission. If the aircraft is a NERCC sortie,
enough fuel to complete the follow-on mission with fuel reserves will be carried.
14.4.10. (Added) Determine the amount of fuel required to fly the mission to meet minimum
fuel reserves. Compare scheduled fuel load with fuel required. If fuel remaining at the Initial
Approach Fix (IAF) is below minimums or exceeds minimum IAF fuel (no transition scheduled),
the AC or Mission Planning Cell (MPC) will request the appropriate fuel load through their
squadron scheduling by 1300L on mission planning day.
14.4.11. (Added) Review flight plan at debrief and compare the planned and actual fuel
consumed. Document fuel consumed while stating a reason for any difference (weather, divert
options, heavyweight air refueling training, etc.) using the online AMC directed fuel tracker.
14.4.12. (Added) If on duty the Command Post duty officer or duty forecaster may provide
guidance as to the best alternate when weather is below approach minimums. The aircraft
commander has final authority as to determining the best divert location given their situation.
The Quick Reference Fuel Reserve Chart in Attachment 7 should only be used as a guide.
15.13. (Added) Air Refueling In Climbs/Descents. Air refueling will not be conducted on
initial departure climbout or on descent for approach except in emergency situations. Air
refueling may be accomplished during intermediate climbs/descents provided the activity is
briefed.
15.14. (Added)Rendezvous Delta and Rendezvous Golf Timing Criteria. Receiver and tanker
timing criteria for a Rendezvous Delta (Point Parallel) and Rendezvous Golf (Enroute
Rendezvous) are contained in FAA Order JO 7610.4M, Special Operations. Any timing outside
the appropriate windows must be coordinated with receiver unit and track schedulers. Air Route
Traffic Control Center (ARTCC) is not the approval authority for entry/exit time changes. They
can only deconflict traffic where you delay, not the track itself. Aircrews will not change a
rendezvous Golf to a rendezvous Delta (or vice versa) that would result in changes to scheduled
entry/exit times or ARCT over the Air-to-Air Refueling Control Point (ARCP) without prior
coordination through 305 OSS/514 OSF Scheduling, since track schedulers may schedule other
aircraft on the track at the same altitude with minimum spacing.
16.1. Mission planning provides aircrews the time to prepare for a mission and to use the day
to expand the knowledge of all crewmembers. The AC will establish training objectives to be
completed by all crewmembers during mission planning. Mission planning will be scheduled
and deconflicted with other activities/demands placed upon aircrews and should normally begin
at 0830 (except for Same Day Mission Planning – SDMP) in the respective squadron/FTU area.
 16                                  AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


The following procedures provide the foundation for proper mission planning.            Squadron
operations officers may clarify these procedures. (N/A 514 OG)
16.7. (Added) Local Missions (Non-FTU) and TDY (CONUS). (N/A 514 OG) All flight
crewmembers will attend mission planning the day before a local mission or CONUS TDY
unless specifically excused by the aircraft commander or a MPC is in use.
16.8. (Added) Local Missions (FTU). (N/A 514 OG) All crewmembers will attend and
participate in the 0830L mission planning the day before a local mission unless specifically
excused by the FTU instructor pilot. The FTU instructor pilot of each mission will coordinate
with squadron scheduling for changes that would impact training events for squadron assigned
―fill-in‖ crewmembers. The level of participation for squadron assigned ―fill-in‖ crewmembers
will be at the discretion of the FTU instructor pilot. The acting AC will schedule and conduct
the mission briefing and discussion of training objectives with all crewmembers in attendance
prior to takeoff.
16.9. (Added) TDY (OCONUS). (N/A 514 OG). All crewmembers will attend and participate
in the 0830L mission planning normally held two days before an OCONUS TDY mission unless
specifically excused by the aircraft commander. The AC of an OCONUS TDY mission will
review the Operational Read File (ORF) and coordinate with squadron scheduling for changes to
the mission or training events. The AC will schedule and conduct the mission briefing and
discussion of training objectives with all crewmembers in attendance prior to take-off. The
second planning day may be used at the discretion of the AC. The AC will ensure that all
crewmembers not in attendance at the mission briefing receive a thorough briefing and
discussion of training objectives, prior to takeoff.
16.10. (Added) Same Day Mission Planning (SDMP). (N/A 514 OG) If the AC desires
his/her mission to be scheduled for SDMP, coordination will be through the respective squadron
scheduling. SDMP will be annotated on the flight schedule in the ―Remarks‖ section and will
begin NLT 2+00 hours before the appropriate bus time. The AC should verify the required fuel
load the day prior to the mission. SDMP restrictions are as follows:
16.10.1. (Added) SDMP will not be used for FTU (w/o prior approval of Chief, FTU), Close
watch, or Higher Headquarters Directed (HHD) missions.
16.10.2. (Added) SDMP sorties are limited to pattern only missions, or those sorties having no
more than two scheduled air refueling activities.
16.10.3. (Added) SDMP sortie duration will be scheduled for 6.5 hours or less and have a take
off time no earlier than 1200L.
16.11. (Added) Show times. Mission Crew Show times will be in accordance with the
Sequence of Events listed in the 305 and 514 AMW Wing OPS and MX Plan (WOP). This time
is for the aircrew to pick up the flight authorizations, review the FCIF, ORF, and aircrew/mission
changes. If the AC requires additional time, he/she will coordinate with squadron scheduling
and notify the crewmembers. Exception: SDMP and Formation.
16.12. (Added) Fuel Load. The fuel load will be properly planned and coordinated during
mission planning. On the day of departure, if there are significant changes to the mission or
events that are outside of the ability for the crew to have planned, Command Post will coordinate
with maintenance to change the fuel load. Aircrews will directly coordinate fuel load differences
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                      17


of >5k with Command Post. OG/CC waiver is required for crews to depart with >5k excess fuel
onboard.
16.13. (Added) Changes to Scheduled Missions. Occasionally, changes to the flight schedule
are required to maximize training or comply with mission timing. To change any part of a
scheduled mission, notify squadron/FTU scheduler NLT 1300L the day before the mission.
Squadron/FTU scheduling will coordinate with 305 OSS/OSOS Scheduling to execute the
change requests.
16.14. (Added)Execution Authority. 305 OSS/514 OSS Scheduling retains execution authority
until 1630L for the next day’s local missions. The Command Post executes the next day’s local
missions after 1630L. On Fridays, after the schedule is final (approx. 1600L), execution
authority passes to Command Post for Saturday, Sunday, and Monday sorties. If the requested
changes cannot be made, the affected squadron scheduling will be notified.
16.15. (Added) Planning Fuel Reserves for Local Sorties.
16.15.1. (Added) For local sorties requiring an alternate, crews may use the Quick Reference
Fuel Reserve Chart (QRFRC) Attachment 7 as a reference only. The fuel values in this chart
are increased to compensate for ATC clearances and also represent average calculations. It may
prove difficult to extract these exact figures from the performance manual.
16.15.2. (Added) If departing the local pattern and an alternate is required, crews will plan to
arrive back at the McGuire Missed Approach Point (MAP) with the minimum fuel specified in
the QRFRC.
16.15.2.1. (Added) Example 1. A local sortie is scheduled for front-end transition training
with follow-on air refueling. After air refueling the crew will plan to arrive back at the McGuire
MAP with the charted fuel values for their selected alternate.
16.15.2.2. (Added) Example 2. When an alternate is required and the local sortie is scheduled
to remain in the McGuire AFB traffic pattern, crews will plan to cross the McGuire MAP with at
least the minimum MAP fuel value listed in the chart. This applies to the first approach only.
16.15.3. (Added) The crew must consider weather and the potential for airfield closure when
making the decision to burn into the alternate fuel. Do not burn into the minimum landing fuel
unless an emergency condition exists, as it is the minimum planned final landing fuel at
destination or alternate.
17.6. (Added) Tactical Arrival/Departure (TAD) Procedures.
17.6.1. (Added) All aircrews (even those not tactics qualified) must be familiar with the entry
points, ground tracks, and altitude profiles aircraft will fly when executing TAD. It is imperative
all crews have a working knowledge of the local TAD procedures so they can maintain
situational awareness and avoid traffic conflicts. The 305th OSS/Tactics develops Letters of
Agreement (LOA) giving detailed procedures for TAD training at approved fields; these are
posted on the 305th OSS/Tactics website on the AF Portal. Pilots are required to review these
LOAs.
17.6.2. (Added-N/A 57 WPS) You are only authorized to perform tactical training maneuvers
at locations with an LOA and are approved by 305/514 OG/OGV via the FCIF process.
 18                                   AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


17.6.3. (Added) The procedures in the LOAs are regulatory in nature and must be reviewed
before performing.
17.6.4. (Added) Tactical Flimsy (or LOA if no Tactical Flimsy exist) must be onboard the
aircraft to perform these maneuvers.
17.6.5. (Added-N/A 57 WPS) Authorized Locations to perform Tactical Maneuvers for
training are listed in Attachment 7.
17.6.6. (Added) AFTTP 3-3. 22A, Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures. The
AFTTP 3-3 is our guide for combat fundamentals and although is not directive in nature, it is
authoritative. Unless there is good justification not to, the information in this publication should
be followed. In no case will the AFTTP 3-3 take precedence over an AFI or Technical Order
procedure/policy. The AFTTP 3-3 contains recognized ―best practices‖, tried and true, for the
last two decades. The considerations in AFTTP 3-3 are presented as the foundation of
employment and standardization for each MDS. This makes it an essential instructional aid.
17.6.6.1. (Added) Whenever a conflict exists between AFTTP 3-3 and an AFI or Technical
Order the AFI/Technical Order will be followed. If an error or discrepancy is discovered, notify
the 305/514 Chief of Tactics.
17.6.6.2. (Added) During instructor pre-briefs, the AFTTP 3-3 will be referenced for planning
and execution. This requires that the instructor have a working knowledge of its contents.
18.6.1. Formation missions require a comprehensive briefing. Formation briefings will be held
in accordance with the Sequence of Events listed in the WOP. If flight lead requires an earlier
briefing time, he/she will coordinate with the appropriate squadron scheduling for notification of
aircraft commanders and aircrews. Flight lead will ensure all members of the formation are
notified of the location for the formation briefing. For mixed 305/514 OG formations, 514 OG
crewmembers will not be available for earlier than a 2+15 brief. If 305 OG aircraft commanders
wish to release a portion of their aircrew from the cell brief for preflight requirements or to meet
SOE timing, formation lead must brief the released members on their applicable portion of the
formation and provide them a copy of the formation briefing guide. Prior to check-in, aircraft
commanders will thoroughly brief dismissed members on any changes stemming from the formal
formation brief.
18.6.1.4. (Added) For standardization and consistency, crews should use the most recent
formation briefing guide published in the AFTTP 3-3.22A, Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures.
18.6.2.1. (Added) McGuire AFB Formation Departures.
18.6.2.1.1. (Added) North, East, West Departures: file and fly the Climb Corridor routing.
This routing is: PTPL4.MANTA..-..OWENZ..-..LINND..-..BERGH..-..SHERL – Preferred
Routing to AR609, 212, 204, 206 L/H, 631, 616 A/B, 608 (as applicable). Do not attempt to
depart westbound on the Modena or Pottstown SIDs in formation.
18.6.2.1.1.1. (Added) File flight plan altitude to be at/above FL240 by SHERL. You may
request a lower altitude block depending on New York and Boston Center workload. The top of
NY's airspace is FL230, do not straddle FL230 if requesting an altitude lower than FL240B260.
Either coordinate prior to flight or after departure when on New York Center’s frequency.
18.6.2.1.1.2. (Added) Aircrews should be cautious, the turns at LINND and BERGH are
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                          19


RIGHT HAND 100 degree turns.            Trail formation or left echelon should be briefed as
appropriate.
18.6.2.1.2. (Added) The preferred routing for Northern AR tracks after the climb corridor is as
listed below. After SHERL, do not file through DPK or IGN. Note: The routing is for
formation flights. However, single ship activities using the PTPL4 should file PTPL4.Manta
CCC and then on as listed below if departing to the east/north.
18.6.2.1.2.1. (Added) AR609 – SHERL CCC CTR SYR
18.6.2.1.2.2. (Added) AR212, 204 – SHERL CCC ALB018067
18.6.2.1.2.3. (Added) AR206 L/H – SHERL CCC CTR SYR
18.6.2.1.2.4. (Added) AR631 – SHERL CCC CON ENE272045
18.6.2.1.2.5. (Added) AR616A – SHERL CCC BOS ENE111061
18.6.2.1.2.6. (Added) AR616B – SHERL CCC BOS ENE086141
18.6.2.1.2.7. (Added) AR608 – SHERL SHLEP ACK LFV151051
18.6.2.1.3. (Added) Boston Center requests aircrews continued assistance during cell breakup
as the airspace including and between SHERL and CCC is near impossible to accept a formation
breakup. Additionally, there is particular emphasis from ATC not to over fly HTO as a
formation but does not preclude its use as a single ship. Crews should be prepared to fly all the
way to ALB or in its general vicinity prior to break-up if necessary.
18.6.2.1.4. (Added) AR777 Departures. If all or part of the formation is proceeding directly to
AR 777 file and fly: PTPL4.MANTA - OWENZ - LINND - AR777... If a formation member
needs to depart the formation at AR777, that aircraft should file BERGH - SHERL – Preferred
Routing (as applicable).
18.6.2.1.5. (Added) South Departures: file and fly the CRESI3 departure to an appropriate
transition
18.6.2.2. (Added) DD FORM 175 Considerations.
18.6.2.2.1. (Added) Remarks. Remarks will include the following information: ―MARSA cell
departure, with TEAM call sign(s) to_______‖ (Cell breakup point).
18.6.2.2.2. (Added-Added) Each individual aircraft will file a separate, individual flight plan
reflecting the entire route of flight from departure to final destination. The route of flight MUST
be identical from departure to the cell breakup point for each cell member.
18.6.2.2.3. (Added) Only the cell leader will file the total number of aircraft in the formation.
18.6.2.2.4. (Added) Clearance Delivery will clear the flight from departure to the cell breakup
point only. If further clearance is not received for cell wingmen prior to the breakup point, they
are to remain with Cell Lead past the breakup point until in receipt of their individual
clearance(s). Lead should automatically have route clearance provided by ARTCC from cell
breakup point to destination. If there is any doubt as to the clearance, query ATC.
18.10. Aircrews will not plan to breakup a formation on the climb corridor, or prior to/directly
over Hampton (HTO), Yardley (ARD) or Salisbury (SBY) VORTACS (as appropriate to
 20                               AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


direction of routing). It is near impossible for ATC to accept a formation breakup at these
points.
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                     21


                                    Chapter 24 (Added)

                        PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS

24.1. (Added) Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
24.1.1. (Added) Prescribed Forms:
No forms prescribed.
24.1.2. (Added) Adopted Forms:

AMC IMT 97, In-Flight Emergency and Unusual Occurrence Worksheet, 1 May 2003

AF IMT Form 853, Air Force Wildlife Strike Report, 15 October 2005

AF Form 4291, Aircrew Communications Document Receipt, 1 September 2001

AF IMT 791, Aerial Tanker In-Flight Issue Log, 1 February 1993

AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 27 March 2006

AF Form 3578, Tanker Activity Report, 1 November 1995

AF Form 4091, KC-10 Flight Engineer Worksheet, 1 May 1999

AF Form 4327A, Crew Flight (FA) Authorization, 1 December 2003

AFTO Form 18, KC-10 Structural Assessment Record (OCR), 1 August 1995

AFTO IMT 781, ARMS Aircrew/Missions Flight Data Document, 17 June 2002

AFTO IMT 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, 17 June 2002

AF IMT 4069, Tie-down Equipment Checklist, 1 March 1999

AMC Form 12-1, Comfort Pallet/Portable Lavatory Unit Checklist, 1 June 1992

AFTO 46, Prepositioned Life Support Equipment, 1 July 1994

NASA ARC 277B, General Form, January 1994
 22                                 AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


DD Form 1801, International Flight Plan

DD Form 175, Military Flight Plan

AF Form 4291, Aircrew Communications Document Receipt, 1 September 2001

AF Form 522, USAF Ground Weapons Training Data, 1 August 2002
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                                                23


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2KC-10V3, KC-10 Operations Procedures, 18 January 2006
MAFBI 13-202, Base Airfield Operations Instruction, 26 July 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
JO 7610.4M Ch 10, Special Operations, 18 January 2007
AFTTP 3-3.22A, Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures, Combat Aircraft
Fundamentals – KC-10, 31 May 2006
AMCI 24-101, Vol 14, Military Airlift Passenger Service, 10 December 2004 Incorporating
Change 1, 5 April 2007
T.O. 1C-10(K)A-6CF-1, Acceptance and Functional Check Flight Procedural Manual, 15
October 2000
T.O. 1-1-300, Functional Check Flights and Maintenance Operational Checks
T.O. 1C-10(K)A-2-32, Landing Gear, 1 July 1993
AMCI 24-101 Vol 14, Military Airlift Passenger Service, 10 December 2004
AFTTP 3-3.22A, Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures, 31 May 2006

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AFMSS— Air Force Mission Support System
AFTO— Air Force Technical Order
AHAS— Avian Hazard Advisory System
AM Ops— Airfield Management Operations
APS— Aerial Port Squadron
ARTCC— Air Route Traffic Control Center
ASRS— Aviation Safety Reporting System
ATIS— Automatic Terminal Information Service
ATOC— Air Terminal Operations Center
AWE— Aircraft Weapons Electronics
BAM— Bird Avoidance Model
BASC/OCC— Boeing Aerospace Support Center Operations Control Center
BGT— Big Gray Truck
CAC— Center Accessory Compartment
CD— Compact Disk
 24                               AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


CENTCOM— Central Command
CONOPS— Concept of Operations
CONUS— Contiguous United States
CP— Command Post
CRM— Crew Resource Management
DAFIF— Digital Aeronautical Flight Information File
DO— Director of Operations
DV— Distinguished Visitor
EGT— Exhaust Gas Temperature
FCF— Functional Check Flight
FRAG— Fragmentary Order
FSTB— Full Stop Taxi-Back
HHD— Higher Headquarters Directed
IAF— Initial Approach Fix
IAU— Increased Accommodation Unit
INU— Inertial Navigation Unit
JA/ATT— Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training
KSUU— Travis AFB
KWRI— McGuire AFB
L/O— Launch Officer
LOA— Letter of Agreement
MAFBI— McGuire Air Force Base Instruction
MAP— Missed Approach Point
MAR— Mission Accomplishment Report
MHE— Materials Handling Equipment
MLG— Main Landing Gear
MOCC— Maintenance Operational Coordination Center
MPC— Mission Planning Cell
MWS— Major Weapon System
MXE— Modena
NAV— Navigation
NERCC— Non Engine Running Crew Change
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010                        25


NEXRAD— Next Generation Weather Radar
OCONUS— Outside Contiguous United States
OG— Operations Group
OPC— Ocean Planning Chart
OPORD— Operations Order
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
ORF— Operational Read File
PCMCIA— Personal Computer Memory Card International Association
PFPS— Portable Flight Planning Software
POC— Point of Contact
QRFRC— Quick Reference Checklist
SARMS— Squadron Aviation Resource Management System
SDMP—Same Day Mission Planning
SKL— Simple Key Loader
SOE— Sequence of Events
STAR— Standard Terminal Arrivals
TACC— Tanker Airlift Control Center
TAD— Tactical Arrival/Departure
TDY— Temporary Duty
TWG— Threat Working Group
UHF— Ultra High Frequency
WOC— Wing Operations Center
WOP— Wing Ops and MX Plan
 26                                 AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


                                        Attachment 5
             MCGUIRE AFB KC-10 PRESET UHF RADIO FREQUENCIES

A5.1. The following UHF present channel frequencies are approved for use in McGuire AFB
KC-10s. Compatible VHF frequencies are provided for information only.

Table A5.1. VHF interplane frequencies are 139.87 (P) and 143.825 (S).
   Preset            UHF                        Identifier                      VHF
     1              335.8               McGuire Clearance Delivery              135.2
     2              275.8                McGuire Ground Control                 121.8
     3              255.6                    McGuire Tower                     118.65
     4              363.8                  McGuire Approach                    124.15
     5              290.9                    McGuire Arrival                   120.25
     6              385.5                Atlantic City Approach                 124.6
     7              343.6                 Philadelphia Approach                 123.8
     8              353.5                   New York Center                     128.3
     9             311.0 (P)            Tanker Intracell Frequency
                   321.0 (S)             Tanker Intracell Frequency
      10            319.4                 McGuire Command Post                 130.65
      11            349.4              AMC Common Command Post                  134.1
      12            372.2                     Pilot-to-Dispatch                 134.1
      13            239.8                      McGuire Metro
      14            270.1                           ATIS                       110.6
      15            Open                  Reserved for Off-Station
      16            Open                  Reserved for Off-Station
      17            Open                  Reserved for Off-Station
      18            255.4                   Flight Service Station             122.2
      19           255.250                 605 AGS MX (Delta 5)
      20           304.825                 305 AGS MX (Alpha 5)
      21            243.0            Air Refueling Emergency Frequency
                  (P) – Indicates Primary (S) – Indicates Secondary

A5.2. Aircrews can communicate with KC-10 Maintenance, 605 AGS, Delta 5 on 225.250 or
the deicing supervisor on 134.1 to inform flightline supervisor of information beyond the normal
calls to Command Post.
AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010              27


                                   Attachment 6
                     GLOBAL HF CHANNELIZATION PLAN

Table A6.1 Global HF Channelization Plan.
 Channel     HF Frequency                Station
    1            6761                 Air Refueling
    2            8992               Global HF Station
    3           11175               Global HF Station
    4            4724               Global HF Station
    5            6712               Global HF Station
    6            6739               Global HF Station
    7           13200               Global HF Station
    8           15016               Global HF Station
   28                                 AFI11-2KC-10V3_MCGUIREAFBSUP 19 APRIL 2010


                                          Attachment 7
                 QUICK REFERENCE FUEL RESERVE CHART (QRFRC)

   Table A7.1 Quick Reference Fuel Reserve Chart (QRFRC)
                                   GND                                    FUEL REQD         FUEL
ALTERNATE                          DIST      ALT      MACH       TIME      AT MAP          TO ALT

Atlantic City Intl (KACY)           50      4,000     250 IAS    28 min        23.7            8.7
Willow Grove NAS, (KNXX)            51      4,000     250 IAS    29 min        23.8            8.8
Dover AFB (KDOV)                    88      4,000     250 IAS    38 min        26.2           11.2
Harrisburg Intl (KMDT)             136     10,000     320 IAS    43 min        28.4           13.4
Patuxent River NAS (KNHK)          156     10,000     320 IAS    45 min        29.5           14.5
Andrews AFB (KADW)                 166     10,000     320 IAS    47 min        29.7           14.7
Westover ARB (KCEF)                217     16,000     0.56 M     58 min        31.6           16.6
Langley AFB (KLFI)                 221     16,000     0.56 M     59 min        31.7           16.7
Norfolk (Chambers) (KNGU)          226     16,000     0.56 M     59 min        32.1           17.1
Otis ANGB (KFMH)                   249     26,000     0.66 M     62 min        32.8           17.8
Pittsburgh Intl (KPIT)             279     26,000     0.66 M     65 min        35.1           20.1
Niagara Falls Intl (KIAG)          298     26,000     0.66 M     68 min        36.7           21.7
Pease Intl Tradeport (KPSM)        299     33,000     0.76 M     67 min        37.0           22.0
Seymour Johnson AFB (KGSB)         357     33,000     0.76 M     74 min        38.6           23.6
Rickenbacker Intl (KLCK)           411     35,000     0.76 M     82 min        39.1           24.1
Bangor Intl (KBGR)                 441     35,000     0.76 M     90 min        41.0           26.0
Wright Patterson AFB (KFFO)        465     35,000     0.76 M     92 min        42.0           27.0
Note: This chart to be used only as a guide.
 A7.1.QUICK REFERENCE FUEL RESERVE CHART: Fuel required in tanks to depart the
 McGuire AFB Missed Approach Point (MAP), step climb at climb speeds, cruise via airways to
 alternate, 15 minutes holding at sea level, approach, and land with 12,000 lbs. Data is based on a
 300,000 pound aircraft, flying cruise altitude and maximum range cruise mach listed,
 approximately 25 knot headwind, climb temperature deviation of +10 degrees, time includes
 time to climb plus enroute time and 15 minutes for approach and landing. Any performance
 degradation (i.e., WARP, etc.) will have to be accounted for by the aircrew.




                                              SCOTT F. SMITH, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 305th Air Mobility Wing
