BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2KC-10,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 2

                                                                              7 MARCH 2013
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 24 JULY 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                               KC-10 UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                          CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AMC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
Supersedes:   AFI 14-2KC-10V2, 30                                                       Pages: 16
              October 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in KC-10 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting KC-10 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                             AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This AFI defines the
role and responsibilities of the Chief of Wing Intelligence, clarifies the use of specific forms and
processes regarding online documentation, and modifies certain evaluation criteria and
examination requirements. Gradesheets were moved to Volume 1.
AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013                                                                   3



                                          Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial (INIT) and
periodic mission evaluations (MSN). All evaluations will be conducted in accordance with
(IAW) the provisions of AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and this publication. The examinee must
satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to perform required duties safely and effectively.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy AMC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and
responses. AMC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver requests if such
correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.3. Procedures.
   1.3.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   completed all Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized Training (ST)
   requirements, as outlined in AFI 14-2KC-10, Volume 1, KC-10 Unit Intelligence Training.
   Additionally, the examinee must have on file a satisfactory gradesheet (see Attachment 4 of
   AFI 14-2KC-10 Volume 1, for gradesheet elements) from an intelligence qualification trainer
   for each area listed in Table 2.1. The gradesheets will be filed in the individual’s
   qualification training record. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, to
   assist in grading the individual areas during the evaluation. Upon completion of the AF
   Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, the IE may destroy the AF Form 4381.
   (T-2)
   1.3.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for conducting all
   intelligence mission qualification and specialized training evaluations. To ensure standard
   and objective evaluations, IEs will be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation
   criteria. (T-2)
   1.3.3. Prior to commencing, the IE will brief the examinee on the evaluation conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria. The examinee will accomplish required
   planning IAW the duty position being evaluated. The examinee will provide IEs with a copy
   of necessary data or materials. (T-2)
   1.3.4. Evaluations should take place in conjunction with in-garrison events to the maximum
   extent possible. Evaluations during exercises or deployments are not prohibited; however,
   units should apply operational risk management principles to the scheduling of the
   evaluation. (Real world contingencies may provide a unique opportunity to conduct an
   evaluation; however, factors beyond the control of the examinee and IE may preclude its
   successful completion.). When evaluation in a realistic environment is not possible,
   examinations may be conducted via an alternate method (i.e., simulated, staged, or by verbal
   examination) in order to complete the evaluation. Document the reasons and type of
   alternate method used in the Comments section of the AF Form 4350. (T-2)
   1.3.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-2)
 4                                                             AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013


1.4. Grading Instructions. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the standards provided in this volume and assign an
appropriate grade for the area. Derive the overall grade from the area grades based on a
composite for the observed events and tasks IAW this publication. Grading will be conducted in
the following manner: (T-2)
     1.4.1. IEs will use the grading criteria in this volume to determine individual area grades. IE
     judgment must be exercised when the wording for general graded areas is subjective and
     when specific situations are not covered.
     1.4.2. If the examinee receives an unqualified area grade in any of the areas identified as
     critical, an overall qualification level of Q-3 will be assigned for the evaluation.
     1.4.3. IEs will be expected to use their personal experience and knowledge in the assessment
     of examinee performance and determination of overall grade.
     1.4.4. General Criteria. The following grading criteria will be used to grade individual
     items:
        1.4.4.1. Q. Qualified. Performance is correct. Quickly recognizes and corrects errors.
        1.4.4.2. Q-. Qualified with discrepancies. Performance is safe, but indicates limited
        proficiency. Makes errors of omission or commission.
        1.4.4.3. U.   Unqualified.   Performance is unsafe or indicates lack of knowledge or
        ability.
1.5. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training as
necessary. Document additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-2)
1.6. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall unqualified grade (Q-3) will
be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a mission
evaluation, he/she may not perform mission duties or specialized duties unsupervised until
remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a specialized evaluation,
he/she may not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are accomplished, but he/she
may perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-3)
1.7. Documentation. Units will document intelligence evaluations on AF Form 4350 and in
coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013                                                                    5


                                           Chapter 2

                             EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. Evaluation requirements are listed in Table 2.1. All required areas must be
included in the intelligence evaluation. If the IE determines the required area cannot be
adequately evaluated in a realistic environment (or by an alternate method), an additional
evaluation will be necessary to complete the requirements. (T-2)
2.2. Evaluation Cycle. Periodic evaluations will be conducted on a 20-month cycle.
Evaluations expire on the last day of the 19th month following the month in which the task phase
was successfully completed. The individual will enter the eligibility window 14 months after the
INIT MSN/MSN evaluation (6-month period prior to expiration date). Extensions may be
granted by the Chief of Wing Intelligence IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2.
2.3. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
   2.3.1. Knowledge Evaluation. . Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the
   initial and periodic mission qualification evaluations to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency
   in KC-10 systems and capabilities, threat knowledge, visual recognition (VR), personnel
   recovery (PR) and intelligence integration in force protection (FP) academics and KC-10 unit
   intelligence procedures. For mission qualification evaluations (initial and periodic),
   examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit’s master question file (MQF) that
   covers: KC-10 weapons systems, threats, personnel recovery and intelligence integration in
   force protection academics. Examinees will take a separate VR test. Both examinations will
   be recorded on the AF Form 4350. Knowledge examinations may also be required during
   specialized qualification evaluations.      Reference Table 2.1 for required knowledge
   examinations. (T-2)
   2.3.2. Task Evaluation. Units will assemble evaluation materials using current intelligence,
   unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR) scenarios that incorporate all appropriate
   evaluation requirements from Table 2.1. Research, Analysis and Dissemination (RAD)
   involves knowledge intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the
   evaluation and will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable graded area as indicated on
   individual gradesheets. The following guidelines are provided to assist in constructing
   evaluation materials. (T-2)
       2.3.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). The number of coordinates in the OB plotting
       exercise should be of sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that
       the time taken is beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. Examinee should have
       a variety of threats/items to plot to ensure correct symbology is used. The exercise will
       include both geographic coordinates (geocoords) and Military Grid Reference System
       (MGRS) coordinates. The scenario may include erroneous information to mirror the fog
       of war by including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats for that
       particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to identify errors
       and question the validity of information. The examinee may use MIL STD 2525C,
       Common Warfighting Symbology, and US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps
       Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics for
 6                                                            AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013


       reference. When using a scenario developed by the examinee, OB coordinates listed on
       the Mission Evaluation Worksheet will be evaluated by the IE for accuracy.
       2.3.2.2. Automated OB. Examinee should be provided with a variety of OB sources
       from which to pull data. When using an examinee-developed scenario, evaluate the
       examinee’s ability to develop and save threat files; insert accurate data; load, update and
       purge data to ensure quality control of the displayed data; and question the information’s
       accuracy for a particular AOR. Ensure the opportunity exists for the examinee to be
       evaluated on his or her ability to manipulate OB displays and print using the intelligence
       support systems available. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates
       between geocoords and MGRS and DD/MM/SS to DD/MM.mm.
       2.3.2.3. Intelligence Briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information
       provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports, imagery, and other
       sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may be used to fulfill this
       requirement. Evaluated briefings include: pre-deployment briefing and pre-mission
       briefing.
       2.3.2.4. Air Tasking Order (ATO), Airspace Control Order (ACO), and Special
       Instructions (SPINS). Scenario, actual contingency, or exercise materials may be used
       for this purpose. Provide enough information that the examinee’s unit is not the sole unit
       tasked on the ATO. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency
       in identifying and breaking out the elements of ATO/ACO/SPINS to include unit tasking,
       air space control, combat search and rescue, receiver and track data.
       2.3.2.5. Intelligence Integration in Mission Planning. Actual contingency planning or
       exercise materials and imagery may be used. Ensure the scenario includes a semi-
       permissive environment. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s
       proficiency in planning, coordinating and conducting the entire unit-level mission
       planning process.
       2.3.2.6. Debriefing. Aircrew debriefings should be conducted with aircrew whenever
       possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with aircrew to identify
       a particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity to
       represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR
       tasking. Grade the examinee’s ability to control the debriefing, ask amplifying questions
       and recognize irrelevant information.
       2.3.2.7. Intelligence Reports. Mission reports (MISREP) and intelligence reports
       (INTREP) should be constructed using information provided in the aircrew debriefing.
       MISREPs and INTREPs should be completed IAW MAJCOM/theater intelligence
       reporting directives.
2.4. External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation (EIT). EIT evaluations will consist of a
knowledge examination and a task evaluation conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Only
qualified EITs may conduct unsupervised intelligence training for aircrew, security forces (SF)
or any other organization outside the Intelligence Flight. Upon completion of EIT training
profiles, the EIT will demonstrate knowledge of the information presented by successfully
completing a test based on the questions from the Master Question File (MQF) (85 percent
minimum to pass). The EIT also will be evaluated on his or her ability to present training in each
AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013                                                                     7


applicable sub-category (threat knowledge, VR, Collection and Reporting, PR, FP Intelligence
Training). Evaluators will give the examinee no less than four hours notice of the subject matter
or briefing topic for the evaluation. (T-2)
   2.4.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
   training in one or more individual EIT events at a time. The individual must complete the
   specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing element by
   an IE. The individual must maintain currency for the subject matter and must be reevaluated
   periodically. (T-2)
   2.4.2. Subsequent EIT evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
   evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated.
   2.4.3. An EIT receiving a grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area
   must not perform EIT duties until additional training is complete. This restriction is placed
   in the Comments section and “yes” is marked in Restrictions on the AF Form 4350. An EIT
   receiving an area grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area will result in
   an overall Q-3 for the EIT evaluation. (T-2)
   2.4.4. All EITs will be graded using the criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
2.5. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified as IEs upon completion of the IE specialized training
profiles, successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the Chief of Wing Intelligence. IEs will
be graded using criteria in Chapter 3. (T-2)
   2.5.1. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation.
   2.5.2. An IE receiving a grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area must
   not perform IE duties until additional training is complete. This restriction is placed in the
   Comments section and “yes” is marked in Restrictions on the AF Form 4350. An IE
   receiving an area grade of “U” or “with additional training” in any grading area will result in
   an overall Q-3 for the IE evaluation. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
      R = Required area of evaluation
      INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
      MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
      EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
      IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
               AREA TITLE                     MQT or ST       INIT         MSN    EIT       IE
                                               Gradesheet     MSN
                                              Requirement
  Knowledge Evaluation (MQF Test)                                R          R      R
  KC-10 Weapons Systems Academics                 Yes
  AOR Threat Academics                            Yes
  Visual Recognition                              Yes            R          R      R
  Personnel Recovery (PR) Academics               Yes
  Intelligence Integration in FP                  Yes
  RAD                                             Yes
8                                           AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013


Manual OB                             Yes     R
Automated OB                          Yes     R      R
Changeover Briefing                   Yes
Pre-deployment Briefing               Yes     R      R
Situation Briefing                    Yes
ATO/ACO/SPINS Breakout                Yes     R      R
Intelligence Integration in Mission   Yes     R
Planning
Pre-mission Briefing                  Yes     R      R
Debriefing                            Yes     R      R
Intelligence Reports                  Yes     R      R
Instructional Ability                 Yes                   R
Evaluator Ability                     Yes                           R
AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013                                                                     9



                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Grading Standards. The grading criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: General Grading Criteria and Specialized Qualification Grading Criteria. Use
applicable sections depending on the events performed on the evaluation.
   3.1.1. Use all sections of criteria applicable to the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
   3.1.2. Where major areas are divided into sub-areas, only one grade will be assigned to the
   major areas. Annotate discrepancies in sub-areas in the comments section of the AF Form
   4350. (T-2)
   3.1.3. Gradesheets are included in Attachment 4 of AFI 14-2KC-10, Volume 1, to assist the
   IE in determining the overall qualification and in documenting the Form 4350.
   3.1.4. Security will be considered in all evaluations.
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to
mission qualification tasks.

Table 3.1. General Grading Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q    Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on MQF.
 Q-   Not applicable.
 U    Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 VISUAL RECOGNITION
 Q    Correctly identified 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 Q-   Not applicable.
 U    Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 MANUAL OB
 Q    Without the use of automated intelligence support systems and IAW MIL STD
      2525C and FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, accurately plotted all threats/items within .5nm of
      center point of coordinates on a tactical pilotage chart (TPC) (or larger scale chart),
      consistently used correct OB symbology, identified inconsistencies or errors in OB.
      Plotted to appropriate level of detail according to unit requirements. Accurately
      maintained OB to unit specifications, including classification and currency. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-   Plotted 95% of the order of battle within .5nm of center point of coordinates on a
      TPC (or larger scale chart), the remaining 5% within 1nm on a TPC (or larger scale
      chart). Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little prompting.
 U    Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors
      or inconsistencies in OB. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision or
      intervention. Incorrect classification.
 AUTOMATED OB
 Q    Demonstrated proficiency in using applicable intelligence support systems to
      maintain orders of battle, including current as of times and classification. Able to
10                                                        AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013


     input OB manually with zero typographical errors. Successfully downloaded,
     printed, exported and displayed data. Able to manipulate data, display appropriate
     threat rings and perform terrain masking analysis. Able to utilize applicable tools to
     aid in mission planning. Demonstrated ability to convert coordinates between
     geocoords and MGRS and DD/MM/SS to DD/MM.mm. Correct classification and
     security markings on all products.
Q-   Required some assistance, but no impact on mission success.
U    Required significant assistance. Lacked proficiency in operating intelligence support
     systems to the detriment of mission success. Incorrect classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q    Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas. Demonstrated
     clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass on to next shift.
     Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding
     of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
     identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience.
     Correctly annotated event log, identified significant events and issued PUC/TUCs.
     Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-   Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
     prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.
     relocation, attacks, etc.) vs. poor planning.
U    Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist
     usage. Deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even
     with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next shift. Missed significant
     information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
     understanding of capabilities or limitations of unit assets or the impact information
     may have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
PRE-DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q    Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist or local
     procedures. Tailored, relevant content appropriate for audience. Include the most
     dangerous and the most likely courses of action. Easily understood by audience.
     Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience. Hit key points
     including synopsis of military and political situation generating the deployment, and
     enemy activity and force disposition in AOR and along deployment route.
     Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
     mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to
     discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
     limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly.
     Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-   Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission.
     Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U    Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key
     areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
     Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor
     understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information
     may have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013                                                               11


 Q    Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, well-tailored analysis
      relevant to audience. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
      limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly identified significant
      information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Fielded questions
      correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-   Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, redundant.
 U    Failed to use checklist. Content not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas.
      Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed
      significant information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
      understanding of capabilities or limitations of unit assets or the impact information
      may have on the mission. Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information.
      Incorrect classification.
 ATO/ACO/SPINS BREAKOUT
 Q    Demonstrated ability to access correct ATO/ACO/SPINS and any changes.
      Correctly extracted mission tasking, airspace control measures, receiver data and
      other information relevant to unit or tasking. Correct classification and security
      markings on all products.
 Q-   Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
      intelligence integration in mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed
      some assistance.
 U    Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have impacted
      mission planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention.
      Incorrect classification.
 INTELLIGENCE INTEGRATION IN MISSION PLANNING
 Q    Coordinated activities with operations/route planners/USAF SF Ravens IAW local
      procedures. Demonstrated proficiency in individual duty position responsibilities.
      Clearly understood mission tasking and was able to address all factors relevant to the
      mission. When appropriate, provided logical route recommendations and route/track
      and airfield analysis. Well organized and fully prepared. Made appropriate selection
      and effective use of planning materials and resources. Provided all mission materials
      in correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials neat and well organized.
      Considered all factors that could impact successful mission accomplishment.
      Provided thorough terrain analysis with respect to threats, airfield, route and track
      area. Identified shortfalls in information and appropriately submitted RFIs. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-   Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact mission planning. Able to
      recover with minor prompting.
 U    Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized or unprepared. Made errors or omissions
      that could have prevented an effective mission. Displayed faulty or limited
      knowledge of factors relevant to the mission. Improper use of mission planning tools
      or materials. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
12                                                         AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013


     Poor understanding of capabilities or limitations of unit assets which may have
     negatively impacted the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification
     and security markings.
PRE-MISSION BRIEFING
Q    Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
     Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail,
     covered all applicable items IAW checklists: airfield, takeoff, en route, track area and
     appropriate PR considerations. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information
     that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods
     and sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated
     understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis.
     Demonstrated ability to create and manipulate 4D (3D visualization plus time)
     models and overlays using visualization and analysis tools and programs IAW current
     guidance. Demonstrated ability to build 3D models of varying products (e.g. mission
     route, threat locations, airfield structures at deployment or enemy airbase locations,
     structures or terrain in LZ/DZ, mission routes, detection/engagement rings). Integrate
     with 3D visualization and time-stamped (4th dimension) threat data to support FP as
     appropriate. Correct classification and security markings on all products. Fielded
     questions correctly.
Q-   Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
     omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on mission. Needs
     improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
     redundant. Provided extraneous information. Needed some assistance with 4D
     modeling but did not impact mission.
U    Failed to use checklist. Did not brief all threats directly impacting the mission. Very
     confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information, unable to recover with
     prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
     Fabricated information. Lacked competence in building or manipulation of
     information using 4D analysis tools and programs, required detailed assistance or
     products incorrectly formulated. Demonstrated lack of understanding of the KC-10
     mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
DEBRIEFING
Q    Thoroughly prepared and able to extract pertinent mission results in timely manner.
     Quickly identified perishable information. Controlled the debriefing, asked
     amplifying questions and recognized irrelevant information. Collected all significant
     intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish reporting requirements IAW
     checklists and theater directives. Identified significant events. Correct classification
     and security markings on all products.
Q-   Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some amplifying questions that
     would have enhanced detail of information gathered.
U    Failed to use checklist. Not prepared. Disjointed flow. Failed to identify perishable
     information. Completely missed a debrief. Not enough detail to accomplish
     reporting requirements. Incorrect classification.
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
Q    Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
     available with minimal to no extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting
AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013                                                                    13


         timelines. Produced report IAW checklists and theater directives. Identified
         significant events. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-      Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
         extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting,
         but pertinent information was included.
 U       Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Failed to use checklist.
         Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills complicated meaning of information
         or omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct
         users through appropriate channels). Incorrect classification.
3.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following grading criteria apply to
duty positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications.

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Trainer Specialized Training Grading Criteria.
 EIT KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q          Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on MQF.
 Q-         Not applicable.
 U          Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 EIT VISUAL RECOGNITION
 Q         Correctly identified 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 Q-        Not applicable.
 U         Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in visual recognition test.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY
 Q         Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and
           made timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Effectively fielded and
           accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated subject matter
           knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference
           materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-        Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures,
           requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or
           organization of instruction. Did not adversely affect training.
 U         Inability to communicate instruction to the audience effectively. Did not plan
           training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training.
           Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of
           knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness.
           Incorrect classification and security markings.

Table 3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Grading Criteria.
 EVALUATOR ABILITY
 Q       Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned efficiently, made timely
         decisions, incorporated all objectives. Completed appropriate evaluation records
         accurately. Adequately assessed and recorded performance. Comments clear and
         pertinent. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-      Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures,
         requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or
         organization of evaluation. Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors
14                                                 AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013


     or omissions in evaluation records. Comments incomplete or slightly unclear.
U    Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did
     not plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected
     the evaluation process. Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, mission or
     threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from evaluator
     effectiveness. Did not complete required forms or records. Comments were
     invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document performance. Incorrect
     classification and security markings.




                                  LARRY D. JAMES , Lieutenant General, USAF
                                  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                  Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013                                                           15


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-2KC-10, Volume 1, KC-10 Unit Intelligence Training, 7 March 2013
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer
FP—Force Protection
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT—Initial (Evaluation)
 16                                                        AFI 14-2KC-10V2 7 March 2013


INTREP—Intelligence Report
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
SPINS—Special Instructions
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TPC—Tactical Pilotage Chart
TUC—Threat Update Code
VR—Visual Recognition

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC levels.
