BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-301 VOLUME 4
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                         21 FEBRUARY 2008
                                                                Certified Current, 17 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                                                      Flying Operations

                                                      AIRCREW LASER EYE PROTECTION (ALEP)




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-AT                                                     Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O-A
                                                                            (Brig Gen Lyn D. Sherlock)
                                                                                            Pages: 15

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-3, Aircrew Flight Equipment, and
defines the Aircrew Laser Eye Protection (ALEP) program. It describes design criteria used in the devel-
opment of laser protective devices, operational considerations, training, fit, inspection, maintenance and
immediate response procedures to follow after suspected laser exposure. Procedures outlined in this doc-
ument apply to all Air Force personnel, including air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) mem-
bers. Send comments and suggested improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication, through the appropriate MAJCOM. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will con-
vert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Waivers may not be granted
in application of this publication. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the United States Air
Force.
2                                                                   AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008


                                                Chapter 1

                        AIRCREW LASER EYE PROTECTION PROGRAM

1.1. Introduction. Protecting aircrews from harmful lasers is a complex problem involving science,
intelligence and medicine in the context of an operational scenario. There are numerous factors that must
be considered as part of developmental requirements such as: compatibility with different aircraft cockpit
displays, type mission, head gear, night vision devices, vision correction, device weight, field of view and
other human system integration issues. An effective program requires a general understanding of laser
threats, inherent system hazards, and a coordinated interaction between medical, laser safety experts
(bioenvironmental engineers or health physicists), intelligence, aircrew and Aircrew Flight Equipment
personnel.
    1.1.1. Laser Threat. Aggressive foreign laser development, availability of low cost hazardous com-
    mercial devices, growing number of our own laser designators, range finders and hand held pointers
    continues to increase the chance of exposure. In 1995, Vienna Protocol IV to the 1980 Conference of
    the States Parties to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conven-
    tional Weapons (CCW) was drafted, banning use and transfer of laser weapons whose primary pur-
    pose is to permanently blind. Although Protocol IV may be viewed as successful in prohibiting use
    and transfer of a specific category of anti-personnel weapon, we must prepare for inadvertent expo-
    sure and enemies who may not abide by such protocols. For these reasons, the Air Force approved
    Aircrew Laser Eye Protection (ALEP) Operational Requirements Document in 1996 to begin formal
    development and acquisition programs.
    1.1.2. Laser Hazard. LASER is an acronym for Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radi-
    ation. Lasers produce a coherent intense beam of light and under certain circumstances exposure can
    result in damage to the human eye or skin. The human eye is the most vulnerable to injury from lasers
    in the visible region (400-700nm wavelengths) but are also vulnerable to longer wavelengths of invis-
    ible lasers in the near infrared region (700-1100nm) and shorter wavelengths in the ultra-violet region.
    Lasers can cause eye injuries at ranges up to several miles and incur a "dazzling" effect at even greater
    distances, particularly at night. Reflection within the cockpit when using a hand held laser pointer also
    presents a hazard to aircrew.
       1.1.2.1. Lasers damage human eyes at ranges up to several miles and cause a "dazzling" effect at
       even greater distances (particularly at night). Dazzling occurs when Lasers interact with cockpit
       illumination and scatter light resulting in the inability of aircrew to perform their mission.
       1.1.2.2. Reflective energy released from a hand held Laser pointer in an aircraft cockpit presents
       a potential hazard to aircrew not wearing appropriate Laser eye protection.

1.2. Acquisition Strategy. Headquarters Air Combat Command (ACC) is the lead command for acquisi-
tion of aircrew laser eye protection. ACC/A8SR tasked MAJCOM Aircrew Flight Equipment functional
managers to report command requirements for ALEP devices. Aggregate requirements are established
and requisitions are programmed to fill unit demands. The acquisition strategy for ALEP is the evolution-
ary acquisition approach. In this process, a desired capability is identified and threshold objectives are
refined through controlled technological demonstrations and risk management with continuous user feed-
back. Each increment of development provides the user an improved capability. Requirements for future
AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                            3


increments depend on user feedback, threat assessments and technological maturity. The approving
authority for use of all aircrew laser eye protective devices is referenced in AFOSH STD 48-139.

1.3. Information/Asset Security. Information disclosing specific characteristics of laser protective
devices is classified IAW provisions of the Aircrew Laser Eye Protection Security Classification Guide
(77AESG/YACL, 7909 Lindbergh Dr., Brooks AFB, TX 78235-5352, telephone COM (210) 536-5464 or
DSN 240-5464). Request for information defining specific characteristics of laser protective devices
should be directed to Headquarters Air Combat Command, Flight Operations and Training Branch (ACC/
A3TO), Langley AFB Virginia.

1.4. Disposition of Protective Devices. Laser eye protective devices should be secured to prevent pilfer-
age. Units having condemned or otherwise unserviceable spectacles will maintain positive control storing
assets until they are physically destroyed or returned to Standard Base Supply System (SBSS).
   1.4.1. Destruction of ALEP. The preferred method of disposal for all ALEP is to incinerate the lenses.
   AFE personnel should crush lenses and hand carry debris to Intel, (or follow specific installation burn
   procedures as applicable) for burn. Intel has the capability of burning spectacles in a burn bag.

1.5. Responsibilities:
   1.5.1. MAJCOM.
       1.5.1.1. Will develop a Laser Eye Protection Training course that educates aircrew on the proper
       wear and protection capabilities of each available device.
   1.5.2. Laser Safety Officer (LSO). ANSI Z136.1 specifies any facility using Class 3b or Class 4 lasers
   or laser systems to designate a Laser Safety Officer to oversee safety for all operational, maintenance
   and servicing units.
       1.5.2.1. Is responsible for establishing a squadron Laser safety training program and ensuring all
       personnel using hand held Lasers or have a requirement to wear ALEP receive Laser Awareness
       Training.
       1.5.2.2. Will train unit personnel on hazards surrounding an active Laser and appropriate safety
       equipment available for use when working around or handling an active Laser.
       1.5.2.3. In an environment where exposure is possible, LSO duties and responsibilities may be
       assumed by the Aircrew Flight Equipment Officer (FEO).
       1.5.2.4. Consult AFOSH STD 48-139 for further information on LSO duties and responsibilities.
   1.5.3. Aircrew Flight Equipment. Aircrew flight Equipment will fit, inspect, maintain and train air-
   crew on proper use of laser protective devices defined in this instruction.
   1.5.4. Aerospace Medicine.
       1.5.4.1. Local flight surgeons, in concert with Optometrists, Ophthalmologists, Physiologists and/
       or Bioenvironmental Engineers will ensure aircrew members are familiar with different effects
       lasers have on the eye.
       1.5.4.2. Flight surgeons will perform laser eye examinations for aircrew as outlined in AFOSH
       STD 48-139.
4                                                                   AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008


       1.5.4.3. Optometrists will ensure refractive ALEP devices, when available, meet individual cor-
       rective vision specifications and are properly fitted.
    1.5.5. Intelligence. Unit intelligence agencies will ensure aircrew is briefed on potential laser threat
    types and locations. Additionally, intelligence personnel will ensure aircrew receive current threat
    assessment data during mission profile briefings.
       1.5.5.1. Will ensure adequate procedures are in place to capture and promptly disseminate
       reported incidents of Laser exposure involving aircrew.
    1.5.6. Air Force Safety Center (AFSC). AFSC, as chairs of the AF Laser System Safety Review
    Board (LSSRB), reviews CONOPS, TTPs for operational laser devices and associated use of ALEP,
    providing guidance as necessary. ALEP use is part of the LSSRB review process ultimately leading to
    AF Safety certification for lasers, as required by AFOSH-STD 48-139.
AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                               5


                                                Chapter 2

                                              OPERATIONS

2.1. Operational Use of ALEP. ALEP should be worn when there is any risk of a laser exposure. AFI
14-105 ACC Sup1 gives A2 the responsibility to brief aircrew on relevant laser incidents so aircrew can
plan accordingly. Based on the threat environment, local commanders have discretionary control over
ALEP wear policy for their subordinates. When ALEP is worn together with NVGs, aircrews are advised
to perform a preflight and sight adjustment wearing both. This preflight/adjustment will ensure any
changes to visual acuity are identified before flight.

2.2. Medical Examination. A medical eye examination is required for personnel who routinely work in
a laser hazardous environment. Aircrew who operate in an environment where they could be exposed to
any laser are required to get a prescreening eye examination. This examination will document the condi-
tion of the eye before working in the Laser hazardous environment. A comparative examination will be
conducted upon termination of duties.

2.3. Selecting Appropriate Laser Eye Protection. Laser eye protection is designed to protect aircrew
from specific laser irradiation transmitted at visible and invisible wavelengths. Incorrect usage or subject-
ing laser protective devices to conditions outside specific design capabilities will result in a degradation
of performance and potential risk of exposure to harmful laser energy. When selecting an ALEP device
consider the following criteria:
   2.3.1. Laser Threat. Unit intelligence personnel should provide aircrew information on known laser
   threats in the current theater of operation. Aircrew should then pass that information to AFE who
   in-turn will select a Laser protective device capable of countering the threat.
   2.3.2. Types of ALEP. Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel should provide aircrew information on
   the protective characteristics of ALEP available for use. Specific wavelength protection offered by
   each device is classified and available upon request from ACC/A3TO, DSN 574-3063. Information is
   also at A3TO and A3TV web pages at: https://a3.acc.af.mil/dot/index.asp. Further information
   about ALEP is available at the Eye Protection Task Force SIPRNET site at
   http://www.a3a5.hq.af.smil.mil/a5r/a5re/docs/eyeprotection.htm.
   2.3.3. Side Protection. Some Laser protective devices are available with and without side protection.
   ALEP with side protection is required when employing hand held laser pointers in the aircraft to pre-
   vent exposure to reflective energy. Side protection should also be employed when wearing NVGs.
   Although NVGs provide a level of laser eye protection from exposures along the axis of the eye, with-
   out the proper side protection given by the approved ALEP, there is a chance of incurring an off-axis
   exposure.

2.4. Suspected Laser Exposure. If exposed to a laser, the aircraft commander will ensure appropriate
command and control, intelligence, safety and medical agencies are notified as soon as possible. Aircrew
who suspect exposure to laser radiation from either friendly or hostile sources should report to the Flight
Surgeon’s Office (FSO) or nearest emergency room where individual can be examined by an ophthalmol-
ogist immediately upon landing. The FSO will manage and coordinate the event with MAJCOM, USAF-
SAM/AFC, 77th AESG/YA and AFRL as directed by AFOSH STD 48-139. More information about
6                                                                       AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008


historical incidents and exposure reporting procedures is available on the SIPRNET at:
http:\www.naic.wrightpatterson.af.smil.mil/DEW/LE/index.html.
    2.4.1. If exposure comes from a friendly source, the mishap should also be reported through appropri-
    ate safety channels, and if required, documented in the Air Force Safety Automation System. Consult
    AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, for further guidance.

2.5. Initial Response. When encountering laser illumination, aircrew should not stare at the laser source,
but transition to aircraft instruments and turn away from the threat. Aircrews should recognize the laser
may be associated with a weapon posing a greater threat and initiate appropriate evasive action. If a laser
threat exists in vicinity of an airfield of intended arrival or departure, ALEP devices should be donned
prior to descent from cruise altitude, or prior to takeoff, as applicable. Doffing of ALEP devices after
departing a defined laser threat area or after landing is left to discretion of the aircraft commander. The
following procedures should be implemented immediately following suspected laser exposure.
    2.5.1. Look away from laser source; do not remove night vision goggles.
    2.5.2. Transition to aircraft instruments.
    2.5.3. In a multi-seat aircraft, if exposed pilot is flying the aircraft, transfer control to unaffected pilot.
    2.5.4. Assess visual functionality. If visual disturbance persists for more than 60 seconds, declare
    in-flight emergency and return to base as soon as practical.
    2.5.5. Notify command and control agency of suspected laser incident.
    2.5.6. Avoid rubbing eyes.
    2.5.7. If vision returns to normal and there is no pain within 3-5 minutes, the Aircraft Commander
    (AC) will consider the value of continuing the mission against potential loss of a aircrew member who
    may have sustained eye damage. The AC will determine whether or not to return to base.
    2.5.8. Upon return to base, accomplish intelligence debrief and report suspected laser exposure inci-
    dents IAW procedures at: http:\www.naic.wrightpatterson.af.smil.mil/DEW/LE/index.html.
    2.5.9. Aircrew who suspect exposure to laser radiation from either friendly or hostile sources should
    report to Flight Surgeon’s Office (FSO) or nearest emergency room where they can be examined by an
    ophthalmologist immediately upon landing. Also contact the Tri-Service Laser Injury Hotline at
    800-473-3549 or laser.safety@brooks.af.mil. For more information see the Laser Safety Website
    https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/LaserHotline.
AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                                7


                                                 Chapter 3

                                                TRAINING

3.1. Laser Safety Training Requirements. General Laser Awareness Training is required for all aircrew
as part of Initial Physiological Training. Specific training is required for aircrew using hand held Lasers or
operating in an environment where ALEP will worn. Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel maintaining
Laser pointers or assigned to an AFE shop maintaining Laser pointers are required to receive General
Laser Awareness Training and specific training on relevant equipment within their control.

3.2. Training Curriculum. The LSO will conduct General Laser Awareness Training. Aircrew Flight
Equipment will train aircrew on the different types of ALEP available for use against a Laser hazard or
threat and limitations of ALEP maintained. ALEP training is the collective responsibility of the Laser
Safety Officer, Aircrew Flight Equipment, Intelligence and Aerospace Medical personnel. Training
should be conducted upon assignment to laser duties with refresher training accomplished annually using
MAJCOM approved academics (AFOSH STD 48-139).

3.3. Initial Training. Initial training will be completed by each aircrew member prior to use of any
ALEP device. Specific training requirements are defined in attachment 2, Training Syllabus and Instruc-
tor Guide. Units should expand this guide to include unit specific safety training requirements. Training
should also cover specific AFE equipment integration issues interfering with proper wear of laser eye pro-
tection. Initial training is conducted before an individual is allowed to handle a Laser pointer.

3.4. Refresher Training. ALEP refresher training is accomplished annually and may be combined with
AFE equipment event training (LL06). Refresher training may be abbreviated where necessary to focus
attention on equipment configuration changes and/or implementation procedures changed during the year.

3.5. Training Documentation. Documentation of training should be consistent with good records keep-
ing, and training events should be recorded in Automated Records Management System (ARMS) or other
currency tracking systems.

3.6. Instructor Training Certification. Wing/Unit designated personnel will conduct initial and annual
refresher training. A qualified wing or squadron level AFE instructor as defined in AFI 11-301V1, with
assistance of representatives from appropriate support agencies listed in Chapter 1 of this instruction will
provide training on the functions, characteristics, capabilities and limitations of unit assigned ALEP. The
Master Lesson Plan is maintained on the 361 TRS/TRR CoP at https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/
ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=AE-OP-00-01. Wings are expected to supplement the Master Lesson
Plan as necessary to incorporate known threat related data. The ALEP Instructor Guide will be reviewed
and approved annually by ACC/A3TOA Aircrew Flight Equipment . Air National Guard units should
route changes through ANG/A3OS. Be aware Instructor Guides containing sensitive information will
require a comparable security level control.
8                                                                   AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008


                                                Chapter 4

     DESCRIPTION, FITTING, INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES FOR
                                 ALEP DEVICES

4.1. Description, Fitting, Inspection and Maintenance Procedures. Technical guidance for descrip-
tion, fitting, inspection and maintenance of FV-9, Block 0, Block 0+, Block 1 and JCAS (JHMCS Com-
patible ALEP Spectacle) laser protective devices is defined in this chapter. Aircrew Flight Equipment
personnel are responsible for fitting, periodic inspection and routine maintenance of aircrew laser eye pro-
tective devices. When not in use, Laser protective devices will be securely stored to prevent theft, damage
or unwarranted misuse.

4.2. Glendale FV-9 Santa Cruz Spectacle.
    4.2.1. Item Description. The Glendale FV-9 Santa Cruz spectacle consist of a monolithic polycar-
    bonate lens formed through an injection molding process and incorporates an absorptive dye that is
    designed to absorb laser emissions in near infrared energy spectral region. The FV-9 will protect the
    wearer from Laser energy emitted from Air Commander’s Pointer. For more specific information on
    wavelength specifications contact ACC/A3TOA Command Aircrew Flight Equipment section.
    4.2.2. Capability. The FV-9 transmits 50% of visible light and will protect wearer from Laser energy
    emitted from militarily significant infrared designators and pointers operating in infrared spectral
    region. The FV-9 is compatible with NVGs and Heads-Up-Displays. The FV-9 spectacles provide side
    protection in a wraparound frame design and are authorized for use with handheld lasers.
    4.2.3. Warnings and Limitations. FV-9 ALEP devices are designed to protect against specific laser
    energy wavelength in the non-visible region. Incorrect usage or subjecting spectacles to conditions
    outside certified specifications may result in a degradation of performance and potential risk of expos-
    ing the user to a laser hazard/threat. Never use ALEP to intentionally view a laser.
    4.2.4. Fitting. FV-9 spectacles are designed with adjustable temple pieces to allow spectacles to fit
    close to the face. Expand or contract temple pieces to obtain a close comfortable fit.
    4.2.5. Pre-Use Inspection and Maintenance. Inspect ALEP spectacles for visible lens scratches or
    frame damage. Always store the spectacles in the provided protective case when not in use.
    4.2.6. Periodic Inspection and Maintenance. The following inspection requirements are provided
    to extend serviceability of FV-9 spectacles and will be accomplished by AFE personnel every 180
    days. Document inspection in Aircrew Life Support Management System (ALSMS) or other
    approved electronic tracking system.
       4.2.6.1. Visually inspect lenses for scratches and remove from service spectacles displaying
       scratches in the primary focal region. Surface scratches remove absorptive dyes and reduce optical
       density. Replacement assets are available through base supply under Federal Stock Number
       4240-01-458-5567.
       4.2.6.2. Visually inspect to ensure lenses are secure in the frame. Any sign of frame damage is
       reason to remove spectacles from service.
       4.2.6.3. Clean lenses using cloth and plastic lens cleaner supplied with the spectacles.
AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                             9


4.3. Block Zero (CLEPIR ) Spectacle.
   4.3.1. Item Description. Block 0 spectacles are designed to fit in the Air Force Frame and were pro-
   cured as a COTS item. The spectacle is composed of a thin film containing the laser protective prop-
   erties bonded between two polycarbonate elements laminated together to form a lens. The lenses are
   then glazed into the Air Force Frame and temple arm is etched with a serial number. Each spectacle
   lens is custom fitted to the frame and is not interchangeable.
   4.3.2. Capability. Block 0 spectacles provide laser protection by reflecting a percentage of incident
   radiation. The spectacle can minimize temporary effects of dazzle or glare and prevent permanent eye
   damage from low power lasers in selected visible and invisible spectral regions. Block 0 spectacles
   are optimized for night operations and may be prone to exhibit signs of reflection or glare when worn
   during daylight hours. Attachable side shield protection is available for use with Block 0 spectacles
   from Glendale Technologies. Specific wavelength characteristics of this device are available upon
   request from ACC/A3TOA, Langley AFB VA.
   4.3.3. Warnings and Limitations. ALEP devices are designed to protect against specific laser
   energy wavelengths. Therefore, incorrect usage or subjecting the spectacles to conditions outside cer-
   tified specifications may result in a degradation of performance and potential risk of exposing the user
   to a laser hazard/threat. The Aerospace Systems Group, 77 AESG/YA has certified Block 0 spectacles
   safe for flight during day and night operations. Subsequently, any pair of spectacles viewed as exces-
   sively reflective should be annotated and removed from service.
   4.3.4. Fitting. Spectacles should be properly fitted prior to use in a laser hazard/threat area. They
   should fit as close to the face as possible maximizing the area of protection. There should be minimal
   gaps between the frame and side of the nose. Temple’s arms should press lightly against side of the
   head, and earpieces should curve downward following the back of ear to prevent spectacle from slid-
   ing out of position.
   4.3.5. Pre-Use Inspection and Maintenance.
      4.3.5.1. Check spectacle frame for signs of damage.
      4.3.5.2. Check to ensure lenses are secure in the frame.
      4.3.5.3. Store spectacles in micro fiber cloth bag and hard carrying case when not in use. Basic
      information on use, storage and cleaning is included in the hard carrying case.
      4.3.5.4. Remove dust on optical lens surface with the cleaning bag provided. Ensure cleaning bag
      is itself clean prior to use. The cloth bag can be cleaned as necessary by hand or machine-washed
      in water temperatures up to 140°F.
      4.3.5.5. Remove mud or grit from lens surface with clean water. Dirt and grime should be
      removed using a water moistened lens tissue taking care not to trap abrasive matter between the
      tissue and polycarbonate surfaces. Soap or a mild detergent similar to Ivory Liquid should be used
      to remove greasy stains or smears. Do not use petroleum spirit or other solvents to clean specta-
      cles. Dry the optical surfaces using a clean dry lens tissue.
   4.3.6. Periodic Inspection and Maintenance.
      4.3.6.1. Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel will inspect Block 0 spectacles for serviceability
      upon receipt and every 180 days thereafter. Document inspection in ALSMS or other approved
      electronic tracking system.
10                                                                  AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008


        4.3.6.2. Inspect lenses for signs of delamination. Delamination can be verified by carefully look-
        ing through the spectacle lenses from a distance of approximately 12 inches. Delamination will
        look like growth rings on a tree cross-section, a series of partial rings or slight color differences
        from rest of the lens. Delamination usually starts in the corners of the lens. Except in extreme
        cases, delamination does not diminish laser protection properties. Do not use if either lens shows
        signs of delamination between front and rear polycarbonate that affects aircrew vision or exceeds
        4mm in any direction.
        4.3.6.3. Visually inspect and ensure individual lenses are secure in frame. If the frame is damaged,
        lenses cannot be recovered for further use because lenses are custom matched to each frame.
        4.3.6.4. Remove from service spectacles displaying scratches in primary focal region. Lenses are
        coated with an anti-reflective coating that does not impact performance of the laser protective
        properties when scratched. However, scratches may be distracting when appearing in the primary
        focal region and should be removed from service.

4.4. Block Zero Plus Spectacle (Model B) and Clip-on (Model D)
     4.4.1. Item Description. Block 0+ laser protective devices were procured as COTS items in FY02
     and were available in two configurations; an Air Force Frame spectacle and a clip-on device. The
     spectacle and clip-on have two lenses constructed of a polycarbonate optical element. There is a poly-
     carbonate element on the outer surface and a polycarbonate optical element on the inner surface. A
     thin film containing laser protective properties is bonded between polycarbonate elements and lami-
     nated together to form the lenses. Lenses are glazed into frame and etched with a serial number. Each
     spectacle lens is custom fitted to the frame and is not interchangeable.
     4.4.2. Capability. Block 0+ ALEP devices provide laser protection by reflecting and absorbing a per-
     centage of incident radiation. This device can minimize temporary effects of dazzle or glare and pre-
     vent permanent eye damage from lasers in selected visible and invisible spectral regions. Housed in
     Air Force Frame, Block 0+ ALEP extends capability of Block 0 by adding additional bands of protec-
     tion. Also, Block 0+ ALEP is provided as a clip-on for aviators who wear prescription spectacles.
     Clip-on spectacles are attachable to standard medium size 55mm Air Force Frame. For additional
     information on protective characteristics of this device, contact HQ ACC/A3TOA, Langley AFB VA.
     4.4.3. Warnings and Limitations. Block 0+ ALEP added protection beyond Block 0 and are certi-
     fied safe for flight. Wearing Block 0+ may result in a slight change in appearance of some colors.
     However, any pair of spectacles observed to promote excessive reflection or color shifts should be
     annotated and removed from service. Spectacles should not be exposed to temperatures below - 4°F or
     above 131°F.
     4.4.4. Fitting. Block 0+ spectacles should be fitted using the following procedures.
        4.4.4.1. Fit spectacles as close to face as possible with minimal gaps between the frame and side
        of the nose. The nose pads can be adjusted with needle nose pliers to minimize gaps, reduce
        entrance of stray radiation and improve comfort. The temple arms should press lightly against side
        of the head and earpieces should curve downward following back of the ear to prevent spectacles
        from sliding out of position.
        4.4.4.2. Block 0+ Clip-On (Model D) is designed to attach to outer surface of the new AFF (a.k.a.
        IAS) aircrew spectacle 55mm frame. Clip-on attachment hooks should tightly "grasp" spectacle
AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                            11


      frame. Do not attempt to attach the clip-on to older style aircrew frame. Doing so will damage
      clip-on and create a FOD hazard.
      4.4.4.3. Users requiring prescription capability have two options available.
          4.4.4.3.1. Option 1: A combination of contact lens and the Model B spectacle.
          4.4.4.3.2. Option 2: A combination of aircrew prescription spectacles and Model D clip-on.
          While this option provides the required capability, it adds additional weight to spectacle, cre-
          ates additional reflections and some loss of visual acuity.
   4.4.5. Pre-Use Inspection and Maintenance.
      4.4.5.1. Check spectacle frame for signs of damage.
      4.4.5.2. Check to ensure lenses are secure in the frame.
      4.4.5.3. Store spectacles in micro fiber cloth bag and hard carrying case when not in use. Basic
      information on use, storage and cleaning is included in hard carrying case.
      4.4.5.4. Remove dust on the optical lens surface with cleaning bag provided. Ensure cleaning bag
      is itself clean prior to use. The cloth bag can be cleaned as necessary by hand or machine-washed
      in water temperatures up to 140°F.
      4.4.5.5. Remove mud or grit from lens surface with clean water. Dirt and grime should be
      removed using a water moistened lens tissue taking care not to trap abrasive matter between the
      tissue and polycarbonate surfaces. Soap or a mild detergent similar to Ivory Liquid should be used
      to remove greasy stains or smears. Do not use petroleum spirit or other solvents to clean specta-
      cles. Dry the optical surfaces using a clean dry lens tissue.
   4.4.6. Periodic Inspection and Maintenance.
      4.4.6.1. Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel will inspect Block 0+ spectacle/Clip-on for service-
      ability upon receipt and every 180 days thereafter. Document inspection in ALSMS or other
      approved electronic tracking system.
      4.4.6.2. Inspect lenses for signs of delamination. Delamination can be verified by carefully look-
      ing through spectacle lenses from a distance of approximately 12 inches. Delamination will look
      like growth rings on a tree cross-section, a series of partial rings or slight color differences from
      rest of the lens. Delamination usually starts in the corners of the lens. Except in extreme cases,
      delamination does not diminish laser protection properties. Do not use if either lens show signs of
      delamination between front and rear polycarbonate that affects aircrew vision or exceeds 4mm in
      any direction.
      4.4.6.3. Visually inspect and ensure individual lenses are secure in the frame. If the frame is dam-
      aged, lenses cannot be recovered for further use because lenses are custom matched to each frame.
      4.4.6.4. Lenses are coated with an anti-reflective coating that does not impact performance of
      laser protective properties when scratched. However, scratches may be distracting when appearing
      in the primary focal region and may require removed from service.

4.5. Block One Spectacle.
   4.5.1. Item Description. The spectacles consist of a TR-90 nylon front frame, TR-90 nylon temple
   pieces, a metal nosepad assembly with cushioned nosepads and polycarbonate laser protective lenses.
12                                                                    AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008


     Eight stainless steel screws secure all parts. In addition, the lenses are secured with a silicone adhe-
     sive. Three frame sizes are available to allow correct fitting for different users. The three sizes vary in
     their interpupilary distance (IPD). IPD is the distance between the centers of the user’s pupils, and is
     measured in millimeters. The three frame sizes available are 57 mm (small), 63 mm (medium) and 69
     mm (large). These three sizes allow a +/- 4 mm IPD variation.
     4.5.2. Capability. Block 1 spectacles will minimize temporary effects (e.g., dazzle or glare) and per-
     manent eye damage from lasers in selected wavelengths in the visible, Ultraviolet (UV) and Near
     Infrared (NIR) regions. Spectacle design provides wide-angle protection against off-axis laser threats
     and accommodates aviators with and without prescription spectacles. Block 1 spectacles are compati-
     ble with all AFE equipment with exception of the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System and NVGs.
     4.5.3. Warnings and Limitations. Wearing Block 1 ALEP may cause some difficulty in determining
     the actual color of runway/tower lighting. Green runway threshold/tower lights may appear yellow
     while white lights may pink. Aircrew should receive specific training unique to Block 1 to ensure they
     can identify runway/tower lighting patterns while wearing the device. Block 1 spectacles are not
     approved for use with NVGs.
     4.5.4. Fitting. Block 1 spectacles must be precisely fitted to user. The technology used to provide
     wavelength protection is highly “eye centered”. If device is not properly fitted when worn, the user
     may lose some wavelength protection, may not be able to view some instrument displays or may
     experience some loss of visual acuity. Issuing this device to persons other than the fitted user is highly
     discouraged. Specific fitting instructions are contained in Block 1 technical manual 14P3-9-51.
     4.5.5. Pre-Use Inspection and Maintenance. Consult specific Block 1 technical manual for pre-use
     inspection and maintenance procedures.
     4.5.6. Periodic Inspection and Maintenance.
        4.5.6.1. Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel will inspect Block 1 for serviceability upon receipt
        and every 180 days thereafter. Document inspection in ALSMS or other approved electronic
        tracking system.
        4.5.6.2. Inspect lenses for signs of delamination. Delamination can be verified by carefully look-
        ing through spectacle lenses from a distance of approximately 12 inches. Delamination will look
        like growth rings on a tree cross-section, a series of partial rings or slight color differences from
        rest of the lens. Delamination usually starts in the corners of the lens. Except in extreme cases,
        delamination does not diminish laser protection properties. Do not use if either lens show signs of
        delamination between front and rear polycarbonate that affects aircrew vision or exceeds 4mm in
        any direction.
        4.5.6.3. Refer to 14P4-5-91 for additional inspection criteria.

4.6. JCAS (JHMCS Compatible ALEP Spectacles)
     4.6.1. Item Description. The JCAS design is a rapid response effort to provide laser protection for
     JHMCS users. The required laser protection is contained within a laminated polycarbonate lens struc-
     ture. The JCAS lenses are housed in the Low Pro Wrap frame providing a one-size-fits-all configura-
     tion. Each spectacle is marked with a serial number and identification code on the frame. JCAS is
     visually compatible with JHMCS (Joint Helmeted Mounted Cueing System) display and designed to
     work with the 40% JHMCS visor. Required design trades eliminated prescription capability and
AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                            13


   reduced field of regard coverage (compared to Block 1) to accommodate fit in limited space behind
   the JHMCS visor.
   4.6.2. Capability. JCAS spectacles implement technologies that reflect or absorb specific laser
   wavelengths. JCAS will minimize temporary effects (e.g., dazzle or glare) and permanent eye damage
   from lasers of selected wavelengths in UV, visible, and NIR. JCAS does not provide vision correction
   for prescription wearers and is not designed for night use. JCAS spectacles are optimized for day use
   with 40% JHMCS visor and are fit compatible with JHMCS helmet/visor/mask system.
   4.6.3. Warnings and Limitations. Wearing JCAS may cause some difficulty in determining actual
   color of lighting and may cause some color shifts. Aircrew should receive specific training unique to
   JCAS to ensure they can identify lighting patterns and color shifts while wearing the device. JCAS
   spectacles are day-only devices optimized for performance and protection with 40% JHMCS visor.
   JCAS is not intended for night use. Always store JCAS in the protective case to prevent unnecessary
   solarization of the lenses.
   4.6.4. Fitting. JCAS is provided in one size to fit all users. AFE Technicians fit JCAS to pilots by
   adjusting temple arms and nose pads to accommodate oxygen mask and JHMCS visor while provid-
   ing optimal lens coverage over each eye. Spectacles must be properly fitted prior to use in a laser haz-
   ard/threat area. Specific fitting instructions are contained in the JCAS Technical Manual.
   4.6.5. Pre-Use Inspection and Maintenance. Inspect JCAS spectacles for visible lens scratches or
   frame damage. Use only the cleaning cloth/bag provided or high quality lens tissue for wiping the
   lens. Always store spectacles in protective case when not in use. Consult JCAS Technical Manual for
   specific pre-use inspection and maintenance procedures.
   4.6.6. Periodic Inspection and Maintenance.
      4.6.6.1. Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel will inspect JCAS spectacles for serviceability upon
      receipt and every 180 days thereafter. Document inspection in ALSMS or other approved elec-
      tronic tracking system. The JCAS frame and lenses will be inspected for damage or defects.
      4.6.6.2. Inspect lenses for signs of delamination. Delamination can be verified by carefully look-
      ing through spectacle lenses from a distance of approximately 12 inches. Delamination will look
      like growth rings on a tree cross-section, a series of partial rings or slight color differences from
      rest of the lens. Delamination usually starts in the corners of the lens. Except in extreme cases,
      delamination does not diminish laser protection properties. Do not use if either lens show signs of
      delamination between front and rear polycarbonate that affects aircrew vision or exceeds 4mm in
      any direction.
      4.6.6.3. Refer to JCAS technical manual for additional inspection criteria.

4.7. Forms Adopted. AFTO Form 334-CG, Helmet and Oxygen Mask/Connector Inspection Data, AF
Form 1522, ARMS Additional Training Accomplishment Input and AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication



                                               DANIEL J. DARNELL, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
14                                                            AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008


                                          Attachment 1

       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND TERMS

References
AFPD 11-3, Life Support, 09 Apr 1993
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management. 01 Nov 2005
AFI 16-201, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments, 01 Dec 2004
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 01 Jun 1995
AFOSH STD 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 Dec 1999
ANZI Z136.1, The American National Standard for the Safe Use of Lasers, copyright 1993
ARMY FM 8-50, Prevention and Medical Management of Laser Injuries, 08 Aug 1990
ASCC Air Standard 61/115/14A, Initial Investigation and Intermediate Management of Laser Eye Dam-
age in Aircrew, 19 Nov 1992
NATO-AGARD AGARDOGRAPH AR-354, The Evaluation and Management of Laser Injuries, copy-
right 2003
USAFSAM-TR-88-2, Medical Management of Combat Eye Injuries, Dec 1990
Military Handbook 828A

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACDE—Aircrew Chemical Defense Equipment
ACP—Air Command Pointer
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFF—Air Force Frame
AFOSH STD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
ALEP—Aircrew Laser Eye Protection
ALSMS—Aircrew Flight Equipment Management System
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ARMS—Automated Records Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AFI11-301V4 21 FEBRUARY 2008                                               15


CAF—Combat Air Force
CA/CRL—Customer Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
COTS—Commercial Off the Shelf
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
FEO—Flight Equipment Officer
IPNVG—Integrated Panoramic Night Vision Goggles
IAS—Improved Aircrew Spectacle (also referred to as the Air Force Frame)
IPD—Interpupillary Distance
IR—Infrared
JCAS —JHMCS Compatible ALEP Spectacles
JHMCS —Joint-Helmeted Mounted Cueing System
JSAM—Joint Services Aircrew Mask
LASER—Light Amplification through Stimulated Emission of Radiation
LSO—LASER Safety Officer
LSSRB—Laser System Safety Review Board
MAF—Mobility Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Air Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
NIR—Near Infrared
NVG—Night Vision Goggles
OPSEC—Operational Security
PACAF—Pacific Air Force
Rx—Prescription
SPO—System Program Office
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Network
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFSAM—United States School of Aerospace Medicine
UV—Ultraviolet
VRAD—Virtual Risk Assessment Database
