Administrative Change to AFI 11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP, UH-1N Helicopter Operations
Procedures

Old OPR: AFSPC/A3NH

New OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3IH (Lt Col Douglas Robertson)

New Short Title: AFI 11-2UH-1NV3_AFGSCSUP

References to Air Force Space Command are hereby changed to Air Force Global Strike
Command throughout the publication

References to AFSPC are hereby changed to AFGSC throughout the publication

References to A3N are hereby changed to A3I throughout the publication

References to A3NH are hereby changed to A3IH throughout the publication

Effective: 1 December 2009
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2UH-1N
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                                            VOLUME 3

                                                                      AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
                                                                                       Supplement
                                                                                     15 OCTOBER 2007
                                                                           Certified Current 17 July 2008
                                                                                       Flying Operations

                                                                 UH-1N HELICOPTER OPERATIONS
                                                                                 PROCEDURES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms/IMTs are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: A3NH                                                  Certified by: A3N (Col Robert A. Beardslee)
                                                                                            Pages: 10

This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-2UH-1N, Vol-
ume 3, UH-1N Helicopter Operations Procedures, 27 December 2006. This supplement describes
AFSPC’s procedures for use in conjunction with the basic AFI. Requirements of this supplement apply to
all AFSPC helicopter flying units and AFSPC helicopter aircrew personnel. Attachment 2 (Added) con-
tains details on missions, procedures and guidelines specific to AFSPC operations. It does not apply to Air
National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command units. Users should send comments and suggested
improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to HQ
AFSPC/A3NH, 150 Vandenberg Street, Suite 1105, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4180.
This instruction requires collecting and or maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 37 United States Code (USC) Section 301a and EO 9397. System of records notice F011
AF XO A Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS) applies. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 37-123, Management of
Records (will convert to 33-363) and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
1.5. Supplements. Unit supplements must be at the operations group level. Coordination will include at
a minimum: squadron DOV, squadron commander, OGVH (if available), operations group commander to
20 AF/A3H. Approval authority for unit supplements is 20 AF/A3H with informational copies forwarded
to AFSPC/A3NH.
2.5.7. (Added) FCF Co-pilots/Flight Engineer. The primary role of the FCF co-pilot/FE is to read the
checklist, record data and to assist the pilot in maintaining situational awareness. Co-pilots/FEs will not
be in control of the aircraft during FCF maneuvers.
2.6. Minimum Crew. With the exception of authorized supervisory flight (IAW AFI 11-401) only qual-
ified UH-1N pilots will be in control of the aircraft.
2                                                 AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007


Table 2.1. Crew Complement.
                                     Minimum Required Crewmembers1
           Mission/Profile           Pilots         FE (or AG for     Pilot or FE     Scanner5
                                                    AFSOC)            or AG
           Night Unaided             1                                17
           Day Low Level 3           1                                17              1
           Formation                 1                                17
           FCF                       1                                1
           NOTE: 7. (Added) (AFSPC Only) Pilot.

2.7.1. For purposes of this paragraph, within AFSPC, Operational Support Flyers are considered passen-
gers.
2.12.1. (Added) For planned stopovers remaining off-station overnight, aircrews will ensure adequate
aircraft security is provided as long as they remain off-station. To the maximum extent possible, helicop-
ter crews will leave unattended aircraft overnight at secure military facilities. If no military airfield is
available and mission requirements dictate, crews will plan to overnight at a commercial airfield (where
security is increased due to commercial launch operations). As a last resort, only if mission requirements
dictate remaining overnight at an unsecure airfield, aircrews will ensure adequate aircraft security is pro-
vided by bringing their own security personnel, contracting for security through local law enforcement or
a commercial security firm, or as an absolute last resort, securing the aircraft with an aircraft lock-up kit.
Refer to AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program, for security requirements for Protection
Level 4 (PL-4) assets.
2.24.1. NVG low-level operations are not authorized, except as required in the terminal landing area.
2.24.2. NVG water operations are not authorized.
2.25. Obstacle Clearance. Without wing walker, avoid taxi obstructions by 25 feet; with wing walkers,
by 10 feet. When taxi clearance is doubtful; use a wing walker.

Table 2.2. Mission Kit Contents (Minimum).
Flight Documents                                              Flight Publications
- ORM worksheets                                              - LF Diagrams

2.41. (Added) Operations Duty Desk. The following outline minimum essential elements of the opera-
tions duty desk to ensure the positive supervision and control of AFSPC flying activities. Units will
develop local procedures for how to execute the function of the operations duty desk. This may be accom-
plished in a supplement to this instruction or local operating instruction. As a minimum, local procedures
will address Operations Duty Officer (ODO) and Operations Assistant (OA) responsibilities/duties and
unit leadership expectations for execution of these duties, procedures for assisting unit aircraft during
emergency situations, flight following procedures and requirements, duty desk requirements, and proce-
dures for handling short notice support requests. Units will maintain a list of those individuals qualified to
be ODO or OA and those qualified as ODO or OA instructors.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007                                                                         3


2.41.1. (Added) The unit commander is responsible for every aspect of the flying environment. The unit
Director of Operations (DO) will establish procedures to ensure that the operations duty desk is manned
during periods of flying activity within the local flying area. Unit commanders may designate an ODO/
OA program manager responsible for maintaining training program records, ODO/OA fly away kits, read
files, quick reaction checklists, publications, forms and any other items associated with the ODO/OA pro-
gram.
2.41.2. (Added) Operations Duty Officer (ODO). The ODO is the unit-designated representative to
ensure the safe and efficient conduct of flying operations on a daily basis. The ODO provides efficient
supervision and control of all unit aircraft and flying activities and assesses any need for change in oper-
ating status. The ODO must be a qualified aircraft commander in the unit aircraft and mission. The
ODO’s primary duty location will be the operations duty desk. The ODO may be away from the desk for
short periods of time provided the OA is present at the desk. This does not preclude the ODO and OA
from evacuating the operations duty desk and/or building in the event of emergency. Unit local proce-
dures will address specifics for this occurrence. The ODO will review and initial the risk assessment and
accomplish the aircrew briefing prior to their launch.
2.41.3. (Added) Operations Assistant (OA). The OA is an assistant to the ODO. The ODO and OA may
not be the same person. The OA may be any unit member after being assigned to the unit for a minimum
of three months.
2.41.4. (Added) Training requirements. In their local procedures units will outline specific training
requirements to be an ODO and/or OA. At a minimum ODO’s and OA’s will receive three documented
training sessions from qualified ODO/OA instructors. ODO/OA instructors are those individuals identi-
fied by the unit DO as those personnel qualified to instruct ODO/OA duties. They do not have to be air-
crew instructors. ODO instructors can instruct both ODO’s and OA’s. OA instructors can only instruct
OA’s.
3.10.2. Unit current weight and balance data must include as a minimum, the following items:
3.10.2.1. (Added) Computed DD Forms 365-4 reflecting configurations applicable to normal unit opera-
tions.
3.10.2.2. (Added) Equipment Weight Listing (a list of commonly carried equipment and its weight).
3.10.2.3. (Added) Equipment Configuration List (lists or diagrams depicting configurations applicable to
normal unit operations.
3.10.3.1. Seat Cushions and Back Supports. Any seat cushion and/or back support utilized in the helicop-
ter must be secured to the aircraft. The seat construction in the aircraft must remain the same.
4.3.1.5. Instructor pilot candidates may perform or supervise simulated emergencies during initial evalu-
ations under the supervision of an evaluator pilot not in a pilot seat if the other pilot at the controls is qual-
ified to instruct all qualification events.
4.3.4. (Added) Aircrew training will only be accomplished at airports, helipads listed in FLIP, designated
operational sites, slide landing training areas, and helicopter landing zones (IAW AFI 13-217, Drop Zone
And Landing Zone Operations).
4.3.4.1. (Added) Emergency procedures training accomplished at non-military airfields require a memo-
randum of agreement or similar document between the space wing and the airfield manager (or equiva-
lent). All training conducted at operational sites or helicopter landing zones not on military property
4                                                AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007


require a memorandum of agreement or similar document between the space wing and the landowner or
controlling agency.
4.3.5. (Added) All AFSPC slide areas established after 1 Nov 2001 must comply with the requirements
of UFC 3-260-01. Units must coordinate their new slide area plans through HQ AFSPC/CE to confirm
compliance with UFC 3-260-01.
4.3.5.1. (Added) AFSPC slide areas established prior to 1 Nov 2001 must meet a minimum length crite-
rion of 1,000 ft and width of 100 ft. Additionally, a 500 ft rectangular buffer zone will be established
around the entire slide area, such that the dimensions of the training area are 2,000 ft long by 1,100 ft
wide. This buffer zone is considered a movement area during the times when the slide landing training
area is active. Operation of vehicles or personnel within the movement area without prior approval from
the controlling authority is prohibited. Measures to ensure the enforcement of the movement area restric-
tions must be established and briefed to any individual or organization that may be affected. The approach
and departure path areas, as defined by a 300 ft wide area extended along the extended slide area center-
line, contained within the 500 ft buffer zone, cannot contain any fixed obstructions. The remaining por-
tions of the buffer zone may contain fixed obstructions, provided they do not pose a hazard to flight
operations. Waivers to the above criteria will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Submit waiver
requests to HQ AFSPC/A3NH for coordination and approval.
4.3.5.2. (Added) Units must have a one-time Base Civil Engineering survey of all slide areas to determine
the actual slope, size, and soil/surface conditions and provide documentation of the results to the unit.
Units must ensure their slide area(s) are in compliance with the requirements of 4.3.2.1. above or the
requirements found in UFC 3-260-01 for newly constructed slide areas. Units will forward a copy of all
survey results to HQ AFSPC/SEF.
4.3.5.3. (Added) The unit commander must certify slide landing training areas annually. The certification
will include:
4.3.5.3.1. (Added) An inspection of the area for general slide landing suitability. The area must be free of
debris, obstructions, uneven terrain, and other hazardous conditions.
4.3.5.3.2. (Added) A flight planning map/depiction of the slide area should highlight all normal and
unusual conditions. For example: slope, size, magnetic directions, and location of any known obstructions
(wind socks, tires, etc.).
4.3.5.3.3. (Added) Special attention should be paid to assessing the area’s visual perspective. If there are
any significant terrain features in or near the area (to include distant horizons) they must be annotated on
the slide area map.
4.4.3.1.4. (Added) Slide Takeoff. Perform IAW the flight manual. Maintain constant alignment during
the takeoff with tail-rotor pedals throughout the maneuver. Be cognizant of nose low tendencies, espe-
cially when the aircraft is equipped with the FLIR.
5.5. Operational Sites. All missile alert facilities (MAFs) and launch facilities (LFs) are considered
operational sites. However, crews will use procedures described under paragraph 5.6. for landing at LFs.
5.5.1. Site diagrams will be prepared for all MAFs and LFs. GPS coordinates will not be included on the
diagrams for security reasons. Crews should review the site diagram when practical, prior to accomplish-
ing the approach and landing or takeoff.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007                                                                 5


5.5.3. Do not descend below 50 feet AHO or decelerate below 50 KIAS during the operational site eval-
uation.
5.6. Non-surveyed/Unprepared Landing Area Procedures. If a site diagram exists for the intended
landing area. Crews should review the site diagram when practical, prior to accomplishing the approach
and landing or takeoff.
6.2.1.2. Taping of exterior lights is not authorized
6.6.1. MAFs meet the illumination requirements for helicopter landing areas.
7.5.2. Search Speed: During preliminary searches, use recommended airspeed computed from the flight
manual. This allows the maximum area coverage for the least fuel. During concentrated searches, con-
sider the time available to search the area in determining the search airspeed. Use of maximum endurance
airspeed maximizes the time available, but a slower airspeed may be desired, depending in the visibility,
vegetation, and size of the search object.
7.5.8. (Added) Track Spacing. Determine the track spacing that permits the best chance of objective
detection and best use of search resources. Normally, use greater track spacing during preliminary
searches than during concentrated searches. For concentrated searches, assuming adequate time is avail-
able to search the area, track spacing should not exceed twice the visual detection range. Use the visual
detection ranges specified in Table 7.2. and crew judgment to determine detection ranges.
7.6.2. AFSPC crews will not conduct night unaided search training.
7.6.3. (Added) Search Altitude. Base search altitude on the object of search, weather, location aids used,
and any other known factors. Lower search altitudes afford a better chance of seeing an object. For pre-
liminary searches, use higher altitudes to detect possible signals at greater distances. Recommended
search altitudes are shown in Table 7.8. (Added).
7.7. Search Patterns. The size of the search area, number of search aircraft available and the probability
of finding the objective determine the intensity of search coverage. Two types of search coverage are pre-
liminary and concentrated. Preliminary search coverage is used during the initial phases of the mission,
electronic searches and during night searches when appropriate. It permits rapid and reasonably thorough
coverage of the primary area. Use this type of search coverage if the search objective can be easily
located, sighted or contacted. Generally use route, parallel and/or creeping line search patterns with
higher altitudes, faster airspeeds and greater track spacing. Concentrated search coverage is used during
the maximum effort phase of a mission or when attempting to locate a sighting or objective whose loca-
tion is fairly well known. This type of search coverage results in a more thorough search of the objective
area. Generally use expanding square, parallel, creeping line or sector search patterns at low altitudes,
slow airspeeds and smaller track spacing.
6                                               AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007


Table 7.8. (Added) Recommended Search Altitudes.
Over Water
500 feet and below        Survivor without raft or dye marker
500 feet to 1000 feet     Survivor in raft without dye marker or signaling device
1000 feet to 2500 feet    If survivor has dye marker
1000 feet to 3000 feet    If survivor has signaling device/radar reflector
2000 feet to 3000 feet    When expecting to find wreckage during the initial phase of the mission
500 feet to 2000 feet     Night
Over Land
500 feet                  Survivors on level terrain with heavy foliage
1000 feet                 Survivors on level terrain with light foliage
500 feet to 1000 feet     Survivors in mountainous terrain
2000 feet                 When expecting to find wreckage
1000 to 2000 feet         Night
Electronic Beacons
8000 feet or higher

8.2.1. AFSPC helicopter squadrons will define/establish in writing their specific low altitude training
area boundaries using readily identifiable geographic features and/or GPS coordinates.
8.15.5.7. (Added) Examples of threat calls are: "BREAK LEFT, BANDIT, TEN O'CLOCK, HIGH,
FIVE MILES, FAST MOVER." "BREAK RIGHT, SAM, FOUR O'CLOCK, LOW, TWO MILES."
9.6.1.1. Minimum separation is 3 RD below 300’ AGL except as required in the terminal landing envi-
ronment.
9.6.1.2. Minimum separation is 3 RD below 300’ AGL except as required in the terminal landing envi-
ronment.
9.14. Lost Visual Procedures. When conducting the following maneuvers for training purposes, aircrew
will preface the appropriate call with “Simulated.” E.g. “LEAD, TWO IS SIMULATED LOST WING-
MAN”
11.9. Rescue Devices. When using the hoist at night a chem light will be attached to the hoist hook even
if the hoist hook has a rescue device attached. One chem light will also be attached to the paddle when
using the forest penetrator.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007                                                    7


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
JP3-50, Personnel Recovery, 5 January 2007
AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program, 1 March 2003
AFTTP 3-1.UH- 1, (S) Tactical Employment – UH-1N, 19 March 2007
AFSPCI10-139, Helicopter Capabilities and Mission Descriptions, 1 March 2001
AFSPCI 31-1101, Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Systems Security Standard (DODUCNI)
(FOUO), 1 December 2004

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRCC—Air Force Rescue Coordination Center
AFT—Airborne Fire Team
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
LF—Launch Facility
8                                                 AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007


                                          Attachment 2 (Added)

                           (ADDED) AFSPC ICBM SUPPORT MISSIONS
NOTE: AFSPCI10-139, Helicopter Capabilities and Mission Descriptions is the source document for
AFSPC ICBM Support Missions.

Section A (Added)––AFSPC ICBM SUPPORT MISSIONS
A2.1. (Added) General. Air Force Space Command uses helicopters to support ICBM operations at 20th
Air Force Space Wings. Representative missions include security operations, Emergency War Order Sup-
port and operations and maintenance support. The purpose of this attachment is to describe AFSPC oper-
ational procedures for ICBM support missions.
A2.2. (Added) Mission. The mission of AFSPC helicopter flights is to provide helicopter support along
the full spectrum of conflict to each parent space wing. Helicopters provide a flexible, rapid response plat-
form to support space wing efforts to generate and/or launch sorties, to ensure the physical security of
ICBM weapon system components and to support operations and maintenance in sustaining the ICBM
alert rate.
A2.2.1. (Added) The type of support required is dependent on the specific scenario, and may include such
missions as security force insertion/response, convoy operations, delivery of essential maintenance parts
or equipment, or personnel transport. Units will posture their resources to provide support to the maxi-
mum extent possible.
A2.2.2. (Added) See AFSPCI 10-139 for details of the AFSPC helicopter missions listed below.
A2.2.2.1. (Added) ICBM Convoy Operations
A2.2.2.2. (Added) Security Force Insertion.
A2.2.2.3. (Added) Security Force Transportation.
A2.2.2.4. (Added) Direct Mission Support.
A2.2.2.5. (Added) Medical Evacuation (MEDEVAC).
A2.2.2.6. (Added) Search and Rescue (SAR).
A2.2.2.7. (Added) Humanitarian Relief Operations.
A2.2.2.8. (Added) Other Support.
A2.2.2.9. (Added) Exercise Support.
A2.2.2.10. (Added) Assistance to Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies.
A2.2.2.11. (Added) Military Support to Civil Authorities.

Section B (Added)–– AFSPC ICBM SUPPORT PROCEDURES
A2.3. (Added) Convoy Procedures. Conduct convoy escort as specified in AFSPCI 31-1101, Intercon-
tinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Systems Security Standard (DODUCNI) (FOUO), AFTTP 3-1.UH- 1,
(S) Tactical Employment – UH-1N and this attachment.
AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007                                                                    9


A2.3.1. (Added) The wing/group commander is the command authority for the convoy and exercises
operational control over the helicopter resource. His directions are normally received through wing secu-
rity control or the wing command post, depending on location. The convoy commander is the on-scene
commander for the ground forces associated with the convoy; however, authority or responsibility as air-
craft commander will not be relinquished.
A2.3.2. (Added) Normal Procedures:
A2.3.2.1. (Added) Prior to departure, ensure the aircrew is briefed on applicable items contained in
AFSPCI 31-1101. Brief the Airborne Fire Team (AFT) on surveillance and deployment procedures.
A2.3.2.2. (Added) Aircrew members must arm themselves with a personal weapon and wear personal
body armor during convoy operations.
A2.3.2.3. (Added) Prior to departure, establish and maintain radio contact with the convoy.
A2.3.2.4. (Added) Maintain communications with the support base through the command post, security
control, or the helicopter operations section.
A2.3.2.5. (Added) Maintain normal separation from obstacles and structures IAW AF and FAA direc-
tives unless mission requirements dictate otherwise
A2.3.2.6. (Added) One aircraft should remain within five minutes of the convoy unless diverting for
weather.
A2.4. (Added) Security Force Insertion Procedures.
A2.4.1. (Added) Security force insertion usually occurs as close to the objective as threat, terrain and
safety permit. Security Force insertion may involve all the unit’s available resources.
A2.4.1.1. (Added) Backup Force (BF) Employment. The aircraft commander (or lead aircraft com-
mander) is responsible for coordinating with the senior security team member to determine the current
threat and plan of action. The aircraft commander/lead aircraft commander then briefs the other
crew-members. Copilots/flight engineers may be back-briefed by their respective aircraft commanders if
needed to accomplish preflight, TOLD, and engine start (if qualified).
A2.4.1.2. (Added) If insufficient pilots are available, aircraft may be flown single pilot, but not low-level
and not in formation.
A2.4.1.3. (Added) For training purposes, landings are restricted to authorized landing areas unless land-
owners’ permission is obtained.
A2.4.1.4. (Added) All security police will be manifested and receive appropriate passenger briefings
(unless previously trained on helicopter operations).
A2.5. (Added) Cable Route Survey Procedures:
A2.5.1. (Added) The principle component of cable route survey missions is low-level flight. Minimum
altitude is 100 feet AHO. Refer to and comply with chapter 8 for low-level flight considerations. Hover
taxiing to accomplish this survey is not authorized.
A2.5.2. (Added) Two qualified pilots will be used while accomplishing this mission. The pilot not flying
the aircraft will help in tracking the cable route and keep the pilot flying advised of potential hazards and
obstacles. Additionally, an observer will be in the cargo compartment to observe the condition and secu-
rity of the buried cable.
10                                               AFI11-2UH-1NV3_AFSPCSUP 15 OCTOBER 2007


A2.5.3. (Added) As with all types of low level operation, thorough flight planning is critical to mission
safety. Pilots should carefully review the appropriate maps for anticipated hazards to low level flight for
their area of operation. Crew briefings should emphasize crew coordination procedures and climatic con-
cerns (e.g., winds, turbulence, visibility, DA). Consider the activity of other low flying aircraft, such as
military aircraft on published low-level routes and civilian agriculture aircraft and livestock.
A2.5.4. (Added) Landing on the cable right-of-way is authorized. Complete remote site landing proce-
dures prior to landing. The pilot should select the safest landing area on the cable right-of-way within
walking distance of the area requiring inspection. Possible damage to personal property should be consid-
ered.
A2.5.5. (Added) Avoid checking cable routes from a direction that will place the aircraft facing directly
into the sun low on the horizon which would make the detection of power lines and suspended cables
extremely difficult.
A2.5.6. (Added) Cable route survey can be a physically and mentally demanding mission. Frequent
exchange of cockpit duties and shorter duration sorties are helpful in minimizing the fatigue factor.

Section C (Added)–– OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES
A2.6. (Added) Radio Frequencies. HQ AFSPC has authorized the use of 266.2, 271.9, 308.8, and 314.3
MHz for helicopter air support operations. The base frequency manager must approve all frequencies
used to support wing operations.
A2.7. (Added) Operational Requirements.
A2.7.1. (Added) Site diagrams will be maintained for both MAFs and LFs. Mileage and/or time charts
from parent base to missile MAF and from any one MAF to any other MAF will also be maintained. Place
checklist-size site diagrams and mileage and/or time charts in each mission navigation kit. Aircrews will
report any discrepancies between site diagrams and sites to the unit operations officer upon landing.
A2.7.2. (Added) Obtain landing clearance according to local procedures and AFSPCI 31-1101. Do not
land at LFs with transport erectors or RV and/or G&C and PT vans within the fenced area without proper
approval.
A2.7.3. (Added) Immediately report any unusual digging, building, or activity noted around missile sites
or along cable right-of-ways to the base command post.



                                                STANLEY T. KRESGE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Director of Air, Space and Information Operations
