BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2U-2,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 1

                                                                       13 NOVEMBER 2012
                                                   Incorporating Change 1, 21 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                      U-2 UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 38


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in U-2 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting U-2 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items. In order for units to have time to prepare for compliance, this
publication becomes effective 60 days after the publication date.
 2                                                                                 AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                  4
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   4
       1.2.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       4
       1.3.   Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................                7
       1.4.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            7
       1.5.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     8
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     9
       3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
       3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                              9

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                             17
       4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   17
       4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           17
       4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                18
Table 4.1.    U-2 Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements. ...................................                                     18
       4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     19
       4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       19

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                              20
       5.1.   Specialized Training Programs. .............................................................................                  20
       5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        20
Table 5.1.    External Intelligence Trainer Events and Currencies. ...........................................                              21
       5.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................                          22
       5.4.   Emergency War Order (EWO) Support Specialized Training. ..............................                                        22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              24

Attachment 2—EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                                                                                              28
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                      3


Attachment 3—U-2 MISSION QUALIFICATION GRADESHEET ELEMENTS         29

Attachment 4—U-2 SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS          36

Attachment 5—U-2 MISSION QUALIFICATION, SPECIALIZED TRAINING AND
             READY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS               38
 4                                                         AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012



                                             Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
     1.1.1. Scope. This volume outlines the basic policy and guidance for training U-2 unit
     intelligence personnel. With the complementary references cited, this volume prescribes
     procedures to attain and maintain the qualifications and currencies to support U-2 unit
     operations. These training requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented by
     additional unit-level written guidance. Unit-level written guidance may expand upon these
     basic procedures, but in no case will it be less restrictive.
     1.1.2. References. The primary references for U-2 unit intelligence training are AFI 14-2U-
     2, Volume 2, U-2 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 3, U-2 Unit
     Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat
     Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.U-2, Tactical
     Employment—U-2 ; AFTTP 3-3.U-2, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals—U-2 and this
     publication. Training will be current with the latest editions. These references can be
     supplemented with other classified and unclassified authoritative publications such as
     National Air and Space Intelligence Center products, Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis
     Reports, Country Studies, etc. as long as the source is appropriately referenced.
1.2. Responsibilities.
     1.2.1. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202, Volume 1,
     ACC/A2 will:
        1.2.1.1. Coordinate with user MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
        requirements for U-2 intelligence personnel training.
        1.2.1.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
        training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
        (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST).
            1.2.1.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop/maintain and provide a
            training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for U-2 intelligence IQT through
            formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
            1.2.1.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
            baseline threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral
            forces; aircraft, air-to-air missiles, surface to air missiles (SAM)s, electronic warfare
            (EW), directed energy weapons (DEW)s, ground forces and associated equipment,
            naval systems, and asymmetric threat capabilities; to include limitations and
            employment techniques.
            1.2.1.2.3. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
            softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer-generated graphics, and digital
            audiovisual visual recognition training materials covering worldwide adversary,
            neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of battle as well
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                5


         as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and camouflage,
         concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
     1.2.1.3. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIO) and user
     MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
     Provide feedback on lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability
     of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes
     in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level
     'best practices' exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
     1.2.1.4. Assist ACC subordinate units in developing training programs.
     1.2.1.5. Assist user MAJCOMs with U-2 units in providing support to unit training
     programs.
     1.2.1.6. Notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if such
     correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
  1.2.2. All MAJCOMs with U-2 units will:
     1.2.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
     requirements for intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials.
     1.2.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs based
     on this AFI and applicable MAJCOM supplements.
     1.2.2.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
  1.2.3. The unit SIO will:
     1.2.3.1. Develop and execute programs to meet minimum training requirements for
     intelligence personnel. Provide guidance to flying squadron intelligence sections
     regarding execution of training. (T-2)
     1.2.3.2. Appoint in writing an intelligence personnel training program manager (IPTPM)
     to oversee and document orientation training, IQT, MQT, CT, ST and other required
     training by unit personnel. Where assigned, the USAF Intelligence Weapons Instructor
     Course graduate will provide input into the training programs. (T-2)
     1.2.3.3. Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train. All
     intelligence personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.
     Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with
     a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions. (T-2)
     1.2.3.4. Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
     1.2.3.5. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all intelligence personnel.
     Assigned Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) will be trained and equipped
     according to established standards for their respective active duty counterpart. (T-3)
     1.2.3.6. Ensure personnel accomplish ancillary training IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force
     Training Program. Consult with the local unit training manager and unit deployment
     manager for ancillary training requirements specific to the unit and base. (T-2)
6                                                       AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


       1.2.3.7. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and
       current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or
       perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current. (T-2)
       1.2.3.8. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
       the MAJCOM/A2 (courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable). See
       attachment 2 for an example report. (T-2)
       1.2.3.9. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
       lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training
       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
       opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level 'best practices' exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
    1.2.4. Unit IPTPM will:
       1.2.4.1. Develop intelligence personnel training programs with written guidance
       detailing how programs will be conducted. Design training programs to achieve the
       highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and resource availability.
       Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, unit mission and
       capabilities. (T-2)
       1.2.4.2. Use lead MAJCOM-developed training materials to assist in the development
       and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training
       materials to meet unit needs. (T-3)
       1.2.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include
       delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
       1.2.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports as required by local procedures for
       tracking overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.2.4.5. Provide individuals a digital copy of their qualification training and evaluation
       records when they change station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing
       current qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
    1.2.5. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.2.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
       1.2.5.2. Assist the IPTPM in developing and executing unit intelligence qualification
       training and other required training programs. (T-3)
       1.2.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel
       and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
       achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this publication have been met.
       (T-3)
    1.2.6. Intelligence personnel will:
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                      7


       1.2.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       publication and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.2.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
       1.2.6.3. Hand-carry or electronically deliver a digital copy of qualification training and
       evaluation records when changing station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in
       assessing qualifications and training requirements. (T-2)
1.3. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is a venue intended to
facilitate achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. While the SIO
is ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training; professional
development, including intelligence-specific and mission-specific training is the responsibility of
the trainee and supervisor. Training received during internal training may be achieved via skills
practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics or as otherwise
devised by the IPTPM. The internal intelligence training plan will include all identified training
requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
1.4. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks
and achieve CMR status. CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST
qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be
conducted in conjunction with skill-level upgrade training. For a detailed explanation of IQT,
MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202, Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this AFI.
1.5. Documentation. All intelligence training must be documented. Units will document
qualification training on the AF Form 4381 and in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes
regarding online documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                       AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


                                           Chapter 2

                           INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. This chapter outlines IQT for U-2 units’ intelligence personnel. IQT for
intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training (e.g., the Air Force Specialty Code
awarding courses) and concludes with successful completion of the Intelligence Initial
Qualification Course (IIQC). The U-2 IIQC is designed to meet the IQT requirements for
personnel assigned to support the U-2 weapon system. Personnel successfully completing the U-
2 IIQC as described in AFI 14-202, Volume 1 are to be considered Basic Qualified (BQ).
2.2. IQT Requirements.
     2.2.1. IQT will be conducted at the unit using the U-2 IIQC syllabus and training courseware
     provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2)
     2.2.2. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the U-2 IIQC syllabus. Failure to
     complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2 with
     person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated completion date. (T-2)
     2.2.3. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the U-2 IIQC training standard. In-
     unit IQT will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on the individual’s
     proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-2)
     2.2.4. Evaluation and certification will be annotated IAW AF/A2 guidance and approved
     processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                     9


                                            Chapter 3

                          MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting U-2 missions/operations. Guidance in this chapter is
provided to assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program. MQT execution will
take into account the assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience and training,
currency, documented performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. MQT
can be accomplished through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or
other training opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Applicable portions of MQT
will be used to create a requalification program for personnel who are non-CMR or BMC status.
(T-2)
   3.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT;
   however, in situations determined by the SIO, intelligence personnel may begin MQT before
   completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make this option more practical. Member
   must complete IQT and attain BQ status before fully completing MQT and being awarded
   BMC/CMR. (T-3) MQT will be completed within the time specified below. (T-2)
   3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
   ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the
   completion of IQT, if IQT was conducted in-unit. Timelines for completion of MQT for
   each MAJCOM and reporting requirements are specified in the following paragraphs.
       3.1.2.1. For active duty units, MQT will be completed within 120 days.                Notify
       MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
       3.1.2.2. For AFRC units and IMAs, MQT will be completed within 120 days with
       seasoning days. If no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 365
       calendar days, or the execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and
       Annual Training, whichever is earlier. Notify AFRC/A2F, NAF/A2 and gaining
       MAJCOM if training exceeds these timelines. For IMAs, notify MAJCOM Intelligence
       IMA Program Manager, ACC/A2 and AFRC/A2 if training exceeds 365 calendar days.
       (T-2)
   3.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
   timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis.
   3.1.4. The AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, will be used to document the trainee’s
   progression through each individual training item in coordination with AF/A2 approved
   processes regarding online documentation. Specific U-2 MQT intelligence gradesheet
   elements are located in attachment 3. (T-2)
   3.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT, a successful Initial
   Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2; AFI 14-2U-2,
   Volume 2; and SIO endorsement. Refer to AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 2 for a more detailed
   explanation of evaluations.
3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-
 10                                                    AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
MQT program for U-2 intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position (Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs). (T-2)
   3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to unit
   missions for all areas listed below except research, analysis, and dissemination (RAD) by
   successfully completing a test from the unit master question file (MQF) (85 percent
   minimum to pass). (T-2)
       3.2.1.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination and Intelligence Preparation of the
       Operational Environment (IPOE).
          3.2.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
          intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and Operations Plan (OPLAN)/
          Concept of Operations Plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
          knowledge of unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Demonstrate
          knowledge of the strengths and weaknesses of specific types of intelligence in the
          context of the U-2 weapons system and the unit mission. Demonstrate knowledge of
          Intelligence Community analysis centers and intelligence producers useful for
          intelligence applications at the unit level. Demonstrate ability to use combat
          intelligence information systems and software to request intelligence from outside
          sources when unit intelligence holdings are insufficient. Demonstrate ability to use
          message traffic in US Message Text Format (USMTF) or OPLAN/CONPLAN-
          specified formats, to request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence
          holdings are insufficient and combat intelligence information systems are unavailable.
          3.2.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
          intelligence applies to the unit mission, (e.g., what is useful to pilots, mission
          planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not useful). Specific
          tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of intelligence needed by U-2 pilots and mission
          planners for combat operations. Demonstrate knowledge of general intelligence
          requirements of the wing commander, operations group commander and other
          functional areas supported by wing intelligence. Be able to describe the intelligence
          requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s OPLAN/CONPLAN
          tasking.
          3.2.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Show knowledge of unit-level
          resources, points of dissemination and methods of dissemination to pilots, mission
          planners, operations group and wing leadership and other end-users of intelligence as
          determined by the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks:
          Demonstrate knowledge of unit computers, web-based audiovisual and manual
          information displays and dissemination.             Demonstrate knowledge of
          professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure video
          teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination systems
          used by the unit. Demonstrate knowledge of pilot, mission planner and squadron and
          wing leadership information resources and ways to securely integrate updated
          intelligence into the information flow. Demonstrate knowledge of record message
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                               11


        traffic reporting as required for unit operations by OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, as
        applicable. Demonstrate knowledge of methods to identify currency and expiration
        of intelligence provided to end users. Demonstrate knowledge of the fundamentals of
        information security classification marking and controls and knowledge of sources of
        authoritative guidance. Demonstrate knowledge of rules, procedures and restrictions
        for secure transfer of intelligence from various levels of classified intelligence and
        information networks.
        3.2.1.1.4. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment. Objective:
        Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and concepts and understand the analytical
        methodology employed in IPOE. Specific tasks: Be able to describe the IPOE
        process (define the operational environment) as it pertains to the unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Describe the impact of the operational environment,
        evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action (COA).
        Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE products and producers based on unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the ability to identify/extract relevant intelligence
        for U-2 operations.
     3.2.1.2. U-2 Platform and Sensors Academics.            Objective:    Demonstrate an
     understanding of the unit’s specific U-2 platform and sensors, and operations. Specific
     tasks: Demonstrate an understanding of U-2 missions, capabilities and limitations;
     imagery intelligence, signals intelligence, communication architecture, and self-
     protection systems. Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of how Air Force and
     joint doctrine drive the unit’s missions and employment.        Define operational and
     intelligence terms commonly encountered in a U-2 unit.
     3.2.1.3. Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) and the Intelligence Process
     Academics. Objective: Demonstrate comprehension of intelligence, surveillance and
     reconnaissance (ISR) command & control (C2), including the role of the AOC, and other
     theater air control system elements (e.g., the Joint Terminal Attack Controller).
     Demonstrate comprehension of the how the U-2 fits into the intelligence process.
     Specific tasks: Demonstrate an understanding of the air tasking order (ATO) and
     Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition (RSTA) Annex and where U-2
     mission data is contained. Air Force Distributed Common Ground System (AF DCGS).
     Objective: Demonstrate the understanding of the role of AF DCGS in Air Force
     intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) operations.          Specific tasks:
     demonstrate an understanding of U-2 sensor C2, collection and flight planning, collection
     execution, and processing, exploitation and dissemination support for all U-2 mission
     types. Demonstrate an understanding of the role and function of the AF DCGS enterprise
     and how the U-2 interacts with a Distributed Ground System (DGS) unit.
     3.2.1.4. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable area of
     responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge
     of electronic warfare, aircraft, air-to-air missiles, SAMs, DEW, ground forces and
     associated equipment, naval and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations and
     employment techniques of adversary/threat forces, based on unit mission and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Comprehend U-2 defensive maneuvers against these
     threats; demonstrate ability to visually recognize these weapon systems if applicable.
     Identify characteristics and tactics of an integrated air defense system (IADS) (i.e., air
12                                                    AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


     surveillance, battle management, and weapons control).              Demonstrate detailed
     understanding of AOR threats, specifically related to U-2 capabilities and limitations.
     3.2.1.5. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     applicable friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems the unit may expect to
     encounter during employment. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of electronic
     warfare, aircraft, air-to-air missiles, SAMs, DEW, ground forces and associated
     equipment, naval and asymmetric capabilities, limitations and employment techniques of
     friendly and neutral forces that may be encountered in the operational environment, based
     on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.6. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role
     intelligence personnel play in preparing pilots for the possibility of survival, evasion,
     resistance, escape (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     knowledge of theater-specific isolated personnel report (ISOPREP) and evasion plan of
     action (EPA) requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     Demonstrate knowledge of environmental, operations and combat search and rescue
     information contained in the special instructions (SPINS) that will drive intelligence
     requirements during PR operations.
     3.2.1.7. Force Protection (FP) Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate understanding
     of principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks:
     Summarize irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and
     other hot spot areas. Give examples of hostile forces tactics and weapons employment.
     Identify FPI resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and FP conditions. Understand
     unit FP considerations. State facts about base-specific and regional threats.
  3.2.2. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
  IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in researching specific
     threat systems and tailoring the information to the U-2 airframe and countertactics.
     Specific Tasks: Successfully research, compile and develop an accurate, concise briefing
     with focus on the threat relevant to the U-2 mission and capabilities. Present a threat
     briefing for the selected weapons system.
     3.2.2.2. Situation displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing, posting,
     updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without automated
     intelligence system support IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Select the proper medium to
     use for constructing a situation display. Identify the proper components to be included on
     a situation display IAW AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 3. Research, analyze and plot situation
     display elements using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting
     Symbology and US Army Field Manual /US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-
     02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics).
         3.2.2.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
         updating and maintaining OB on situation displays without automated intelligence
         system support IAW OB standards established by the SIO and based on unit mission
         and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Research, analyze and plot OB
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                  13


        using correct symbology. Extract military grid reference system (MGRS) and
        geographic coordinates. Identify critical elements of the table of organization and
        equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Demonstrate understanding of OB
        production sources for the AOR.
        3.2.2.2.2. Automated OB.       Objective:   Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing
        intelligence support systems to download, update, purge and control quality of
        automated OB used on situation displays. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to
        verify accuracy of computer generated symbology. Identify critical elements of the
        table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations.
        Demonstrate understanding of OB production sources for the AOR. Exploit
        intelligence software applications to post and maintain OB and convert MGRS
        coordinates and geographic coordinates.
     3.2.2.3. Initial Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing to the commander and
     staff. Specific tasks: Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Identify and present
     significant events leading to the crisis; adversary, neutral, friendly and/or US political
     decisions or diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the
     mission of the deploying unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber
     and irregular force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary COA; relevant FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage,
     subversion threats); unless briefed by security forces (SF) or Air Force Office of Special
     Investigations (AFOSI); relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers
     to the gaps. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver initial
     situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.4. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis.
     Identify and present changes in the operational environment since the last update.
     Present any enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or
     diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the
     deployed unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular
     force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA for
     the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours (e.g., next shift, next day and through the ATO cycle);
     relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps; and relevant
     FPI for local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or
     AFOSI. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver the
     situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit mission and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.5. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Organize, prioritize and present key
     information at shift changeover IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Provide incoming personnel
     with a summary of events to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing
14                                                       AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


     immediate attention, situation update, a review of threat levels/conditions, briefing
     schedules, work and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team directives, mission
     report (MISREP) status, and other pertinent items. Demonstrate proficiency in using
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
     tools as applied by the unit. Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and conducting a
     changeover briefing.
     3.2.2.6. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing.                  Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate understanding of unit tasking (e.g., warning order (WARNORD), execution
     order (EXORD)) and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) tasking, as
     applicable. Research, and focus intelligence to the unit’s tasked mission, roles and
     combat profiles. Include: Synopsis of political-military situation generating the
     deployment; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force
     disposition and activity along deployment route; relevant FPI for the local area (e.g.,
     terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; relevant
     intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps; most dangerous and
     most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment; possible en route
     hazards to flight, bailout or alternate landing sites (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas);
     reporting instructions and essential elements of information (EEI); and additional items
     as dictated by the local situation. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-
     based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied
     by the unit. Deliver deployment briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the deploying
     commander.
     3.2.2.7. ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target Deck/Airspace Control Order (ACO)/SPINS and
     Other Tasking Documents.            Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in obtaining,
     identifying, downloading and breaking out the applicable elements of the ATO/RSTA
     Annex/ISR Target deck/ACO/SPINS. Specific Tasks: Identify necessary information to
     support the U-2 mission; comprehend how the ATO/RSTA Annex/ ISR Target
     deck/ACO/SPINS are used for mission planning, sensor tasking, support assets, air space
     control, PR, and intelligence related information from tasking orders/messages. Pull the
     named area of interest (NAI) from the RSTA annex and or ISR Target deck.
     Demonstrate breakout of ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target deck/ACO/SPINS with both
     manual and automated techniques and tools IAW prescribed local timelines and format
     requirements. As applicable, identify other types of tasking requests the unit may face in
     particular theaters.
     3.2.2.8. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
     in supporting mission planning by accomplishing appropriate intelligence tasks.. Specific
     tasks: Review the tactical problem/scenario. Analyze the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout,
     unit IPOE threat considerations (e.g., integrated air defense system, air, tactics, terrain,
     and weather, as appropriate). Demonstrate proficiency in providing route and track
     recommendations; describe mission package contents.          Demonstrate proficiency in
     performing route analysis, briefing route planners and aiding in mission package
     construction. Describe the U-2 mission planning process. Demonstrate proficiency in
     conducting an IADS threat study. Demonstrate proficiency in coordinating with
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 15


     operations on bullseye locations, callsigns (package and ISR supporting aircraft), and
     inter-plane frequencies between ISR assets for threat notification, situational awareness
     and/or jamming refinement. Coordinate with operations to recommend/approve mission
     route and track based on threats and terrain analysis. Derive specified and implied
     intelligence requirements from tasking documents; research applicable intelligence;
     define gaps; submit collection requirements and/or request for information (RFI) as
     appropriate. Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing the debriefing log and in pulling NAI
     imagery. Perform intelligence duties in support of an operational mission planning
     exercise. Deliver initial mission planning briefing, as applicable, IAW prescribed local
     timelines, format, security considerations and content requirements
     3.2.2.9. Mission Package Construction. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
     supporting mission planning by accomplishing appropriate intelligence tasks. Specific
     tasks: Identify and obtain geospatial information and services (GI&S) products to build
     mission materials. Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing mission planning software to
     construct mission packages and conduct appropriate research and analysis.
     3.2.2.10. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing, planning,
     coordinating and presenting a mission briefing. Specific Tasks: Extract relevant updates
     from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis (as
     required to fill intelligence gaps). Identify and present changes in the collection area,
     general situation in the NAI, and operational/tactical environment since the last update.
     Present any enemy air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
     activity; relevant FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats);
     unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; target information and tactical situation in the target area.
     Present en route and target area threats (SAMs/air/naval/EW/DEW and spectrum
     interference threats/etc.), PR information, bullseye locations, call signs (package and ISR
     supporting), inter-plane frequencies between ISR assets for threat notification or
     situational awareness, and other factors essential to mission success. Demonstrate
     proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver mission briefing IAW
     standards established by the SIO and commander’s requirements, based on unit mission
     and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.11. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing, coordinating
     and conducting a step briefing. Specific tasks: Construct and deliver a briefing that
     provides pilots with critical last-minute changes in the threat that affect their missions.
     Appropriately identify, research and analyze intelligence updates that may include:
     combat search and rescue responsibilities, new threats (air, air defense, ground, EW,
     etc.), new tactics, PR data changes, latest threat update code (TUC), and any other
     changes impacting the mission. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver step briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit mission
     and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.12. Mission Tracking. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in local procedures for
     monitoring mission execution and in communicating with other agencies and
     coordination centers. Specific tasks: Effectively monitor and use communication
     systems including collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of ongoing
16                                                     AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


     missions. React as necessary to support the mission. Log all communications in locally
     developed mission tracking log. Ensure all missions are debriefed and reported upon.
     Make provisions for diverted missions.
     3.2.2.13. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing. Specific Tasks: Prepare appropriate sections of
     the debrief form/checklist . Extract relevant mission intelligence from pilots. Identify
     time-sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently per
     local/theater guidance. Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements.
     Demonstrate ability to identify key points and develop intelligence by asking amplifying
     questions relevant to the mission. Consult appropriate post flight products. Demonstrate
     ability to control the flow and pace of the debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and
     accurate information collection without wasting time. Demonstrate awareness and
     control of environmental factors that may distract aircrew or impede the debriefing
     process. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual information display and debriefing tools as applied by the unit.
     3.2.2.14. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting accurate MISREPs and other applicable intelligence reports (e.g.,
     intelligence summary (INTSUM) and intelligence report (INTREP)) as required by local
     directives. Specific tasks: Show knowledge of, analyze and extract information from
     pilot-originated reports (in-flight report (INFLTREP) or other formats)). Generate
     intelligence reports using computer and/or manual information systems applied by the
     unit. Validate accuracy and completeness IAW standards established by the SIO, based
     on unit mission and applicable reporting directives. Demonstrate proficiency in using
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual intelligence dissemination tools and
     techniques as applied by the unit. Demonstrate proficiency in drafting, validating and
     transmitting appropriate USMTF intelligence messages when applicable reporting
     directives do not exist.
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    17


                                           Chapter 4

                                CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence currency requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects to maintaining currency. The first consists of
basic intelligence task and knowledge training items.             These training topics ensure
familiarization with local unit intelligence functions, U-2 capabilities and threat system
capabilities. The second aspect is the Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which consists of
specific mission-related training required to accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This guidance is
intended to provide a baseline and may be supplemented by the SIO based on unit requirements.
IPTPMs will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and other resources as needed to
provide the most effective and efficient training. CT must reinforce MQT tasks and facilitate
RIP requirements. Basic knowledge examinations will be compiled from the unit MQF.
Completion of CT tasks will be annotated using the online training documentation system. At a
minimum, the following topics will be covered during CT: (T-2)
   4.2.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.2. U-2 Operations and Capabilities – to include sensors, systems, avionics, tactics,
   mission types and capabilities and limitations.
   4.2.3. Threat Knowledge – to include AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and armaments, SAMs,
   naval and ground threat system capabilities and limitations with respect to U-2 operations.
   4.2.4. Automated Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence
   systems, software applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit
   mission.
   4.2.5. Personnel Recovery – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater
   ISOPREP/EPA requirements and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
   4.2.6. Force Protection Intelligence – to include intelligence support to FP principles;
   irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist
   threat levels and unit force protection considerations.
   4.2.7. Situation Displays – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating
   and maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.2.8. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operation required briefings.
   4.2.9. Support to Mission Planning – to include ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target
   Deck/ACO/SPINS breakout, mission planning software applications and route analysis,
   GI&S familiarization to determine product requirements (quantity, chart type, appropriate
   scale), acquisition, receipt, storage and maintenance for mission package construction.
   4.2.10. Debriefing – to include preparing for and techniques for conducting a debriefing,
   handling time-sensitive information, and proper debriefing tools/products.
 18                                                      AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


   4.2.11. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
   4.2.12. AOC and the Intelligence Process – to include C2 ISR and the U-2 roles and
   responsibilities in the intelligence process.
   4.2.13. AF DCGS – to include role and function of the AF DCGS enterprise and how the U-
   2 interacts with a DGS unit.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, RIP tasks
should be conducted as part of day-to-day missions as much as possible. (T-2)
   4.3.1. The standard task requirements listed in Table 4.1., U-2 Ready Intelligence Program
   Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirement for CMR and BMC
   personnel. (T-2)

Table 4.1. U-2 Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
 SUBJECT                               Frequency to Maintain           Frequency to Maintain
                                       CMR Status                      BMC Status
 Situation Displays                    Semi-annually                   Annually
 Manual OB                             Semi-annually                   Annually
 Automated OB                          Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Initial Situation Briefing            Semi-annually                   Annually
 Situation Briefing                    Semi-annually                   Annually
 Changeover Briefing                   Semi-annually                   Annually
 Deployment Briefing                   Semi-annually                   Annually
 ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target             Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 deck/ACO/SPINS and Other
 Tasking Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission       Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Planning Cell
 Mission Package Construction          Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Mission Briefing                      Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Step Briefing                         Semi-annually                   Annually
 Mission Tracking                      Semi-annually                   Annually
 Debriefing                            Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Intelligence Reports                  Quarterly                       Semi-annually
 Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every 3 months; semi-
 annually is defined as once every 6 months and annually is defined as once every 12 months.
   4.3.2. Individuals are responsible for documenting RIP task completion.             Intelligence
   personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks to maintain currency. (T-2)
   4.3.3. If an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not
   perform that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Failure to accomplish these
   requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC status and additional training will be
   required as determined by the SIO.
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                  19


4.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to non-combat mission ready (N-CMR)/non-basic mission capable (N-
BMC), as applicable. The SIO will direct the member who fails to demonstrate proficiency in a
given task to be regressed. Regression and the steps taken to correct the situation will be
documented in a memorandum for record in the individual's training record. CMR/BMC
intelligence personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved
recertification program to return them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during
the re-certification program will be credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-
3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
 20                                                      AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


                                            Chapter 5

                                  SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training Programs. This chapter outlines ST programs for specialized
qualifications. These qualifications are in addition to core missions for the unit and do not apply
to all intelligence personnel assigned or attached to the unit. These programs are intended to
provide the SIOs the minimum approved specialized training programs for individuals with no
previous qualifications and may be tailored for intelligence personnel with current qualifications,
prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training. The IPTPM will ensure
ST is recorded on AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for AF Form 4381 templates) and
documented in the online documentation system of record. Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. All intelligence
personnel assigned or attached to a flying squadron must be qualified trainers. (T-2)
   5.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected to be an EIT trainer, must:
       5.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
       listed below.
   5.2.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Profiles:
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
       instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks:
       Demonstrate ability to modify training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of
       delivering training using visual, auditory and physical application. Demonstrate one-on-
       one, small group and large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify
       trainee achievement.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 - Threats and Countermeasures. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing threat training requirements for air, SAM, EW, and DEW threats (to include
       minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 3). Specific tasks: Prepare and
       deliver an instructional session for threats based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
       tasking.
       5.2.2.3. EIT 3 – Collection and Reporting (C&R). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
       in establishing C&R training requirements. Specific tasks: Be familiar with the
       requirements and security concerns regarding intelligence-generated reports. Develop
       training that enables unit ability to use pilot-originated reports (INFLTREP or other
       formats) and intelligence-generated reports (INTREP, MISREP, INTSUM, etc.).
       Demonstrate knowledge of AF DCGS operations with emphasis on roles and
       responsibilities, crew communication and coordination between pilots and the AF DCGS.
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                   21


       Prepare and deliver an instructional session on C&R based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.4. EIT 4 – Personnel Recovery. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing
       instructional material in coordination with tactics, aircrew flight equipment, and SERE
       personnel. Specific tasks: Provide academic instruction on PR operational support
       processes as required. Where possible, PR EIT trainers should be graduates of SV-80A
       Survival Training. Units with an assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1) may omit this block
       if intelligence personnel do not provide PR related training.
       5.2.2.5. EIT-5 – Force Protection Intelligence. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing training requirements for FPI and FP related threats (to include minimum
       standards cited in AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 3). Specific tasks: Prepare and deliver an
       instructional session for FP threats based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
       tasking.
   5.2.3. External Intelligence Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted
   IAW AFI 14-202 Volume 2 and AFI 14-2U-2 Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT
   trainers upon successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer evaluation (INIT
   EIT) and endorsement from the SIO.
   5.2.4. External Intelligence Training Trainer Currency. Table 5.1. External Intelligence
   Trainer Events and Currencies, defines currency requirements for all intelligence personnel
   required to maintain current EIT trainer status. EIT trainers must also successfully complete
   periodic EIT trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2. If an EIT loses currency in a
   particular area, the individual may not perform training unsupervised until currency is
   regained. Trainers who are non-current must satisfy overdue training requirements while
   supervised by another current and qualified EIT trainer in the same training event.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Trainer Events and Currencies.
 Event       Specialized Training                          Currency Requirement
 Threat      Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific             Instruct one threat training event
 Training    tasks.                                        quarterly.
             Pass MQF test (threat specific)
             INIT EIT Evaluation.
 C&R         Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 and specific         Instruct one C&R training event
 Training    tasks                                         annually.
             Pass MQF test (C&R specific)
             INIT EIT Evaluation.
 PR          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 and specific         Instruct one PR training event
 Training    tasks                                         annually.
             Pass MQF test (PR specific)
             INIT EIT Evaluation.
 FPI         Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 and specific         Instruct one FPI training event
 Training    tasks                                         annually.
             Pass MQF test (FPI specific)
             INIT EIT Evaluation.
 Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every 3 months and
 22                                                      AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


 annually is defined as once every 12 months.
5.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to IE within the unit. Only
qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to grade standardization
and evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel identified by the SIO for progression to IE must:
       5.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.3.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2, as
       supplemented, and AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2.
       5.3.1.3. Meet task certifier requirements as outlined by AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
       Program.
       5.3.1.4. Be designated by the SIO to perform in the IE profiles listed below.
   5.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator training consist of two steps; observation and performance
   demonstration. Intelligence evaluator trainees must complete one or more of the observation
   profiles and the proficiency profile listed below. (T-2)
       5.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Observe a mission evaluation. Specific
       tasks:    Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
       preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
       evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       5.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Observation. Objective: Observe an EIT trainer evaluation.
       Specific tasks: Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
       preparation for an INIT EIT Trainer or EIT Trainer evaluation. Identify scenarios for
       intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       5.3.2.3. IE 3 – IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in successfully
       conducting an evaluation. Perform the evaluation with the trainer as the examinee in a
       simulated evaluation. Specific tasks: Under observation, conduct an evaluation and
       provide a thorough debrief and critique. Demonstrate knowledge of evaluation criteria,
       grading procedures and proficiency in evaluation form preparation.
   5.3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized
   training is completed. The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after
   completing training, successful completion of the initial IE evaluation (INIT IE) and
   endorsement from the SIO. (T-2)
   5.3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding
   evaluation annually to remain current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE
   evaluations IAW AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2. (T-2)
5.4. Emergency War Order (EWO) Support Specialized Training. This program establishes
the minimum guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the IN to provide EWO support
within the unit. Only qualified EWO Support may conduct unsupervised intelligence support for
pilots and planners. EWO support specialized training should be conducted by a qualified EWO
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                23


support person. See Table 5.2., EWO Support External Intelligence Trainer Events and
Currencies, for currency requirements to maintain this specialized qualification. (T-2)
   5.4.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel identified by the SIO for EWO support
   specialized training must:
      5.4.1.1. Complete MQT.
      5.4.1.2. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
      5.4.1.3. Complete all of the following unit-developed EWO support profiles to attain a
      full EWO support specialized qualification.
   5.4.2. EWO Support Profiles:
      5.4.2.1. EWO Support C2. Objective: Demonstrate understanding to the C2 structure
      for the EWO. Understand how tasking flows and where intelligence support is derived.
      Specific tasks:     Describe the U-2 EWO mission.           Describe the purpose of
      Reconnaissance, Intelligence, Surveillance Nuclear Option (RISNO). Describe the EWO
      C2I structure and components. Describe local procedures for EWO missions.
      5.4.2.2. EWO Support Tasks: Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in performing
      applicable intelligence tasks to support the U-2 EWO mission. Specific tasks: Retrieve
      RISNO tasking and break unit tasking, assist in mission planning for pilot EWO
      certifications, prepare mission materials IAW unit EWO procedures/checklists; conduct
      EWO debriefing, prepare and submit required EWO reports IAW US STRATCOM
      reporting guidance.
      5.4.2.3. EWO Support Qualification.       Personnel are qualified upon successful
      completion of required training and endorsement by the SIO. EWO support evaluation
      criteria are IAW AFI14-2U-2, Volume 2.
   5.4.3. EWO Support Evaluation. EWO Support evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-
   202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified upon successful
   completion of required tasks, an initial EWO Support evaluation and endorsement from the
   SIO. (T-2)
   5.4.4. EWO Support Currency. Personnel supporting EWO missions must participate in a
   EWO Support C2 and EWO Support Task event annually to remain current. Personnel
   supporting EWO missions must also successfully complete periodic IE evaluations IAW AFI
   14-2U-2, Volume 2. (T-2)




                                         Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance
                                         and Reconnaissance
 24                                                    AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 11-2U-2, Volume 1, U-2, Aircrew Training, 8 May 2009
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2, U-2 Unit Evaluation Criteria, 13 November 2012
AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 3, U-2 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 13 November 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.U-2, Tactical Employment—U-2, 21 January 2011 (S)
AFTTP 3-3.U-2, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals—U-2, 18 March 2009
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AF—Air Force
AF DCGS—Air Force Distributed Common System
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                        25


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BQ—Basic Qualified
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
C2—Command and Control
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Course of Action
CONPLAN—Concept of Operations Plan
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapon
DGS—Distributed Ground Station
DLO—Desired Learning Objective
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EW—Electronic Warfare
EWO—Emergency War Order
FP—Force Protection
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
EXORD—Exercise Order
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
IADS—Integrated Air Defense System
IAW—In Accordance With
 26                                                   AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—Inflight Report
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IPTPM—Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MPC—Mission Planning Cell
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MR—Mission Ready
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NAI—Named Area of Interest
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Production Requirement, Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                             27


RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RISNO—Reconnaissance, Intelligence, Surveillance Nuclear Option
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SF—Security Forces
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TUC—Threat Update Code
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
USMTF—US Message Text Format
WARNORD—Warning Order

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC level.
 28                                                  AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


                                      Attachment 2
                    EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

Figure A2.1. Example Training Shortfall Report.

MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2

FROM: [UNIT]

SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls

1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a major
impact on training.

 EVENT PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL AFFECTED

          SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

          CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

          LIMFACS

2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).



SIGNATURE BLOCK


CC: NAF/A2
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                               29


                                         Attachment 3
             U-2 MISSION QUALIFICATION GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A3.1. U-2 MQT Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT performance task
gradesheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381.
Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress
through MQT. The MQT gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training record.
Intelligence Evaluators will use the MQT gradesheets to assist in the completion of the AF Form
4350, Certification of Intelligence Qualification, IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2U-2,
Volume 2. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of
evaluations.

Table A3.1. U-2 Threat Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Primary threat countries
 2.2. Capabilities and limitations
 2.3. Employment characteristics
 2.4. Countertactics
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. U-2 Situation Displays Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Understanding of current situation and creating situation displays
 2.1. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
 2.2. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
 2.3. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Geographic coordinates
 3.2. MGRS and UTM
 3.3. Coordinate conversion
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Updated and maintained situation displays
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines
 30                                                       AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


Table A3.3. U-2 Manual OB Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Understanding of OB production sources
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Geographic coordinates
 3.2. MGRS and UTM
 3.3. Coordinate conversion
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Updated and maintained OB on the situation display
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. U-2 Automated OB Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Ability to use automated intelligence systems for OB
 1.1. Construct OB display
 1.2. Updated and Maintained OB display
 1.3. Performed coordinate conversion
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. U-2 Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
 2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
 2.4. Potential enemy COAs
 2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
 or AFOSI
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                        31


 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.6. U-2 Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Changes to IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
 2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
 2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
 2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
 or AFOSI
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. U-2 Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. Presented situation update briefing
 3. Addressed relevant areas
 3.1. Issues requiring immediate attention
 3.2. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
 3.3. Reviewed briefing, work, and flying schedules
 3.4. Reviewed situation displays
 3.5. Reviewed CAT directives
 3.6. Review incoming/outgoing messages
 3.7. Reviewed MISREP status
 4. Delivery
 4.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 4.2. Effective use of visual aids
 4.3. Appropriate level of detail
 4.4. Applicability to audience
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines
 32                                                     AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


Table A3.8. U-2 Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Unit tasking (e.g., WARNORD, EXORD, AEF tasking)
 2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
 2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
 and activity
 2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
 2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion
 threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
 2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
 2.7. Personnel Recovery
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. U-2 ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target Deck/ACO/SPINS Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Accessed correct ATO/RSTA annex/ISR target deck/ACO/SPINS
 2. Identified and extracted unit specific information using manual and automated processes
 2.1. ATO/Mission tasking info
 2.2. Applicable SPINS info
 2.3. Applicable RSTA annex info
 2.4. Refueling area
 2.5. Applicable ISR Target Deck info with Collection Priorities
 2.6. ACO info
 3. Summarized key elements/threat considerations for MPC
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Security

Table A3.10. U-2 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Organization/preparation
 1.1. Analysis of ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout
 1.2. Review of tactical scenario understanding
 1.3. Defined intelligence gaps and submit RFI
 2. Presented mission planning situation briefing
 3. Identified and plotted unit tasking
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                33


 3.1. Recommended route/track
 3.2. Considered threats/terrain/weather
 3.2.1. Ingress
 3.2.2. Mission area
 3.2.3. Egress
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.11. U-2 Mission Package Construction Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Conducted appropriate research and analysis
 2. Use of automated applications
 3. Identify/obtain applicable mission materials
 3.1. GI&S
 4. Coordinated mission materials with mission planners
 5. Time management
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. U-2 Mission Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
 2.2. Enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
 activity
 2.3. En route and mission area threats (e.g., SAMs, air, naval, EW, and DEW threats)
 2.4. FPI (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
 2.5. PR information
 2.6. EEIs
 2.7. INFLTREP requirements
 2.8. Threat Update Code
 2.9. Debrief location
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines
 34                                                     AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


Table A3.13. U-2 Step Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Collection mission changes
 2.2. Changes in threat that affects the mission
 2.3. New threats and/or threat tactics
 2.4. PR data changes
 2.5. Latest TUC
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.14. U-2 Mission Tracking Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Performed mission tracking
 1.1. Monitored and used communication systems
 1.2. Maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions
 1.3. Reacted as necessary to support the mission
 1.4. Logged all communications
 1.5. Ensured all missions were debriefed and reported upon
 1.6. Made provisions for diverted missions
 2. Adherence to unit standards
 3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. U-2 Debriefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Debriefing preparation
 1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General performance
 2.1. Extracted relevant mission intelligence from pilots
 2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
 2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
 2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
 2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
 2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
 3. Time management
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                        35


Table A3.16. U-2 Intelligence Reports Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Report preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. Generate reports
 2.1. Proficient using computer systems to draft and transmit intelligence reports
 2.2. Proficient in drafting and transmitting USMTF intelligence reports
 2.3. Validated accuracy and completeness
 3. Time management
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. Generate reports
 2.1. Proficient using computer systems to draft and transmit intelligence reports
 2.2. Proficient in drafting and transmitting USMTF intelligence reports
 2.3. Validated accuracy and completeness
 3. Time management
 36                                                      AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


                                         Attachment 4
                U-2 SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A4.1. U-2 Specialized Training Gradesheet Elements. The ST gradesheet tables in this
attachment are elements to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence
qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST.
The ST gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training record. Intelligence Evaluators
will use the ST gradesheets to assist in the completion of the AF Form 4350 IAW AFI 14-202,
Volume 2 and AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2U-2, Volume 2 for a more
detailed explanation of evaluations.

Table A4.1. U-2 External Intelligence Training Trainer Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Organization
 6.   Documentation
 7.   Follow security guidelines

Table A4.2. U-2 Intelligence Evaluator Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 8.   Follow security guidelines

Table A4.3. Emergency War Order Gradesheet Elements.
 1. EWO command & control knowledge
 1.1.    Tasking flows
 1.2. Source of intelligence support
 1.3. U-2 EWO mission
 1.4. Purpose of RISNO
 1.5. EWO C2I structure & components
 1.6. Local procedures for EWO mission
 2. EWO tasks
 2.1. Retrieve RISNO tasking
 2.2. Breakout unit tasking
 2.3. Mission plan for pilot EWO certifications
 2.4. Prepare EWO mission materials IAW EWO procedures/checklists
 2.5. Conduct EWO debriefing
AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                      37


2.6. Prepare/submit required EWO reports IAW USSTRATCOM guidance
2.7. Adherence to local procedures
3. Follow security guidelines
 38                                                  AFI14-2U-2V1 13 NOVEMBER 2012


                                      Attachment 5
      U-2 MISSION QUALIFICATION, SPECIALIZED TRAINING AND READY
                 INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Table A5 1. consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be used
by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. U-2 MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements.
 Requirement                                         MQT         ST           RIP
 RAD and IPOE                                        X           ---          ---
 U-2 Platform and Sensors Academics                  X           ---          ---
 AOC and Intel Process Academics                     X           ---          ---
 Threat Knowledge                                    X           ---          ---
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                X           ---          ---
 PR                                                  X           ---          ---
 FPI                                                 X           ---          ---
 Threat Briefing                                     X           ---          ---
 Situation Displays                                  X           ---          X
 Manual OB                                           X           ---          X
 Automated OB                                        X           ---          X
 Initial Situation Briefing                          X           ---          X
 Situation Briefing                                  X           ---          X
 Changeover Briefing                                 X           ---          X
 Deployment Briefing                                 X           ---          X
 ATO/RSTA Annex/ISR Target Deck/ACO/ SPINS           X           ---          X
 and Other Tasking Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning            X           ---          X
 Mission Briefing                                    X           ---          X
 Step Briefing                                       X           ---          X
 Mission Tracking                                    X           ---          X
 Debriefing                                          X           ---          X
 Intelligence Reports                                X           ---          X
 EIT 1 – EIT Concepts and Methods                    ---         X            ---
 EIT 2 - Threat Training                             ---         X            ---
 EIT 3 – C&R                                         ---         X            ---
 EIT 4 – PR                                          ---         X            ---
 EIT 5 – FPI                                         ---         X            ---
 EWO Support C2                                      ---         X            ---
 EWO Support Tasks                                   ---         X            ---
 IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                           ---         X            ---
 IE 2 - IE EIT Observation                           ---         X            ---
 IE 3 - IE Proficiency                               ---         X            ---
