BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2C-21,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 2

                                                                             25 AUGUST 2010

                                                                375TH AIR MOBILITY WING
                                                                                    Supplement
                                                                                  7 JUNE 2010
                                                                 Certified Current 18 June 2012

                                                                             Flying Operations

                                                  C-21 AIRCREW EVALUATION CRITERIA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATOR Y

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/A3VS                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O-A
Supersedes: AFI11-2C-21V2,                                           (Col Jeffrey R. McDaniels)
            12 November 2007                                                          Pages: 42

                                          (375AMW)
OPR: 375 OG/OGV                                                   Certified by: 375 OG/OGV
Supersedes: AFI11-2C-21V2_375AW_I,                                (Major Curt A. Schumacher)
            12 July 2006                                                               Pages:5



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-2, Aircraft Rules and
Procedures. It establishes evaluation criteria for the operation of C-21 aircraft to safely and
successfully accomplish the worldwide Operational Support Airlift (OSA) mission. It is used in
conjunction with AFI 11-202, V2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, and the
appropriate Major Command (MAJCOM) supplement. This instruction applies to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Respo nsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through MAJCOM Stan/Eval. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force.
 2                                              AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) Stan/Eval.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to
the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.

The Privacy Act of 1974 applies to certain information gathered pursuant to this instruction. The
System of Records Notice F011 AF XO A, Aviation Reso urce Management System (ARMS),
covers required information. The authority for maintenance of the system is 37 U.S.C. 301a,
Incentive Pay; Public Law 92-204, Section 715, DoD Appropriations Act for 1972, December
18, 1971; Public Law 93-294, Aviation Career Incentives Act of 1974, May 31, 1974; Public
Law 93-570, Continuing Appropriations, 1975, February 25, 1975; DoD Directive 7730.57,
Aviation Career Incentive Act and Required Annual Report, February 5, 1976; and Executive
Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons, November
22, 1943. The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 affects this instruction.

(375AMW) AFI 11-2C-21, Volume 2, C-21 Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, 12 Novembe r 2007,
is supple mented as follows : This supplement defines local evaluation criteria and local
procedures for all 375 AMW C-21A aircrew evaluations. The Chief, 375th Operations Group
Standardization and Evaluation (Stan/Eval, 375 OG/OGV) has overall responsibility for
administration of this supplement. This publication is not applicable to the 126th Air Refueling
Wing (ANG) or the 932d Airlift Wing (AFRES). Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Send comments
and suggested improvements to this supplement on an AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through the appropriate chain of command to 375 OG/OGV, 433 Hangar
Road Room 135, Scott AFB IL 62225-5118 or e- mail to 375og-ogv@scott.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include changes to simulated engine-out evaluation procedures and senior officer evaluations. In
addition, AF Form 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet, and AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew
Qualification, examples have been updated.

(375AMW) This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
Major changes include deletion of references to the 375 OGV Program Guides. Changes
operational mission evaluation (OME) examiner position requirement; clarifies documenting the
Tactics exam and evaluation profiles to include instructor and senior officer evaluation profiles.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                                                             3


Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                      4
     1.1.    General. .........................................................................................................    4
     1.2.    Applicability. ..................................................................................................     4
     1.3.    Key Words and Definitions. ............................................................................               4
     1.4.    Deviations and Waivers. ..................................................................................            4
     1.5.    Supplements. ..................................................................................................       4
     1.6.    Requisition and Distribution Procedures. ..........................................................                   5
     1.7.    Improvement Recommendations. .....................................................................                    5
     1.8.    Evaluations. ....................................................................................................     5
     1.9.    Evaluation Requirements. ................................................................................             5
     1.10.   Grading Policies. ............................................................................................        6
     1.11.   Grading System. .............................................................................................         6
     1.12.   Conduct of Evaluations. ..................................................................................            7
     1.13.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ............................................................................              7
     1.14.   Use of AF Form 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet. ........................................                            8
     1.15.   Aircrew Testing. .............................................................................................        8
     1.16.   Typical C-21 Evaluation Profile(s). ..................................................................                9
     1.17.   Senior Officer Requirements. ..........................................................................               9

Chapter 2—PILOT EVALUATIONS                                                                                                       11
     2.1.    General. .........................................................................................................   11
     2.2.    Instrument Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Re-qualification). ..........................                          11
     2.3.    Qualification Evaluations (Initial, Periodic, and Re-qualification). .....................                           12
     2.4.    Operational Mission Evaluation (OME). ..........................................................                     12
     2.5.    Instructor Evaluations (Initial, Periodic, and Re-qualification). ..........................                         13
     2.6.    Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE). ........................................................                      14
     2.7.    Pilot Grading Criteria. .....................................................................................        15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                    31

Attachment 2—FLIGHT EVALUATION WORKSHEET EXAMPLE                                                                                  36

Attachment 3—TACTICS TEST FORM 8 EXAMPLES                                                                                         38
Attachment 4--COMMON C-21 CHECKRIDE PROFILE                                                                                       42
 4                                              AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010



                                           Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This instruction provides flight examiners and aircrews with procedures and
evaluation criteria/tolerances to be used during flight evaluations according to AFI 11-202,
Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program. Specific areas for evaluation are
prescribed to ensure an accurate assessment of the proficiency and capabilities of aircrews.
Flight examiners will use this AFI when conducting aircrew evaluations. Instructors will use this
AFI when preparing aircrews for qualification.
1.1. (375AMW) General. This supplement standardizes local evaluation profiles across all 375
AMW C-21 units. Evaluators should use this supplement in conjunction with AFI 11-202V2,
Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program.
1.2. Applicability. This AFI is applicable to all individuals operating C-21 aircraft. Copies
should be available to all C-21 aircrew members.
1.3. Key Words and Definitions.
     1.3.1. “Will” and “Shall” indicate a mandatory requirement.
     1.3.2. “Should” is normally used to indicate a preferred, but not mandatory, method of
     accomplishment.
     1.3.3. “May” indicates an acceptable or suggested means of accomplishment.
     1.3.4. “Note” indicates operating procedures, techniques, etc., considered essential to
     emphasize.
1.4. Deviations and Waivers. Do not deviate from the policies and guidance in this AFI under
normal circumstances, except for safety or when necessary to protect the crew or aircraft from a
situation not covered by this AFI and immediate action is req uired. Report deviations or
exceptions without waiver through channels to MAJCOM standardization/evaluation.
MAJCOM standardization/evaluation will notify lead command for follow-on action, if
necessary.
     1.4.1. Waiver authority for the contents of this document is lead command, which in turn,
     delegates MAJCOM/A3 as waiver authority according to AFI 11-202V2 and the appropriate
     MAJCOM supplement.
     1.4.2. MAJCOM/A3s will forward a copy of approved long-term waivers to this instruction
     to lead command for follow-on action, if required.
1.5. Supple ments. This AFI is a basic directive. Each user MAJCOM may supplement this
AFI according to AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures. Limit supplement information to
unique requirements only. MAJCOMs may specify unique evaluation items in their appropriate
supplement. Supplements will not be less restrictive than the provisions of this AFI or the
appropriate flight manual.
     1.5.1. MAJCOM Supplement Coordination Process. Fo rward MAJCOM/A3-approved
     supplements, with attached AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request, to
     lead command (HQ AMC/A3V) for review. HQ AMC/A3V will provide a recommendation
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                          5


   and forward to HQ USAF/A3O-AT for approval. HQ USAF/A3O-AT advises HQ
   AMC/A3V of approval/denial of supplement. Use the following OPR's address: HQ
   AMC/A3V, 402 Scott Dr., Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL, 62225-5302. Electronic copies may be
   sent via e- mail to HQ AMC/A3V’s Special Airlift and Inspection Branch organizational box
   (AMC/A3VS). When the supplement is published provide a final copy to HQ USAF/A3O -
   AT and lead command OPR (HQ AMC/A3V).
   1.5.2. If necessary, request and include approved long-term waivers to this AFI (including,
   approval authority, date, and expiration date) in the appropriate MAJCOM supplement.
   1.5.3. Local Supplement Coordination. Units send proposed Local Supplement to
   MAJCOM Stan/Eval for coordination, then MAJCOM/A3 for approval. When published,
   provide a final copy to HQ AMC/A3V and MAJCOM Stan/Eval.
1.6. Requisition and Distribution Procedures. Unit commanders may provide copies to
aircrew members and associated support personnel.
1.7. Improvement Recommendations. Send comments and suggested improvements to this
instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to
HQ AMC/A3V, 402 Scott Drive Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL, 62225-5302 according to AFI 11-215,
Flight Manual Procedures, and MAJCOM Supplement.
1.8. Evaluations. This instruction establishes standardized instrument, qualification, mission,
and instructor evaluation criteria. It also establishes the areas and sub areas necessary for the
successful completion of evaluations, and which required areas/sub areas will be considered
critical or non-critical.
1.9. Evaluation Requirements. Accomplish all flight evaluations In Accordance With (IAW)
this paragraph and Chapter 2 of this instruction. All items on the AF Form 3862, Flight
Evaluation Worksheet, are expected to be evaluated unless otherwise noted. Complete the
following evaluations at 17- month intervals according to AFI 11-202, V2 and the appropriate
MAJCOM supplement.
   1.9.1. Instrument (INSTM) Evaluation. All C-21 pilots will successfully complete a
   periodic instrument evaluation. The flight phase shall evaluate pilot performance and
   application of instrument procedures and maneuvers. The ground phase includes open-book
   written instrument examination. Instrument Refresher Program (IRP) is according to Air
   Force Manual (AFMAN) 11-210, Instrument Refresher Program.
   1.9.2. Qualification (QUAL) Evaluation. All C-21 crewmembers will successfully complete
   a periodic qualification evaluation. The flight phase is an in- flight evaluation of aircrew
   performance including both performance and application of flight manual procedures and
   maneuvers, and tasks normally performed on operational missions. The ground phase
   includes the following requisites: open-book and closed-book examinations, tactics open
   book examination, Boldface examination (CRITICAL action items), and emergency
   procedures evaluation (EPE). Tactics examination is not required for units with missions that
   do not include flying in threat areas. The QUAL evaluation fulfills the requirement of the
   Mission (MSN) evaluation IAW AFI 11-202, V2 paragraph 5.2.1.3.
   1.9.3. Instructor (INSTR) Evaluations. To initially qualify as an instructor in the C-21,
   crewmembers will successfully complete an initial instructor qualification course and
 6                                                AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


     evaluation. Subsequently, aircrew members designated as instructors will be evaluated on
     their ability to instruct during all periodic evaluations. Crewmembers may use their initial
     instructor evaluation to satisfy the requirements of a periodic evaluation provided all
     evaluation requirements for the periodic evaluation are met.
     1.9.4. SPOT Evaluations. See AFI 11-202, V2.
     1.9.5. Re-qualification (RQ). Use the prefix RQ according to AFI 11-202, V2.
     1.9.6. Emergency Procedures Evaluations (EPE). Use AFI 11-202, V2 and the following:
     Evaluate an aircrew member’s knowledge of emergency procedures and aircraft systems for
     all initial, re-qualification, and periodic QUAL evaluations. The EPE will include areas
     commensurate with the examinee’s graduated training (e.g., initial, instructor, or evaluator).
        1.9.6.1. Group Standardization and Evaluation office (OG/OGV) will develop and
        maintain a list of EPE program requirements (topics, special interest, etc.). OG/OGV
        shall develop an EPE guide for each crew position detailing the evaluation areas and
        conduct of the EPE. EPEs shall emphasize emergency procedures and systems
        knowledge. Examiners may use one continuous scenario throughout the EPE, or use
        different scenarios as required to ensure appropriate areas are evaluated.
        1.9.6.1. (375AMW) The 375 OG C-21 Emergency Procedures Guide can be found on
        the 375 OG/OGV website.
        1.9.6.2. Examinees may use publications that are normally available in- flight.          The
        examinee must recite, perform, or write all Boldface items.
        1.9.6.3. Examinees receiving an overall EPE grade of unqualified will be placed in
        supervised status until recommended additional training and re-evaluation are completed.
        Examinees receiving an overall EPE grade of unqualified because of unsatisfactory
        Boldface procedures will not be permitted to fly in their aircrew position until a
        successful re-evaluation is accomplished. Accomplish additional training IAW AFI 11-
        202, V2.
1.10. Grading Policies. IAW AFI 11-202, V2 and the following.
     1.10.1. When in- flight evaluation of a required area is not possible, the area may be verbally
     evaluated or evaluated in an Aircrew Training Device (ATD). Flight examiners will make
     every effort to evaluate all required areas in- flight before resorting to this provision.
     Takeoffs, instrument approaches, and landings may not be verbally evaluated. If an alternate
     method is used to complete the evaluation, document in the Additional Comments portion of
     the AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification. Use of this provision must be approved
     by the examinee’s commander. The commander’s signature on the AF Form 8 acknowledges
     this provision has been approved.
1.11. Grading System. See AFI 11-202, V2 and the following.
     1.11.1. Critical Areas. Critical areas require adequate accomplishment by the aircrew
     member in order to successfully achieve the mission objectives. If an aircrew member
     receives an unqualified grade in any critical area, the overall grade for the evaluation will
     also be unqualified. Critical areas are identified by “(Critical)” in the area title and shading
     of the Q- block on the AF Form 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                             7


1.12. Conduct of Evaluations.
   1.12.1. Flight examiners will pre-brief the examinee on the conduct, purpose, requirements
   of the evaluation, and all applicable evaluation criteria. Flight examiners will then evaluate
   the examinee in each graded area/sub area.
       1.12.1.1. Flight examiners will normally not evaluate personnel they have primarily
       trained, recommended for upgrade, or who write their effectiveness/per formance reports.
   1.12.2. Unless otherwise specified, flight examiners may conduct the evaluation in any seat
   or position that best enables them to observe the examinee’s performance.
       1.12.2.1. For Operational Mission Evaluation’s (OME), the flight examiner should sit in
       the jump seat to better observe how the Aircraft Commander candidate leads the aircrew.
       1.12.2.1. (375AMW) Flight examiners may sit in a primary crew position during the
       OME. If doing so, evaluators must be aware of any influence they may have over the
       evaluatee's performance and take the steps necessary to mitigate their influence on the
       evaluation.
   1.12.3. Note discrepancies and deviations from prescribed tolerances and performance
   criteria during the evaluation. Compare the examinee’s performance with the tolerances
   provided in the grading criteria and assign an appropriate grade for each area.
       1.12.3.1. An evaluation will not be changed to a training mission to avoid documenting
       substandard performance, nor will a training mission be changed to an evaluation.
       1.12.3.2. The judgment of the flight examiner, guidance provided in AFI 11-202, V2 and
       this instruction will be the determining factors in assigning an overall qualification leve l
       on the AF Form 8. Failure of a ground requisite may contribute to, but does not
       necessitate an overall qualification level of Q-3 (see AFI 11-202, V2 for further
       clarification). The flight examiner will thoroughly critique all aspects of the flight.
       During the critique, the flight examiner will review the examinee’s overall rating, specific
       deviations, area/sub area grades assigned, and any additional training required.
       1.12.3.3. In the event of unsatisfactory performance, the flight examiner will determine
       additional training requirements. Required additional training will not be accomplished
       on the same flight. EXCEPTION: Required additional training on the same flight is
       allowed when unique situations presenting valuable training opportunities (i.e.,
       thunderstorm avoidance, crosswind landings, etc.) exist. This option requires utmost
       flight examiner discretion and judicious application. When used, the examinee must be
       informed of when the additional training begins and ends.
   1.12.4. The simulator/ATD may be used to accomplish additional training and re-checks.
   Areas for additional training and re-checks should be limited to those areas/sub areas that can
   be realistically accomplished in a simulator.
   1.12.5. Rechecks will normally be administered by a flight examiner other than the one who
   administered the original evaluation.
1.13. Unsatisfactory Pe rformance. See AFI 11-202, V2 and the following.
   1.13.1. Conduct a thorough post- mission debriefing to the examinee and applicable aircrew
   members on all aspects of the evaluation.
 8                                             AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


     1.13.2. Immediately correct breaches of flying safety or flight discipline during an
     evaluation (this applies to all crewmembers). The flight examiner will also debrief an
     appropriate unit supervisor and if appropriate, document the deviation on an AF Form 8.
     1.13.3. Notify the examinee’s squadron commander/operations officer and flight
     commander, if available, whenever less than Qualification Level “Q-1” performance is
     observed.
     1.13.3. (375AMW) Follow guidance IAW AFI 11-202V2 for reporting a Q-2 or Q-3
     evaluation.
     1.13.4. Flight examiners observing unsatisfactory performance by a crewmember other than
     the examinee (including one in a different crew position) will comply with the requirements
     in AFI 11-202, V2.
     1.13.5. When an examinee jeopardizes safety of flight, the flight examiner may assume the
     duties of that aircrew member, if warranted. This does not mean the flight examiner must
     assume the examinee’s position any time unsatisfactory performance is observed.
1.14. Use of AF Form 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet. Units may overprint AF Form
3862 (see Attachment 2) and use it as an evaluation worksheet. Copy each title, area number
and text (in the order illustrated), and shading to the appropriate blocks. Units may add special
interest items and/or local evaluation requirements. All items on the AF Form 3862 are expected
to be evaluated unless otherwise noted. The worksheet should be used in flight to ensure all
required areas are evaluated. Record positive and negative trend information and/or aircrew
member’s performance. File the AF Form 3862 or draft copy of the AF Form 8 in the aircrew
member’s Flight Evaluation Folder (FEF) immediately after the flight evaluation as a temporary
record of the evaluation results. Maintain until the finished AF Form 8 is added to the FEF, then
dispose of properly.
1.14. (375AMW) Use of AF Form 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet. Evaluators will use
the evaluation worksheet available in Patriot Excalibur (PEX) to help complete the final AF
Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification. Evaluators may print an AF Form 3862,
(Attachment 2) or the PEX Evaluation Worksheet and use it during the evaluation to ensure all
required areas are evaluated. Evaluators may also use a printed copy of the PEX Evaluation
Worksheet as a temporary record of the evaluation in the member’s Flight Evaluation Folder.
1.15. Aircre w Testing. See specific testing requirements in AFI 11-202, V2 and the following.
     1.15.1. Open-Book Exam. An open-book examination is a requisite for all QUAL
     evaluations. The open book QUAL exam will consist of 60-80 questions for all crew
     positions.
     1.15.2. Closed- Book Exam. A closed-book exam is a requisite for all QUAL evaluations.
     The exam will consist of a minimum of 20 questions from the Master Question File (MQF).
     Complete a Boldface (CRITICAL ACTIONS) exam in conjunction with the closed-book
     exam.
     1.15.3. Instructor Open-Book Exam. An open-book exam will be given prior to the initial
     instructor flight evaluation.
        1.15.3.1. The instructor open-book examination is a requisite for INIT INSTR flight
        evaluations. INIT INSTR open-book examinations will have a minimum of 20 questions
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                           9


       and may be derived from AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors, AFI
       11-2C-21, V1, 2, and 3, and flight instruction related sources. Questions should include
       scenario-driven instructor questions.
       1.15.3.2. Subsequent (periodic) and re-qualification (RQ) INSTR Examinations. A
       portion of the open-book examination will include instructor questions. A separate
       (unique) INSTR open-book examination is not required.
   1.15.4. Tactics Open-Book Exam. The Tactics exam is an open-book test intended to
   evaluate aircrew knowledge of classified threat and counter tactics information. AMC,
   AMC-gained, and USAFE C-21 pilots will accomplish this exam as a requisite to their initial
   and recurring QUAL evaluations. Tactics examination is not required for units with missions
   that do not include flying in threat areas. NOTE: The tactics exam will not normally be
   administered at Keesler AFB. All initial qualification AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew
   Qualification, from Keesler will include the remark (N/A if gaining unit mission does not
   require tactics certification), “Tactics test not accomplished due to lack of suitable testing
   facility. Test will be accomplished in-unit prior to mission qualification/OME/aircraft
   commander certification (as appropriate).” For initial qualification evaluations conducted at
   Keesler AFB, Mobility Pilot Development (MPD) pilots will complete the tactics
   examination at their unit prior to mission qualification as an FP. For prior qualified pilots
   (PQP) and RQ pilot evaluations conducted at Keesler AFB (i.e., pilots going directly to MP
   or IP status upon mission qualification), the tactics examination will be completed prior to
   OME or aircraft commander certification, as appropriate for training program. Units will
   generate a separate AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, for the tactics exam.
   Examination failure and retest will be documented IAW existing guidance for test failures.
   1.15.4.1. (Added-375AMW) Pilots previously qualified in other major weapon systems
   (PQP) are not automatically certified MPs upon completion of mission qualification training.
   Therefore, PQPs must also complete the tactics examination at their unit prior to mission
   qualification as a FP. The separate AF Form 8 that is generated from this test is required to
   be logged on the AF Form 942, Record of Evaluation.
1.16. Typical C-21 Evaluation Profile(s). The unit (OG/CC or OG/OGV) will determine the
evaluation profiles suitable for aircrew evaluations based on unit mission requirements. All items
on the AF Form 3862 are expected to be evaluated unless otherwise noted.
1.16. (375AMW) Typical C-21 Evaluation Profile(s). During flight evaluations, 375 AMW
evaluators will sample the specific evaluation criteria for the type of flight evaluation being
conducted (Qualification, Instrument, Instructor or OME) IAW Chapter 2 and the AF Form
3862. Items listed under the General criteria on the AF Form 3862, should be evaluated on all
evaluations.
1.17. Senior Officer Require ments. See AFI 11-202, V1, Aircrew Training, and AFI 11-2C-
21, V1, C-21 Aircrew Training. All Senior Officer Courses (SOC) will conclude in a
qualification evaluation. This is the intent of the course. If a Senior Officer does not complete
the flight evaluation the SOC is incomplete. Senior Officers will be evaluated on pilot
monitoring procedures during simulated engine out scenarios. SOC graduates flying on a
restricted AF Form 8 are not required to complete the Tactics examination as a requisite for
completion of the evaluation.
 10                                            AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


1.17. (375AMW) Senior Officer Requirements. Senior officer evaluations are required to
follow the areas under the Qualification evaluation criteria with the exception of tactical
maneuvers. Instrument evaluation criteria should be sampled during the course of the eva luation
at the discretion of the evaluator.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                          11


                                           Chapter 2

                                   PILOT EVALUATIONS

2.1. General. This chapter standardizes initial, periodic, and re-qualification evaluations,
including requirements for instrument/qualification, mission, and ins tructor evaluations.
2.1. (375AMW) General. The 375 OG expectations for each major evaluation are outlined in
the following paragraphs. These expectations are guidelines evaluators use in preparation for an
evaluation.     Evaluators may use variations as necessary IAW all applicable
requirements/directives.
   2.1.1. Combined evaluations (i.e., QUAL/INSTM) are the desired method of evaluation.
   2.1.2. Flight examiners will not intentionally fail any equipment during flight evaluat ions,
   but may deny the use of systems not affecting safety of flight.
   2.1.3. Under no circumstances will a flight examiner allow the aircraft to slow below
   reference speed appropriate for configuration or exceed aircraft limitations specified in t he
   flight manual, regardless of tolerances listed for specific areas.
   2.1.4. If the flight manual recommends a specific airspeed range for performance of a
   maneuver, the flight examiner will apply the grading criteria to the upper and lower limits of
   that range.
   2.1.5. Evaluator pilots may conduct evaluations when scheduled as primary aircrew
   members. However, for OMEs the evaluator should sit in the jump seat.
   2.1.6. (Added-375AMW) All evaluations will include: boldface testing (boldface test
   completed with closed book test satisfies this requirement; however, the evaluator should still
   sample boldface during the evaluation when applicable), systems review and publications
   check. These are not required on SPOT evaluations (including OMEs), but may still be
   sampled at the evaluators discretion.
   2.1.7.     (Added-375AMW) All areas/sub areas under the specific evaluation type
   (Qualification, Instrument, Instructor, or OME) on the AF Form 3862, (Attachment 2) will
   be evaluated unless otherwise noted. Note the tolerances for different flight parameters
   found in this instruction. Each pilot is expected and required to be safe and proficient during
   all flying requirements.
   2.1.8. (Added-375AMW) MAJCOM and 375 AMW special interest areas/items will be
   emphasized on all evaluations.
   2.1.9. (Added-375AMW) IAW AFI 11-202V2, for RQ evaluations resulting from a Q-3
   evaluation, complete all areas or sub areas previously graded Q- or U (demonstrated to Q or
   Q-/debriefed). The flight examiner may evaluate additional areas as deemed appropriate. If
   the RQ is required due to a loss of currency, reference AFI 11-2C-21V1, C-21 Aircrew
   Training, to determine training requirements based upon time unqualified. Unit commanders
   may add any additional training requirement.
2.2. Instrument Evaluations (Initial, Pe riodic and Re -qualification). C-21 instrument
evaluations will be done concurrently with qualification evaluations.
 12                                               AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


      2.2.1. Accomplish a minimum of one precision approach, and two non-precision approaches.
      At least one approach must be flown using a ground-based radio aid to navigation
      (NAVAID) as the primary navigation source on final approach. INSTM evaluations should
      include approaches to airfields other than home station.
2.3. Qualification Evaluations (Initial, Periodic, and Re-qualification). The QUAL
evaluation should be reflected in a realistic sortie for which the Pilot is current and qualified. The
events requiring accomplishment are also illustrated in Attachment 2.
      2.3.1. A simulated single engine approach to a planned simulated single engine low
      approach and a simulated single engine approach to a simulated s ingle engine landing is
      required on all QUAL evaluations. For QUAL evaluations utilize the simulator to the
      maximum extent possible. For AMC aircrews OG/CC approval is required to conduct a
      QUAL evaluation in the aircraft.
      2.3.2. A tactical approach and departure should be flown if the examinee is certified in
      tactical maneuvers. If tactical maneuvers cannot be flown (i.e., weather or airspace), then
      verbally evaluate. Annotate the AF Form 8 “Tactics maneuvers not available due to
      weather/airspace (as appropriate) but were verbally evaluated”.
      2.3.3. (Added-375AMW) The ground-phase portion of the evaluation should be tailored to
      the individual’s qualification level.
      2.3.4. (Added-375AMW) The evaluator will check directives and publications for currency
      IAW AFI 11-215. Since this check only reviews a small sample of an individual’s required
      pubs, it does not fulfill the requirement for an individual’s annual publication check
      requirement (Q090) and should not be logged as such.
      2.3.5. (Added-375AMW) The evaluation should normally be performed on a training sortie
      in the local area utilizing both civilian and military airports/approaches. Evaluations may be
      performed on an operational mission provided all simulated emergency procedures are
      accomplished on an empty (no passengers) de-positioning leg within the first 12 hours of the
      crew’s flight duty period.
2.4. Ope rational Mission Evaluation (OME). AMC and AMC-gained Aircraft Commanders
will complete a one-time Operational Mission Evaluation (OME) demonstrating their ability to
operate in command of an aircraft performing the unit’s primary mission, prior to aircraft
commander certification. This evaluation is not required for pilots currently/previous ly certified
to operate in command of the C-21.
2.4. (375AMW) Ope rational Mission Evaluation (OME). Pilots previously certified to
operate in command of the C-21 are not required to complete an OME. These pilots may be
trained and recertified at the discretion of the unit commander.
      2.4.1. Although the goal is to complete the evaluation on the most representative mission,
      the profile must be balanced between mission availability and the imperative not to delay
      aircraft commander certification.
      2.4.2. The evaluation profile is at the discretion of the Operations Group Commander or
      equivalent. Suggested profile for C-21 OME is: two mission legs (minimum), instrument
      approach and landing, off- station Remain Overnight (RON), if practical. Evaluate both pilot
      flying (PF) and pilot monitoring (PM) duties.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                           13


       2.4.2.1. Application of tactical maneuvers will be evaluated on the OME for those
       crewmembers certified to fly tactical maneuvers. However, flying the maneuvers is not
       required for completion of the evaluation. Verbal evaluation of a tactical scenario is the
       suggested method for evaluating tactics on an OME. The purpose of the tactics portion
       of the OME is for the aircraft commander candidate to demonstrate the abilit y to
       command in a threat environment, not the ability to precisely fly the maneuvers.
   2.4.3. Document the OME on the AF Form 8 as a “SPOT” evaluation. Include the following
   comment in the remarks section, “This OME was conducted in conjunction with Aircraft
   Commander Certification”.     If evaluation was conducted in conjunction with a
   QUAL/INSTM evaluation, include the remark, “This evaluation was conducted in
   conjunction with Aircraft Commander Certification”.
   2.4.4. (Added-375AMW) OME profile requirements. Units will schedule OMEs on
   operational missions consisting of a minimum of two operational legs with at least one
   instrument departure and arrival. A RON mission is not required. The pilot being evaluated
   may be paired with a FP (consult AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, and the associated
   AMC Supplement for flight authorization procedures) while the evaluator sits in the jump
   seat.
   2.4.5. (Added-375AMW) The pilot must demonstrate operational knowledge and application
   of procedures required to command a successful operational mission. Emphasis will be
   placed on mission/crew management and comprehension of all applicable directives and
   publications including: AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules; AFI 11-2C-21V3, C-21
   Operations Procedures; T.O. 1C-21A-1, Flight Manual, USAF Series C-21A Aircraft; Flight
   Crew Bulletin (FCB); and squadron operating policies.
   2.4.6. (Added-375AMW) The secondary pilot (pilot not receiving the OME), should not
   normally receive, but is still subject to a SPOT evaluation (squadron commander decision).
   2.4.7. (Added-375AMW) The evaluator should do their best to observe without undue
   influence on the mission. This does not restrict an evaluator from asking questions (spec ial
   interest area/items) but ensure when asking questions; they are timely, appropriate, and do
   not delay or interfere with the mission.
2.5. Instructor Evaluations (Initial, Periodic, and Re-qualification). Flight examiners will
place particular emphasis on the examinee’s ability to recognize student difficulties and provide
timely, effective corrective action. State that instructional ability was evaluated in the comments
section of the AF Form 8. List a minimum of two specific areas instructed by the examinee (e.g.,
“single-engine approach to a landing and no flap landing”). Conduct initial or re-qualification
instructor evaluations with a qualified pilot occupying the other seat. For the initial instructor
evaluation the examinee will occupy the right seat. On recurring evaluations the instructor
examinee may occupy either seat.
   2.5.1. During periodic qualification evaluations, instructors will initiate a simulated aircraft
   malfunction requiring a simulated engine shutdown, simulated single-engine approach and
   go-around, and simulated single-engine partial flap landing. The instructor will be evaluated
   on his ability to ensure safe simulated engine-out operations.
 14                                                AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


      2.5.1. (375AMW) During ALL instructor evaluations, examinees will be evaluated on their
      ability to set-up and instruct during a simulated aircraft malfunction requiring simulated
      single-engine operations.
      2.5.2. All instructor areas/sub areas are required instructor evaluation items.
      2.5.3. Instructor and flight examiner pilots receiving periodic evaluations may be evaluated
      in either seat, but are not required to be evaluated in both.
      2.5.4. (Added-375AMW) All instructor evaluations will include the critique of at least one
      approach flown by the other pilot.
      2.5.5. (Added-375AMW) Initial Instructor evaluations are completed either at the C-21A
      formal school or at the local unit. Initial Instructor evaluations conducted at the formal
      school do not count toward the QUAL/INSTM/MSN evaluation requirement but may be
      allowed to count if coordinated between unit Stan/Eval and the formal school prior to arrival.
      In the case of local upgrades, the Initial Instructor Evaluation may be completed in
      conjunction with the QUAL/INSTM/MSN evaluation. If an experienced crewmember (prior
      MWS IP) is upgraded to IP locally, then consult closely with 375th Operations Support
      Squadron Aircrew Training (OST), and the formal school for applicable guidance.
      2.5.6. (Added-375AMW) Periodic instructor evaluations are completed in conjunction with
      the QUAL/INSTM/MSN evaluation.
      2.5.7. (Added-375AMW) Units may be creative in the ground portion of the instructor
      evaluation. The evaluator can make the IP brief a particular subject and work in the IP’s own
      EPE or the IP could brief to another pilot while the evaluator observes, etc.
      2.5.8. (Added-375AMW) The IP being evaluated is expected to set-up the flight profile to
      accomplish evaluation requirements. If weather does not permit the completion of the
      required items, the IP is expected to brief options to the evaluator. Ultimately, the evaluator
      decides if the evaluation can be completed.
      2.5.9. (Added-375AMW) Evaluators in the seat should not intentionally make procedural
      errors, but may simulate student flying/common mistakes (using sound judgment, safety and
      operational risk management (ORM). For example, evaluators may fly faster than normal
      airspeeds, configure late, fly off centerline on final, etc. The intent of these actions is to
      solicit techniques and evaluate the IPs ability to instruct and critique. During a no-notice IP
      evaluation, the evaluator should normally evaluate from the jump seat.
2.6. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE).
      2.6.1. The EPE should cover a cross section of aircraft systems emergencies such as bleed
      air, fuel, oil, electrical, engines, avionics, hydraulics, and Flight Management System (FMS).
      Examinees should be able to demonstrate an understanding of aircraft systems beyond the
      actual steps required for an emergency procedure. Include the following items on EPEs:
         2.6.1.1. All Boldface procedures.
         2.6.1.2. Take-off and Landing Data (TOLD) definitions, take-off procedures and
         emergencies.
         2.6.2. (Added-375AMW) Evaluators will evaluate an aircrew member’s knowledge of
         emergency procedures and systems knowledge for all qualifications. The EPE will
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                              15


       include areas commensurate with the examinee’s graduated training level. The EPE is
       optional (evaluator’s discretion) for all SPOT evaluations.
       2.6.3. (Added-375AMW) Evaluators will present a scenario, which requires analysis, as
       well as crew coordination. EPEs should be carried to a logical conclusion and should
       allow the evaluator to sample overall systems knowledge and application. Sample EPEs
       can be found in the 375 OG/OGV website under the C-21 Emergency Procedures Library
2.7. Pilot Grading Criteria.
   2.7.1. General.
Area 1. Directives/Publications/Pe rsonal and Professional Equipme nt.

Q Possessed an adequate knowledge of all applicable aircraft publications and procedures and
understood how to apply both to enhance mission accomplishment. Publications were current
and properly posted. Had all required personal/professional equipment. Displayed satisfactory
knowledge of the care and use of such equipment. Required equipment inspections were current.

Q- Possessed a limited knowledge of directives but could locate information in appropriate
publications. Publications were current but improperly posted.

U Unaware of established procedures and/or could not locate them in the appropriate publication
in a timely manner. Publications were not current. Did not have required personal/professional
equipment. Required equipment inspections were overdue or equipment was unserviceable.

Area 2. Mission Preparation/Planning/Performance.

Q Checked all factors applicable to flight such as weather, notices to airmen (NOTAM),
alternate airfields, airfield suitability, fuel requirements, charts, etc. Displayed a high level of
knowledge of performance capabilities and operating data. Attended required briefings.
Evaluate the data intended for use during takeoff/landing after final adjustments and corrections
have been made:

V1, Vr, V2, flap retract: ±3 KIAS

N1 setting: ±0.3%

Takeoff/Landing Distance: suitable for takeoff/landing

Landing Speeds: ±3 KIAS

 Q- Made minor errors or omissions in checking all factors that could have detracted from
mission effectiveness. Limited knowledge of performance capabilities or approved operating
procedures/ rules. Late for required briefings. Performance calculations exceeded Q limits but
did not exceed:

V1, Vr, V2, flap retract: ±5 KIAS

N1 setting: ±0.6%
 16                                              AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


Takeoff/Landing Distance: suitable for takeoff/landing

Landing Speeds: ±5 KIAS

U Made major errors or omissions that would have prevented an effective mission.
Unsatisfactory knowledge of performance capabilities and/or operating data. Performance
calculations exceeded Q-limits. Failed to attend required briefings.

Area 3. Use of Checklist.

Q Consistently used and called for the correct checklist and gave the correct response at the
appropriate time throughout the mission.

Q- Checklist responses were untimely and/or crewmember required continual prompting for
correct response.

U Used or called for incorrect checklist or consistently omitted checklist items. Unable to
identify the correct checklist to use for a given situation. Did not complete checklist prior to
event.

Area 4. Safety Consciousness. (Critical)

Q Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft operation and mission
accomplishment.

U Not aware of, or did not comply with all safety factors required for safe aircraft operation or
mission accomplishment. Operated aircraft in a dangerous manner.

Area 5. Judgment/Compliance. (Critical)

Q Exhibited strict flight and crew discipline. Prepared and completed missio n in compliance
with existing instructions and directives.

U Failed to exhibit strict flight and crew discipline. Failed to comply with existing instructions
and directives which did or could have jeopardized safety or mission success.

Area 6. Cre w Coordination/Manage ment/Cre w Resource Management (CRM).

Refer to AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form, as a reference.

Q Effectively coordinated with other aircrew members throughout the assigned mission.
Demonstrated operational knowledge of other crewmembers’ duties and responsibilities.
Effectively applied CRM skills throughout the mission.

Q- Crew coordination skills detracted from mission accomplishment. Demonstrated limited
knowledge of other crewmembers’ duties and responsibilities.

U Poor crew coordination or unsatisfactory knowledge of other crewmember duties and
responsibilities negatively affected mission accomplishment or safety of flight.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                          17


Area 7. Communication/IFF/SIF Procedures.

Q Complete knowledge of and compliance with correct communication/IFF/SIF procedures.
Transmissions were concise with proper terminology. Complied with and acknowledged all
required instructions including successful operation of the IFF/SIF (including Mode 4 and Mode
S).

Q- Occasional deviations from procedures required re-transmissions or resetting codes. Slow in
initiating or missed several required radio calls. Transmissions contained extraneous matter,
were not in proper sequence, or used non-standard terminology. Difficulty configuring IFF/SIF
without mission impact.

U Incorrect procedures or poor performance caused confusion and jeopardized mission
accomplishment. Omitted numerous radio/interphone calls. Unable to configure IFF/SIF with
direct impact on mission success.

Area 8. Life Support Systems/Egress.

Q Displayed thorough knowledge of location and use of life support systems and equipment.
Demonstrated and emphasized the proper operating procedures used to operate aircraft egress
door and hatch.

Q- Limited knowledge of location and use of life support systems and equipment. Unsure of the
proper operating procedures used to operate some of the aircraft egress devices.

U Displayed unsatisfactory knowledge of location and use of life support systems and
equipment. Unsatisfactory knowledge of aircraft egress procedures.

Area 9. Knowledge/Completion of Forms.

Q All required forms and/or flight plans were complete, accurate, readable, accomplished on
time and IAW applicable directives. Provided an accurate debrief of significant events to
applicable agencies (Intel, Maintenance, etc.)

Q- Minor errors on forms and/or flight plans did not affect conduct of the mission. Incorrectly or
incompletely reported some information due to minor errors, omissions, and/or deviations.

U Did not accomplish required forms and/or flight plans. Omitted or incorrectly reported
significant information due to major errors, omissions, and/or deviations.

Area 10. Airmanship/Situational Awareness.

Q Executed the assigned mission in a timely, efficient manner. Maintained situational awareness
and exercised sound judgment throughout the mission. Conducted the flight with a sense of
understanding and comprehension. Prioritized tasks properly.

Q- Untimely or inappropriate decisions degraded or prevented accomplishment of a portion of
the mission. Momentary lapses of situational awareness and sound judgment detracted from the
 18                                              AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


mission. Limited ability to prioritize tasks.

U Lacked situational awareness. Faulty judgment resulted in decisions that had negative mission
impact. Lacks the skills to prioritize tasks. Unaware of significant events that impacted the
mission.

Area 11. Boldface. (Critical)

Q Correct, timely responses in the proper sequence. Maintained aircraft control. Coordinated
proper crew actions.

U Incorrect sequence, unsatisfactory response, or unsatisfactory performance of corrective
actions.

Area 12. Othe r Eme rgency Procedures.

Q Operated within prescribed limits and correctly diagnosed problems. Performed/explained
proper corrective action for each type of malfunction. Effectively used available aids.

Q- Operated within prescribed limits but was slow to analyze problems or apply proper
corrective actions. Did not effectively use, omitted, or deviated in use of checklist and/or
available aids.

U Exceeded limitations. Unable or failed to analyze problem or take proper corrective action.
Did not use checklist and/or available aids.

Area 13. Systems Operations/Knowledge/Limitations.

Q Demonstrated a complete knowledge of aircraft systems and operating limitations both with
and without reference to the flight manual and/or available aids.

Q- Limited knowledge of aircraft systems operations and limitations in some areas. Used
individual technique instead of established procedure and was unaware of differences.

U Unsatisfactory systems knowledge. Unable to demonstrate or explain the procedures for
aircraft systems operations with or without reference to the flight manual and/or available aids.

      2.7.2. Qualification.
Area 14. Basic Aircraft Control.

Q Maintained positive aircraft control. Experienced minor deviations but corrected in a timely
manner. Meets the following tolerances:

Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS Altitude: +/-100 feet Heading/Course: +/-5 degrees

Q- Frequent deviations in airspeed altitude or heading, but does not compromise flight safety.
Slow to correct deviations. Exceeds Q criteria but does not exceed:
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                                 19


Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS Altitude: +/-200 feet Heading/Course: +/-10 degrees

U Exceeded Q- criteria

NOTES:

1. Use the following criteria as general tolerances for airspeed, altitude, and heading/course.
May be used for any flight portion of the evaluatio n.

2. Airspeed tolerances apply when a specific airspeed has been assigned by Air Traffic Control
or pre- scribed in the flight manual. Airspeed “minus” tolerances are based on minimum
maneuvering speed for aircraft configuration.

3. This criteria does not apply to landings. See specific landing area for landing tolerances.

Area 15. Ground Ope rations/Taxi.

Q Established and adhered to station, start engine, taxi, and take-off time to assure thorough
preflight, check of personal equipment, crew/passenger briefings, etc. Accurately determined
readiness of aircraft for flight. Completed all systems preflight/post-flight inspections IAW
flight manual. Conducted taxi operations according to flight manual, AFI 11-218, Aircraft
Operations and Movement on the Ground, and local procedures.

Q- Same as above except for minor procedural deviations that did not detract from mission
effectiveness.

U Crew errors directly contributed to a late takeoff that degraded the mission. Failed to
accurately determine readiness for flight. Failed to preflight/post- flight a critical component or
could not conduct a satisfactory preflight/post- flight inspection.

Area 16. Takeoff.

Q Maintained smooth, positive aircraft control throughout the takeoff. Performed the takeoff
IAW flight manual and as published/directed.

Q- Minor deviations from published procedures without affecting safety of flight. Aircraft
control was safe but not consistently smooth and positive. Hesitant in application of procedures
or corrections.

U Takeoff was potentially dangerous. Exceeded aircraft/systems limitations. Failed to establish
proper climb attitude. Excessive deviation from intended flight path. Violated flight manual
procedures. Exceeded Q- criteria.

Area 17. Radar Ops/Weather Avoidance/Windshear.

Q Effectively demonstrated procedures for operating weather radar. Updated weather
radar/analysis throughout the mission. Highly knowledgeable of windshear detection and
avoidance equipment/procedures. Used all available sources to determine if and/or to what
 20                                             AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


degree severe weather conditions exist. Complied with all weather separation and windshear
avoidance directives.

Q- Minor deviations observed when operating weather radar. Did not update radar/weat her
analysis during worsening weather conditions. Limited knowledge of windshear detection and
avoidance equipment.

U Unable to demonstrate proper use of weather radar. Failed to update radar/weather analysis
when critical. Displayed unsatisfactory knowledge of windshear detection and avoidance
equipment. Failed to comply with weather separation or windshear avoidance directives that
could have jeopardized safety or mission success.

Area 18. Fuel Conservation.

Q Possessed a high level of knowledge of all applicable aircraft publications and other governing
directives and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel conservation. Successfully applied
fuel conservation procedures during the mission.

Q- Possessed some knowledge of applicable aircraft publications and other governing directives
and understood how to apply both to enhance fuel conservation. Successfully applied some fuel
conservation procedures, but missed several opportunities to apply fuel conservation procedures
during the mission.

U Unaware of fuel conservation procedures. Failed to apply any fuel conservation procedures
during the mission.

Area 19. VFR Pattern. (Weather permitting, verbally evaluate if not observed)

Q Performed traffic pattern and turn to final/final approach IAW published procedures. Aircraft
control was smooth and positive. Constantly cleared area of intended flight.

Q- Performed traffic pattern and turn to final/final approach with minor deviations to procedures.
Air craft control was safe but not consistently smooth and positive. Over/under shot final
approach, but was able to intercept normal glide path. Adequately cleared area of intended
flight.

U Did not perform traffic pattern and/or turn to final/final approach IAW published procedures.
Displayed erratic aircraft control. Did not clear area of intended flight.

Area 20. Landings. Includes sub-areas of Full Flap, Partial Flap, No-Flap, Touch-and-Go
Landings.

Sub Area 20A. Full Flap Landing.

Sub Area 20B. Partial Flap Landing. (Normally 20 degrees, but can be 8 degrees)

Sub Area 20C. No Flap Landing.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                           21


Sub Area 20D. Touch and Go Landing.

Q Performed landings as published/directed IAW flight manual and met the following criteria:

Airspeed: +/-5 KIAS Touchdown Zone: 800-2000 feet Centerline: +/-15 feet left or right TCH:
+25/-5 feet

Q- Performed landings with minor deviation to procedures as published/directed. Landed in a
slight crab. Exceeded Q criteria but not the following:

Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS Touchdown Zone: Threshold-3000 feet Centerline: +/-25 feet left or
right TCH: +50/-10 feet

U Landing not performed as published/directed. Exceeded Q- criteria.

NOTES:

1. Specific items to evaluate include threshold altitude/airspeed, runway alignme nt, flare,
touchdown speed, and landing in a crab.

2. Airspeed tolerances apply to computed TOLD speeds.

3. Add +5 KIAS for single-engine operations.

Area 21. Landing Roll/Braking/Reverse Thrust.

Q Performed as published/directed IAW flight manual. Braking action and thrust reverser
actuation (if used) was prompt and smooth.

Q- Performed landing roll with minor deviation to procedures. Braking action and reverse thrust
actuation (if used) unnecessarily delayed or not smooth.

U Landing roll not performed as published/directed. Braking or reverse thrust actuation (if used)
accomplished in an unsafe manner or actuated prior to touchdown. Exceeded Q- criteria.

Area 22. All Engine Go-Around. (Not Required if Area 24 or 34 is Accomplished)

Q Initiated and performed go-around promptly and IAW flight manual and directives. Applied
smooth control inputs. Acquired and maintained a positive climb.

Q- Slow or hesitant to initiate go-around. Slightly over controlled the aircraft. Minor deviations
did not affect mission accomplishment or compromise safety.

U Did not initiate go-around when appropriate or directed. Major deviations or misapplication
of procedures could have led to an unsafe condition.

Area 23. Engine Out Partial-Flap Landing. Use Area 20 criteria.

Area 24. Engine Out Go-Around.
 22                                              AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


Q Performed all required procedures IAW the flight manual and directives. Applied smooth,
positive, and coordinated control inputs. Rudder and aileron inputs were in correct dir ection.
Airspeed no less than Vref + 7 and no greater than Vref +20 KIAS. Course or heading, as
appropriate, ±10 degrees.

Q- Errors were made which did not affect safety. Aircraft control was not consistently smooth
and positive. Rudder and aileron inputs were in the correct direction with some over/under
control. Airspeed no less than Vref +7 and no greater than Vref +25. Course or heading, as
appropriate, ±15 degrees.

U Rudder and/or aileron inputs were incorrect. Failed to perform the maneuver IAW the flight
manual and current directives. Exceeded Q- criteria.

Area 25. Tactical Maneuvers (includes sub-areas of Tactical Arrival and Tactical
Departure).

25A. Tactical Arrival. (Weather, ATC, and mission pe rmitting, ve rbally evaluate if not
observed)

25B. Tactical Departure. (Weather, ATC, and mission permitting, verbally evaluate if not
observed)

Q Performed maneuver IAW the flight manual and directives. Performed appropriate maneuver
for given scenario. Aircraft control was smooth and positive. Constantly cleared area of
intended flight.

Q- Performed maneuver with minor deviations to published procedures. Performed appropriate
maneuver for given scenario. Aircraft control was safe but not consistently smooth and positive.
Adequately cleared area of intended flight.

U Did not perform maneuver IAW published procedures. Did not perform appropriate
maneuver for given scenario. Displayed erratic aircraft control. Did not clear area of intended
flight. Exceeded Q-criteria.

      2.7.3. Instrument.
Q Meets the following tolerances:

Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS Altitude: +/-100 feet Heading/Course: +/-5 degrees

Q- Exceeds Q criteria but does not exceed:

Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS Altitude: +/-200 feet Heading/Course: +/-10 degrees

U Exceeded Q- criteria.

NOTES:

1. Use the following criteria as general tolerances for airspeed, altitude, and heading/course.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                             23


2. Airspeed tolerances apply when a specific airspeed has been assigned by Air Traffic Control
or prescribed in the flight manual.

3. This criteria does not apply to landings. See specific landing area for landing tolerances.

4. Add 5 KIAS, 50 feet (when practical), and 2 degrees to these criteria for engine-out
operations.

Area 26. Instrume nt Departure/Standard Instrume nt Departure (SID).

Q Complied with all restrictions or controlling agency instructions. Made all required reports.
Applied course/heading corrections promptly. Demonstrated smooth, positive control.

Q- Minor deviations in navigation occurred during departure. Slow to comply with controlling
agency instructions or unsure of reporting requirements. Slow to apply course/heading
corrections. Aircraft control was not consistently smooth and positive.

U Failed to comply with published/directed departure, or controlling agency instructions.
Accepted an inaccurate clearance. Aircraft control was erratic.

Area 27. Navigation.

Q Able to navigate using all available means. Used appropriate navigation procedures.
Complied with clearance instructions. Aware of position at all times. Remained within the
confines of assigned airspace.

Fix to Fix: ±3 NM TACAN/VOR-DME Arc: ±2 NM

Q- Minor errors in procedures/use of navigation equipment. Slow to comply with clearance
instructions. Had some difficulty in establishing exact position and course. Slow to adjust for
deviations in time and course. Exceeded Q criteria but not greater than:

Fix to Fix: ±5 NM TACAN/VOR-DME Arc: ±4 NM

U Major errors in procedures/use of navigation equipment. Could not establish position. Failed
to recognize checkpoints or adjust for position deviations from course. Did not remain with the
confines of assigned airspace. Exceeded Q- criteria.

Area 28. Holding or Procedure Turn.

Q Performed entry and holding/procedure turn IAW published procedures and directives.

Q- Performed entry and holding procedures with minor deviations.

U Holding/procedure turn was not IAW flight manual, directives, or published procedures.

Area 29. Use of NAVAIDs.

Q Ensured NAVAIDs were properly tuned, identified, and monitored.
 24                                              AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


Q- Some deviations in tuning, identifying, and monitoring NAVAIDs.

U Did not ensure NAVAIDs were tuned, identified, and monitored.

Area 30. Descent/Arrival.

Q Performed descent as directed. Complied with all flight manual, controller issued, or Standard
Terminal Arrival (STAR) restrictions in a proficient manner. Accomplished all required checks.

Q- Performed descent as directed with minor deviations that did not compromise mission safety.
Slow to accomplish required checks.

U Performed descent with major deviations. Did not accomplish required checks. Erratic
corrections. Exceeded flight manual limitations.

Area 31. Precision Approaches. (Includes sub-areas of PAR and ILS)

Q Meets the following tolerances:

Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS Altitude: Initiated missed approach at decision height +50/-0 feet
Heading: +/-5 degrees of controller’s instructions (PAR) Glide Slope: Within one dot (ILS)
Azimuth: Within one dot (ILS)

Q- Exceeds Q criteria but does not exceed:

Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS Altitude: Initiated missed approach at decision height +100/-0 feet
Heading: +/-10 degrees of controller’s instructions (PAR) Glide Slope: Within one dot low, two
dots high (ILS), after runway was in sight examinee momentarily deviated below glide path but
corrected for a safe landing (“duck-under”). Azimuth: Within two dots (ILS)

U Exceeded Q- criteria.

NOTES:

1. Use the above criteria as general tolerances for airspeed, altitude, heading, glide slope, and
azimuth.

2. Airspeed tolerances are based on computed approach speed for configuration.

3. One or the other required for QUAL evaluation.

Sub Area 31A. PAR.

Q Approach was IAW published procedures. Smooth and timely response to controller’s
instructions. Established initial glide path and maintained glide slope with minor deviations.
Complied with decision height. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Elevation did not
exceed slightly above or slightly below glide path.

Q- Performed approach with minor deviations. Slow to respond to controller’s instructions and
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                         25


make corrections. Complied with decision height. Position would have permitted a safe landing.
Elevation did not exceed well above or well below glide path. Exceeded Q criteria.

U Approach not IAW flight manual, directives, or published procedures. Erratic corrections and
glide path control. Did not respond to controller’s instructions. Did not comply with decision
height and/or position would not have permitted a safe landing. Exceeded Q- criteria.

NOTE: Perform either a PAR or ILS for QUAL evaluation. If PAR is flown, then at least one
non-precision approach must be flown using a conventional NAVAID.

Sub Area 31B. ILS.

Q Approach was IAW published procedures. Smooth and timely corrections to azimuth and
glide slope. Complied with decision height. Position would have permitted a safe landing.
Maintained glide path with only minor deviations.

Q- Performed approach with minor deviations. Slow to make corrections. Slow to comply with
decision height. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Inconsistent glide path control.

U Approach not IAW flight manual, directives, or published procedures. Erratic corrections and
glide path control. Did not comply with decision height and/or position at decision height would
not have permitted a safe landing. Exceeded Q- criteria.

NOTE: Perform either a PAR or ILS for QUAL evaluation. If PAR is flown, then at least one
non-precision approach must be flown using conventional NAVAID.

Area 32. Non-Precision Approaches. (Includes NDB, Localize r (LOC), VOR, ASR,
TACAN, RNAV (GPS))

Sub Area 32A. NDB.

Sub Area 32B. LOC/VOR.

Sub Area 32C. ASR.

Sub Area 32D. TACAN.

Sub Area 32E. RNAV (GPS).

Q Approach was IAW published procedures. Used appropriate descent rate to arrive at MDA at
or before VDP. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Smooth and timely response to
controller’s instructions (ASR).

Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS MDA: +100/-0 feet Course: +/-5 degrees at MAP (NDB, VOR, TAC),
less than one dot deflection (LOC, RNAV

(GPS)) Timing: Computed/adjusted timing to determine MAP within 10 seconds (when required)

Distance: Determined MAP within +/-0.5 NM
 26                                             AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


Q- Performed approach with minor deviations. Arrived at MDA at or before the MAP, but past
the VDP. Position would have permitted a safe landing. Slow to respond to controller’s
instructions and make corrections (ASR). Exceeded Q criteria but does not exceed:

Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS

MDA: +150/-50 feet

Course: +/-10 degrees at MAP (NDB, VOR, TAC), within 2 dots (LOC, RNAV (GPS))

Timing: Computed/adjusted timing to determine MAP within 20 seconds (when required).

Distance: Determined MAP within +1/-0.5 NM

 U Approach not IAW published procedures. Maintained steady-state flight below the MDA,
even though the -50 foot limit was not exceeded. Position would not have permitted a safe
landing. Failed to compute or adjust timing to determine MAP (when required). Exceeded Q-
criteria.

NOTES:

1. Use the following description and criteria as general tolerances for airspeed, altitude at MDA,
heading, course, timing, and distance with all engines operating.

2. Airspeed tolerances are based on computed approach speed.

3. Any two approaches required for QUAL evaluation. If precision approach is PAR, then at
least one non-precision must be flown using a conventional NAVAID. If the precision approach
is an ILS, then both non-precision approaches may be RNAV (GPS) and/or ASR.

Area 33. Circling Approach.

Q Properly identified aircraft category for the approach and remained within the lateral limits for
that category. Complied with controller’s instructions. Attained runway alignment without
excessive bank angles. Did not descend from the MDA until in a position to place the aircraft on
a normal glide path or execute a normal landing.

Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS

Altitude: +100/-0 feet

 Q- Deviated from established procedures but was not unsafe. Slow to comply with controller’s
instructions. Attained runway alignment but occasionally required excessive bank angles or
maneuvering.

Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS

Altitude: +150/-50 feet
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                            27


U Did not properly identify aircraft category or exceeded the lateral limits of circling airspace.
Did not comply with controller’s instructions. Excessive maneuvering to attain runway
alignment was potentially unsafe. Descended from the MDA before the aircraft was in a position
for a normal glide path or landing. Exceeded Q- criteria.

Area 34. Missed Approach. (Not Require d if Area 22 or 24 is Accomplished)

Q Executed missed approach IAW published procedures. Complied with controller’s
instructions. Applied smooth control inputs.

Q- Executed missed approach with minor deviations to published procedures. Slow to comply
with controller’s instructions. Slightly over controlled the aircraft.

U Did not execute missed approach IAW flight manual, directives, or published procedures. Did
not comply with controller’s instructions. Deviation or misapplications of procedures could have
led to an unsafe condition. Exceeded Q- criteria.

   2.7.4. Instructor.
Area 35. Instructor Ability (Critical).

Q Demonstrated the ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate guidance when
necessary. Planned ahead and made timely decisions. Identified and corrected potentially
unsafe maneuvers/situations.

U Unable to effectively communicate or provide timely feedback to the student. Did not provide
corrective action when necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student problems. Did not
identify unsafe maneuvers/situations in a timely manner. Made no attempt to instruct.

Area 36. Instructor Demonstration (Critical).

Q Effectively demonstrated correct procedures, systems operation or flight maneuvers.
Thorough knowledge of applicable aircraft systems, procedures, publications, and directives.

U Ineffective or incorrect demonstration of procedures, systems operation, or flight maneuvers.
Insufficient depth of knowledge about applicable aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper
source material.

Area 37. Student Briefing/Critique (Critical).

Q Briefings were well organized, accurate, and thorough. Reviewed student’s present level of
training and defined mission events to be performed. Demonstrated the ability during the
critique to reconstruct the flight, offer mission analysis, and provide guidance where appropriate.
Training grade reflected the actual performance of the student relative to the standard. Pre-
briefed the student’s next mission, if required.

U Briefings were unsatisfactory or non-existent. Did not review student’s past performance.
Failed to adequately critique student or analyze the mission. Training grade did not reflect actual
performance of student. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Incomplete pre-briefing of
 28                                             AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


student’s next mission, if required.

Area 38. Knowledge of Training Forms.

Q All required forms were accomplished on time and IAW applicable directives. Demonstrated
satisfactory knowledge of forms/publications required for mission accomplishment. Training
documentation was concise and readable.

Q- All required forms were accomplished but may have been late or with minor deviations from
applicable directives. Demonstrated adequate knowledge of forms/publications required for
mission accomplishment. Training documentation had minor errors that detracted from the
overall quality and readability.

U Knowledge of mission required forms/publications was inadequate. Did not accomplish
required forms. Omitted or incorrectly documented significant training information.

      2.7.5. Operational Mission Evaluation (Initial Aircraft Commander)
NOTE: This section can also be used when conducting SPOT or QUAL evaluations that include
operational mission legs.

Area 39. Aircraft Commander Responsibilities (Critical)

Q Was thoroughly aware of aircraft commander’s responsibilities and performed them
adequately to allow for mission accomplishment without major discrepancies.

U Was unsure of aircraft commander’s responsibilities and would have hindered the
accomplishment of the mission if evaluator did not intervene.

Area 40. Flight Progress.

Q Kept mission on-time to the best of the aircrew’s capabilities. Timely notification to required
agencies of departure and arrival information and maintenance discrepancies.

Q- Minor deviations in itinerary caused by insufficient management. Notification to required
agencies of departure and arrival information and maintenance discrepancies were sometimes
late.

U Mission was delayed or degraded due to insufficient management by the evaluatee.
Notification to required agencies of departure and arrival information and maintenance
discrepancies were not accomplished.

Area 41. Passenger Contact.

Q Worked closely with the passenger contact to ensure accurate itinerary details and passenger
requirements

Q- Was slow to interact with passenger contact, which led to minor itinerary problems. Did not
adversely affect mission accomplishment.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                                          29


U Did not interact with the passenger contact. Led to miscommunications between aircrew and
party, which hampered mission accomplishment.

Area 42. Enroute Procedures. Use Area 27 criteria and those below.

Q Accurately planned and performed enroute portion of mission to include compliance with
ATC and diplomatic requirements. Set reasonable block times and met them within 5 minutes
except when conditions were beyond examinee’s control (i.e. ATC delays).

Q- Planning of enroute portion of mission was not always appropriate or complete. In flight
performance was adequate and no ATC or diplomatic requirements were violated. Set
reasonable block times and met them within 10 minutes except when conditions were beyond
examinee’s control (i.e. ATC delays).

U Enroute planning was inadequate. Violated ATC instruction or diplomatic requirements. Set
unrealistic block times were not within 10 minutes except when conditions were beyond
examinee’s control (i.e. ATC delays).

Area 43. Post Flight/RON Procedures.

Q Accomplished required checklists and ensured required aircraft servicing was completed.
Managed crew to ensure their location and departure times were always known.

Q- Slow to complete required checklists or ensure required aircraft servicing was completed.
Was sometimes unaware of crewmember’s location during crew rest. Was slow to set an
adequate hotel departure time and pass information to the crew.

U Did not accomplish the required checklists and aircraft was not properly serviced. Unaware of
crew members’ location during crew rest. In adequate hotel departure times were set.
Communication to crew during crew rest was inadequate.

Area 44. Aircraft Security.

Q Ensured security requirements were met IAW appropriate directives.

Q- Was sometimes unaware of security requirements, but ensured they were met when
researched.

U Was unaware of security requirements, which led to evaluator intervention to ensure they
were met.

Area 45. Approach and Landing.

One each is required for an OME. Use appropriate Area tolerances for type of approach flown.

   2.7.6. Prescribed Forms. (None.)
30                                          AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


     2.7.7. Adopted Forms. AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification; AF Form 3862,
     Flight Evaluation Worksheet, AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation
     Form.




                                         PHILIP M. BREEDLOVE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
                                         (375 AMW)
                                         GARY P. GOLDSTONE, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                         31


                                      Attachme nt 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2C-21V1, C-21 Aircrew Training, 27 Dec 2006
AFI 11-2C-21V3, C-21 Operations Procedures, 8 Jun 2007
AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training, 17 May 2007
AFI 11-202 Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 8 Dec 2006
AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Course (IRC) Program, 3 Feb 2005
AFI 11-215, Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 6 Apr 2005
AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground, 11 May 2005
AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors, 12 Nov 2003
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 Jan 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Aircraft Commander
ADS—Aircraft Defensive System
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJMAN—Air Force Joint Manual
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGL—Above Ground Level
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ASR—Airport Surveillance Radar
ATA—Actual Time of Arrival
ATD—Aircrew Training Device
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Commander
CG—Center of Gravity
 32                                   AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


CRM—Crew Resource Management
DD—Department of Defense
DH—Decision Height
DO—Director of Operations
DR—Dead Reckoning
EPE—Emergency Procedures Evaluation
ETA—Estimated Time of Arrival
ETP—Equal Time Point
FEF—Flight Evaluation Folder
FMS—Flight Management System
FP—Flight Pilot
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IFF—Identification Friend or Foe
ILS—Instrument Landing System
Form—Information Management Tool
INIT—Initial
INSTM—Instrument
INSTR—Instructor
IP—Instructor Pilot
IRP—Instrument Refresher Program
KIAS—Knots Indicated Airspeed
LOC—Localizer
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAP—Missed Approach Point
MDA—Minimum Descent Altitude
MP—Mission Pilot
MQF—Master Question File
MPD—Mobility Pilot Development
MSN—Mission
N1—Engine Fan Speed in RPM
N/A—Not Applicable
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010   33


NAVAID—Navigation Aid
NDB—Non-directional Radio Beacon
NM—Nautical Mile
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
OG—Operations Group
OME—Operational Mission Evaluation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAR—Precision Approach Radar
PEX—Patriot Excalibur
PF—Pilot Flying
PM—Pilot Monitoring
PQP—Prior Qualified Pilot
Q—Qualified
Q-—Qualified Minus
Q-1—Qualification Level 1
Q-2—Qualification Level 2
Q-3—Qualification Level 3
QUAL—Qualification
RON—Remain Overnight
RQ—Requalification
SID—Standard Instrument Departure
SIF—Selective Identification Feature
SOC—Senior Officer Course
STAR—Standard Terminal Arrival
T—Trend
TACAN—Tactical Air Navigation System
TAS—True Airspeed
TOLD—Takeoff and Landing Data
U—Unqualified
USAF—United States Air Force
V1—Take-Off Decision Speed
V2—Take-Off Safety Speed
 34                                     AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


Vr—Rotation Speed
VDP—Visual Descent Point
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
Vmca—Minimum Control Airspeed
VOR—Very High Frequency Omni-directional Radio Beacon
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010                                    35



                                 Attachme nt 1 (375AMW)

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 5 April 2006

AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 7 March 2007

T.O. 1C-21A-1, Flight Manual, USAF Series C-21A Aircraft, 30 June 2008

Flight Crew Bulletins

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AMW—Air Mobility Wing

FCB—Flight Crew Bulletin

ORM—Operational Risk Management

OST—Operations Support Squadron Aircrew Training

PEX—Patriot Excalibur
 36                                         AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


                                    Attachme nt 2
                 FLIGHT EVALUATION WORKSHEET EXAMPLE

Figure A2.1. Flight Evaluation Worksheet.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010   37
 38                                         AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


                                       Attachme nt 3
                        TACTICS TEST FORM 8 EXAMPLES

Figure A3.1. Tactics Test Form 8 Q1.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010   39
 40                                      AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010


Figure A3.2. Tactics Test Form 8 Q3/1.
AFI11-2C-21V2_375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010   41
 42                                              AFI11-2C-21V2375AMWSUP_I 7 JUNE 2010




                                Attachme nt 4 (Added-375AMW)

                           COMMON C-21 CHECKRIDE PROFILE

A4.1. One Precision approach.

A4.2. Two Non-precision approaches

A4.3. Circling approach.

A4.4. VFR pattern (verbally evaluate if not available).

A4.5. Single engine landing.

A4.6. Single engine go-around.

A4.7. Holding or procedure turn.

A4.8. Tactical departure (verbally evaluate if not available).

A4.9. Tactical arrival (verbally evaluate if not available).

A4.10. Critique one student approach (for IP eval).

A4.11. Full, partial, and zero flap landing must all be accomplished in the course of the
evaluation.
