BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                               AFI 13-207/ACC SUPPLEMENT 1
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                                    30 SEPTEMBER 1994
                                                                                       Certified Current, 20 November 2009
                                                                                     Space, Missiles, Command and Control

                                                   PREVENTING AND RESISTING AIRCRAFT PIRACY (HIJACKING)
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS SUPPLEMENT AND ITS PARENT INSTRUCTION IS
MANDATORY
AFI 13-207, 15 April 1994, is supplemented as follows. This supplement applies to United States Air Force Reserve
(USAFR) members and units when published in AFRESIND 2, and to Air National Guard (ANG) members and units when
published in ANGIND 2.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Existing guidance reorganized to align with AFI 13-207; deletes duplication of guidance specified in AFI 13-207.

Supersedes AFR60-14ACC1, 15 Feb 93.
OPR: HQ ACC/DOFO (MSgt Hamilton)
Approved by: Col Marian F. Alexander
Pages: 1/Distribution: F

4.2.4.1. To help safeguard transport and tanker aircraft, the commander exercising operational control may authorize an
armed escort.
6.3. The following areas should be addressed in the unit plan, in addition to any locally directed requirements:
• Suggestions for removing hijacker personnel from aircraft (i.e. negotiation, apprehension teams, and snipers).
• Identification of aircraft types most susceptible to unlawful acts, such as those with internal starting systems and those
  capable of carrying passengers.
• Identification of environments more susceptible to unlawful acts, such as after duty hours, nighttime, and parking areas
  where continuous surveillance cannot be maintained.
• Processing requirements for patients, medical and non-medical attendants, if applicable.
• Identification of and processing requirements for exempted personnel.
• Procedures for responding to suspicious personnel/baggage.
7.4 At many locations passenger processing is performed by base operations personnel due to the limited number and size of
aircraft handled. At those locations, transportation is responsible for ensuring that the persons actually processing the
passengers are trained in anti-hijacking procedures. Transportation personnel must also be available to assist when there are
large numbers of travelers or when there are traveler eligibility questions.
7.4.1. Passenger service will place a warning sign in the passenger processing area which states:
IT IS A FEDERAL CRIME TO:
• Seize an aircraft by threat, force or violence.
• Stow away aboard aircraft.
• Carry concealed weapons aboard aircraft.
• Transport concealed explosives aboard aircraft.
• Interfere with flight crew, including any flight attendant.
• Possess, use, or transfer narcotic drugs, including marijuana, aboard aircraft.
• Convey false information concerning the above criminal acts.
7.5. Exemptions will be determined by the host wing commander and specified in the base hijack/theft prevention plan.
Passenger service must ensure that the individual supervising the aircraft loading completes block 6 of DD Form 2131,
Passenger Manifest, and forwards a copy to passenger service.
7.5.9. Passenger service will notify security police if a suspicious person or unclaimed object is detected. When suspect
unclaimed baggage is discovered, it will be immediately examined by security police. If suspicious items are detected, stop
the inspection, clear the area and request Explosives Ordnance Disposal (EOD) assistance.
8.1.2. It is most unlikely that fighter-type aircraft will be hijacked. Therefore, to preclude actions that would unnecessarily
endanger lives and property, do not attempt to positively detain or disable fighter-type aircraft in order to prevent takeoff
unless:
• The aircraft commander requests such actions.
• You are directed to intervene by installation commander or higher authority.
10.1.1. Contact the NMCC through command and control channels. HQ ACC/DOC will direct the required support as
authorized by the NMCC.
Table 1, paragraph 2. Include HQ ACC/DOC as an info addressee.


                                                                              JOHN M. LOH
                    OFFICIAL                                                  General, USAF
                                                                              Commander
THOMAS N. CHAPMAN, Colonel, USAF
Chief, Office of Information Management
