BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2RC-135,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 2

                                                                          4 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                               RC-135 UNIT INTELLIGENCE
                                                                   EVALUATION CRITERIA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                               Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                    (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                       Pages: 16


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202 Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for evaluating and qualifying personnel performing intelligence duties in RC-135 units.
This publication applies to all Air Force Active Duty, Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG)
intelligence personnel supporting RC-135 operations. National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this instruction. This
publication requires the collection or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974. Privacy Act System of Records Notice F011 AF AFMC B, Patriot Excalibur, covers
required information. The authority to maintain the records prescribed in this instruction are
Title 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; Air Force Instruction 36-2608, Military
Personnel Records System and Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts
Relating To Individual Persons, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to
Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule. This publication may be supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval. Refer
recommended changes to this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s through the appropriate MAJCOM functional
chain of command. Units may request waivers for tiered compliance items IAW AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management. Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Intelligence
 2                                                 AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


(A2) is the waiver authority for non-compliance items; these requests must be submitted through
the chain-of-command to the publication OPR.
AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                3



                                           Chapter 1

                                      INTRODUCTION

1.1. General.
   1.1.1. Scope.    This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IEs) and examinees with
   procedures and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and
   periodic evaluations. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and this instruction.
   1.1.2. References. The primary references supporting RC-135 intelligence evaluations are
   AFI 14-2RC-135 Volume 1, RC-135 Unit Intelligence Training; AFI 14-2RC-135 Volume 3,
   RC-135 Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
   (AFTTP) 3-1.General Planning, General Planning and Employment Considerations; AFTTP
   3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.RC-135,
   Tactical Employment—RC-135,; and this instruction.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s are granted waiver authority for specific requirements outlined in
this publication. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy Air Combat Command (ACC)/A2 regarding
all waiver requests and responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver
correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and
guidance.
1.3. Procedures.
   1.3.1. Conduct and document evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Prior to any formal
   evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have successfully completed all
   duty position required Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized Training (ST)
   requirements outlined in AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 1. (T-2)
   1.3.2. Evaluations should be accomplished in a realistic training environment and in
   conjunction with local events (e.g., actual deployment briefing or post-mission debrief) to the
   maximum extent possible. When it is impossible to conduct evaluations in a realistic
   environment, use an alternate method (e.g., simulated, staged, or verbal examination).
   Document the reasons for and type of alternate method used in the comments section of the
   AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. (T-3)
   1.3.3. Intelligence evaluators will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for
   conducting intelligence evaluations. To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will
   be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   1.3.4. Prior to beginning an evaluation, the IE will brief the examinee on the conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria of the evaluation. The examinee will
   accomplish required planning IAW the task being evaluated. (T-3)
   1.3.5. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area accomplished during the
   evaluation with the evaluation criteria provided in this volume and assign an appropriate
   evaluation grade for the area. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades,
   the IEs will determine the overall qualification level. (T-3)
 4                                                    AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


     1.3.6. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, to assist in grading the
     individual areas during the evaluation. The form used by the evaluator will be a blank AF
     Form 4381, not the one completed by the trainer during MQT/ST. The gradesheet elements
     specific to RC-135 intelligence tasks are found in attachments 3 and 4 of AFI 14-2RC-135
     Volume 1. (T-3)
     1.3.7. In addition to the guidance provided by this publication, IEs will be expected to use
     their personal experience and knowledge in the assessment of examinee performance. (T-3)
     1.3.8. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
     the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, grades assigned (if other than qualified)
     and any required additional training. (T-3)
1.4. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training as
necessary. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-
3)
1.5. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall qualification level 3 (“Q-3”)
will be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on an evaluation
(initial mission qualification evaluation (INIT MSN) or mission qualification evaluation (MSN)),
they will not perform mission duties unsupervised until remedial actions are accomplished. (T-
2)
AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                             5


                                          Chapter 2

                            EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. The intelligence evaluation must include all areas listed in this chapter as they
relate to the examinee’s duty position and as depicted in Tables 2.1, Intelligence Evaluations.

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
 SUBJECT                                     INIT MSN      MSN          EIT         IE
 Knowledge Evaluations
 RC-135 Weapons Systems Academics            R             R            ---         ---
 Threat Knowledge                            R             R            ---         ---
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems        R             R            ---         ---
 Visual Recognition (VR)                     R             R            ---         ---
 Personnel Recovery (PR)                     R             R            ---         ---
 Force Protection Intelligence (FPI)         R             R            ---         ---

 Performance Task Evaluations
 Threat Briefing                              R             ---           ---   ---
 Situation Displays                           R             R             ---   ---
 Manual Order of Battle (OB)                  R             R             ---   ---
 Automated OB                                 R             R             ---   ---
 Initial Situation Briefing                   R             R             ---   ---
 Situation Briefing                           R             R             ---   ---
 Changeover Briefing                          R             R             ---   ---
 Deployment Briefing                          R             R             ---   ---
 Air Tasking Order (ATO)/Airspace             R             R             ---   ---
 Control Order (ACO)/Special Instructions
 (SPINS)/Reconnaissance, Surveillance,
 and Target Acquisition (RSTA) Annex/
 Collection Emphasis Message and other
 tasking documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning     R             R             ---   ---
 Mission Package Construction                 R             R
 Mission Briefing                             R             R             ---   ---
 Step Briefing                                R             R             ---   ---
 Mission Tracking                             R             R             ---   ---
 Debriefing                                   R             R             ---   ---
 Intelligence Reports                         R             R             ---   ---
 Specialized Task Evaluations
 COBRA BALL Intel Support                     R             R             ---   ---
 Instructional Ability                        ---           ---           R     ---
 Evaluator Ability                            ---           ---           ---   R
 Note: Gradesheet templates for each area are included in AFI14-2RC-135, Volume 1.
 Passing criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.
 6                                                    AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013



R = Required area of evaluation
QUAL = Qualification (Evaluation)
INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
2.2. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
     2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
     and periodic mission qualification evaluations to test the examinee’s understanding of RC-
     135 weapons systems and capabilities, threat knowledge, friendly and neutral weapons
     systems, basic radar theory, infrared (IR) theory, VR, PR and FPI. Examinees will complete
     a test from the unit’s master question file (MQF) for knowledge evaluation areas. Examinees
     will take a separate VR test. Research, analysis and dissemination (RAD) and intelligence
     preparation of the operational environment (IPOE) involve knowledge intelligence personnel
     should be applying throughout all areas of the evaluation and will be evaluated as subsets of
     each applicable performance task. (T-2)
     2.2.2. Performance Evaluation. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation
     materials based off of current intelligence, unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR)
     scenarios. Units must apply operational risk management principles to evaluations
     conducted during exercises or deployments. The following guidelines are provided to assist
     the IE conducting performance evaluations (T-2):
        2.2.2.1. Situation displays. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to use intelligence systems to
        construct, post, update, and maintain quality situation displays based on unit mission and
        Operations Plan (OPLAN)/Concept of Operations Plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Determine
        the examinee’s decision-making abilities to choose the best medium to use to create the
        display. Include a large variety of items from AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 3 that
        challenges the examinee to conduct research and analysis to determine the relevance of
        the data to the situation. The number of items to plot should be of sufficient volume to be
        challenging, yet not so overwhelming that the time taken is beyond that necessary to
        determine proficiency. The scenario may include erroneous information to mirror the
        “fog of war” by including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats for the
        particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to identify errors
        and question the validity of information. The examinee should use Military-Standard
        (MIL-STD) 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual (FM)
        1-02/US Marine Corps Reference Publication (MCRP) 5-12A, Operational Terms and
        Graphics.
            2.2.2.1.1. Manual OB. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to maintain OB on situation
            displays without intelligence systems based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
            tasking. The examinee must identify OB production sources for the AOR and
            research and analyze OB data. The examinee must be able to identify critical
            elements of the table of organization and equipment for the OB being used. The
            number of OB items in the plotting exercise will be of sufficient volume to have a
            variety of threats to plot to ensure correct symbology is used.
AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 7


        2.2.2.1.2. Automated OB. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to maintain OB on
        situation displays with intelligence systems based on unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. The examinee must identify OB production sources for
        the AOR from which to pull data; research and analyze that data; and question the
        information’s accuracy. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to post and maintain OB;
        update and purge data to ensure quality control of the displayed. Evaluate the
        examinee’s ability to use intelligence software applications to convert between
        coordinate systems.
     2.2.2.2. Intelligence Briefings. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to prepare and present
     briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information provided by the evaluator;
     message traffic, intelligence reports, and other intelligence materials. Other sources used
     to evaluate other mission areas may also be used. Evaluate the research and analysis
     skills related to briefing preparation. Evaluated briefings include threat, initial situation,
     situation, changeover, deployment, mission, and step.
     2.2.2.3. ATO/ACO//SPINS , RSTA Annex/Collection Emphasis Message and other
     tasking documents. Objective: Evaluate the examinee’s ability to obtain, identify, and
     extract applicable elements of tasking documents. Use scenario, actual contingency or
     exercise materials. Provide enough information that the examinee’s unit is not the sole
     unit in the tasking mechanism. The IE will determine the examinee’s ability to identify
     and extract unit tasking, airspace control, PR SPINS and intelligence related information
     from tasking documents with and without the assistance of automated tools.
     2.2.2.4. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to
     provide intelligence support to mission planners.              Use scenario or actual
     contingency/exercise materials. Evaluate the examinee’s knowledge of unit mission
     planning process. Provide enough information to evaluate the examinee’s ability to
     analyze the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout, plot unit tasking, and derive specified and
     implied intelligence requirements (including mission materials). The IE will determine
     the examinee’s ability to analyze operating area threats and terrain. Specific pieces of
     information should be purposefully omitted to evaluate the examinee’s ability to identify
     intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps.
     2.2.2.5. Mission Package Construction. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to construct
     mission folders. Use scenario or actual contingency/exercise materials. The IE will
     determine the examinee’s ability to identify and obtain geospatial information and
     services (GI&S) products to build mission materials and the use of mission planning
     software to construct mission folders.
     2.2.2.6. Mission Tracking. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to monitor mission execution
     and communicate with other agencies and coordination centers. Use scenario, exercise or
     actual contingency communication tools and agency contact information to allow
     examinee to follow mission execution. The IE will evaluate the examinee’s ability to
     maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions and upcoming debriefs.
     2.2.2.7. Debriefing. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to plan, coordinate and conduct a
     post-mission debriefing. Conduct debriefing evaluations following actual flying missions
     whenever possible. The IE will construct inject cards or coordinate with crews to
     identify a particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity to
 8                                                   AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


        represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR
        tasking. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to prepare appropriate sections of the debrief
        form/checklist; identify time-sensitive information and disseminate it appropriately and
        expediently. The IE will determine the examinee’s ability consult appropriate post flight
        products; control the flow and pace of the debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and
        accurate information collection; and identify key points and develop intelligence by
        asking amplifying questions relevant to the mission. The examinee will be able to
        prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements and control
        environmental factors that distract the crew or impede the debriefing process.
        2.2.2.8. Intelligence Reports. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and transmit
        mission reports (MISREP) and other intelligence reports. Evaluate the examinee’s
        knowledge of theater reporting directives. The IE will determine the examinee’s ability
        to analyze and extract information of intelligence value from in-flight reports
        (INFLTREP) and other aircrew-submitted formats; Generate intelligence reports using
        computer and/or manual information systems; and validate accuracy and completeness of
        reports. Reports should be completed IAW MAJCOM/theater/Combatant Command
        (COCOM) intelligence reporting directives.
2.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluations. Individuals that successfully completed initial
qualification training (IQT)/MQT and are chosen by the Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) can
provide specialized intelligence support to the COBRA BALL mission area after completing the
training and evaluation described below. (T-3)
     2.3.1. COBRA BALL Intelligence Support Evaluation. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to
     prepare a pre-mission briefing tailored to the intelligence needs of the COBRA BALL
     aircrew. The IE will determine the examinee’s ability to construct and transmit a MISREP
     IAW local checklists using information provided from aircrew debriefings and mission logs.
     (T-3)
     2.3.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation. Evaluate the examinee’s
     ability to apply instructional concepts and methods and provide training IAW minimum
     standards to fulfill EIT requirements. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation
     materials based on current intelligence, unit tasking, and AOR scenarios. Base EIT trainer
     evaluations on the EIT Trainer training profiles in AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 1. The IE will
     determine the examinee’s knowledge and ability to present training in each applicable
     profile. (T-3)
     2.3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to perform
     intelligence evaluations. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation materials.
     Record the completion and results of evaluations on the AF Form 4350. The IE will
     determine the examinee’s ability to describe evaluation criteria, grading procedures, and
     form preparation for an evaluation based on the IE training profiles in AFI 14-2RC-135,
     Volume 1. Provide scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques
     for conducting evaluations. (T-2)
AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                9


                                          Chapter 3

                                EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Evaluation Standards. The evaluation criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: MQT and ST evaluation Criteria. Use all sections of criteria applicable to the events
performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria (Table 3.1.)
apply to tasks associated with the duty positions or work centers in which personnel maintain
mission qualifications.

Table 3.1. Mission Qualification Training Evaluation Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q     Correctly answers at least 85% of questions in test based on MQF.
 Q-    Not applicable for knowledge evaluations
 U     Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 VISUAL RECOGNITION
 Q     Correctly identifies 85% of all items in VR test.
 Q-    Not applicable.
 U     Fails to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in VR test.
 SITUATION DISPLAYS (Includes Manual and Automated OB)
 Q     Used checklists and followed local procedures. Correctly determined the proper
       medium, including type and scale, for creating the best situation display. Researched
       and analyzed data for accuracy, inconsistencies, and relevance to the situation. Used
       manual and automated processes to accurately plot all threats/items within 0.5nm of
       center point of coordinates. Consistently used correct symbology IAW MIL-STD-
       2525C and FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A. Correctly extracted proper coordinates. Plotted
       to appropriate level of detail with respect to unit requirements. Successfully
       downloaded, printed, exported and displayed data. Able to manipulate data, display
       appropriate threat rings and perform terrain masking analysis. Demonstrated ability
       to convert various coordinate formats. Accurately maintained situation display to unit
       specifications, including classification and currency. Correct classification and
       security markings on all products.
 Q-    Did not select the absolute best medium for creating the situation display. Did not
       fully research and analyze data resulting in some minor irrelevant items to be
       included. Plotted 95% of the data within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates, the
       remaining 5% within 1nm. Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little
       prompting. Needed little assistance with coordinate conversions.
 U     Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Errors would have significantly
       impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors or inconsistencies in data.
       Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision or intervention. Incorrect
       classification.
 SITUATION BRIEFINGS
 Q     Used checklists and followed local procedures. Briefing well organized and
       professionally presented in a logical sequence. Appropriate level of detail and
10                                                AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


      covered all applicable items. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough
      delivery. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential
      impact on the mission. Demonstrated knowledge of research methods, information
      sources, and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information.
      Provided detailed information tailored to the audience. Demonstrated knowledge of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions
      correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
      redundant.
U     Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Content poorly organized,
      confusing, and key areas omitted. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
      conduct basic research. Poor knowledge of IPOE concepts. Missed significant
      information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor knowledge
      of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have.
      Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Unable to accurately field
      questions. Incorrect classification.
ATO/ACO/SPINS/RSTA ANNEX/ COLLECTION EMPHASIS MESSAGE AND OTHER
TASKING DOCUMENTS
Q     Used checklists and followed local procedures. Accessed correct tasking documents
      and any changes. Correctly determined unit tasking, airspace control, RC-135
      information and intelligence related information. Able to breakout unit tasking from
      tasking documents using manual and automated techniques and tools. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
      mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Failed to use checklists and follow local procedures. Errors, omissions or delays in
      extracting information that could have affected mission planning. Unable to
      accomplish tasks without significant intervention. Incorrect classification.
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO MISSION PLANNING
Q     Used checklists and followed local procedures. Knowledgeable on RC-135 mission
      planning processes. Used appropriate research and analysis techniques in reviewing
      the ATO/ACO/SPINS and derive specified and implied intelligence requirements.
      Correctly identified and plotted unit tasking. Effectively analyzed operating area
      threats and terrain; and coordinate with operations to recommend mission routes.
      Recognized information gaps and assessed likely answers to the gaps. Mission
      planning situation briefing was effectively organized and professionally presented.
      Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Required some assistance, but no impact on mission planning functions. Some
      difficulty with use of mission materials. Minor omission of information or errors that
      did not seriously impact mission planning. Mission planning situation briefing could
      be better prepared or organized. Able to recover with minor prompting.
U     Failed to use checklists or follow local procedures. Poorly organized or unprepared to
      support mission planning. Made errors or omissions that could have prevented an
      effective mission. Displayed faulty or limited knowledge of factors relevant to the
      mission. Improper use of mission planning tools or materials. Significant lack of
AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                          11


      analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor knowledge of capabilities
      or limitations of unit assets may have negative impact on the mission. Poor
      organization or lack of preparation seriously affected audience understanding of the
      mission planning situation briefing. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
MISSION PACKAGE CONSTRUCTION
Q     Used checklists and followed local procedures. Demonstrated knowledge and proper
      use of mission planning materials. Accurate portrayal of objective threats and
      hazards, ingress and egress factors to consider. Tailored mission materials to type of
      mission being planned and target/objective area. Provided all mission materials in
      correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials neat and well organized.
      Considered all factors that could impact successful mission accomplishment. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Errors or minor omissions in mission materials which would not preclude mission
      accomplishment. Minor problems in organizing mission materials. Corrected when
      prompted.
U     Failed to use checklists and follow local procedures. Major omissions or errors
      which would have affected mission. Poor knowledge of mission requirements or
      sources for mission materials. Chose incorrect scales or views in mission materials
      for target/objective area. Incorrectly plotted objective area threats. Did not know
      how to request information or target materials. Incorrect classification.
MISSION TRACKING
Q     Used checklists and followed local procedures. Effectively monitored and used
      communication systems to maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions.
      Effectively communicated with other RC-135 agencies and coordination centers and
      provided support to missions as necessary. Correctly logged communication with
      theater and national participants. Accurately tracked mission debriefings and
      appropriate reports. Aware of all cancelled or diverted missions. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Did not utilize resources well. Some errors or delays in communicating with other
      RC-135 agencies and coordination centers. Made updates to tracking mechanism
      with prompting, not proactive. All personnel could not quickly derive mission status.
      Debriefs not completely tracked. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Failed to use checklists and follow local procedures. Errors, omissions or delays in
      communicating with other RC-135 agencies and coordination centers. No mechanism
      for effectively updating status of missions. Completely missed an update or passed on
      erroneous information. Demonstrated lack of knowledge of RC-135 mission
      capabilities. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention. Incorrect
      classification.
DEBRIEFING
Q     Used checklists and followed local procedures. Thoroughly prepared and was able to
      extract pertinent mission results in timely manner. Prepared appropriate sections of
      the debrief form/checklist prior to debrief. Assembled and brought requisite materials
      for use to the debriefing. Quickly identified perishable information and ensured
      prompt dissemination as applicable. Controlled the debriefing, asked amplifying
      questions, and recognized irrelevant information. Collected all significant
      intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish reporting requirements. Correct
 12                                                 AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


       classification and security markings on all products produced.
 Q-    Debriefing took too long. Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some
       amplifying questions that would have enhanced detail of information gathered. Slow
       in dealing with time-sensitive information. Some minor mistakes and some difficulty
       following the aircrew terminology through the debriefing.
 U     Failed to use checklists and follow local procedures. Not prepared, did not have
       materials for debrief. Disjointed flow. Failed to identify perishable information.
       Completely missed a debriefing. Lost control of the debriefing. Not enough detail to
       accomplish reporting requirements. Incorrect classification. Errors in the
       reconstruction would have significantly impacted the MISREP.
 INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
 Q     Used checklists and followed local/theater procedures. Knowledgeable of theater
       reporting directives. Summarized all pertinent information available and included an
       initial level of tactical analysis with minimal to no extraneous info. Properly
       formatted. Met reporting timelines. Correct classification and security markings on
       all products.
 Q-    Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
       extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting,
       but pertinent information was included.
 U     Failed to use checklists and follow local/theater procedures. Did not complete report
       within prescribed timelines. Report was not in format required by theater reporting
       directive. Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills confused meaning of
       information or omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination. Incorrect
       classification.
3.3. Specialized Training Evaluation Criteria. The following grading criteria (Table 3.2.)
applies to duty positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications (COBRA BALL
Intelligence Support, External Intelligence Trainer, and IE).

Table 3.2. COBRA BALL Intelligence Evaluation Criteria.
 COBRA BALL INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT
 Q    Clearly written report with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent
      information available with minimal to no extraneous info. Properly formatted reports.
      Met reporting timelines. Produced report IAW checklists and theater directives.
      Identified significant events. Corrected classification and security markings on all
      products produced.
 Q-   Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report; delays due to
      extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting,
      but pertinent information is included.
 U    Did not complete reports within prescribed timelines. Failed to use checklist.
      Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skill complicated meaning of information or
      omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g., not sent to the correct users
      through appropriate channels). Incorrect classification.

Table 3.3. External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY
AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               13


 Q       Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
         timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives. Tailored training to the unit’s
         weapons systems, mission specific requirements and appropriate audience (e.g.,
         rescue crews, security forces). Effectively fielded and accurately answered questions
         from audience. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve
         answers/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification and security
         markings on all products produced.
 Q-      Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
         mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of instruction.
         Did not adversely affect training.
 U       Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
         efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
         procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
         seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification.

Table 3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria.
 INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR SPECIALIZED TRAINING
 Q     Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and made
       timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Displayed thorough knowledge of
       evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation documentation preparation.
       Completed appropriate evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and
       recorded performance. Comments were clear and pertinent. Correct classification
       and security markings on all products produced.
 Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
       mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of evaluation.
       Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in evaluation
       records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
 U     Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
       plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
       evaluation process. Unfamiliar with evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
       evaluation documentation preparation. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
       detracted from evaluator effectiveness. Did not complete required forms or records.
       Comments were invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document performance.
       Incorrect classification.




                                            Robert P. Otto, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                            Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 14                                                AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 1, RC-135 Unit Intelligence Training, 4 September 2013
AFI 14-2RC-135, Volume 3, RC-135 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 4 September 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.RC-135, Tactical Employment—RC-135, June 2009 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December
2012 (S)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                          15


EIT—External Intelligence Trainer/Training
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
IR—Infrared
MAJCOM—Major Command
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification (Evaluation)
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition
QUAL—Qualification (Evaluation)
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
VR—Visual Recognition

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2) —Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
 16                                               AFI14-2RC-135V2 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


Tier 3 (T-3) —Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
