BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2F-15C,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 2

                                                                                20 JULY 2012
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 7 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                               F-15C UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                          CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                               Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                (Brig Gen Mark W. Westergren)
Supersedes:   AFI 14-2F-15CV2,                                                         Pages: 23
              22 September 2008


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in F-15C units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting F-15C operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
 2                                                                                             AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


for non-tiered compliance items. In order for units to have time to prepare for compliance, this
publication becomes effective 60 days after the publication date.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                                3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    3
       1.2.   Procedures. .............................................................................................................      3
       1.3.   Evaluation Instructions. .........................................................................................             4
       1.4.   Additional Training. ...............................................................................................           4
       1.5.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ..................................................................................                 4

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            5
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    5
Table 2.1.    Intelligence Evaluations. ........................................................................................             5
       2.2.   Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluations. ....................................................                           6
       2.3.   Specialized Qualification Evaluations. ..................................................................                      8

Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                                9
       3.1.   General Evaluation Standards. ...............................................................................                  9
       3.2.   Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                        9
Table 3.1.    Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                        9
       3.3.   Specialized Evaluation Criteria. .............................................................................                 14
Table 3.2.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria. ..................................                                 14
Table 3.3.    Aerospace Control Alert Mission Planning and Intelligence Execution Evaluation
              Criteria. ..................................................................................................................   17
Table 3.4.    Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                       18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               19
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                       3



                                           Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and periodic
evaluations. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and this instruction.
   1.1.1. Objective. The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to perform
   required duties safely and effectively, IAW applicable instructions and directives.
   1.1.2. Office of Primary Responsibility. The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for
   Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) delegates OPR for this instruction to
   Air Combat Command Directorate of Intelligence (ACC)/A2.
   1.1.3. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2 is the waiver authority for specific requirements outlined in
   this instruction.   MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all waiver
   correspondence.    ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver
   correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and
   guidance.
1.2. Procedures.
   1.2.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   successfully completed (verified by applicable AF Forms 4381) all duty position required
   Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized Training (ST) requirements outlined in
   AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 1, F-15C Unit Intelligence Training. (T-2)
   1.2.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria in Chapter 3 to conduct all intelligence evaluations.
   To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will be thoroughly familiar with the
   prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   1.2.3. Prior to beginning an evaluation, the IE will brief the examinee on the conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria of the evaluation. The examinee will
   accomplish required planning IAW the task being evaluated. (T-3)
   1.2.4. Conduct evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Document evaluations
   IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 7. Evaluations should be accomplished in a realistic
   training environment in conjunction with local events (e.g., actual deployment briefing or
   post-mission debrief) to the maximum extent possible. When it is impossible to conduct an
   evaluation in a realistic environment, evaluations may be conducted via an alternate method
   (i.e., simulated, staged, or by verbal examination) in order to complete the evaluation.
   Document the reasons and type of alternate method used in the Comments section of the AF
   Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. (T-2)
   1.2.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee‘s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-3)
 4                                                              AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


1.3. Evaluation Instructions. Standards and performance parameters are contained in AFI 14-
202, Volume 2, and this instruction. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the evaluation criteria provided in this volume and
assign an appropriate evaluation grade for the area. Use the general area/sub-area grades in AFI
14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades,
the IEs will determine the overall qualification level (also found in AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Chapter 5). (T-3)
     1.3.1. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, to assist in grading the
     individual areas during the evaluation. The form used by the evaluator will be a blank AF
     Form 4381, not the one completed on the individual during MQT/ST. The F-15C gradesheet
     task elements are found in Attachments 3 and 4 of AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 1. (T-3)
     1.3.2. In addition to the guidance provided by this instruction, IEs will be expected to use
     their personal experience and knowledge in the assessment of examinee performance. (T-3)
1.4. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training as
necessary. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-
3)
1.5. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall qualification level 3 (Q-3)
will be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on an initial or
subsequent mission evaluation (INIT MSN or MSN), they will not perform mission duties
unsupervised until remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a
specialized evaluation, they will not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are
accomplished, but they can perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-2)
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                               5


                                        Chapter 2

                            EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. The intelligence evaluation must include the areas listed in this chapter as
depicted in Table 2.1, Intelligence Evaluations. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
 SUBJECT                                            INIT   MSN     EIT     IE      ACA
                                                    MSN
 Knowledge Evaluations
 F-15C Weapons Systems Academics                    R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Threat Knowledge                                   R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems               R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Visual Recognition                                 R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Personnel Recovery                                 R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Force Protection Intelligence                      R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Performance Task Evaluations
 Threat Briefing                                    R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Situation Displays                                 R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Manual Order of Battle (OB)                        R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Automated OB                                       R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Initial Situation Briefing                         R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Situation Briefing                                 R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Changeover Briefing                                R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Deployment Briefing                                R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Air Tasking Order/Airspace Control Order/          R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Special Instructions (ATO/ACO/SPINS) and
 Other Tasking Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning           R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Mission Package Construction                       R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Mission Briefing                                   R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Step Briefing                                      R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Mission Tracking                                   R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Debriefing                                         R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Intelligence Reports                               R      R       ----    ----    ----
 Specialized Task Evaluations
 Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) Mission Planning     ----   ----    ----    ----    R
 and Intelligence Execution
 Instructional Ability                              ----   ----    R       ----    ----
 Evaluator Ability                                  ----   ----    ----    R       ----
 6                                                              AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


 NOTES:
 Gradesheet templates for each area are included in AFI14-2F-15C, Volume 1.
 Passing criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.

 R = Required area of evaluation
 INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
 MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
 EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
 IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
 ACA = Aerospace Control Alert Evaluation (conducted in conjunction with MSN Evals)
2.2. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluations.
     2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
     and periodic mission qualification evaluations to test the examinee‘s understanding of F-15C
     systems and capabilities, threat knowledge, friendly and neutral weapons systems, visual
     recognition (VR), personnel recovery (PR), and force protection intelligence (FPI).
     Examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit‘s master question file (MQF) for
     mission qualification evaluation subject areas. Examinees will take a separate VR test. Both
     examinations will be recorded on the AF Form 4350. Knowledge examinations may also be
     required during specialized qualification evaluations. Research, analysis and dissemination
     (RAD) and intelligence preparation of the operational environment (IPOE) involves
     knowledge intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the performance
     task evaluations and will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable performance task. (T-2)
     2.2.2. Performance Task Evaluation. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation
     materials based off of current intelligence, unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR)
     scenarios. Units must apply operational risk management principles to evaluations
     conducted during exercises or deployments. The following guidelines are provided to assist
     in constructing evaluation materials: (T-2)
        2.2.2.1. Situation displays. The situation for which the display is being built should
        contain enough data for the examinee to make decisions on the best medium to use for
        the creating the display. Include a large variety of items from AFI 14-2(MDS), Volume 3
        that will challenge the examinee to conduct research and analysis to determine the
        relevance of the data to the situation. The number of items to be plotted should be of
        sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that the time taken is
        beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. The exercise will include both
        geographic coordinates and Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) coordinates.
        Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates between geographic coordinates
        (DD/MM/SS) and MGRS (NNAAAXXXXXX); and also from geographic coordinates to
        decimal minutes (DD/MM.mm). The scenario may include erroneous information to
        mirror the fog of war by including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats
        for the particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to
        identify errors and question the validity of information. The examinee should use MIL-
        STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual/US Marine
        Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and
        Graphics.
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                    7


         2.2.2.1.1. Manual Order of Battle. The number of OB items in the plotting exercise
         will be of sufficient volume to have a variety of threats to plot to ensure correct
         symbology is used. The examinee must be able to identify critical elements of the
         table of organization and equipment for the OB being used.
         2.2.2.1.2. Automated Order of Battle. Examinee should be provided with a variety of
         OB sources from which to pull data. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and
         save threat files, insert accurate data, update and purge data to ensure quality control
         of the displayed data and question the information’s accuracy for a particular AOR.
      2.2.2.2. Intelligence Briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information
      provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports, and imagery. Other
      sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may also be used. Evaluated
      briefings include:    threat briefings, initial situation briefing, situation briefing,
      changeover briefings, deployment briefing, mission briefing, and step briefing.
      2.2.2.3. Air Tasking Order, Airspace Control Order and Special Instructions
      (ATO/ACO/SPINS) and other tasking documents. Scenario, actual contingency or
      exercise materials will be used for this purpose. Provide enough information that the
      examinee’s unit is not the sole unit tasked on the ATO. Ensure the opportunity exists to
      evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in identifying and breaking out the elements of
      ATO/ACO/SPINS to include unit tasking, striker mission being supported, air space
      control, personnel recovery and intelligence information. As applicable, personnel
      should be evaluated on other types of tasking requests they may face in particular
      theaters.
      2.2.2.4. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning.                  Scenario or actual
      contingency/exercise materials or exercise/range imagery will be used. Ensure the
      opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in planning, coordinating and
      conducting the entire mission planning process. Provide enough information to evaluate
      the examinee‘s ability to analyze the tactical problem/scenario, threat considerations,
      terrain, and weather, target imagery, route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as
      appropriate. Evaluate proficiency in identify and plotting unit tasking. Specific pieces of
      information should be purposefully omitted to evaluate the examinee’s ability to define
      intelligence gaps and submit requests for information. Information for the situation
      briefing should be assembled from information provided by the evaluator; message
      traffic, intelligence reports, and imagery.
      2.2.2.5. Mission Package Construction.       Scenario or actual contingency/exercise
      materials or exercise/range imagery will be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to
      evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in obtaining necessary mission materials to include
      required imagery and geospatial information and services to build mission materials.
      Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing mission planning software to construct mission
      packages; and analysis.
      2.2.2.6. Mission Tracking. Use scenario or actual exercise to allow examinee to flight
      follow missions in execution. Ensure opportunity exists to evaluate examinee’s
      proficiency to keep abreast of ongoing missions and upcoming debriefs. Examine debrief
      forms to see that information has been filled in to maximum extent prior to engine shut
 8                                                                AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


        down. Present simulated situation where aircraft is diverted. Ensure systems are used if
        available to aid examinee in monitoring progress of ongoing missions.
        2.2.2.7. Debriefing.      Conduct pilot debriefings following actual flying missions
        whenever possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with pilots to
        identify a particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity to
        represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR
        tasking. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to control the debriefing, ask amplifying
        questions and recognize irrelevant information.
        2.2.2.8. Intelligence Reports. Construct mission reports (MISREP) and intelligence
        reports (INTREP) using information provided in the pilot debriefing. Complete reports
        IAW theater intelligence reporting directives.
2.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluations.
     2.3.1. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will
     consist of a knowledge examination and a performance task evaluation and be conducted
     IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Upon completion of profile EIT 1 and one or all of the
     remaining profiles outlined in AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 1, the EIT trainer will demonstrate
     knowledge of the information presented by successfully completing a test based on the
     questions from the master question file (85 percent minimum to pass), as applicable. The
     EIT trainer will also be evaluated on their ability to present training in each applicable
     profile. Evaluators will give the examinee no less than 4 hours’ notice of the subject matter
     or briefing topic for the evaluation. (T-3)
        2.3.1.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
        training in more than one individual EIT event at a time. The individual must complete
        the specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing
        element by an IE. Document the evaluation in coordination with AF/A2 approved
        processes regarding online documentation. The individual must maintain currency and
        be reevaluated periodically for the subject matter according to AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume
        1. (T-2)
        2.3.1.2. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
        evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated.
     2.3.2. Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) Evaluation. ACA evaluations will consist of a
     performance task evaluation and be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Subsequent
     evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation. The ACA and all
     applicable MSN areas must be evaluated. (T-3)
     2.3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
     Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified to be IEs upon completion of the IE specialized
     training profiles, successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the Senior Intelligence Officer
     (SIO). IEs will be evaluated using criteria in Chapter 3. Subsequent evaluations may be
     conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation. (T-3)
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                     9


                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Evaluation Standards. The evaluation criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: Mission Qualification and Specialized evaluation Criteria. Use all sections of criteria
applicable to the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to
tasks associated with the duty positions or work centers in which personnel maintain mission
qualifications.

Table 3.1. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria.
KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
Q     Correctly answers at least 85% of questions in a test based on master question file.
Q-    Not applicable
U     Fails to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q     Correctly identified 85% of all items in VR test.
Q-    Not applicable
U     Fails to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in VR test.
THREAT BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Effective
      use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Tailored threat briefing to the
      capabilities of the F-15C airframe, avionics and countertactics. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions, recovered when prompted. Some comparisons of threat to F-15C, but not
     many. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow,
      somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U     Threat was not tailored to F-15C capabilities. Major gaps in information, unable to
      recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct
      basic research. Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of F-15C
      mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
SITUATION DISPLAYS (Includes MANUAL and AUTOMATED OB)
Q     Correctly determined the proper medium, including type and scale, for creating the
      best situation display. Researched and analyzed data for accuracy, inconsistencies,
      and relevance to the situation. Used manual and automated processes to accurately
      plot all threats/items within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates. Consistently used
      correct symbology IAW MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US
      Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
     FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics. Correctly extracted geographic
     coordinates and MGRSs. Plotted to appropriate level of detail with respect to unit
     requirements. Successfully downloaded, printed, exported and displayed data. Able
      to manipulate data, display appropriate threat rings and perform terrain masking
 10                                                           AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


      analysis. Demonstrated ability to convert various coordinate formats. Accurately
      maintained situation display to unit specifications, including classification and
      currency. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Did not select the best medium for creating the situation display. Did not fully
      research and analyze data resulting in some minor irrelevant items to be included.
      Plotted 95% of the data within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates, the remaining 5%
      within 1nm. Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little prompting.
      Needed little assistance with coordinate conversions.
U     Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors
      or inconsistencies in data. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision or
      intervention. Incorrect classification.
INITIAL SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well-tailored analysis
      relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures.
      Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Demonstrated ability to
      identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
      understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Understood and provided detailed information
      tailored to the audience. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of
      unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
      redundant.
U     Failed to use checklist. Content poorly organized, not tailored appropriately.
      Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
      conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed significant
      information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
      understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information
      may have. Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
      classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items since last update, and well
      tailored analysis relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local
      procedures. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts.
      Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
      identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience.
      Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products produced.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                 11


     redundant.
U    Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Content not tailored
     appropriately. Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability.
     Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed
     significant information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
     understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information
     may have. Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
     classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q    Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas. Demonstrated
     clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass to next shift. Showed
     ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
     capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
     identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to the audience. Correctly
     annotated event log, identified significant events. Correct classification and security
     markings on all products produced.
Q-   Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
     prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.
     relocation, attacks, etc.) vs. poor planning.
U    Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist
     usage. Deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even
     with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next shift. Missed significant
     information or failed to disseminate information. Poor understanding of
     capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
     mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q    Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist and
     followed local procedures. Tailored, relevant content. Easily understood by audience.
     Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience. Identified key
     points including synopsis of military and political situation generating the deployment,
     and enemy activity and force disposition in AOR and along deployment route.
     Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
     mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to
     discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
     limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly.
     Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-   Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
     Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U    Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas.
     Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed
     significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor understanding of
     capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
     mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
ATO/ACO/SPINS AND OTHER TASKING DOCUMENTS
Q    Demonstrated ability to access the correct ATO/ACO/SPINS and any changes.
     Correctly extracted mission tasking, striker mission being supported, airspace control
 12                                                             AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


      measures, personnel recovery and other information relevant to unit or tasking.
      Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
      mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have impacted mission
      planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention. Incorrect
      classification.
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO MISSION PLANNING
Q     Effective use of checklist. Used appropriate research and analysis techniques in
      reviewing the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout, unit IPOE, target acquisition, threat
      considerations (integrated air defense system, air, surface-to-air missiles, air
      defense/anti-aircraft artillery), tactics, terrain, and weather, target imagery,
      route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as appropriate. Correctly identified
      and plotted unit tasking. Recognized information gaps and submitted requests for
      information through appropriate channels. Situation briefing was effectively
      organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence. Appropriate level of
      detail, covered all applicable items. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products produced.
Q-    Required some assistance, but no impact on mission planning functions. Briefing
      could be better prepared or organized. Some difficulty with use of mission materials.
      Minor omission of intelligence information required for mission; however nothing that
      was critical to mission planning.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poor understanding of the requirements or lack of adequate
      mission materials delayed mission planning timeline. Major omissions of information
      critical to the planning cycle. Organization or lack of preparation seriously impacted
      understanding of the briefing. Incorrect classification.
MISSION PACKAGE CONSTRUCTION
Q     Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Demonstrated clear
      understanding and proper use of mission planning materials. Chose scales and views
      appropriate for mission. Knew proper channels for requesting information or
      materials. Accurate portrayal of area threats, striker targets and hazards as well as
      ingress and egress factors to consider. Tailored mission materials to the type of
      mission being planned and assigned weapons load. Provided all mission materials in
      correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials neat and well organized.
      Considered all factors that could impact successful mission accomplishment.
      Provided thorough analysis of threats, route, and combat air patrol (CAP) area(s).
      Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Errors or minor omissions in mission materials which would not preclude mission
      accomplishment. Minor problems in organizing mission materials and identifying and
      ordering requirements. Corrected when prompted.
U     Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Major omissions or errors which
      would have impacted mission. Poor understanding of mission requirements or sources
      for mission materials. Chose incorrect scales or views for mission materials. Did not
      know striker targets. Incorrectly plotted target areas or threats. Did not know how to
      request information. Did not provide analysis of threats, route, or CAP area. Incorrect
      classification.
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                      13


MISSION BRIEFING
Q     Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Briefing effectively
      organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence. Effective use of visual
      aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items:
      takeoff, ingress, CAP area, egress, divert airfields, and appropriate PR considerations.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts.
      Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Correctly
      identified significant events and issued threat update codes. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions or errors but recovered when prompted with no significant impact on
      mission. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow,
      somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U     Failed to use checklist. Very confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information,
      unable to recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
      conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Fabricated
      information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of F-15C mission capabilities.
      Incorrect classification.
STEP BRIEFING
Q     Well organized and concise; presented relevant facts in timely fashion and IAW local
      requirements. Appropriate for the particular mission. Identified, analyzed and
      highlighted changes and updates since mission briefing. Correct classification.
Q-    Made updates with prompting, not proactive. Omissions would not have affected
      mission effectiveness.
U     Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated lack
      of understanding of F-15C mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
MISSION TRACKING
Q     Used all resources (systems, operations, command post) to track progress of missions.
      Well organized to receive information during various stages. All relevant mission
      information pre-filled on debriefing forms. Aware of all cancelled or diverted
      missions. Made provisions for debrief at diverted location via personnel or other
      electronic means. All personnel had access to mission tracking and could quickly
      interpret information to derive mission status.
Q-    Did not utilize resources well. Made updates to tracking mechanism with prompting,
      not proactive. All personnel could not quickly derive mission status. Debrief forms
      not pre-filled with mission information.
U     No mechanism for effectively updating status of missions. Most personnel not
      capable of interpreting or updating mission status. Unaware of cancelled missions.
      Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated lack
      of understanding of F-15C mission capabilities. No plans for contacting divert
      locations for mission status and reporting information.
DEBRIEFING
Q     Thoroughly prepared and was able to extract pertinent mission results in timely
      manner. Assembled and brought requisite materials for use to the debriefing. Quickly
 14                                                             AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


      identified time-sensitive information and ensured prompt dissemination as applicable.
      Controlled the debriefing, asked amplifying questions, and recognized irrelevant
      information. Collected all significant intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish
      reporting requirements IAW checklists and theater directives. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Debrief took too long. Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some
      amplifying questions that would have enhanced detail of information gathered. Slow
      in dealing with time-sensitive information.
U     Failed to use checklist. Not prepared, didn’t have materials for debrief. Disjointed
      flow. Failed to identify perishable information. Completely missed a debriefing. Lost
      control of the debriefing. Not enough detail to accomplish reporting requirements.
      Incorrect classification.
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
Q     Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
      available and included an initial level of tactical analysis with minimal to no
      extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting timelines. Produced report IAW
      checklists and theater directives. Correctly identified significant events. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced. Appropriate knowledge
      of US Message Text Format (USMTF), if required.
Q-    Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
      extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting;
      but pertinent information was included. Working knowledge of USMTF, but required
      some assistance.
U     Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Report was not in format
      required by theater intelligence reporting directive. Failed to use checklist.
      Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills confused meaning of information or
      omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct users
      through appropriate channels). No knowledge of USMTF. Incorrect classification.
3.3. Specialized Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to tasks
associated with the duty positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications.

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY - GENERAL
Q     Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives. Effectively fielded and
      accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated subject matter
      knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
      mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of instruction.
      Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, mission, or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification.
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                      15


INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – THREAT SYSTEMS
Q     Determined appropriate threat training requirements. Used Air Force Tactics,
      Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary reference for
      training. Tailored threat training to the unit’s MDS, mission specific requirements and
      appropriate audience (e.g. pilots, security forces). Demonstrated ability to instruct
      effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all
      applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3, Unit Intelligence Procedures.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
      of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary
      reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3. Lack
      of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or
      security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – COLLECTION AND REPORTING
Q     Determined appropriate collection and reporting training requirements. Included pilot
      originated reports (in-flight reports (INFLTREP), etc.), intelligence-generated reports
      (MISREP, INTREP, etc.) and essential elements of information (EEI). Demonstrated
      ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions,
      incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3 and the appropriate
      theater reporting directive. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively
      fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying
      data from reference materials. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or reporting directives. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use appropriate theater reporting directive as the
      primary reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume
      3. Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
      training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
      with procedures, requirements, or reporting directives. Lack of knowledge in certain
 16                                                             AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


      areas seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or
      security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q     Determined appropriate VR training requirements. Included enemy/adversary,
      friendly, and neutral aircraft, surface threat, ground equipment and naval vessel
      recognition features. Incorporated all aspects/angles, theater-specific paint
      schemes/fin flashes, and various configurations along with the name or numerical
      designator of all enemy/friendly/neutral weapons systems presented. Demonstrated
      ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions,
      incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3. Demonstrated
      subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly
      retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or items to include in training. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3.
      Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
      training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
      with procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or
      security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – PERSONNEL RECOVERY
Q     Determined appropriate PR training requirements. Coordinated with tactics, aircrew
      flight equipment (AFE) and survival, evasion, resistance and escape (SERE)
      personnel. Provided academic instruction on PR operational support processes.
      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or coordination process. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not coordinate with tactics, AFE and SERE personnel.
      Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3. Lack of subject matter
      knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                    17


      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security
      markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – FORCE PROTECTION INTELLIGENCE
Q     Determined appropriate FPI training requirements. Included intelligence principles
      and procedures for FPI; summary of hostile forces in AOR and other hot spot areas;
      examples of hostile forces’ tactics and weapons employment; FPI resources; Terrorist
      Threat Levels; and unit FPI considerations. Demonstrated ability to instruct
      effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all
      applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3. Demonstrated subject matter
      knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved answers
      to questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or FPI resources. Minor problems in communicating or organization of
      instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2F-15C Volume 3.
      Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
      training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
      with procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or
      security markings.

Table 3.3. Aerospace Control Alert Mission Planning and Intelligence Execution
Evaluation Criteria.
AEROSPACE CONTROL ALERT MISSION PLANNING/INTELLIGENCE EXECUTION
Q    Coordinated, directed, supervised, or conducted (as required) activities IAW local
     procedures. Demonstrated proficiency in individual duty position responsibilities.
     Clearly understood ACA mission tasking and was able to address all factors relevant
     to the mission. Well organized and fully prepared. Made appropriate selection and
     effective use of planning materials and resources. Provided all mission materials in
     correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials neat and well organized.
     Considered all factors that could impact successful mission accomplishment.
     Provided thorough analysis. Identified shortfalls in information, recommendations for
     production/information requests. Correct classification and security markings on all
     products produced.
Q-   Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact ACA mission planning and
     intelligence execution. Able to recover with minor prompting.
U    Poorly organized or unprepared. Made errors or omissions that could have prevented
     an effective mission. Displayed faulty or limited knowledge of factors relevant to the
     mission. Improper use of mission planning tools or materials. Significant lack of
     analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of
 18                                                            AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


       capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
       mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.

Table 3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria.
INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR PROFICIENCY
Q     Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Displayed thorough knowledge of
      evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation documentation preparation.
      Completed appropriate evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and
      recorded performance. Comments were clear and pertinent. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge regarding unit procedures, evaluation
      requirements, or documentation. Minor problems in communicating or organization
      of evaluation. Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in
      evaluation records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
U     Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
      plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
      evaluation process. Unfamiliar with evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
      evaluation documentation preparation. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from evaluator effectiveness. Did not complete required forms or records.
      Comments were invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document performance.
      Incorrect classification.




                                            Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                            Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                             19


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 11-2F-15, Volume 2, F-15 Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, 3 February 2004
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 1, F-15C Unit Intelligence Training, 20 July 2014
AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 3, F-15C Unit Intelligence Procedures, 20 July 2014
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.F-15, Tactical Employment F-15, 1 November 2007 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 2 July 2010 (S)
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACA—Aerospace Control Alert
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AF—Air Force
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
 20                                                           AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT IE—Initial Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
USMTF—US Message Text Format
VR—Visual Recognition
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                       21


Terms
Aerospace Control Alert (ACA)—The integrated tasks of surveillance and control, the
execution of which enforces a nation's authority over its territorial airspace. ACA refers to the
specialized training tailored to address specific intelligence requirements to support the ACA
mission.
ATO/ACO/SPINS Breakout—Identifying and breaking out the elements of the air tasking
order, airspace control order and special instructions.
Automated OB—Order of battle maintained using intelligence support systems.
Changeover Briefing—A briefing to provide incoming personnel a synopsis of events and
issues to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing immediate attention, pending tasks,
personnel and equipment problems, work center status and briefing times.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a
given event.
Debriefing—The process to convert mission information into intelligence for dissemination to
affected parties. The intelligence specialist will extract relevant mission intelligence from pilots,
ask amplifying questions relevant to the mission, identify time-sensitive information and
disseminate appropriately and expediently.
Debriefed Discrepancy—Remedial action taken by an intelligence evaluator to remedy a
discrepancy noted during an evaluation. This action is accomplished during debrief of the
evaluation wherein the intelligence evaluator provides briefing/instruction concerning the
discrepancy and determines that the examinee has gained the necessary knowledge or
proficiency to remedy said discrepancy. The discrepancy area/subarea description is annotated
with “Debriefed” in the Evaluator’s Remarks section of the AF Form 4350 Comments.
Deployment Briefing—A briefing to provide intelligence information to pilots, key staff, and
deploying personnel prior to deployment. Intelligence information is tailored to the unit’s
specific mission, roles and combat profiles IAW the unit OPLAN/OPORD tasking. It includes a
synopsis of the military and political situation generating the deployment, enemy activity and
force disposition (air, ground and naval, as applicable) in the AOR and along deployment route,
enemy tactics and employment strategies, potential and or anticipated enemy reactions to the
deployment, possible en-route hazards to flight, bailout or alternate landing issues (for hostile,
friendly and neutral areas), known threats (terrorist or regular military forces) in vicinity of bed
down location, reporting instructions and essential elements of information (EEI) and additional
items as dictated by the local situation.
External Intelligence Training (EIT)—Intelligence training given by intelligence personnel to
pilots or other non-intelligence AFSC personnel.
External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC)
intelligence personnel who have completed the EIT specialized training and maintain currency as
an EIT trainer. Only qualified and current trainers may conduct unsupervised intelligence
training for pilots or other personnel in a non-intelligence Air Force Specialty Code.
Initial Evaluation—The first evaluation of any type for a duty position (e.g., INIT MSN, INIT
EIT).
 22                                                              AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012


Initial Situation Briefing—The briefing conducted at the outset of a crisis that outlines the
initial situation to the commander and staff. It includes the current situation, including major
events leading to the crisis, any national decisions, enemy force disposition, current situation at
deployment location, local area situation (e.g., terrorist activity, subversion threats, etc.),
anticipated enemy reactions, possible en-route flight hazards for previously scheduled and
transient flights.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence personnel who
have completed the IE specialized training. IEs conduct intelligence qualification (mission or
specialized) evaluations (initial or periodic) and support unit Intelligence Stan/Eval functions.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
intelligence evaluator qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify
and requalify an intelligence member as an intelligence evaluator (i.e., INIT IE and RQ IE) as
directed in this volume. The designator for the intelligence evaluator evaluation is “IE” as used
with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE)—An analytical
methodology employed to reduce uncertainties concerning the enemy, environment, and terrain
for all types of operations. Intelligence preparation of the operational environment builds and
extensive data base for each potential area in which a unit may be required to operate. The
database is then analyzed in detail to determine the impact of the enemy, environment, and
terrain on operations and presents it in graphic form. Intelligence preparation of the operational
environment is a continuing process.
Intelligence Reports—Reports generated by intelligence personnel to provide information to
higher headquarters (e.g., Mission Reports (MISREPs) and Intelligence Reports (INTREPs)).
Manual OB—Order of battle maintained using maps and charts without automated intelligence
system support.
Mission Briefing—A briefing to provide unit operators with the latest intelligence affecting the
mission. Accurate and timely intelligence information should be provided on the general
situation since the last briefing, mission information, general situation in the CAP/objective area,
en route and mission area threats (SAMs/AAA/air/naval/laser and spectral interference
threats/etc.), and other factors essential to mission success.
Mission Package Construction—The mission package provides the operator with the
intelligence materials necessary to accomplish the mission. The mission package includes route
maps, threat information and other local mission package requirements.
Mission Planning—The planning accomplished by intelligence personnel to support the
operational mission. Mission planning provides operators with the intelligence materials
necessary to accomplish the mission and may include route maps, imagery, and other local
mission folder requirements. Pilots should receive the latest intelligence and most accurate
information available on routes, CAP area, targets of strikers being supported, threats, evasion
and recovery and other factors essential to planning the mission.
Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN)—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
qualification (CMR or BMC) of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member (i.e., INIT MSN, RQ MSN). The mission qualification
AFI14-2F-15CV2 20 July 2012                                                                     23


evaluation is administered to ensure the individual’s ability to support full mission planning and
employment in accomplishing the unit’s operational mission. The designator for the mission
qualification evaluation is “MSN” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Mission Tracking—Maintaining situational awareness of ongoing missions by monitoring
mission execution and communicating with other mission related agencies and coordination
centers.
Personnel Recovery (PR)—The aggregation of military, civil, and political efforts to obtain the
release or recovery of personnel from uncertain or hostile environments and denied areas
whether they are captured, missing, or isolated.
Research, Analysis, Dissemination (RAD)—The ability to brief and report intelligence
concerning major potential threat adversaries, to include military, political and geographic by
researching, analyzing and disseminating tailored intelligence to pilots, commanders, and base
support agencies.
Situation Briefing—The briefing which provides the latest intelligence to assist commanders,
staff and pilots in their decision making. It incorporates significant military and or political
events, enemy force disposition (ground, air and air defense, naval, as applicable), indications of
impending enemy attack, enemy tactics and or employment strategies, potential course of enemy
action, local area situation (terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.).
Specialized Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies a trainee in a specialized
area. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an intelligence member for a
particular skill or duty position. Specific types of specialized qualification evaluations are
identified in this volume.
Step Briefing—A briefing given to pilots immediately prior to departure for tasked mission.
The step briefing provides the pilots with last minute intelligence affecting their mission and
highlights changes in the intelligence situation since the mission briefing.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
