BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2ASOG,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                               VOLUME 3

                                                                          14 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                  Intelligence

                                                     AIR SUPPORT OPERATIONS GROUP
                                                           (ASOG) UNIT INTELLIGENCE
                                                                         PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                             Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                  (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                     Pages: 14


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202 Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202 Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This volume prescribes standard intelligence
procedures to be used by intelligence personnel in support of ASOGs. This publication applies
to Active Duty and Air National Guard (ANG) personnel assigned to Air Force intelligence
functions and activities that support ASOG operations. The ANG is considered a major
command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this instruction. This publication requires the
collection or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Privacy Act
System of Records Notice F011 AF AFMC B, Patriot Excalibur, covers required information.
The authority to maintain the records prescribed in this instruction are Title 10 U.S.C. 8013,
Secretary of the Air Force; AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System and Executive
Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating To Individual Persons, as
amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal
Agency Use of Social Security Numbers.. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. This
publication may be supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s through the appropriate MAJCOM functional
chain of command. Units may request waivers for tiered compliance items IAW AFI 33-360,
 2                                                       AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014


Publications and Forms Management. Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Intelligence
(A2) is the waiver authority for non-compliance items; these requests must be submitted through
the chain-of-command to the publication OPR. In order for units to have time to prepare for
compliance, this publication becomes effective 60 days after the publication date.
AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014                                                              3



                                         Chapter 1

                                    INTRODUCTION

1.1. General.
   1.1.1. Scope. This volume provides policy and guidance on the procedures intelligence
   personnel require to support ASOG operations.. With the complementary references cited,
   this volume prescribes standard operational procedures for all Air Ground Operations Wing,
   ASOG, and Air Support Operations Squadron (ASOS) intelligence personnel supporting
   ASOG operations. These procedures are the minimum and can be supplemented with unit-
   level written guidance. Unit-level written guidance will not be less restrictive.
   1.1.2. References. The primary references for ASOG intelligence operations are AFI 14-
   2ASOG, Volume 1, Air Support Operations Group (ASOG) Unit Intelligence Training; AFI
   14-202 Volume 1, Intelligence Training, AFI 14-202 Volume 2, Intelligence
   Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence
   Rules; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.General Planning,
   General Planning and Employment Considerations; AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat
   Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.TACS, Theater Air Control System
   and AFI 13-114, Volume 3, Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) Operations Procedures.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2 will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and
responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF, of significant trends in waiver correspondence if such
correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
 4                                                           AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                                INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

2.1. Introduction. The ASOG senior intelligence officer (SIO) will provide commanders, their
staffs, ASOC crew, Tactical Air Control Parties (TACP) and other customers the best available
intelligence information and materials to enhance readiness, facilitate planning and execute
assigned missions. The ASOG SIO will verify all procedures are IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 3,
General Intelligence Rules, and this instruction.
2.2. ASOG SIO Responsibilities. The ASOG SIO is responsible for the planning and
execution of ASOG intelligence functions during all phases of operations. The ASOG SIO will:
     2.2.1. Lead, organize, train, and equip intelligence personnel and functions to support the
     unit mission (where necessary delegate appropriately to ASOS/IN). (T-2)
     2.2.2. Establish a visitation program to all squadron intelligence work centers and solicit
     feedback from squadron intelligence and operations, where applicable. For geographically
     separated units where physical visitation is not feasible, utilize alternatives such as telecons
     and video teleconferences. (T-2)
     2.2.3. Monitor peacetime unit activities and intelligence personnel schedules and provide
     required intelligence support for operations. (T-2)
     2.2.4. Actively solicit feedback from wing/group and subordinate commanders to improve
     intelligence support processes. (T-2)
     2.2.5. Document all self-assessment results in the Management Internal Control Toolset
     (MICT) IAW AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System. (T-2)
2.3. Written Guidance. The ASOG SIO will maintain written guidance (e.g., operating
instructions, checklists) in order to standardize performance and provide continuity on peacetime
and contingency operations, procedures and responsibilities. Coordinate procedures with other
base-level agencies as appropriate and have them approved at the wing/group level when
necessary. Review all written guidance annually and update when procedures change. Ensure
all personnel are trained on and/or familiar with procedures and guidance. Provide current
written guidance for the following as it applies to unit mission: (T-2)
     2.3.1. General organization and responsibilities of the intelligence section.
     2.3.2. Intelligence personnel training program. (T-2)
     2.3.3. Unit intelligence standardization/evaluation program. (T-2)
     2.3.4. Self-assessment procedures. (T-2)
     2.3.5. Exercise/scenario development. (T-2)
     2.3.6. Intelligence oversight program. (T-2)
     2.3.7. External intelligence training (EIT). (T-2)
     2.3.8. Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). (T-2)
     2.3.9. Situation displays. (T-2)
AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014                                                                      5


   2.3.10. Mobility preparation/procedures. (T-2)
   2.3.11. Briefing. (T-2)
   2.3.12. Intelligence systems. (T-2)
   2.3.13. Determining, developing, safeguarding, and maintenance of mission materials
   including geospatial intelligence (GEOINT). (T-2)
   2.3.14. Intelligence reference file procedures. (T-2)
   2.3.15. Emergency action procedures. (T-2)
   2.3.16. Request for information (RFI) and production requirement procedures. (T-2)
2.4. Intelligence Personnel Responsibilities. The ASOG SIO will ensure these responsibilities
are carried out appropriately through the ASOS/IN. The primary intelligence positions/duties
within an ASOG/ASOS are: Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Liaison
Officer (ISRLO), and Intelligence Duty Officer/and Intelligence Duty Technician (IDO/IDT).
(T-2)
   2.4.1. ISR Liaison. The ISRLO is an Air Force (AF) intelligence professional (14N/1N0)
   assigned to an ASOG or ASOS to advise, assist and educate the aligned supported unit and
   TACP on AF ISR assets while in-garrison and deployed. As the AF ISR subject matter
   expert (SME), the ISRLO optimizes ISR asset utilization as well as AF ISR tasking,
   collection, process, exploitation, and dissemination (TCPED). (T-2)
   2.4.2. Intelligence Duty Officer/Intelligence Duty Technician: The IDO/IDT (14N/1N0) are
   the intelligence SMEs for ASOC operations. They also function as a conduit to the Senior
   Intelligence Duty Officer (SIDO) team and the Air Operations Center (AOC) ISR Division
   (ISRD) for threat awareness, analysis, battle damage assessment (BDA), and AF ISR
   integration. The IDO/IDT must maintain balanced focus of both operational and tactical
   mission support requirements. (T-2)
   2.4.3. ISRLOs and IDO/IDTs will provide intelligence information to the ASOC Director
   and crew, TACP, commander’s staff and the supported ground commander during all phases
   of operations, as required. This includes, but is not limited to threat analysis, threat training,
   ISR training, and briefing support. (T-2)
   2.4.4. ISRLOs and IDOs/IDTs will develop and teach an EIT program for assigned TACP
   and ASOC crew, IAW mission requirements, commander’s directives, and this AFI. (T-2)
 6                                                          AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014


                                            Chapter 3

                          EXTERNAL INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

3.1. Introduction. All EIT will be coordinated with the group weapons and tactics flight or
officer, as necessary and if assigned. (T-2)
3.2. The ASOG SIO will:
     3.2.1. Allow only qualified trainers to conduct unsupervised EIT events.             Training
     requirements for EIT trainers are identified in AFI 14-2ASOG, Volume 1. (T-2)
     3.2.2. Provide written guidance outlining procedures for conducting, documenting, testing,
     evaluating, monitoring and reporting EIT. List specific training objectives for each major
     area of intelligence training. (T-2)
     3.2.3. Determine if other unit personnel require EIT and modify training requirements as
     appropriate. (T-3)
3.3. The EIT program manager will:
     3.3.1. Build a training program, including training plans, with input from external
     organizations such as the squadron(s), tactics representatives, Security Forces personnel, AF
     Office of Special Investigation, Army Criminal Investigation Command, Army intelligence
     cell (G2)/Army operations cell (G3), additional Army Forces Command and Installation
     Management Community Force Protection (FP) sources, and Survival, Evasion, Resistance
     and Escape specialists, as appropriate. Training resources can include, but are not limited to
     threat-of-the day briefings, current intelligence briefings, theater orientation briefings,
     CDs/DVDs or web-based training materials, and weapons system videos. (T-2)
     3.3.2. Review training objectives for currency prior to the beginning of the training cycle.
     (T-3)
     3.3.3. Solicit feedback to ensure training objectives meet training requirements. (T-3)
     3.3.4. Conduct trend analysis following each training cycle; document lessons-learned and
     apply those lessons during subsequent cycles. (T-3)
     3.3.5. Provide a written evaluation of the group EIT program to the appropriate
     commander(s) at the end of each training cycle. (T-3)
3.4. EIT Categories. External intelligence training categories, at a minimum, include ISR
integration and threat knowledge. AFI 13-113, Volume 1, Tactical Air Control Party (TACP)
Training Program, Tables 4.2, Mission Qualification Training for TACP Operations Personnel,
and 6.1, Continuation Training for TACP Operations Personnel, should be referenced when
developing specific EIT items. Additional categories can be added based on the unit’s
operational mission. EIT will include the following topics: (T-2)
     3.4.1. ISR Integration Training. Develop specific ISR Integration training objectives
     tailored to the ASOC, TACP, and supported unit mission (as required), base and forward
     operating locations. Detail ISR assets, capabilities and limitations based on unit mission and
     operations plans (OPLANs) and concept plans (CONPLANs) tasking. Identify key
     differences between various ISR assets through comparison of ISR platform capabilities and
AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014                                                               7


  limitations. Training should teach ASOC and TACP personnel how to optimize ISR asset
  utilization.
  3.4.2. Threat Knowledge. Develop specific threat knowledge training objectives tailored to
  ASOC crew or TACP, unit mission, local area, potential deployment base(s), and forward
  operating locations based on OPLANs/CONPLANs. Concentrate on threats in selected
  countries with the potential for direct unit involvement. The references listed at the
  beginning of this instruction can be supplemented with products from other classified and
  unclassified publications such as the National Ground Intelligence Center products, National
  Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) products, Missile and Space Intelligence Center,
  as well as Tactics Bulletins, Tactical Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc., when
  developing threat knowledge training materials.
  3.4.3. Visual Recognition (VR). As part of Threat Knowledge training for TACP, develop
  specific VR training objectives tailored to the TACP, unit mission, base and forward
  operating locations. Include enemy/adversary, friendly or neutral weapon systems relevant
  to the operational environment, based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
  Identify key differences between friendly weapons systems and threat weapon system look-
  alikes. Incorporate appropriate aspects/angles, theater specific paint schemes, national
  markings and various configurations. Include examples of weapons employment to illustrate
  how threats might appear when employed (e.g., muzzle flashes, smoke plumes, burst
  patterns). Training should teach TACP how to describe threats to Close Air Support (CAS)
  and ISR operations in the commander’s area of operations.
 8                                                           AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014


                                             Chapter 4

                          PLANS, MOBILITY AND DEPLOYMENT

4.1. Plans. The ASOG SIO will provide intelligence support to the ASOG planning process
IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 3. (T-2)
4.2. Mission Materials. The ASOG SIO or ASOS/INs will appoint Mission Materials
Managers to coordinate requirements necessary to provide support to the unit. Determine,
develop, safeguard and maintain mission materials to include GEOINT products, as required.
Coordinate unit requirements with the commander and staff and submit imagery requirements
IAW the respective theater collection management procedures. (T-3)
4.3. Exercise Planning. The ASOG SIO or ASOS/IN will integrate intelligence functions into
the unit exercise planning process IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 3. Develop and maintain
intelligence annexes or portions of base exercise plans as required. (T-3)
4.4. Mobility. The ASOG SIO or ASOS/INs will:
     4.4.1. Act as the unit focal point for all intelligence Air Force Specialty Code requirements
     in tasked unit type codes (UTCs) and deployment orders. (T-3)
     4.4.2. Monitor unit intelligence tasking and advise parent organization of significant changes
     to unit tasking for exercises, contingency plans and operations. (T-3)
     4.4.3. Coordinate intelligence personnel, resources and equipment support for tasked UTCs
     and any deployment orders with squadron staff and parent organization. (T-3)
     4.4.4. Provide briefing support to include situation and deployment briefings, and coordinate
     briefing times and places. Briefings must incorporate the latest intelligence information
     tailored to the audience including appropriate FPI. (T-2)
     4.4.5. Coordinate theater deployment training, if appropriate. (T-3)
     4.4.6. Coordinate transportation of any intelligence classified materials. (T-3)
AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014                                                                   9


                                          Chapter 5

                 EMPLOYMENT AND SUSTAINMENT OPERATIONS

5.1. Responsibilities. The ASOG SIO is responsible for intelligence functions in the
employment and sustainment phases of operations. The SIO will:
   5.1.1. Ensure written guidance outlines procedures to support situation display posting and
   maintenance, mission planning support, mission support, and reporting functions. (T-3)
   5.1.2. Provide briefing support to include threat and situation briefings. Briefings must
   incorporate the latest intelligence information tailored to the audience including appropriate
   Force Protection Intelligence information. (T-2)
   5.1.3. Submit RFIs IAW theater procedures. (T-2)
5.2. ISRLO Primary Responsibilities. The ISRLO will:
   5.2.1. Advise the supported unit and assigned TACP (as required) on: (T-2)
      5.2.1.1. ISR Optimization. Advise the supported unit on efficient and effective use of
      ISR capabilities, to include national and theater assets as well as Processing, Exploitation
      and Dissemination (PED) cells.
      5.2.1.2. ISR Strategy. Provide expertise to help the unit integrate multiple ISR effects
      over time and space to accomplish the commander’s objectives.
   5.2.2. Assist the supported unit and assigned TACP (as required) on: (T-2)
      5.2.2.1. ISR plan development and execution. Craft an ISR package to support
      operations and assist unit with ISR coordination during execution.
      5.2.2.2. Reachback support. Assist supported units with acquisition of ISR products
      from reachback elements e.g., AF Distributed Common Ground System, NASIC.
      5.2.2.3. Ad hoc process. Guide unplanned/dynamic/non-interference based collection
      requests.
      5.2.2.4. Operations planning. Contribute to supported units’ development of concept of
      operations (CONOPS).
      5.2.2.5. Cross-cue synchronization. Facilitate cross-cueing among AF ISR assets and
      between AF and organic ISR assets.
      5.2.2.6. Communications between supported and supporting units. Ensure information
      flow during mission planning, execution, and post-mission e.g., CONOPS to supporting
      units and aircraft status to supported units.
      5.2.2.7. Sensor employment. Provide viable solutions using the most appropriate ISR
      resources when presented with collection problem sets.
   5.2.3. Educate the supported unit and assigned TACP (as required) on: (T-2)
      5.2.3.1. The employment, capabilities and limitations of AF ISR platforms, sensors, and
      data architecture.
10                                                          AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014


     5.2.3.2. TCPED process.
     5.2.3.3. Air Operations Center organization.          Focus on the intelligence functions,
     including the SIDO team and the ISRD.
     5.2.3.4. Supporting ISR units’ functions, and how to utilize their capabilities.
     5.2.3.5. Articulating collection and product requirements. Teach units how to formulate
     Essential Elements of Information and justifications to obtain desired results.
     5.2.3.6. Quick Reaction Capabilities. Provide information on ISR capabilities new to
     theater.
 5.2.4. ISRLO Secondary responsibilities: (T-3)
     5.2.4.1. Advise supported unit and TACP on threats to air operations.
     5.2.4.2. Develop and document AF ISR Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP).
     Record/document ISR best practices/lessons learned during exercises and deployment
     e.g., ISR optimization, ISR strategy.
 5.2.5. IDO/IDT Responsibilities. (T-2)
     5.2.5.1. During the immediate CAS request process, the IDO/IDT will provide threat
     analysis of the target location and de-conflict/validate CAS requests with all targets on
     the joint integrated prioritized target list, as well as the restricted target list and no-strike
     list. The IDO/IDT will provide threat, Significant Activity, and Area of Operations (AO)
     updates to the ASOC crew and subordinate TACPs/ joint terminal attack controllers
     (JTACs) using the common operating picture (COP) and/or chat, and will pass threat
     information to the supporting aircraft via the procedural controller, as appropriate.
     5.2.5.2. The IDO/IDT will monitor web air request processor (WARP), execution status ,
     Air Tasking Order Airspace Control Order Tool (for Air Tasking Order [ATO] parsing),
     and Joint Automated Deep Operations Coordination System for situational awareness
     (SA) and mission tracking. They will also monitor chat, radio, and other applicable
     directed reporting channels for real-time intelligence updates and theater intelligence
     products. They provide the Fighter Duty Officer/Technician trend analysis of adversary
     activity and information in order to better position aircraft in support of CAS operations.
 5.2.5.3. Situation Displays. The IDO/IDT will fuse information from multiple sources to
 produce a continually updated situational display for increased SA. Accomplished via a COP
 or a manual order of battle (OB)/situational display, the COP will be updated near real time,
 while the manual situational display will be updated as quickly as possible. They will:
 supplement and update the situation displays as intelligence becomes available; develop and
 implement written procedures for purging outdated data; and develop quality control
 procedures to ensure standardization and accuracy of situation displays. Units will use US
 Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, Field Manual (FM) 1-
 02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004 for developing OB
 symbology as applicable to the unit mission. When no standard symbol exists for a unit,
 activity or installation, one should be created and its meaning defined in the legend. Unit
 situation displays will be standardized and include, as applicable to mission requirements, to
 include but not limited to
AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014                                                             11


        5.2.5.3.1. Tracking of friendly OB, adversary OB, threat situations, AF ISR
        operations.
        5.2.5.3.2. Applicable air order data (i.e., Airspace Control Order, ATO, and Special
        Instructions, etc.).
        5.2.5.3.3. Applicable battle area data (i.e., Forward Edge of the Battle Area, and
        Forward Line of Own Troops, etc.).
        5.2.5.3.4. Threat updates impacting air operations within the AO, target locations,
        and air coordination measures.
     5.2.5.4. The IDO/IDT will consolidate and disseminate air strike effects summaries from
     JTAC/TACP mission reports and aircraft in-flight reports. They will record BDA and
     other pertinent information (such as new threats in the terminal area) in DD Form 1972,
     section III via WARP, and ensure they are channeled to the appropriate intelligence duty
     office at the AOC per theater directives (e.g., ISRD Unit Support).
     5.2.5.5. The IDO/IDT will advise the ASOC crew and subordinate TACPs/JTACs in the
     employment of ISR/Non-traditional ISR. They will maintain communications with the
     AOC SIDO team and the local G2 (as able) for SA and on-going ISR flight operations
     within the ASOC AO. They will field dynamic ISR requests, as necessary, to the AOC
     SIDO team. At a minimum, the IDO/IDT will provide the SIDO with Phase I BDA, and
     ground situation updates as applicable.




                                         ROBERT P. OTTO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                         Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 12                                                       AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-114, Volume 3, Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) Operations Procedures, 1 June
2009
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 23 April 2012
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection, 4 May 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2ASOG, Volume 1, Air Support Operations Group (ASOG) Unit Intelligence Training,
14 January 2014
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFTTP 3-1.TACS, Theater Air Control System, 1 February 2013
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December
2012 (S)
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
AO—Area of Operations
AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014                                        13


AOC—Air Operations Center
ASOC—Air Support Operations Center
ASOG—Air Support Operations Group
ASOS—Air Support Operations Squadron
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BDA—Battle Damage Assessment
CAS—Close Air Support
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CONPLAN—Concept
EIT—External Intelligence Training
FM—Field Manual
FP—Force Protection
G2—Army Intelligence
G3—Army Operations
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
IDO/IDT—Intelligence Duty Officer/and Intelligence Duty Technician
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
ISRD—ISR Division
ISRLO—ISR Liaison Officer
JTAC—Joint Terminal Attack Controllers
MAJCOM—Major Command
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PED—Process, Exploitation, and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Intelligence
SA—Situational Awareness
SIDO—Senior Intelligence Duty Officer
 14                                                     AFI14-2ASOGV3 14 January 2014


SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
TACP—Tactical Air Control Party
TCPED—Tasking, Collection, Process, Exploitation, and Dissemination
TTP—Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
UTC—Unit Type Code
VR—Visual Recognition
WARP—Web Air Request Processor

Terms
Tier 2 (T—2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T—3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA commander level.
