BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2UH-1N
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           VOLUME 1
                                                                                        11 JANUARY 2005

                                                                             AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                           Supplement
                                                                                              27 JULY 2006

                                                                                          Flying Operations

                                                              H-1 HELICOPTER AIRCREW TRAINING

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFSPC/XONH                                                           Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO
                                                                             (Maj Gen Teresa M.Peterson)
Supersedes AFI 11-2H-1 Vol 1, 2 Nov 01                                                         Pages: 64

                                                   (AMC)
OPR: 89 OSS/OST                                                                Certified by: HQ AMC/A3T
                                                                                     (Col John T. Clatanoff)
Supersedes AFI11-2H-1V1_AMCSUP1,                                                                   Pages: 6
           2 April 2003

This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, and AFPD 11-4, Aviation Ser-
vice. Along with AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training, and AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, this
instruction establishes Air Force standards for initial qualification, mission qualification, and continuation
training for all personnel performing aircrew duties in UH-1N aircraft. This instruction is not applicable
to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command units. MAJCOMs may supplement this instruc-
tion. MAJCOMs will forward one copy of their supplement to HQ AFSPC/XONH after publication. Sub-
mit suggested improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through training channels, to HQ AFSPC/XONH, 150 Vandenberg Street Suite 1105, Peter-
son AFB, CO 80914-4200.
The Privacy Act of 1974 affects this instruction. The Privacy Act System Number F011 AF XO A, Avia-
tion Resource Management System (ARMS) covers required information. The authority for maintenance
of ARMS is 37 U.S.C. 301a (Incentive Pay), Public Law 92-204, Section 715 (Appropriations Act for
1973), Public Laws 93-570 (Appropriations Act for 1974), 93-294 (Aviation Career Incentive Act of
1974), DoDD 7730.57 (Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974 and Required Annual Report, February 5,
1976, with Changes 1 and 2), and Executive Order 9397. Ensure that all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFPD 37-1, Information Management, and
2                                                                             AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of IAW AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

(AMC) AFI 11-2UH-1N, Vol 1, 11 January 2005, is supplemented as follows. This supplement pre-
scribes specific guidance for Air Mobility Command (AMC) commanders, training managers, supervi-
sors, and aircrews operating UH-1N helicopters. This supplement does not apply to Air National Guard
(ANG) units or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Aircrew Operations and Training Division (HQ
AMC/A3T), 402 Scott Dr Unit 3A1, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5302, must approve any supplement to this
publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are main-
tained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https:/
/afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction has changed significantly and must be reviewed in its entirety by all aircrew. Significant
changes include: Changes the office of primary responsibility for this instruction to HQ AFSPC/XONH.
Changes the requirement for in-unit training sortie lengths from unit-specified to “as close as possible to
formal school syllabus-training lengths.” Adds requirement to include Required Proficiency Levels/Sylla-
bus of Instructions (RPLs/SOIs) in training folders. Adds requirement for training folders for operational
support flyers undergoing duty familiarization training. Incorporates a training folder guide as an attach-
ment. Expands in- and out-processing requirements. Reformats training tables. Clarifies requirements for
formation sortie. Adds brown-out/white-out training. Deletes systems refresher requirements. Clarifies
requirement for duty familiarization flight while TDY. Deletes pilot certification for non-hoist AIE.
Deletes imbedded chapters containing supplements. Clarifies the definition of night time for the purpose
of logging night currency. Updates adopted form from 19 AF Form 13 to AETC Form 73. Updates the
reference for records disposition to the Air Force Records Information Management System (https://
webrims.amc.af.mil).
(AMC) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Change to A-staff construct for all office symbols in AMC. Waiver request website added; NVG
training added.
      1.      General Information. ..................................................................................................     4
      2.      Initial Qualification Training (IQT): ..........................................................................            8
      3.      Mission Qualification (MQT) and Certification Training: ........................................                           10
      4.      Difference Qualification Training (DQT): ...............................................................                   13
      5.      Continuation Training (CT). ......................................................................................         13
      6.      Upgrade Training: ......................................................................................................   18
Table 1.      Mission Capabilities. ................................................................................................     19
Table 1.      (AMC) Mission Capabilities. ....................................................................................           19
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                                                       3


Table 2.   Aircrew Training Requirements Summary.                      .............................................................   20
Table 2.   (AMC) Aircrew Training Requirements Summary ..................................................                              27
Table 3.   BAQ Flying Requirements. ......................................................................................             28
Table 4.   Mission Qualification Flying Currency/Events Requirements. ................................                                 30
Table 4.   (AMC) Mission Qualification Flying Currency/Events Requirements. ...................                                        37
Table 5.   FS/MT Mission Certification Currency and Event Requirements. ...........................                                    38
Table 6.   Conversion Table for Prorated Training. ..................................................................                  39
      7.   Forms or IMTs prescribed or adopted. ......................................................................                 39

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        41

Attachment 2— TRAINING FOLDER INSTRUCTIONS.                                                                                            48
4                                                           AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


1. General Information. This instruction outlines ground and flying training requirements for pilots (P),
flight engineers (FE), aerial gunners (AG), aerial photographers (AP), flight surgeons (FS), and opera-
tional support flyers (OSF) assigned/attached to H-1 helicopter units. It establishes minimum require-
ments/authorizations for the certification, qualification and training of those crewmembers. This
instruction does not authorize deviations from the flight manual or other 11-series instructions.
    1.1. Waiver Authority. The MAJCOM/DO is the waiver authority for provisions of this instruction
    unless otherwise indicated. Request waivers to this instruction through applicable training channels to
    MAJCOM/DO or equivalent level. MAJCOM/DOs will forward a courtesy copy of any waivers to
    HQ AFSPC/XONH. Waivers to supplemental guidance will be handled by the MAJCOM agency that
    generated the supplement.
    1.2. Responsibilities:
       1.2.1. HQ USAF/XOO. See AFI 11-202, Vol. 1, Aircrew Training.
       1.2.2. MAJCOMs.
           1.2.2.1. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC). AFSPC is the lead command MAJCOM for
           H-1 helicopters IAW AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management.
           HQ AFSPC/XO delegates the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this instruction to HQ
           AFSPC/XONH.
           1.2.2.2. Air Education and Training Command (AETC). AETC functions as the Training
           Command with duties IAW AFI 11-202, Vol. 1.
           1.2.2.3. All MAJCOMs.
               1.2.2.3.1. Determine training requirements for day-to-day, contingency and wartime oper-
               ations.
               1.2.2.3.2. Supplement/waive this instruction as applicable.
       1.2.3. Units:
           1.2.3.1. Ensure that flight safety considerations take precedence over the requirements and
           guidance in this instruction.
           1.2.3.2. Develop and administer training programs.
               1.2.3.2.1. Complete ground and flight training with minimum interruption and in the pre-
               scribed sequence.
               1.2.3.2.2. Use applicable formal school courseware for in-unit training. Units are not
               required to use courseware material requiring resources not available in the unit. When
               formal school courseware does not exist, the MAJCOM or NAF must ensure courseware is
               developed and standardized. Courseware must parallel formal school courseware in format
               and content.
                   1.2.3.2.2.1. Units will fly the formal course syllabus sortie flying time as closely as
                   possible. Time allotted per sortie in formal courseware is designed for the (average)
                   student to achieve the Required Proficiency Level (RPL) for each maneuver during
                   that sortie. RPLs need to be met within allotted time as defined by the formal syllabus.
                   If RPLs are not met during allotted time, the student will be graded in accordance with
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                        5


                 syllabus guidelines. Once RPLs are met, if additional time is available other training
                 may be accomplished beyond that programmed for the sortie.
             1.2.3.2.3. For active duty service commitments (ADSC) refer to AFI 36-2107, Active
             Duty Service Commitments (ADSC).
         1.2.3.3. Identify training shortfalls through MAJCOM channels.
         1.2.3.3. (AMC) Identify training shortfalls through 89 OSS/OST to HQ AMC/A3T
         1.2.3.4. Develop supplements as required. MAJCOM/DOT (or equivalent) will review sup-
         plements prior to publication. All MAJCOM supplements will be forwarded to AF/XOOT for
         approval. Provide copies of AF/XOOT-approved supplements to HQ AFSPC/XONH.
     1.2.4. Chief of Training:
         1.2.4.1. Implement the provisions of this instruction.
         1.2.4.2. Inform commanders of factors adversely affecting aircrew training and currency
         requirements.
         1.2.4.3. Coordinate with Safety and Stan/Eval offices to improve training and correct defi-
         ciencies.
         1.2.4.3. (AMC) 1 HS/DOT will review quarterly trend information provided by 1 HS/DOV.
         1.2.4.4. Identify areas requiring additional training and direct training accordingly.
         1.2.4.5. Ensure training objectives are prebriefed, debriefed and evaluated to determine suc-
         cessful accomplishment.
  1.3. Definitions, Abbreviations and Acronyms. Terms used in this instruction are explained in
  Attachment 1.
  1.4. Training Records and Reports. Establish and maintain aircrew member training records IAW
  AFI 11-202 volumes, 37 series instructions, this instruction, and appropriate MAJCOM directives.
  1.5. Training Concepts and Policies:
     1.5.1. Safety. Training programs/missions will be designed to achieve the highest degree of mis-
     sion readiness/capability consistent with flight safety and resource availability. Training must bal-
     ance the need for realism against crewmember capabilities and safety.
     1.5.2. Mission Scenarios. Units will develop and maintain mission scenarios that emphasize pro-
     cedures and operations based on the unit’s mission.
     1.5.2. (AMC) Direct involvement in higher headquarters (HHQ) supported exercises is encour-
     aged for realism and training benefit.
  1.6. In-flight Supervision. Aircrew members/OSFs that are noncurrent, unqualified, or in any train-
  ing program (upgrade, certification, corrective action, duty familiarization, etc.) must fly under the
  supervision of an instructor in their crew position who is current and qualified/certified in those
  events. Instructor pilots must be at a set of controls while instructing other pilots flying in the front
  seat. Any instructor-qualified crewmember may instruct flight surgeons and OSFs. However the pre-
  ferred method of instruction is by an instructor qualified flight engineer or aerial gunner. In any case,
6                                                           AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


    all instruction will be done one-on-one in the crew cabin. Instructors must be current and qualified/
    certified in a specific event before instructing in that event.
    1.6. (AMC) In-flight Supervision. HQ AMC/A3 authorizes a waiver to paragraph 1.6. In-Flight
    Supervision. Instructor pilots may conduct unit-specific contingency pilot upgrade training while
    observing from the cabin if the pilot being trained is a fully mission qualified aircraft commander
    IAW this instruction and appropriate AFIs. A contingency-qualified pilot or flight engineer must
    occupy the left seat in this situation. Flight engineers not contingency qualified will only occupy the
    left front seat when entered into contingency upgrade training and under the supervision of an instruc-
    tor flight engineer. As a guideline, instructors should be contingency mission qualified a minimum of
    three months prior to instructing the unit’s contingency mission.
    1.7. Crew Member Utilization Policy:
       1.7.1. Unit Aircrew Capability. OG/CC will determine unit aircrew capabilities based on the
       unit’s mission [i.e. Basic Aircraft Qualification (BAQ), Basic Mission Capable (BMC), or Mis-
       sion Ready/Combat Mission Ready (MR/CMR)].
       1.7.2. Commanders and Key Staff Course. If a senior officer does not maintain BAQ, BMC, or
       MR/CMR status, then completion of a helicopter Commander and Key Staff Course is required
       before the senior officer is authorized to perform pilot duties (including indoctrination flight pro-
       gram). The primary method of completion is at the formal school. The alternate method of training
       is in-unit (if primary method is not available) using formal school courseware adapted to local
       training resources. The alternate method of training requires MAJCOM/DO waiver. Completion
       of this course does not assign a qualification or currency requirement, since the course is merely
       an orientation to USAF helicopter operations and capabilities. Senior officers will not be desig-
       nated in command and will fly with an instructor pilot at a set of controls. Passengers are not
       authorized when senior officers are in control of the aircraft.
       1.7.2. (AMC) Commanders and Key Staff Course. HQ AMC/A3 authorizes a waiver to para-
       graph 1.7.2., Commanders and Key Staff Course. The primary method of completion for 89 AW
       Commanders and Key Staff is in-unit. Formal school courseware adapted to local training
       resources will be utilized. Specifically, an NVD Lab is not required. An instructor will summarize
       the general concept and learning objectives normally presented in an NVD Lab for Commanders
       and Key Staff who never attended.
    1.8. Supervisory Aircrew Personnel Training:
       1.8.1. Colonels and above. See paragraph 1.7.2..
       1.8.2. Lt Col and below, below MAJCOM level. Individuals must be trained to the appropriate
       status as determined by the unit commander. The NAF functional manager for H-1 operations will
       determine the qualification for crewmembers assigned at NAF level. Individuals must meet or
       exceed all initial and recurring training requirements for the unit to which the individual is
       assigned.
       1.8.3. Lt Col and below at the MAJCOM level. Incumbents to Aircrew Position Identifier (API) 8
       positions must comply with AFI 11-202, Volume 1 and MAJCOM guidance. Individuals in the
       indoctrination-flying program have no qualification or currency requirements.
    1.9. Intra/Intercommand Transfer of Aircrews. The unit commander or operations officer will
    review the training and evaluation records of newly assigned personnel to determine what training, if
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       7


  any, is required for them to achieve BMC or MR/CMR status. Previous assignments, formal training
  experience, and demonstrated performance should be taken into consideration.
  1.10. Intra/Intercommand Aircrew Training. Aircrew members may perform flying duties at H-1
  units outside their assigned command. Duty familiarization training must be accomplished IAW para-
  graph 1.11.The visiting aircrew member’s mission qualifications must be equivalent to the qualifica-
  tion requirements for the planned mission at the TDY location in order to perform aircrew duties on
  operational missions. Unit commanders or operations officers may identify additional requirements
  before TDY aircrew members act as primary crewmembers on operational or training missions. This
  provision allows instructors to perform aircrew training or students to receive flying training at units
  outside their assigned MAJCOM. Follow guidance for in-unit training programs as directed in this
  instruction to include waiver requests if applicable. See AFI 11-401, paragraph 1.11. for guidance on
  authorization to perform inflight duties in non-US Air Force aircraft.
  1.11. Duty Familiarization Training When TDY. Crewmembers and OSFs must receive a duty
  familiarization flight and local area orientation briefing before performing other training or opera-
  tional missions. The crewmember’s unit commander or mission commander may waive the flight
  requirement when conditions do not permit. A local area orientation briefing is still required.
  EXCEPTION: The following personnel are exempt from the above requirements: higher headquar-
  ters supervisory personnel not flying in command of the aircraft, higher headquarters standardization
  personnel, aircrew performing FCF flights at depot-level maintenance locations, aircrew prosecuting
  and familiar with recurring operational support (National Aeronautics and Space Administration
  (NASA) support), and search and rescue (SAR). This exemption does not relieve TDY crewmembers
  from the responsibility of familiarizing themselves, as much as practical, with the local environment.
  1.12. Waiver Procedures. In-unit training in lieu of a formal course requires a waiver from MAJ-
  COM/DO. Units will include the following information when requesting in-unit training waivers:
     1.12.1. Justification.
     1.12.2. Name, grade, and organization of individual receiving training.
     1.12.3. Summary of the individual’s flying experience.
     1.12.4. Present crew qualification, including restrictions.
     1.12.5. Total flying time and MDS time (including instructor and evaluator time, if applicable).
     1.12.6. Crew qualification to which aircrew member is qualifying or upgrading.
     1.12.7. Date training will begin and expected completion date.
     1.12.8. Requested exceptions to formal course syllabus, with rationale.
     1.12.9. Requesting unit point of contact, duty address, and duty phone.
  1.13. In-processing Requirements:
     1.13.1. Units will develop procedures to ensure a complete flight and training records screening is
     accomplished during unit in-processing. The screening should normally be accomplished in suffi-
     cient time to ensure discrepancies are rectified prior to an individual’s first flight. Additionally,
     Fire Extinguisher Training, Marshalling Exam, Mast Bump Training, Initial Pyrotechnics Train-
     ing (if applicable), and any other associated ground training affiliated with unit Duty Familiariza-
     tion and the Duty Familiarization flight will be accomplished prior to the individual’s first
8                                                            AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


       operational/training flight. Other non-grounding Duty Familiarization ground training may be
       accomplished during the upgrade training but prior to the corresponding training flight. Fire Extin-
       guisher Training, Marshalling Exam, Mast Bump Training, Initial Pyrotechnics Training (if appli-
       cable) are all logged under Duty Familiarization Training (T002) in ARMS. Duty Familiarization
       requirements are listed in Table 2., Aircrew Training Requirements Summary. Any waiver to this
       paragraph must be submitted through appropriate channels and approved by MAJCOM/DO.
       1.13.2. Fire Extinguisher Training (Pilot, FE, FS, and AG). Refer to AFI 91-301, Air Force Occu-
       pational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program Training
       should include hands-on ramp and aircraft fire extinguishers. In addition to AFOSH fire extin-
       guisher training, crewmembers should be trained on aircraft fire extinguishers and how to use
       them in flight.
       1.13.2. (AMC) This training may be accomplished by viewing the Fire Extinguisher Training
       video available on the Andrews AFB Intranet.
       1.13.3. Marshaling Exam (Pilot, FE, and AG). Refer to AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operation and
       Movement on the Ground. Complete the written exam unless tested at a formal school within the
       previous 6 months.
       1.13.4. Mast Bump Training (Pilot, FE and AG). View the US Army videotape "Mast Bumping,
       Causes and Prevention," #TF46-6077 or the computer aided training equivalent (N/A if accom-
       plished at a formal school within the previous 6 months).
       1.13.5. Pyrotechnics Training (FE and AG). AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, out-
       lines the training requirements for personnel who come in direct contact with explosives, such as
       pyrotechnics. Comply with provisions in TOs 11A10-24-7, 25-7, and 26-7. Instructors will be
       thoroughly familiar with AFOSH standards, TO guidance, formal school syllabus, and 11-series
       instructions. Accomplish any required flight training after ground familiarization.
           1.13.5.1. Initial Pyrotechnics Training (FE and AG). Units maintaining pyrotechnics (beyond
           those for life support) will provide flight engineers and aerial gunners with pyrotechnic train-
           ing covering the types of pyrotechnics carried aboard unit aircraft and storage, loading, launch,
           and safety requirements. In addition to the familiarization training listed above, flight engi-
           neers and aerial gunners will receive initial pyrotechnics training. This training will consist of
           a complete review of the following MAJCOM/unit specific procedures: Ground Storage, Air-
           craft Storage, Vehicle Loading (if applicable), Aircraft Loading, Restrictions and Manual
           Launch Procedures.
    1.14. Out-processing Requirements. Units will develop procedures to ensure flight and training
    records are screened during unit out-processing. The screening should normally be accomplished in
    sufficient time to ensure discrepancies are rectified prior to PCS. Additionally, all personnel departing
    to short tour areas must be scheduled by the losing organization for simulator, physiological, and other
    training as appropriate, to minimize unnecessary TDYs from short tour areas.
       1.14.1. Periodic Training Requirements. The training requirements shown in Table 2. (except for
       flight physical) are not required for those crewmembers that will terminate flying status IAW AFI
       11-202 Volume 1. Training requirements apply if the individual transfers to another command as
       an aircrew member.

2. Initial Qualification Training (IQT):
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                         9


  2.1. IQT General. Initial Qualification Training is required for a crewmember to perform flying
  duties in their crew position, not including the unit’s operational mission. All crewmembers classified
  as BAQ must complete IQT.
     2.1.1. IQT Methods. Aircrew members will attend the applicable IQT course conducted at the
     formal school (58 SOW, Kirtland AFB, NM) if a quota is available. If no quota is available at the
     formal school, a MAJCOM waiver is required to conduct IQT in-unit.
     2.1.1. (AMC) Forward all IQT waivers using the on line waiver request service on the AMC/A3T
     web site: https://private.amc.af.mil/a3/a37t/dot/waivers. If web site is down when trying to
     submit waiver request, contact HQ AMC/A3T (DSN 779-3361). If necessary, submit a written
     request through 89 OSS/OST and 89 OG/CC following procedures in paragraph 1.12. of this
     instruction.
     2.1.2. IQT for Senior Officers. All formal training courses for senior officers (Colonel selectees
     and above) require MAJCOM approval. Senior officers must meet course entry prerequisites and
     will complete all syllabus requirements unless waived IAW syllabus directives.
     2.1.3. All units performing in-unit IQT will:
         2.1.3.1. Utilize formal school courseware. Units are not required to use courseware material
         and examinations requiring resources available only at the formal school or material unique to
         the formal school flying area. MAJCOMs may approve an alternate syllabus flow for in-unit
         IQT to compensate for the lack of simulators.
         2.1.3.2. Ensure successful completion of the ground and flying training requirements pre-
         scribed in this section. Training sequence and prerequisites will follow the formal course syl-
         labus flow chart unless waived by the unit commander, operations officer, or designated
         training supervisor. Accomplish a Sequence of Training Waiver (SOTW) IAW Attachment 2
         or MAJCOM guidance.
         2.1.3.3. Complete initial qualification written examinations associated with the initial flight
         evaluation IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program and
         AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 2, H-1 Aircrew Evaluation Criteria before beginning the initial qualifi-
         cation flight evaluation.
         2.1.3.4. Identify and take appropriate action to determine the disposition of students failing to
         meet the above requirements.
  2.2. Prerequisites. Prospective aircrew members must meet formal training course prerequisites
  established by ETCA (Education and Training Course Announcements) and the AETC formal course
  syllabus.
  2.3. Ground Training. Ground training may be tailored to the individual’s background and experi-
  ence or unique local conditions. Available and current reference materials such as instructor guides
  and audiovisual programs should be used as supporting materials to the maximum extent possible.
  Crewmembers must complete all applicable ground training requirements listed in Table 2. before the
  initial qualification flight evaluation. All initial qualification ground/flight requisites in the SOI and
  AFI 11-2H-1, Volumes 1 and 2, will be completed before the initial qualification flight evaluation.
  Waiver authority is MAJCOM/DOT. Additionally, a DOT representative shall review the training
  folder, and the unit DO shall review the training folder and accomplish a recommendation for evalua-
  tion. Place this review on the comments record in the training folder.
10                                                          AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


     2.4. Flying Training:
        2.4.1. Objectives. The formal course syllabi define objectives and task requirements.
            2.4.1.1. Commanders or operations officers may approve additional training flights (X-rides)
            for upgrades that must deviate from the approved training schedule or when an aircrew mem-
            ber encounters extensive breaks in flight training. The commander, operations officer or des-
            ignated training supervisor will annotate on the training comments record of the aircrew
            training record the justification for additional flights and the number of additional flights
            scheduled. Aircrew members requiring additional training because of performance/knowl-
            edge-based deficiencies may not be scheduled for additional flights under the provisions of
            this paragraph.
            2.4.1.2. Additional training due to student non-progression is available within the constraints
            of the course syllabus. Use the Training Folder Completion guidance in Attachment 2 or
            MAJCOM equivalent to determine appropriate additional events.
        2.4.2. In-Unit Training Duration. In-unit training will begin no later than 45 days after reporting
        to a new duty station or unit. Training will be completed within 120 calendar days of the begin-
        ning of the flying training. Training time starts with the first training/simulator flight. Training
        may be continued after 120 days but MAJCOM/DOT must be notified of failure to complete train-
        ing within the prescribed time. Include crewmember’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned
        action and estimated training completion date.
        2.4.3. Qualification Evaluation. Sortie(s) will be flown IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 2, AFI
        11-2H-1, Volume 2, and MAJCOM supplements.
     2.5. Initial Training for Flight Surgeons:
        2.5.1. Prerequisites. Flight surgeons must complete all applicable ground training requirements
        listed in Table 2. before the first duty familiarization flight.

3. Mission Qualification (MQT) and Certification Training:
     3.1. MQT General. Training necessary to qualify/certify an aircrew member or OSF in a specific
     position to perform the command or unit operational mission. This section outlines the training
     requirements for mission qualification/certification for aircrew members and OSFs. This section does
     not apply to aircrew members only maintaining BAQ. MQT completion is a prerequisite for MR sta-
     tus.
        3.1.1. Crewmembers will receive sufficient training to perform mission requirements, as directed
        by the unit commander. The unit commander will review the training and evaluation records of
        newly assigned personnel to determine the training required for them to achieve BMC or MR/
        CMR status. Previous assignments, formal training experience and demonstrated performance
        should be taken into consideration.
        3.1.2. MQT Methods. Aircrew members will attend the applicable initial MQT course conducted
        at the formal school (58 SOW, Kirtland AFB, NM) whenever possible. In exceptional circum-
        stances, when training at the formal school is not available within a reasonable period of time,
        MAJCOMs may accomplish in-unit MQT with a MAJCOM waiver.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                     11


     3.1.2. (AMC) Forward all MQT waivers using the on-line waiver request service on the AMC/
     A3T web site: https://private.amc.af.mil/a3/a37t/dot/waivers. If web site is down when trying
     to submit waiver request, contact HQ AMC/A3T (DSN 779-3361). If necessary, submit a written
     request through 89 OSS/OST and 89 OG/CC following procedures in paragraph 1.12. of this
     instruction.
     3.1.3. All units performing in-unit MQT will:
        3.1.3.1. Utilize formal school courseware. Units are not required to use courseware material
        and examinations requiring resources available only at the formal school or material unique to
        the formal school flying area. MAJCOMs may approve an alternate syllabus flow for in-unit
        MQT to compensate for the lack of simulators.
        3.1.3.2. Ensure successful completion of the ground and flying training requirements pre-
        scribed in this section. Training sequence and prerequisites will follow the formal course syl-
        labus flow chart unless waived by the unit commander, operations officer, or designated
        training supervisor. Accomplish a SOTW IAW Attachment 2 or MAJCOM guidance.
        3.1.3.3. Complete the mission written examination associated with the mission flight evalua-
        tion IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 2 and AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 2 before beginning the mission
        flight evaluation.
        3.1.3.4. Identify and take appropriate action to determine the disposition of students failing to
        meet the above requirements.
     3.1.4. Unit-specific MQT. Unit-specific MQT is training unique to an individual unit’s mission.
        3.1.4.1. All units performing unit-specific MQT will:
            3.1.4.1.1. Develop courseware to conduct this training. Syllabi will be based upon formal
            school courseware, when it exists. Syllabi will include prerequisite ground and flying
            training requirements that become progressively more difficult as the student completes
            training rides, building on the skills and knowledge gained on previous rides. Flights will
            be listed on appropriate formal school forms including RPLs. MAJCOMs must approve all
            unit-developed courseware.
            3.1.4.1.2. Document all unit-specific MQT programs in the MAJCOM supplement to this
            instruction.
            3.1.4.1.2. (AMC) 1 HS conducts the following unit-specific MQT: UH-1N Contingency
            Pilot and UH-1N Contingency Flight Engineer upgrades.
            3.1.4.1.3. Ensure successful completion of the ground and flying training requirements
            prescribed in this section. Training sequence and prerequisites will follow the formal
            course syllabus flow chart unless waived by the unit commander, operations officer, or
            designated training supervisor. Accomplish a SOTW IAW Attachment 2 or MAJCOM
            guidance.
            3.1.4.1.4. Complete applicable mission written examination(s) IAW AFI 11-202, Volume
            2 and AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 2 before beginning any applicable mission flight evaluation.
            3.1.4.1.5. Identify and take appropriate action to determine the disposition of students
            failing to meet the above requirements.
12                                                            AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


     3.2. Certification Training. Table 3.1 of AFI 11-2H-1V2, identifies H-1 Certifications. Certifica-
     tions do not require evaluations (but may be evaluated as part of a SPOT, No-Notice, or recurring
     evaluation) and are documented on the AF Form 1381, USAF Certificate of Aircrew Training. For
     mission items not included in the table, if an evaluation is required by the formal school program, it is
     a qualification.
     3.2. (AMC) Certification Training. 1 HS conducts a Functional Check Flight (FCF) certification
     for Pilot, Copilot, and Flight Engineer.
        3.2.1. For unit specific certifications, complete the MAJCOM approved courseware for that certi-
        fication. All certification ground/flight requisites in the appropriate SOI and AFI 11-2H-1, Vol-
        umes 1 and 2, will be completed before certification.
     3.3. Prerequisites. Unless otherwise dictated by formal school courseware, aircrew members must
     complete IQT before starting MQT. Prospective aircrew members must meet formal training course
     prerequisites established by ETCA and the AETC formal course syllabus.
     3.3. (AMC) Prerequisites. Flight engineers will have a minimum of 75 total UH-1N hours prior to
     entering the unit contingency upgrade. Aircrew arriving without an NVG qualification will receive an
     in-unit NVG upgrade IAW the AETC syllabus prior to entering the unit-specific MQT.
     3.4. Ground Training. Ground training may be tailored to the individual’s background and experi-
     ence or unique local conditions. Available and current reference materials such as instructor guides
     and audiovisual programs should be used as supporting materials to the maximum extent possible. All
     mission qualification ground/flight requisites in the appropriate SOI and AFI 11-2H-1, Volumes 1 and
     2, will be completed before the mission flight evaluation. Waiver authority is MAJCOM/DOT.
     3.5. Flying Training:
        3.5.1. Objectives. The formal course/unit-specific syllabi define objectives and task require-
        ments.
            3.5.1.1. Commanders or operations officers may approve additional training flights (X-rides)
            for upgrades that must deviate from the approved training schedule or when an aircrew mem-
            ber encounters extensive breaks in flight training. The commander, operations officer or des-
            ignated training supervisor will annotate on the training comments record of the aircrew
            training record the justification for additional flights and the number of additional flights
            scheduled. Aircrew members requiring additional training because of performance/knowl-
            edge-based deficiencies may not be scheduled for additional flights under the provisions of
            this paragraph.
            3.5.1.2. Additional training due to student non-progression is available within the constraints
            of the course syllabus. Use the Training Folder Completion guidance in Attachment 2 or
            MAJCOM equivalent to determine appropriate additional events.
        3.5.2. In-Unit Training Duration. In-unit training will be completed within 120 calendar days of
        the beginning of the flying training. Training time starts with the first training/simulator flight.
        Training may be continued after 120 days but MAJCOM/DOT must be notified of failure to com-
        plete training within the prescribed time. Include crewmember’s name, rank, reason for delay,
        planned action and estimated training completion date.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                         13


       3.5.3. Mission Evaluation. Sortie(s) will be flown IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 2, AFI 11-2H-1,
       Volume 2, MAJCOM supplements and local standardization/evaluation criteria on any mission
       representing the unit’s primary mission tasking.
       3.5.4. OSF Training. Any instructor-qualified crewmember may conduct initial, recurring, and
       recertification ground/flight training for OSFs. However the preferred method of instruction is by
       an instructor qualified flight engineer or aerial gunner. In any case, all instruction will be done
       one-on-one in the crew cabin. Instructors must be current and qualified/certified in a specific event
       before instructing in that event.
       3.5.5. Night Vision Goggle (NVG) Training. Training will be accomplished IAW AFI 11-202
       Volume 1. Crewmembers must be remote qualified (or in remote qualification training) before
       beginning NVG remote upgrade training. NVG instructors must accumulate 50 hours of NVG
       time before performing in-flight NVG instruction. MAJCOMs may allow OG/CCs to waive this
       requirement to no lower than 25 hours. NVG training will not be conducted with less than 5 per-
       cent equivalent moon illumination (EMI).
       3.5.5. (AMC) Night Vision Goggle (NVG) Training. HQ AMC/A3 delegates waiver authority for
       instructor NVG hours to 89 OG/CC. Submit waivers using the on-line waiver request service on
       the AMC/A3T web site: https://private.amc.af.mil/a3/a37t/dot/waivers. If web site is down
       when trying to submit waiver request, contact HQ AMC/A3T (DSN 779-3361). If necessary, sub-
       mit a written request through 89 OSS/OST and 89 OG/CC following procedures in paragraph
       1.12. of this instruction.

4. Difference Qualification Training (DQT):
   4.1. DQT General. Difference qualification (formerly interfly) training is designed for H-1 series
   qualified crewmembers requiring qualification in the other series H-1 aircraft.
       4.1.1. DQT Methods. Qualified H-1 crewmembers may obtain difference qualification between
       H-1 series aircraft using formal school initial qualification flight training syllabus and proficiency
       advance as necessary. This training may be accomplished at the formal school or in-unit.
       4.1.2. Training Requirements. Training will highlight differences between the series. Ground
       training will include as a minimum: hands-on egress training; a full discussion of the flight manual
       with emphasis on emergency procedures, limitations, and aircraft systems; and series-specific
       instrument procedures. Complete qualification written examinations IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 2
       and AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 2 before beginning the qualification flight evaluation.
       4.1.3. Mission Requirements. Upon successful completion of the qualification flight evaluation,
       existing mission qualifications and certifications, except FCF certification, transfer between H-1
       series aircraft.

5. Continuation Training (CT). The continuation training program provides crewmembers with the
volume, frequency, and mix of training necessary to maintain proficiency in the assigned qualification
level.
   5.1. Aircrew Status. Crewmembers may be assigned to BAQ, BMC or MR status. Accomplishing
   the minimum number of required events only ensures currency. Individual proficiency may require a
   greater number of events. Unit commanders will ensure all aircrew members receive sufficient event
   intensive training to maintain proficiency.
14                                                           AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


        5.1.1. Basic Aircraft Qualification (BAQ). The BAQ aircrew member must satisfactorily com-
        plete initial qualification training to be qualified to perform aircrew duties in the unit’s aircraft.
        The aircrew member must complete basic qualification flying currency requirements prescribed in
        this instruction.
        5.1.2. Basic Mission Capable (BMC). A BMC aircrew member must satisfactorily complete
        training prescribed to be fully qualified to perform at least one of the unit’s operational missions
        but does not maintain MR status. The aircrew member must be able to attain full qualification in
        the unit’s mission(s) within 30 days. MAJCOM supplements may extend this requirement to up to
        45 days depending on mission requirements.
        5.1.3. Mission Ready (MR)/Combat Mission Ready (CMR). A mission ready aircrew member is
        defined as one who has satisfactorily completed training prescribed to be fully qualified to per-
        form a command or unit’s operational mission (see Table 1.) and maintains all currency require-
        ments. The aircrew member must be available for operational taskings and deployments (as
        applicable).
     5.2. CT General. Training in which aircrew members and OSFs already qualified/certified in their
     respective positions maintain their assigned level of proficiency. This section provides guidance for
     maintaining currency.
        5.2.1. Crewmembers are required to accomplish ground and/or ancillary training as required by
        this instruction and/or AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing and Conducting Training, the ETCA
        and the unit commander.
        5.2.2. Commanders must ensure that flight-training programs consider local conditions and indi-
        vidual capabilities to maximize training continuity. Effective training is founded on crewmem-
        bers’ confidence in basic skills such as navigation, systems operation, Night Vision Goggles
        (NVGs), formation, instruments, and low level. Training programs must include regular, recurring
        exposure to the fundamentals of the unit mission.
        5.2.3. MAJCOM supplements may allow provisions for the OG/CC to waive ground and flying
        continuation training.
        5.2.3. (AMC) HQ AMC/A3 delegates waiver authority for ground and flying training events
        IAW this instruction to 89 OG/CC. Submit waivers using the on-line waiver request service on the
        AMC/A3T web site: https://private.amc.af.mil/a3/a37t/dot/waivers. If web site is down when
        trying to submit waiver request, contact HQ AMC/A3T (DSN 779-3361). If necessary, submit a
        written request through 89 OSS/OST and 89 OG/CC following procedures in paragraph 1.12. of
        this instruction.
        5.2.4. Crediting Currency. Crewmembers and OSFs must perform the required events/subevents
        in Table 2., Table 3., Table 4., and Table 5. to credit currency for that item/sortie. Flight currency
        may be credited in the following two manners:
            5.2.4.1. Current and Qualified/Certified. Aircrew members and OSFs that are current and
            qualified/certified may credit currency if they perform the required events/subevents for that
            item/sortie.
                5.2.4.1.1. Aircraft commanders and instructor pilots may credit events/sorties accom-
                plished in either seat.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                      15


             5.2.4.1.2. Current and qualified pilots in any upgrade may credit events/sorties accom-
             plished in the upgrade towards continuation training at the discretion of the instructor.
             5.2.4.1.2. (AMC) Any crewmember in any upgrade may credit events/sorties accom-
             plished towards continuation training.
             5.2.4.1.3. Current and qualified pilots fulfilling ETCA prerequisites in the other pilot seat
             may credit events/sorties accomplished toward currency requirements at the instructor’s
             discretion.
             5.2.4.1.4. Events accomplished on satisfactory evaluations/certifications may be credited
             toward currency requirements.
         5.2.4.2. Non-Current. Aircrew members and OSFs delinquent in currency requirements must
         fly under the supervision of an instructor IAW paragraph 1.6. and perform sufficient repeti-
         tions of each delinquent item to demonstrate proficiency in all non-current events. Events per-
         formed to clear delinquent requirements may be credited to satisfy current training
         requirements at the instructor’s discretion.
  5.3. Training Cycle. The crewmember training cycle is 12 months, January through December, and
  the ground training cycle is IAW paragraph 5.4. Units will complete training requirements during the
  appropriate training cycle unless specifically noted otherwise.
  5.4. Ground Training. Table 2. lists required flight related ground training.
     5.4.1. Training Currency and Due Date.
         5.4.1.1. Unit commanders may elect to align ground training reference dates for their unit
         using any of the following options:
             5.4.1.1.1. Birth month. A phase period beginning no earlier than 6 months prior to the end
             of the birth month will be used.
             5.4.1.1.2. Due date. A phase period beginning no earlier than 6 months prior to the end of
             the due date will be used.
             5.4.1.1.3. Reference month. A phase period beginning no earlier than 6 months prior to
             the end of the reference month will be used.
         5.4.1.2. Reference dates for each subject should remain fixed and will be established in writ-
         ing and on file in the unit training office. Do not exceed a period of 17 months (to the end of
         the month) when converting from one method to another, or after initial qualification/certifica-
         tion, requalification, or recertification.
  5.5. BAQ Continuation Training Requirements:
     5.5.1. Pilots, Flight Engineers, Aerial Gunners, and Flight Surgeons. Crewmembers must comply
     with the requirements listed in Table 3. Currency requirements are minimums. If a crewmember
     goes non-current for a BAQ flying event, refer to paragraph 5.10.
     5.5.2. Aerial Photographers (AP). APs will accomplish requirements IAW MAJCOM directives.
  5.6. BMC Continuation Training Requirements:
     5.6.1. Pilots, Flight Engineers and Aerial Gunners. Pilots, flight engineers and aerial gunners will
     comply with the applicable currency requirements listed in Table 2. and Table 4. required for
16                                                           AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


        BMC status as determined by the unit commander. Aircrew members who are current in BAQ
        events, but not in MQT events are considered BAQ and will not be authorized to perform the
        applicable mission event(s).
     5.7. MR/CMR Continuation Training Requirements:
        5.7.1. Pilots, Flight Engineers and Aerial Gunners. Pilots, flight engineers and aerial gunners will
        comply with the currency requirements listed in Table 4..
        5.7.2. Flight Surgeons and Operational Support Flyers. FS and Medical Technicians (MT) will
        accomplish the requirements in Table 5.. Other OSFs will comply with MAJCOM directives.
     5.8. Multiple Qualification/Currency Requirements. Crewmembers authorized by their MAJ-
     COM to maintain currency in multiple aircraft (to include series) must perform an equitable distribu-
     tion of events in each aircraft. As a minimum, one emergency procedure sortie will be flown in each
     aircraft per quarter and pilots will fly each aircraft at least once every 45 days.
     5.9. Specialized Training. Specialized training is training in special tactics or events as directed by
     MAJCOM. This training may be conducted in conjunction with IQT, MQT, or CT.
     5.10. Recurrency Training:
        5.10.1. Non-current. Currency expires at the end of the phase period in which the event was not
        accomplished. Events are delinquent on the first day of the next quarter/semiannual period.
        Forty-five and 60-day requirements are non-current on the 46th and 61st days following the last
        accomplished event, respectively.
            5.10.1.1. Non-currency status in any BAQ requirement prohibits unsupervised flight in all
            areas.
            5.10.1.2. Non-currency status in any BMC or MR/CMR requirement prohibits unsupervised
            flight for the specific mission.
            5.10.1.3. Crewmembers non-current in any event for over 6 months are unqualified/decerti-
            fied. Comply with requirements of paragraph 5.11.. for requalification and paragraph 5.12.. for
            recertification.
        5.10.2. Recurrency Training. Aircrew members and OSFs non-current in any event for up to 6
        months must fly under the supervision of an instructor IAW paragraph 1.6. and perform sufficient
        repetitions of each delinquent item to demonstrate proficiency in all non-current events. Events
        performed to clear delinquent requirements may be credited to satisfy current training require-
        ments at the instructor’s discretion.
     5.11. Requalification Training:
        5.11.1. Requalification Training. Requalification training is required for loss of qualification due
        to loss of currency exceeding 6 months or expiration of a flight evaluation. Complete requalifica-
        tion training IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 1. For loss of qualification due to a Q-3 evaluation, com-
        ply with AFI 11-202, Volume 2 and AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 2. Requalification training may
        include proficiency advancement, tailoring the training to the individual based upon their experi-
        ence, documented performance and formal training requirements.
        5.11.2. Use formal school courseware (if applicable). Units are not required to use courseware
        material and examinations requiring resources available only at the formal school or material
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       17


     unique to the formal school flying area. MAJCOMs may approve an alternate syllabus flow for
     in-unit requalification to compensate for the lack of simulators.
     5.11.3. All requalification ground/flight requisites in the appropriate SOI and AFI 11-2H-1, Vol-
     umes 1 and 2, will be completed before the requalification flight evaluation. Waiver authority is
     MAJCOM/DOT.
         5.11.3.1. Instructor Requalification. Aircrew members previously instructor qualified in the
         MDS may be directly requalified to the instructor level. The amount of time unqualified as an
         instructor determines the appropriate formal school courseware to use. See AFI 11-202, Vol-
         ume 1, for requalification training time requirements. Regardless of courseware utilized,
         accomplish the flight evaluation(s) to the instructor level.
         5.11.3.2. Pilot, copilot, flight engineer, aerial gunner, and aerial photographer requalification.
         Aircrew members previously qualified in the MDS may be requalified to their previous crew
         position dependent upon the amount of time unqualified IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 1, requal-
         ification training time requirements.
  5.12. Recertification Training:
     5.12.1. Recertification Training. Recertification training is required in each of the following situ-
     ations:
         5.12.1.1. When a crewmember loses a qualification associated with a certification.
         5.12.1.2. When a flight surgeon or medical technician is non-current for more than 6 months
         in FS/MT flying currency events.
         5.12.1.3. When a crewmember is non-current for more than 6 months in cargo sling, fire
         bucket, day water, defensive suppressive fire, or hot refueling continuation training events.
     5.12.2. To regain certification, complete the MAJCOM approved courseware for that certifica-
     tion. All certification ground/flight requisites in the appropriate SOI and AFI 11-2H-1, Volumes 1
     and 2, will be completed before the recertification. Waiver authority is MAJCOM/DOT.
  5.13. Prorated Training Requirements. Units may reduce requirements for aircrew members who
  are not available for flying duties for more than 15 days in a training period (PCS, non-flying TDY,
  Duty Not Including Flying (DNIF), medical/emergency leave, etc.). Use Table 6. to calculate the
  number of quarterly and semiannual sortie/event requirements. Do not prorate training requirements
  to less than one event. Proration will be used to adjust for genuine circumstances of training
  non-availability, not to mask training or planning deficiencies.
     5.13.1. Units will ensure aircrew members who enter continuation training after the start of a
     training period accomplish a prorated share of required events based on the number of full calen-
     dar months in the training period.
  5.14. Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS). All applicable ground and flight standard
  event-training identifiers found in 11-series instructions will be used in ARMS for all aircrew mem-
  bers and OSFs. MAJCOMs must approve all unit-generated X __ identifiers. X __ identifiers are used
  to specify additional training requirements for all aircrew members and OSFs based on local require-
  ments. Use the following identifiers based on unit level: XM__ MAJCOM level identifier, XN__
  NAF level identifier, XS__ Squadron level identifier, or XF__ Flight level identifier.
18                                                             AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


6. Upgrade Training:
     6.1. General. This section outlines the requirements for upgrade to aircraft commander and any air-
     crew instructor position. MAJCOMs may delegate the waiver authority for flying hour requirements
     for upgrades to the OG/CC. In-unit upgrades require MAJCOM waiver. A waiver is not required if a
     formal school quota is not available (inform MAJCOM/DOT prior to initiating in-unit upgrades).
     When formal school quotas are not available, use formal school courseware for upgrade training (if
     formal school courseware is not available use MAJCOM-approved courseware). Upgrades are nor-
     mally conducted after a crewmember achieves MR status.
     6.1. (AMC) General. HQ AMC/A3 delegates waiver authority for flying hour requirements for
     upgrades to 89 OG/CC.
     6.2. Aircraft Commander Upgrade. Unit commanders will select only highly qualified, motivated
     and responsible pilots for this program. A minimum of 100 MDS-specific primary flying hours is
     required prior to entering aircraft commander upgrade training. If a pilot has more than 700 hours total
     time, a minimum of 50 MDS-specific primary flying hours is required to enter aircraft commander
     upgrade training. Inter-service transfer pilots need not be qualified as copilot prior to entering aircraft
     commander upgrade training. Flying time does not include UPT-H and UPT student time or simulator
     time.
     6.3. Instructor Upgrade. Units will select instructors from experienced aircrew members who are
     thoroughly qualified and skilled in the duties of their respective crew positions. First time instructors
     are required to attend the Flight Instructor Preparatory Course or equivalent IAW the ETCA. Unit
     commanders will review each instructor candidate's qualifications for the following minimum prereq-
     uisites:
        6.3.1. Instructional Ability. All initial instructor upgrade candidates will complete training on the
        principles of instruction during the appropriate formal school upgrade course.
        6.3.2. Judgment. The individual must possess judgment necessary to meet unexpected or induced
        emergencies and the ability to exercise sound judgment through mature realization of their own,
        their student's, and the aircraft's limitations.
        6.3.3. Personal Qualities. The individual must have patience, tact, understanding, and a desire to
        instruct others. Instructors must have a personality that inspires and wins the respect of each stu-
        dent.
        6.3.4. Technical Knowledge. The individual must be thoroughly familiar with aircraft systems
        and equipment, normal and emergency operating procedures, prohibited maneuvers, aircraft per-
        formance, and regulatory guidance.
        6.3.5. Flying Experience. Initial instructor pilots require 100 hours primary/secondary time in the
        design and series aircraft after upgrade to aircraft commander, of which 50 hours must be primary.
        Other initial instructor aircrew members and previously qualified instructor aircrew members
        require a minimum of 1 year flight experience in H-1 helicopters or 300 hours total helicopter
        time. First time FE instructors must attend the formal school course. To possess the desired stan-
        dards of knowledge, judgment, and proficiency the individual must possess a reasonable back-
        ground of flying experience. Normally, these qualities progress together, however flying hours
        alone cannot be accepted as criteria for any one or all qualities.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                   19


Table 1. Mission Capabilities.
                                     AFSPC                AETC    AMC     AFMC    AFSOC    PACAF
Operational
                     Notes   37 HF 40 HF 54 HF 76 HF 3 6    512   1 HS   40 FTS   6 SOS    459 AS
Mission
                                                     RQF    RQS
          Remote     1,2,3    X     X     X     X     X      X      X        X       X        X
     Day Tactical     2,3     X     X     X     X     X      X                       X
       NVG TAC         3                                                             X
    NVG Remote        2,3     X     X     X     X     X      X      X                X
        Formation      3      X     X     X     X     X      X      X                X        X
  NVG Formation        3                                                             X
        Dissimilar     3                                                             X
        Formation
      Cargo Sling      3                        X     X      X           X           X
      Fire Bucket      3                        X                        X
   Day Water Ops      2,3                       X     X                  X           X
        Defensive      3                                                             X
  Suppressive Fire
   Aerial Gunnery      3                                                             X
      NVG Aerial       3                                                             X
        Gunnery


NOTES:
            1. Remote includes both day and night unaided operations.
            2. Includes AIE as applicable to unit capabilities. Crewmembers must maintain currency in
               AIE methods in which they are qualified.

Table 1. (AMC) Mission Capabilities.
Operational                         AFSPC            AETC         AMC    AFMC     AFSOC      PACAF
Mission              Notes    37   40    54   76     36    512    1 HS   40 FTS    6 SOS     459 AS
                              HS   HS    HS   HS    RQF    RQS
NVG
                                                                   X
Formation
Contingency                                                        X

NOTES:
3: (Added) (Missing in source AFI) Unit commanders determine crewmembers that maintain
qualifications/certifications and currency in missions.
20                                                                     AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


Table 2. Aircrew Training Requirements Summary.
     Course Description          ID      Code       P     CP      FE         AG       AP       FS      OSF       Phase
                                 (2)      (1)                                                                   Periods
                                                One-Time Training
Combat Survival Training,       SS20       G        X       X        X        X        X        X                None
Level C (S-V80-A)
                               Reference AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, this AFI and
                               MAJCOM guidance. All aircrew members must attend Combat Survival Training.
                               Individuals must have this training prior to first flight.
Underwater Egress Training      SS30       G        X       X        X        X        X      X(4)       X       None
(S-V84-A)
                               Reference AFI 11-301, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. All aircrew members must
                               attend UET. Training will include Helicopter Emergency Egress Device (HEEDs).
                               Individuals must have this training prior to first flight.
Wat er Surv ival Tr aining,     SS32       G        X       X        X        X        X      X(6)     X(7)      None
Non-Parachuting (S-V90-A)
                               Reference AFI 11-301, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. All aircrew members must
                               attend Water Survival Training. Individuals must have this training prior to first flight.
FCF Copilot Certification       T009       O                X                                                    None
                               Reference T.O. 1-1-300, T.O. 1H-1(U)N-6CF-1, and this AFI. Copilots must complete
                               MAJCOM approved FCF training before acting as a primary crewmember on FCFs.
                               Document certification in the individual’s flight evaluation folder. FCF certified
                               copilots must complete the FCF exam to maintain certification. Certification expires
                               when an individual loses their basic aircraft qualification.
FCF Certification               T003       O        X                X                                           None
                               Reference T.O. 1-1-300, T.O. 1H-1(U)N-6CF-1, and this AFI. Pilots and flight
                               engineers must complete MAJCOM approved FCF training before acting as a primary
                               crewmembers on FCFs. Document certification in the individual’s flight evaluation
                               folder. FCF certified ACs and FEs must complete the FCF exam to maintain
                               certification. Certification expires when an individual loses their basic aircraft
                               qualification.
Parachute Drop Certification    T004       O        X       X        X        X                                  None
                               Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Pilots, flight engineers, and aerial
                               gunners must complete MAJCOM approved training before acting as primary
                               crewmembers for parachute drops (static-line or free-fall). Document certification in
                               individual’s flight evaluation folder. Certification does not expire.
NVG Scanner Certification       T005       O        X       X                                                    None
                               Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Pilots acting as NVG scanners must be
                               NVG qualified (in crew position) before starting NVG scanner certification training.
                               Use MAJCOM approved courseware. An IF, IG, or NVG scanner certified IP will
                               provide this training. Document certification in the individual’s flight evaluation
                               folder. Certification does not expire as long as NVG qualification is maintained.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                                                  21


     Course Description                ID      Code       P     CP       FE        AG        AP       FS      OSF      Phase
                                       (2)      (1)                                                                   Periods
Non-Hoist Alternate Insertion/        T006       O                         X        X                                   None
Extraction (AIE) Qualification
                                     Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Use formal school or MAJCOM
                                     approved courseware for non-hoist AIE (fast rope, rappel, SPIE/STABO and rope
                                     ladder). Initial training will include at least one “live” event in each applicable
                                     non-hoist AIE device. All applicable non-hoist AIE devices will be evaluated. Units
                                     will ensure initial training is completed prior to operational and continuation training
                                     flights involving applicable non-hoist AIE devices. Qualification does not expire as
                                     long as currency is maintained.
FA R P / H o t      R e f u e l i n g HR01       N        X        X       X        X                                   None
Certification
                                     Refer to AFI 11-235, Forward Area Refueling Point Operations, T.O. 1H-1(U)N-1,
                                     this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Aircrew members will be initially certified in this
                                     event by accomplishing FARP/Hot Refueling training for their appropriate crew
                                     position. Training will include aircraft operation for the pilot. Training for FEs, AGs,
                                     and CPs (for units without AGs) will include hook-up and hot refueling supervisor
                                     duties. Actual fuel transfer is required to log currency. Document in the individual’s
                                     flight evaluation folder.
FS/MT Rescue Hoist/                   T007       O                                                    X       X(7)      None
Equipment Certification
                                     Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Flight surgeons and medical technicians
                                     attached/assigned to helicopter units with rescue hoist capability must be certified in
                                     order to ride on or utilize applicable unit rescue devices and equipment. Units will
                                     ensure initial training is completed prior to operational and continuation training flights
                                     involving rescue devices and equipment. Use MAJCOM approved courseware.
Cargo Sling Certification             T008       O        X        X       X                                            None
                                     Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Pilots and flight engineers must complete
                                     MAJCOM approved training before acting as primary crewmembers for cargo sling
                                     operations. Document in the individual’s flight evaluation folder.
Fire Bucket Certification             T010       O        X        X       X                                            None
                                     Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Pilots and flight engineers must complete
                                     MAJCOM approved training before acting as primary crewmembers for fire bucket
                                     operations. Individuals must be cargo sling certified before becoming certified in fire
                                     bucket operations. Document in the individual’s flight evaluation folder.
D a y Wa t e r O p e r a t i o n s    T011       O        X        X       X        X                                   None
Certification
                                     Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Applicable aircrew must complete
                                     certification training before acting as primary aircrew members on day water
                                     operations. Individuals will be day remote qualified before becoming certified in day
                                     water operations. Document in the individual’s flight evaluation folder.
Night Vision Goggle Training         VV01        O        X        X       X        X
                                     Reference AFI 11-202 V1, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Applicable aircrew
                                     members with an NVG mission require initial ground and flight NVG training.
                                     Training will be accomplished at the formal school. Use the date of the first successful
                                     NVG flight evaluation as the completion date.
22                                                                     AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


     Course Description          ID      Code      P     CP       FE        AG       AP       FS      OSF       Phase
                                 (2)      (1)                                                                  Periods
                                                  Upon PCS/PCA
Life Support Familiarization LL01         G        X        X        X       X        X        X      X(7)      None
Training
                               Reference AFI 11-301, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. One time event conducted
                               prior to the first flight at home-station. Training will familiarize aircrew members and
                               OSFs with local aircrew life support equipment availability, issue, use, pre-flight and
                               post-flight procedures.
Duty Familiarization/Theater    T002      O        X        X        X       X        X        X        X       None
Indoctrination Training
                               Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. All aircrew members and OSFs will
                               complete this training before scheduling normal flights (except in emergencies or for
                               actual rescue missions). As a minimum, training will include: local hazards, no fly
                               areas, airports, navigation aids, arrival and departure procedures, traffic patterns,
                               reporting procedures, helicopter training and landing sites, and any specific mission
                               support requirements.
                                                   Every 3 Years
Non-Combat         Survival     SS04      N        X        X        X       X        X      X(6)       X       None
Training (CST) (5)
                               Refer to AFI 11-301, this AFI and MAJCOM directives. An academic and equipment
                               refresher training program designed for aircrews whose duties do not require them to
                               fly over enemy territory. It is the opportunity to demonstrate hands-on ability to use
                               life support equipment, employ survival techniques, and initiate rescue procedures. It
                               is preferred that this training be conducted in field conditions similar to those a
                               crewmember would encounter in their local flying area and region.
                                                   Every 2 Years
Crew Resource Management AC05             G        X        X        X       X       X(8)    X(8)     X(8)      None
(CRM)
                               Reference AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, this
                               AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Use formal school courseware to complete the CRM
                               training requirements. The preferred method is to get CRM training in conjunction
                               with simulator refresher training at Kirtland AFB. If CRM refresher training is
                               accomplished in conjunction with a formal upgrade or simulator refresher training, the
                               completion date is the course graduation date. The “CRM for Instructors” ground
                               training block in the formal school instructor upgrade does not fulfill this requirement.
Simulator                      AC10       G        X        X        X                                          None
                               Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Training will emphasize recognition and
                               reaction to emergency procedures and CRM. Upgrade training (i.e., aircraft
                               commander upgrade, instructor upgrade) does not fulfill the biennial training
                               requirements for simulator refresher training. Log the completion date for IQT or
                               requalification training as the initial simulator refresher date. Upon graduation of the
                               simulator refresher course, crewmembers may credit the following requirements if
                               performed: Brown-out/White-out Training, CRM, 1 EP sortie each for pilot and flight
                               engineer, and precision and non-precision approaches (max of one each).
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                                    23


    Course Description       ID     Code       P     CP      FE        AG       AP       FS      OSF      Phase
                             (2)     (1)                                                                 Periods
Brown-out/White-out        AC20       N        X       X        X       X        X                        6 mos
Training                                                                                                 prior to
                                                                                                         due date
                           Reference AFI 11-2H-1 Vol. 3, H-1 Helicopter Operations Procedures, T.O.
                           1H-1(U)N-1, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. All crewmembers will receive initial
                           and biennial refresher training using formal school developed courseware. Training
                           will consist of an academic lecture/discussion period and practice in the simulator.
                           Initial training is conducted in conjunction with IQT or requalification training.
                           Recurring training is conducted in conjunction with biennial simulator refresher
                           training. Initial training completion date is the course graduation date from IQT or
                           requalification training. Recurring training completion date is the course graduation
                           date from the simulator refresher course.
                                          Every 15 or 30 Months
M-9 Air Force Qualification AC02      O        X       X        X       X        X                        3 mos
Course                                                                                                   prior to
                                                                                                         due date
                           Aircrew members are required to maintain currency IAW AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms
                           Program, and MAJCOM directives. The unit commander will determine additional
                           weapons training requirements for pilots and flight engineers. Aerial photographers are
                           Group B category.
                           Group B personnel require CATM training in the M-9 every 12 to 15 months.
                           Group C personnel require CATM training in the M-9 every 27 to 30 months.
M-16 Air Force Qualification AC03     O        X       X        X       X        X                        3 mos
Course                                                                                                   prior to
                                                                                                         due date
                           Aircrew members are required to maintain currency IAW AFI 36-2226 and MAJCOM
                           directives. The unit commander will determine additional weapons training
                           requirements for pilots and flight engineers. Aerial photographers are Group B
                           category.
                           Group B personnel require CATM training in the M-16 every 12 to 15 months.
                           Group C personnel require CATM training in the M-16 every 27 to 30 months.
                                             Every 17 Months
Qualification Evaluation   AA01       G        X       X        X                                         6 mos
                                                                                                         prior to
                                                                                                         due date
                           Reference AFI 11-202 Vol. 2, for evaluation requirements.
Instrument Evaluation      AA11       G        X       X                                                  6 mos
                                                                                                         prior to
                                                                                                         due date
                           Reference AFI 11-202 Vol. 2, for evaluation requirements.
24                                                                           AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


     Course Description                 ID       Code     P    CP       FE        AG       AP      FS      OSF      Phase
                                        (2)       (1)                                                              Periods
I n s t r u m e n t E v a l u a t i o n , AA12    G       X       X                                                 6 mos
Simulator                                                                                                          prior to
                                                                                                                   due date
                                      Reference AFI 11-202 Vol. 2, for evaluation requirements.
Combined Qualification and AA21                   G       X       X                                                 6 mos
Instrument Evaluation                                                                                              prior to
                                                                                                                   due date
                                      Reference AFI 11-202 Vol. 2, for evaluation requirements.
Mission Evaluation                    AB00        G       X       X       X        X       X                        6 mos
                                                                                                                   prior to
                                                                                                                   due date
                                      Reference AFI 11-202 Vol. 2, for evaluation requirements.
Flight Surgeon Exam                   AC06        G                                                 X               6 mos
                                                                                                                   prior to
                                                                                                                   due date
                                      Reference AFI 11-202 Vol. 2, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance for examination
                                      requirements.
FCF Exam (3)                          AC15        O       X       X       X                                         None
                                      Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance for examination requirements.
Instrument Refresher Course            A022       G       X       X                                                 6 mos
                                                                                                                   prior to
                                                                                                                   due date
                                      Reference AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Course Program, this AFI and
                                      MAJCOM guidance.
                                                   Annual (Every 12 Months)
Air Operations Security               AC04        N       X       X       X        X       X        X       X       6 mos
                                                                                                                   prior to
                                                                                                                   due date
                                      Reference AFI 13-207, Preventing and Resisting Aircraft Piracy (Hijacking), this AFI
                                      and MAJCOM guidance. All aircrew members and operational support flyers will
                                      receive air operations security training to cover both standard Air Force and local
                                      procedures. Air Operations Security training is a one-time requirement for operational
                                      support flyers unless directed on a more frequent basis by unit commanders.
L a w o f A r m e d C o n f l i c t AC07          N       X       X       X        X       X        X       X       6 mos
(LOAC)                                                                                                             prior to
                                                                                                                   due date
                                      Refer to AFI 51-401, Training And Reporting To Ensure Compliance With The Law of
                                      Armed Conflict, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Unit training personnel or an
                                      appropriate base agency may accomplish training.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                                           25


     Course Description           ID      Code      P     CP       FE        AG       AP       FS      OSF       Phase
                                  (2)      (1)                                                                  Periods
Pyrotechnics Refresher          AC09       O                          X       X                                 6 mos
                                                                                                               prior to
                                                                                                               due date
                                AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance.
                                Applicable aircrew coming in direct contact with explosives, such as pyrotechnics, will
                                receive annual training. Units using pyrotechnics must conduct ground training before
                                flight training. This training will include a discussion of the unit explosives safety
                                operating instruction, a review of types and uses of pyrotechnics applicable to the unit,
                                and safety and storage considerations. This training does not include pyrotechnics
                                maintained in the survival vest.
Tow Team Member                 AC12       O        X        X        X       X                                 6 mos
                                                                                                               prior to
                                                                                                               due date
                                Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. All applicable aircrew members require
                                initial and annual training. Training will be conducted using formal school or
                                MAJCOM approved courseware.
Refuel Supervisor                AC13      O        X        X        X       X                                 6 mos
                                                                                                               prior to
                                                                                                               due date
                                Reference this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. All applicable aircrew members require
                                initial and annual training. Training will be conducted using formal school or
                                MAJCOM approved courseware
NVG Refresher                   AC14       O        X        X        X       X                                 6 mos
                                                                                                               prior to
                                                                                                               due date
                                Reference AFI 11-202 Vol. 1, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. All applicable
                                aircrew members require annual training. Training will be conducted using formal
                                school; Air Force Research Laboratory or MAJCOM approved courseware.
Use of Force                     G283      O        X        X        X       X                                 6 mos
                                                                                                               prior to
                                                                                                               due date
                                Reference AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, this AFI and
                                MAJCOM guidance. All armed aircrew personnel must meet the level of firearms
                                proficiency required by their arming group. Crewmembers must receive “Use of
                                Force” training before being issued a firearm. Unit training officers will document the
                                name and rank of the individual responsible for the training.
FA R P / H o t   R e f u e l i n g HR02    N        X        X        X       X                                 6 mos
Refresher Training                                                                                             prior to
                                                                                                               due date
                                Refer to AFI 11-235, T.O. 1H-1(U)N-1, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Aircrew
                                members certified in this event will accomplish FARP/Hot Refueling refresher training
                                for their appropriate crew positions. Training will include aircraft operation for the
                                pilot. Training for FEs, AGs, and CPs (for units without AGs) will include hook-up
                                and hot refueling supervisor duties. Actual fuel transfer is required to log currency.
26                                                                                AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


      Course Description                    ID      Code       P     CP      FE         AG       AP       FS      OSF      Phase
                                            (2)      (1)                                                                  Periods
Emergency Egress Training, LL03                       G        X       X        X        X        X        X        X      6 mos
Non Ejection                                                                                                              prior to
                                                                                                                          due date
                                          Refer to AFI 11-301, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Aircrew members and
                                          operational support flyers will receive ground egress training. An IF, IG, or IP will
                                          provide this training. Training will emphasize primary and secondary exits and include
                                          a discussion of procedures in the event of unusual landing attitude, fire, injury, and
                                          water landing. Initial egress training will be accomplished prior to first flight. Initial
                                          and recurring ground egress training will include training at the aircraft to include
                                          instruction on opening all doors and windows and location and use of fire extinguishers
                                          and first aid kits.
Life Support Equipment                    LL06        G        X       X        X        X        X        X      X(7)     6 mos
Training                                                                                                                  prior to
                                                                                                                          due date
                                          Refer to AFI 11-301, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Academic and equipment
                                          training in which aircrews/OSFs demonstrate the ability to locate, pre-flight, and use all
                                          aircrew life support equipment carried on-board unit aircraft or issued to personnel.
                                          Training includes review of limitations, safety issues, aircrew clothing items, and
                                          hazards associated with improper wear and failure to use only authorized clothing and
                                          equipment items.
Wa t e r S u r v i v a l Tr a i n i n g    SS05       O        X       X        X        X        X      X(4)     X(4)     6 mos
(WST)                                                                                                                     prior to
                                                                                                                          due date
                                          Refer to AFI 11-301, AFI 16-301, U S Air Force Priority System for Resource
                                          Management, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. All crewmembers and OSFs with an
                                          overwater mission requirement will receive annual UET/HEEDs refresher training.
                                          In-water, hands-on training is preferable to watching the videotapes.


NOTES:
                1. Training Codes. G = grounding—the crewmember may not perform flight duties with the
                   event not completed. N = non-grounding—the crewmember may perform flight duties
                   with the event not completed and may maintain MR or BMC status depending on unit
                   commander guidance. O = other restrictions—the crewmember may perform flight duties
                   with the event not completed or overdue under the condition the mission profile does not
                   include the specific event.
                2. Use identifiers as directed by MAJCOM.
                3. IAW MAJCOM guidance.
                4. Crewmembers, flight surgeons and operational support flyers who perform overwater
                   flights will complete SS30 and SS05. The training code for flight surgeons and OSFs for
                   this event is “O”.
                5. Attending Arctic Survival Training, SS03/S-V87-A, fulfills the requirement for Combat
                   Survival Training (CST), SS02. The date accomplished is the course graduation date.
                6. At the discretion of the unit commander.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       27


          7. Required for medical technicians only.

Table 2. (AMC) Aircrew Training Requirements Summary
  Course Description       ID (2)    Code MP       FP      FE AG        AP    FS    OSF        Phase
                                      (1)                                                     Periods
                                               One Time
Ground Egress w/ACDE       LL05       O      X(9) X(9)     X(9)                                None
                          Reference AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, this
                          AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Aircrew members must have this training prior
                          to or during their first flight which any portion of the ACDE is worn.
                                     Biennial (Every 24 Months)
Aircrew Chemical           LL04       O      X(9) X(9) X(9)                                6 mos prior to
Defense Ensemble                                                                              due date
(ACDE) Training           Reference AFI 11-301, Volume 1, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Aircrew
                          members must have this training prior to their first flight during which any
                          portion of the ACDE is worn.
                                      Annual (Every 12 Months)
Chemical, Biological,   G010        O      X(9) X(9) X(9)                               6 mos prior to
Radiological, Nuclear,                                                                     due date
and Explosive (CBRNE) Reference AFI 10-2501, Full Spectrum Threat Response (FSTR) Planning
Defense Training       and Operations, this AFI and MAJCOM guidance. Aircrew members must
                       have this training prior to completion of contingency qualification training.
                                    Semi-Annual (Every 6 Months)
Contingency Tactics        XS281      O      X(9) X(9) X(9)                                    None
                          Reference locally developed training instructions. Initial training occurs
                          during initial contingency qualification training.

NOTES:
8. (Added) (Missing in source AFI) CRM training is a one-time requirement (in primary aircraft) for
flight surgeons, medical technicians, and aerial photographers unless directed on a more frequent basis
by unit commanders.
9. (Added) Only contingency qualified aircrew must fulfill this requirement and will initially log this
event upon completion of contingency qualification.
10. (Added) HQ AMC/A3 waives weapons qualification requirements for 1 HS aircrew members.
28                                                             AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


Table 3. BAQ Flying Requirements.
Pilot Requirements                       Notes      Event ID   45 Day    60 Day     Qtr       S/A
Basic Sortie                               1          B010       1                   6         18
Transition Sortie (day)                    2          B450                           1
Emergency Procedures Sortie                3          B440                           2
Night Sortie                               4          B410                           1
Transition Sortie (night)                  2          B490                           1
Instrument Approach                        6          B070       1
Precision Approach                         6          B080                           2          6
Non Precision Approach                     6          B100                           2          6
Flight Engineer Requirements
Basic Sortie                               1          B010                 1         4         12
Emergency Procedures Sortie                3          B440                           2
Night Sortie                               4          B410                           1
Aerial Gunner Requirements
Basic Sortie                               1          B010                 1         4         12
Night Sortie                               4          B410                           1
Flight Surgeon Requirements
Basic Sortie                               5          B010                 1                    6
Night Sortie                               4          B410                                      1


NOTES:


1. To credit a basic sortie, complete the following events as applicable to crew position (P, CP, FE, AG).
Additionally, each pilot and copilot must occupy a front seat, and make a takeoff and a landing.
        Mission Planning                         Taxi/Hover
        Performance Data                         Takeoff Procedures
        Crew and/or Passenger Briefing           Approach (instrument or visual)
        Crew Coordination                        Landing Procedures
        Flight Clearance                         Fuel Management
2. A transition sortie consists of a basic sortie and a maximum performance takeoff, and marginal power
takeoff, a normal approach and landing, and a steep approach to a touchdown.
3. Pilots qualified in more than one aircraft must log one EP sortie in their primary aircraft each quarter;
MAJCOMs will determine currency requirements for secondary aircraft. An EP sortie should be accom-
plished on a single flight. An emergency procedures sortie consists of a basic sortie and:
                 Review of boldface procedures
                 Straight-ahead autorotation
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       29


               Turning autorotation (90° or 180°)
               Boost-off approach and landing
               Simulated fuel control failure approach and landing
               Simulated single-engine approach and landing
               Desired: at least one 90° and one 180° autorotation
4. A night sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires one hour of night time. Additionally, pilots must
log ½ hour of primary time.
5. Credit no more than one sortie per single calendar day.
6. For formation instrument approaches, only the pilot at the controls of the lead aircraft may log the
approach.
30                                                                        AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


Table 4. Mission Qualification Flying Currency/Events Requirements.
Event                              Notes      Event ID      60 Day     Quarter      Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
 Day Remote Operations                            T100                     1
     Night Unaided Remote            3,5          T120                     1
          Operations
 NVG Remote Operations            1,2,3,4,6
                                 Sub-Events                                                            P       FE      AG
                     Required: Mission planning                                                        X        X       X
                                 Navigation                                                            X
                                 Remote landing and takeoff                                            X        X       X
                                 Simulated maximum power                                               X
                                 In-flight/terminal operations power considerations                    X        X
                      Desired: Pinnacle/ridgeline landing                                              X        X       X
                                 AIE (if applicable)                                                   X        X       X
                                 Slope landing                                                         X        X       X
                                 Use of pyrotechnics                                                            X       X
                                 Search pattern                                                        X        X       X
Remote Notes:
1.    NVG events may satisfy night unaided requirements: i.e. NVG Remote Ops (S620) accomplishes Night (Unaided)
      Remote Ops (T120).
2.    Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified, but cannot perform
      the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
3.    Sortie/event accomplishments at night may be credited toward similar day requirements only after night require-
      ments in that event have been fulfilled. Total events required will not be reduced.
4.    NVG qualified pilots will only log NVG sorties while at a set of controls.
5.    Units will not practice unaided night search patterns. A night sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of
      night time of which ½ hour must be primary.
6.    An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour must be primary.
Event                              Notes      Event ID      60 Day     Quarter      Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
Formation Sortie                      1           T140                                   1 (P)
NVG Formation Sortie               1,2,3,4        T141                                   1 (P)
                                 Sub-Events                                                            P       FE      AG
                     Required: Takeoff, approach, enroute, landing                                     X
                                 Lost visual procedures                                                X
                                 Join-up                                                               X
                      Desired: Low-level                                                               X
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                                          31


Formation Sortie Notes:
1.   Each pilot must fly each required sub-event as both lead and wing to log a formation sortie.
2.   NVG events may satisfy day requirements: i.e. NVG Formation Sortie (T141) accomplishes Formation Sortie
     (T140), only after night requirements in that event have been fulfilled. Total events required will not be reduced.
3.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified, but cannot perform
     the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
4.   An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour must be primary.
Event                          Notes        Event ID    60 Day     Quarter      Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
Cargo Sling                         1          S370                                1 (P, FE)
                               Sub-Events                                                             P     FE       AG
                    Required: Cargo Hook Functional Check                                                    X
                               Pattern                                                                X      X
                               Verbal direction                                                              X
                               Hookup                                                                        X
                               Load Release                                                           X      X
Cargo Sling Note:
1.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for cargo sling operations, remain mission qualified, but cannot
     perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified. Cargo sling events may satisfy fire bucket requirements
     only after cargo sling requirements have been met.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter     Semi-Annual           Crew Positions
Fire Bucket                         1          S380                                1 (P, FE)
                               Sub-Events                                                             P     FE       AG
                    Required: Fire Bucket Functional Check                                                   X
                               Pattern                                                                X      X
                               Verbal direction                                                              X
                               Hookup                                                                        X
                               Water Release                                                                 X
Fire Bucket Note:
1.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for fire bucket operations, remain mission qualified, but cannot
     perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified. Fire bucket events may satisfy cargo sling requirements
     only after fire bucket requirements have been met.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter     Semi-Annual           Crew Positions
Day Tactical Sortie                            T050                     1
NVG Tactical Sortie               1,2,3        T051                     1
                               Sub-Events                                                             P     FE       AG
                    Required: Mission planning                                                        X      X       X
                               Low-level navigation                                                   X
                               Authentication, TOT procedures                                         X
                               Threat analysis/evasive maneuvers                                      X      X       X
32                                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


                               Tactical approach and landing                                   X       X         X
                    Desired: Low-level formation                                               X
                               Aerial Gunnery                                                          X         X
Tactical Sortie Notes:
1.   NVG events may satisfy day requirements: i.e., NVG TAC (T051) accomplishes Day Tactical Sortie (T050), only
     after night requirements in that event have been fulfilled. Total events required will not be reduced.
2.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified, but cannot perform
     the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
3.   An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour must be primary.
Event                          Notes        Event ID   60 Day    Quarter       Semi-Annual   Crew Positions
Day Water Sortie                     1        H080                                  2
                               Sub-Events                                                      P      FE         AG
                   Required: Day water planning                                                X       X         X
                               AIE                                                             X       X         X
                       Desired Use of pyrotechnics/sea dye marker                                      X         X
                               Open ocean hover                                                X       X
                               Swimmer deployment                                              X       X
Day Water Sortie Note:
1.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for day water operations, remain mission qualified, but cannot
     perform the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
Event                            Notes      Event ID   60 Day       Quarter    Semi-Annual      Crew Positions
Alternate Insertion/                 1        H060                                  4
Extraction (AIE)
NVG AIE                          1,2,3,4      H066                      1
                                                                    (FE, AG)
                               Sub-Events                                                      P      FE         AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                  X       X         X
                               Equipment Preparation                                                   X         X
                               Pattern                                                         X       X         X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)                        X       X         X
                               Verbal Direction                                                        X         X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures                                    X       X         X
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                                          33


AIE Notes:
1.   AIE devices are defined as: hoist/forest penetrator, rappel, fast rope, rope ladder, SPIE/STABO, and stokes litter.
     Any method meets semi-annual currency requirement (H060), but flight engineers and aerial gunners must accom-
     plish at least one of each event in which they maintain qualification semi-annually.
2.   AIE events accomplished at night may be credited toward similar day requirements only after night requirements
     in that event have been fulfilled. Total events required will not be reduced.
3.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified, but cannot perform
     the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
4.   An NVG event (i.e. AIE) can only be credited when accomplished between the end of evening civil twilight and
     the beginning of morning civil twilight, as published in the American Air Almanac.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter     Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
Hoist/Forrest Penetrator           1,2        H061                                1 (FE, AG)
                               Sub-Events                                                          P      FE      AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                              X       X
                               Equipment Preparation                                                       X       X
                               Pattern                                                                     X       X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)                                    X       X
                               Verbal Direction                                                            X       X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures                                                X       X
Hoist/Forest Penetrator Notes:
1.   Flight engineers and aerial gunners must accomplish at least one of each event in which they maintain qualification
     semi-annually.
2.   AIE events accomplished at night fulfill appropriate semi-annual requirement for method used.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter     Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
Rope Ladder                        1,2        H062                                1 (FE, AG)
                               Sub-Events                                                          P      FE      AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                              X       X
                               Equipment Preparation                                                       X       X
                               Pattern                                                                     X       X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)                                    X       X
                               Verbal Direction                                                            X       X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures                                                X       X
Rope Ladder Notes:
1.   Flight engineers and aerial gunners must accomplish at least one of each event in which they maintain qualification
     semi-annually.
2.   AIE events accomplished at night fulfill appropriate semi-annual requirement for method used.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter     Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
Rappel                             1,2        H063                                1 (FE, AG)
                               Sub-Events                                                          P      FE      AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                              X       X
34                                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


                               Equipment Preparation                                                       X       X
                               Pattern                                                                     X       X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)                                    X       X
                               Verbal Direction                                                            X       X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures                                                X       X
Rappel Notes:
1.   Flight engineers and aerial gunners must accomplish at least one of each event in which they maintain qualification
     semi-annually.
2.   AIE events accomplished at night fulfill appropriate semi-annual requirement for method used.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter     Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
Fast Rope                          1,2        H064                                1 (FE, AG)
                               Sub-Events                                                          P      FE      AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                              X       X
                               Equipment Preparation                                                       X       X
                               Pattern                                                                     X       X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)                                    X       X
                               Verbal Direction                                                            X       X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures                                                X       X
Fast Rope Notes:
1.   Flight engineers and aerial gunners must accomplish at least one of each event in which they maintain qualification
     semi-annually.
2.   AIE events accomplished at night fulfill appropriate semi-annual requirement for method used.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter     Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
Stokes Litter                      1,2        H065                                1 (FE, AG)
                               Sub-Events                                                          P      FE      AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                              X       X
                               Equipment Preparation                                                       X       X
                               Pattern                                                                     X       X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)                                    X       X
                               Verbal Direction                                                            X       X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures                                                X       X
Stokes Litter Notes:
1.   Flight engineers and aerial gunners must accomplish at least one of each event in which they maintain qualification
     semi-annually.
2.   AIE events accomplished at night fulfill appropriate semi-annual requirement for method used.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter     Semi-Annual         Crew Positions
SPIE/STABO                         1,2        H070                                1 (FE, AG)
                               Sub-Events                                                          P      FE      AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                              X       X
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                                          35


                               Equipment Preparation                                                       X       X
                               Pattern                                                                     X       X
                               Approach to a hover (Tactical or Normal)                                    X       X
                               Verbal Direction                                                            X       X
                               Departure/takeoff procedures                                                X       X
SPIE/STABO Notes:
1.   Flight engineers and aerial gunners must accomplish at least one of each event in which they maintain qualification
     semi-annually.
2.   AIE events accomplished at night fulfill appropriate semi-annual requirement for method used.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter       Semi-Annual       Crew Positions
NVG Sortie                       1,2,3,4      S610          1
                               Sub-Events                                                          P      FE      AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                      X       X       X
                               Performance Data                                                    X       X       X
                               Crew Coordination                                                   X       X       X
                               Crew and/or Passenger Briefing                                      X
                               Flight Clearance                                                    X
                               Taxi/Hover                                                          X
                               Takeoff Procedures                                                  X       X       X
                               Approach (instrument or visual)                                     X       X       X
                               Landing Procedures                                                  X       X       X
                               Fuel Management                                                     X       X
                               Verbal Direction                                                            X       X
NVG Sortie Notes:
1.   NVG events may satisfy night unaided requirements: i.e. NVG sortie (S610) accomplishes Night (Unaided) Sortie
     (B410).
2.   Sortie/event accomplishments at night may be credited toward similar day requirements only after night require-
     ments in that event have been fulfilled. Total events required will not be reduced.
3.   NVG qualified pilots will only log NVG sorties while at a set of controls.
4.   An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour must be primary.
5.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified, but cannot perform
     the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter       Semi-Annual       Crew Positions
NVG Transition Sortie           1,2,3,4,5     S630                    1 (P)
                               Sub-Events                                                          P      FE      AG
                   Required: Basic Sortie                                                          X
                               Maximum Performance Takeoff                                         X
                               Marginal Performance Takeoff                                        X
                               Normal Takeoff and Landing                                          X
36                                                                     AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


                               Steep Approach to a Landing                                         X
NVG Transition Notes:
1.   NVG events may satisfy night unaided requirements: i.e. NVG Transition Sortie (S630) accomplishes Night
     (Unaided) Transition Sortie (B490).
2.   Sortie/event accomplishments at night may be credited toward similar day requirements only after night require-
     ments in that event have been fulfilled. Total events required will not be reduced.
3.   NVG qualified pilots will only log NVG sorties in their primary crew position.
4.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified, but cannot perform
     the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
5.   An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour must be primary.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter      Semi-Annual        Crew Positions
Defensive Suppressive Fire        1,2,3       G720                                     1
                               Sub-Events                                                           P      FE       AG
                   Required: Mission Planning                                                      X        X       X
                               Low-Level Navigation                                                X
                               Tactical Approaches and Patterns                                    X        X       X
                               Threat Analysis/Evasive Maneuvers                                   X        X       X
                               Verbal Directions / Call for Fire                                            X       X
                               Gun System Employment (Live / Blank Ammo)                                    X       X
                      Desired Low-Level Formation                                                  X
Defensive Suppressive Fire Sortie Notes:
1.   Sortie/event accomplishments at night may be credited toward similar day requirements only after night require-
     ments in that event have been fulfilled. Total events required will not be reduced.
2.   A night sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of night time of which ½ hour must be primary.
3.   An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour must be primary.
Event                            Notes      Event ID     60 Day     Quarter      Semi-Annual        Crew Positions
Aerial Gunnery                                G730                                     1
NVG TAC Aerial Gunnery            1,2,3       G731                                     1
                               Sub-Events                                                           P      FE       AG
                   Required: Mission planning                                                      X        X       X
                               Equipment Preparation                                                        X       X
                               Verbal Directions / Calls for Fire                                           X       X
                               Gun System Employment (Live/ Blank Ammo)                                     X       X
                               Authentication, TOT Procedures (TAC only)                           X
                               Threat Analysis/Evasive Maneuvers (TAC Only)                        X        X       X
                               Tactical Approaches/Patterns (TAC Only)                             X        X       X
                     Desired: Gun System Malfunctions                                                       X       X
                               AIE (if applicable)                                                          X       X
                               Low Level Formation                                                 X
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                                      37


Aerial Gunnery Notes:
1.   NVG events may satisfy day requirements: i.e. NVG TAC Aerial Gunnery (G731) accomplishes NVG Tactical
     Sortie (T051) and Day Tactical Sortie (T050), only after night requirements in that event have been fulfilled.
     Aerial Gunnery (G730) accomplishes Day Tactical Sortie (T050). Total events required will not be reduced.
2.   Aircrew members who are non-current/unqualified for NVG events remain mission qualified, but cannot perform
     the specified event(s) until current/qualified.
3.   An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of NVG time of which ½ hour must be primary.

Table 4. (AMC) Mission Qualification Flying Currency/Events Requirements.
Event                            Notes       Event ID 60 Day Quarter                Semi-           Crew Positions
                                                                                    Annual
Contingency Sortie             1, 2, 3, 4,    XS01                                      2
                                    5
                               Sub Events                                                            P      CP        FE
         Required:             Scramble Launch                                                       X       X        X
                               Mission Profile (Full or Partial)                                     X       X        X
                               Navigation                                                            X       X        X
          Desired:             OSE Landing with Chem mask                                            X       X        X
                               Navigation Divert                                                     X       X        X
                               Secure Radio Operations (SATCOM, if available)                        X       X        X
                               Rendezvous procedures                                                 X       X        X
Contingency Sortie Notes:
1. Only required for contingency qualified crewmembers.
2. See unit Operations Notes/Read File and contingency plans for scramble launch and full and partial
mission profile procedures.
3. Flight engineers will accomplish these events while occupying the left seat.
4. Credit for this event may be given for actual OPLAN missions/exercises.
5. Crew members will initially log XS01 upon completion of contingency qualification.
Event                            Notes       Event ID 60 Day Quarter Semi-Annua                     Crew Positions
                                                                          l
ACDTQT – Chem                  1, 2, 3, 4,    XS280                                     1
Sortie                            5, 6
                               Sub Events                                                            P      CP        FE
         Required:             Flight while wearing M-45 Chem. Mask and butyl                        X       X        X
                               rubber gloves (Minimum of 1/2 Hour)
          Desired:             OSE or Remote landing                                                 X       X        X
                               NVG OSE/Remote (Once per annual period).                              X       X
38                                                             AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


ACDTQT – Chem Sortie Notes:
1. Aircrew members must complete LL04 and LL05 prior to accomplishing any flight during which any
portion the ACDE is worn. Refer to the appropriate contingency upgrade syllabus for initial ACDTQT
training requirements.
2. ACDTQT will not be combined with EPs, formation sorties, practice instrument approaches with less
than two pilots, or instrument approaches in actual IMC. If the training profile includes landing at a site
requiring an additional scanner, the additional scanner must be unmasked.
4. ACDTQT will not be conducted when temperature/dew point conditions fall outside the “normal”
range of the Fighter Index of Thermal Stress (FITS) chart. Refer to AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury.
5. Minimum crew complement for day training is an unmasked MP at a set of controls. Minimum crew
complement for night training is an unmasked MP at a set of controls and an unmasked MF. Flight
engineers should accomplish this event while occupying the left seat.
6. Aircrew must be fully current and qualified in an event prior to accomplishing that event on an
ACDTQT sortie.
7. Crew members will initially log XS280 upon completion of contingency qualification.

Table 5. FS/MT Mission Certification Currency and Event Requirements.
            Frequency                                                           Subevents
Event ID                   Notes        Flying Event
           QTR     S/A
  H062      1       2          1       Rope Ladder (day) Required: Extraction
  H067      1       2      1,2,3                  (night)
  H063      1       2          1            Rappel (day) Required: Insertion
  H068      1       2      1,2,3                  (night)
  H061      1       2          1              Hoist (day) Required: Insertion/Extraction
  H069      1       2      1,2,3                  (night)    Stokes litter and tag line operations
                                                            Desired:
                                                              Stokes litter operations w/actual survivor or
                                                            mannequin


NOTES:
           1. If applicable.
           2. Night currency utilizes same required sub-events as day currency.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                            39


Table 6. Conversion Table for Prorated Training.
                                              Semiannual Proration                 Quarterly Proration
          Days Unavailable
                                               Months Remaining                    Months Remaining
             0 to 15 days                              6                                     3
            16 to 45 days                              5                                     2
            46 to 75 days                              4                                     1
            76 to 105 days                             3                            No Requirement*
           106 to 135 days                             2                                    N/A
           136 to 165 days                             1                                    N/A
         166 days to 6 months                   No Requirement*                             N/A
                                               Total Number of Sorties or Events Required
  Months Remaining
                                         18            12            6         4             2           1
   S/A          QTR                   Remaining Requirements for Semiannual/Quarterly Period
     6            3          100%        18            12            6         4             2           1
     5            -             83%      15            10            5         3             2           1
     4            2             67%      12            8             4         3             1           1
     3            -             50%      9             6             3         2             1           1
     2            1             33%      6             4             2         1             1           1
     1            -             17%      3             2             1         1             1           1

*Volume only. Individual is still required to accomplish dated currency items.
Table 6. example: A crewmember is unavailable to fly for 30 days. How many of the 12 semiannual sor-
ties must be flown?
         Enter the top chart at “16-45 days.” Move right to find the “Semiannual Proration Months
         Remaining” of “5.” Enter the bottom chart under the “Total Number of Sorties or Events
         Required” at “12.” Move down to intersect the “5” line under the “Months Remaining” to read
         “10.” This is the number of sorties required for this crewmember for the semiannual period.

7. Forms or IMTs prescribed or adopted.
   7.1. Forms or IMTs Prescribed: None
   7.2. Forms or IMTs Adopted: AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, AF Form 174,
   Record of Individual Counseling, AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, AF
   Form 1381, USAF Certification of Aircrew Training, AETC Form 73, Aircrew Training Narra-
   tives, 19 AF Form 14, Aircrew Training Progress Record, 19 AF Form 15, Aircrew Training
   Record.
40              AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


     RONALD E KEYS, Lt General, USAF
     DCS, Air and Space Operations

     (AMC)

     QUENTIN L. PETERSON, Major General, USAF
     Director of Air, Space, and Information Operations
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                  41


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-301, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program
AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 1, H-1 Helicopter Aircrew Training
AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 2, H-1 Aircrew Evaluation Criteria
AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 3, H-1 Helicopter Operations Procedures
AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training
AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program
AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground
AFI 11-235, Forward Area Refueling Point (FARP) Operations
AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program
AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management
AFI 11-2H-1, Volume 2, H-1 Aircrew Evaluation Criteria
AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges
AFI 13-207, Preventing and Resisting Aircraft Piracy (Hijacking)
AFI 16-301, U S Air Force Priority System for Resources Management
AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment, Distribution, Accounting, and Termination
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel
AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC)
AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training, Development, Delivery, and Evaluation
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFI 51-401, Training and Reporting to Ensure Compliance with the Law of Armed Conflict
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
Program
AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Course (IRC) Program
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service
ETCA, Education and Training Course Announcements
T.O. 1-1-300, Acceptance/Functional Checkflight and Maintenance Operational Checks
42                                                        AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


T.O. 1H-1(U)N-6CF-1, Acceptance and Functional Checkflight Procedures
T.O. 1H-1(U)N-1, USAF Series UH-1N Helicopter
T.O. 11A10-24-7, Storage and Maint procedures-ACFT Parachute flares M8A1--PN9217950
OMILF20363--LUU-2/B PN 7U41975-01--LUU-2A/B--PN 728921--LUU-2B/B--8240946-10--LUU-4/
B--PN 747548
T.O. 11A10-25-7, Specialized storage and Maint Procedures Pyrotechnic Markers, MK-1MOD 3/
B11690 MK2/344505 MK25 MOD 3/LD615141 or 1332145 M59/78-0-68
T.O. 11A10-26-7, Specialized Storage and Maint Procedures Pyrotechnic Signals

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADSC—active duty service commitment
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCAT—Air Force catalog
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AG—aerial gunner
AIE—alternate insertion, extraction methods (i.e., hoist, rappel, fast rope, rope ladder, SPIE/STABO)
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AP—aerial photographer
API—aircrew position identifier
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
BAQ—basic aircraft qualification
BHFE—Basic Helicopter Flight Engineer Course
BMC—basic mission capable
CATM—Combat Arms Training and Maintenance
CC—commander
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Program
CMR—combat mission ready
CP—copilot
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                  43


CRM—cockpit/crew resource management
CT—continuation training
DNIF—duty not involving flying
DO—Director of Operations
DOT—Director of Training
DQT—difference qualification training
EAUC—Enlisted Aircrew Undergraduate Course
EMI—equivalent moon illumination
EP—emergency procedure
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcements
EVM—evasive maneuvers
FARP—forward air refueling point
FCF—functional check flight
FE—flight engineer
FS—flight surgeon
HARMS—Host Aviation Resource Management System
HEED—helicopter emergency egress device
HQ—headquarters
IAW—in accordance with
ID—identification
IF—instructor flight engineer
IG—instructor aerial gunner
IP—instructor pilot
IQT—initial qualification training
LOAC—law of armed conflict
LTST—low threat survival training
MAJCOM—major command
MC—mission capable
MDS—mission design series
MEGP—mission essential ground personnel
MP—mission pilot
MQT—mission qualification training
44                                                      AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


MR—mission ready
MSL—mean sea level
MT—medical technician
N/A—not applicable
NAF—numbered air force
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NAV—navigation
NVG—night vision goggle(s)
OPR—office of primary responsibility
ORM—operational risk management
OSF—operational support flyer
P—pilot
PCA—permanent change of assignment
PCS—permanent change of station
QRC—quick reaction checklist
QTR—quarter
RPL—required proficiency level
S/A—semiannual
SAR—search and rescue
SOI—syllabus of instruction
SOTW—sequence of training waiver
SPIE—special patrol insertion/extraction
STABO—stabilized body position extraction system
TAC—tactical
TDY—temporary duty
TOT—time on/over target
UET—underwater egress training
UPT—undergraduate pilot training

Terms
Academic Training—A course of instruction that includes but is not limited to classroom instruction
related to aircraft systems and operation, flight characteristics and techniques, performance, normal
procedures, abnormal and emergency procedures. Academic courses are designed to prepare to students
for simulator/flight training and normally completed prior to commencing that training.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                         45


Actual Airdrop—Aerial delivery of personnel, supplies, or equipment from an aircraft inflight.
Aircraft Commander (AC)—A pilot who has been certified to perform duties in command.
Aircrew Training Device (ATD)—Hands on training aids that include cockpit procedure trainers (CPT),
part task trainers (PTT), weapons systems trainers (WST), operational flight trainers (OFT), or
simulators.
Aircrew Training System (ATS)—An integrated qualification, upgrade, and continuation training
program for aircrew. Civilian contractors conduct most academic and ATD training: Air Force conducts
all flight training.
Backup Aircraft Inventory (BAI)—Aircraft above primary mission inventory to permit scheduled and
unscheduled maintenance, modifications, inspections and repair without reduction of aircraft available for
operational missions.
Basic Aircraft Qualification (BAQ)— A status of an aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed
training prescribed to maintain the skills necessary to fly the unit aircraft. The member must perform at
the minimum frequency necessary to meet the most recent sortie and flight standards set for the weapons
system. BAQ will only be carried by aircrew until the completion of MQT. BAQ is not a permanent
qualification except for General Officers above the wing level, and any other crewmembers specifically
authorized by MAJCOM DO.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of an aircrew who has satisfactorily completed training
(MQT) prescribed to be fully qualified to perform the basic unit operational missions but does not
maintain CMR status. Aircrew accomplishes training required to remain familiarized in all, and may be
qualified and proficient in some, of the primary missions of their weapon system and unit. These aircrew
members may also maintain special capabilities.
Certification—The process of certifying aircrew tactical employment and special weapons capabilities,
procedures, and rules.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of an aircrew who has satisfactorily completed training
(MQT) prescribed to be fully qualified to perform the basic unit operational missions, and maintains
qualification and proficiency in these missions. All active duty API-1/2’s, Squadron Commander,
Operations Officers, and OG/CC designated API-6 manning positions are required to maintain this
qualification level. Exception: If a unit is over-manned, they may elect to train the front line of their UMD
to CMR with the overage designated as BMC. At least 50% of the aircrew selected for CMR must be
inexperienced, if available.
Continuation Training (CT)—Training to maintain proficiency and improve aircrew capabilities to
perform unit missions and aircrew proficiency sorties not flown in formal syllabus missions, tests, or
evaluations. Applicable to CMR and BMC aircrew members.
Crew Resource Management (CRM)—Training concept that emphasizes team effectiveness by
enhancing individual and aircrew performance in communication, situational awareness, effective
leadership and management, and crew coordination. (IAW AFI 11-290).
Currency—The minimum frequency required to perform an event or sortie safely.
Direct Supervision—An aircrew member is considered under direct supervision when flying with an
instructor in the same crew position. For pilots the IP must occupy one of the pilot seats and for other
aircrew the instructor must be readily available to assume the primary duties if required.
46                                                          AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE)—An evaluation of aircrew knowledge and responsiveness to
critical and non-critical EPs conducted by a SEFE. A simulator, weapon system trainer, or aircrew
training device may be used to administer and EPE. If none of these aids are available, administer the EPE
verbally.
Event—The accomplishment of a specific training element, functions, or tasks (i.e. Formation, AR,
NVG, Water Operations, Remote Operations, etc.).
Experienced Aircrew (Exp)—Aircraft commanders are considered experienced after achieving 100
hours of primary time in their MDS after aircraft commander qualification. After completion of IQT,
copilots must achieve 200 hours in their current primary aircraft or 100 hours in current primary aircraft
if previously qualified in another helicopter, to be considered experienced. After completion of IQT,
flight engineers must achieve 200 hours in their current primary aircraft or100 hours in current primary
aircraft if previously qualified in another helicopter, to be considered experienced. NVG qualified
aircrews require = 100 hours total NVG hours to be considered NVG experienced. Aircraft commanders
are considered NVG experienced after accumulating 100 total NVG hours, of which 20 hours are as an
Aircraft Commander (primary or secondary time) after NVG aircraft commander qualification.
Functional Check Flight (FCF)—A flight or flights performed to determine whether an aircraft and or
its various components are functioning according to predetermined specifications while subjected to the
flight environment. FCFs are conducted when it is not feasible to determine safe or required operation
(aerodynamic reaction, air loading, signal propagation etc.) by means of ground or shop tests. Conditions
requiring FCFs are specified in the –6 technical order for each type of aircraft. FCF checks or maneuvers
can only be accomplished by current and qualified crewmembers.
Flight Lead (FL)—As designated on flight orders, the individual responsible for overall conduct of the
mission from preflight preparation/briefing to post flight debriefing, regardless of actual position within
the formation.
Formal School Courseware—All material administered or distributed by 58 SOW, 58 TRS, or 512 RQS
is considered Formal School Courseware and appropriate for aircrew training.
Formation—Two or more aircraft under the command of a designated mission commander or flight
leader, operating in close proximity with each other. The aircraft commander assumes responsibility for
the aircraft’s position relative to others’ flying in the same formation.
Initial Qualification Training (IQT)—Training, IAW FTU course syllabus, to qualify the aircrew in
basic aircraft flying duties without specific regard to the unit’s operational mission. The minimum
requirement for Basic Qualification (BAQ).
Low-Level Operations Training—For helicopters, flight training conducted below 500 feet AGL.
Mission Commander (MC)—The MC is responsible for planning, coordinating and executing the
operation and, through the appropriate command and control system, directs mission support forces as
required, within the limits of the designating commander’s authority. The MC is delegated command
authority to exercise operational control over assigned operational and mission support forces in order to
attain specified mission objectives during operations and exercises. The MC is the designating
commander's representative and is responsible for taking care of the details and the people involved in the
mission.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training required to achieve a basic level of competence in
the unit’s primary tasked missions. This training is a prerequisite for CMR or BMC status.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                      47


Night Sortie—For helicopters, to credit a night sortie or NVG sortie, aircrew must log a minimum of 1
hour of night time, and for pilots ½ hour must be primary.
Night Time—Night time is defined as that portion of flight time between the end of evening civil twilight
and the beginning of morning civil twilight, as published in the American Air Almanac.
Operational Mission—Any mission not designated as a unilateral training mission.
Operational Support Flyer (OSF)——An individual whose primary, full-time duty does not require
flying; however, the Air Force may require these individuals to fly on an infrequent or irregular basis in
order to perform a specific, essential in-flight duty which a regularly assigned primary or mission
crewmember cannot perform. Helicopter OSFs normally include, but are not limited to, medical
technician and security force personnel.
Primary Aircraft Assigned (PAA)—Aircraft authorized for performance of the operational mission.
The PAA forms the basis for allocation of operating resources to include manpower, support equipment,
and flying-hour funds. The operating command determines the PAA required to meet their assigned
missions (See AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment, Distribution, Accounting, and
Termination). Includes PMAA and PTAA.
Proficiency—Demonstrated ability to successfully accomplish tasked event safely and effectively. For
purposes of this instruction, proficiency also requires currency in the event, if applicable.
Profile—A combination of training events that are flown together to receive credit and logged under one
ARMS entry.
Qualification—Aircrew member has demonstrated capability to operate the aircraft and/or equipment
safely and effectively during all phases of the mission.
Reconfigureable Operational Flight Trainer (ROFT)—A training device, which dynamically
simulates flight characteristics. Used for normal, emergency, and instrument procedures, to include safety
of flight, war fighting tasks, and skill integration training.
Required Proficiency Level—The level at which a student must perform at a particular phase of
training. Use grading standards and definitions for task performance and task knowledge as defined in the
formal school syllabi.
Situational Emergency Procedures Training (SEPT)—A discussion and review of abnormal/
emergency procedures and aircraft systems operations/limitations based on realistic scenarios.
Tactical Mission—A mission designed to penetrate and operate within a combat or threat environment.
X-Ride—An extra, non-graded sortie given at the discretion of the commander, that is in addition to the
training syllabus. X-rides are sorties given (to an upgrading crewmember) for extended DNIFs, Leaves,
etc. by unit commanders to regain proficiency. X-rides are not to be used to complete deficient items or
RPLs and are not to be used as “Remedial Sorties”.
48                                                           AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


                                              Attachment 2

                                 TRAINING FOLDER INSTRUCTIONS.

Section A2A—TRAINING FOLDER INSTRUCTIONS AND GRADING PROCEDURES.

A2.1. General Guidance. This attachment outlines the procedures required by MAJCOMs to accurately
record aircrew student training using AETC Form 73 and 19 AF Forms 14, and 15. The training folder
and attached forms provide a chronological record of qualification, certification or upgrade training
administered by the unit of assignment. The folders are used to document all applicable ground training,
special function training, part-task training, cockpit procedural training, certification training and flying
training accomplished by crewmembers/OSFs.
A2.1. (AMC) General Guidance. AETC IMT Forms 73, 74, and 75 are authorized in lieu of 19 AF
Forms 13, 14, and 15. Electronic grade folders are authorized for use.
     A2.1.1. Responsibilities.
        A2.1.1.1. The Unit Commander will:
            A2.1.1.1.1. Be responsible for the overall training progress of aircrew members.
            A2.1.1.1.2. In the absence of the DO, act as the individual’s point of contact for any flying
            training problems.
            A2.1.1.1.3. In the absence of the DO, and Chief of DOT, accomplish duties delegated to those
            offices. Make other remarks as appropriate using sufficient detail to document the reason(s)
            and time frame(s).
            A2.1.1.1.4. Participate in “Progress Reviews” and “Progress Review Committees” as
            required.
        A2.1.1.2. The Unit Operations Officer (DO):
            A2.1.1.2.1. Monitor the progress of each aircrew member to ensure all flight prerequisites are
            met and that training is accomplished IAW approved guidance and SOIs.
            A2.1.1.2.2. Act as the individual’s point of contact for any flying training problems.
            A2.1.1.2.3. In the absence of the Chief of DOT, annotate DNIF, TDY, leave, and other events
            that preclude the student from participating in the program. Make other remarks as appropriate
            using sufficient detail to document the reason(s) and time frame(s).
            A2.1.1.2.4. Review active status training folders at least once each calendar quarter.
            A2.1.1.2.5. Accomplish an operations review of student training folders and accomplish a
            recommendation for evaluation prior to all flight evaluations.
            A2.1.1.2.6. Conduct or participate in “Progress Reviews” and “Progress Review Commit-
            tees” as required.
        A2.1.1.3. The Chief/Assistant/NCOIC/Director of Training will:
            A2.1.1.3.1. Monitor the progress of each aircrew member to ensure all flight prerequisites are
            met and that training is accomplished IAW approved guidance and SOIs.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                          49


        A2.1.1.3.2. Notify the unit commander, operations officer, and scheduler of any changes in
        aircrew member/OSF (ground and flying) training status (i.e. incomplete, unsatisfactory, addi-
        tional training required, etc.).
        A2.1.1.3.3. Maintain training folder IAW current AF/MAJCOM guidance.
        A2.1.1.3.4. Annotate DNIF, TDY, leave, and other events that preclude the student from par-
        ticipating in the program. Make other remarks as appropriate using sufficient detail to docu-
        ment the reason(s) and time frame(s).
        A2.1.1.3.5. Assemble aircrew member training folders and forms (AETC Form 73, 19 AF
        Forms 14 and 15).
        A2.1.1.3.6. Conduct a monthly review on all active-status training folders.
        A2.1.1.3.7. File and dispose of training folder IAW current AF/MAJCOM guidance.
        A2.1.1.3.8. Participate in “Progress Reviews” and “Progress Review Committees” as
        required.
  A2.1.2. Formal Training School. The formal training school is the OPR for AETC Form 73 and 19
  AF Forms 14 and 15 pertaining to their respective ETCA formal courses.
  A2.1.3. Training Folders and Reports. Establish and maintain aircrew member training folders
  IAW AFI 11-2UH-1N Volume 1, 37 series instructions and appropriate MAJCOM directives.
     A2.1.3.1. Initiate a training folder for:
        A2.1.3.1.1. Initial qualification, requalification or mission upgrade training.
        A2.1.3.1.2. All certification training.
            A2.1.3.1.2.1. Multiple qualifications/certifications may be combined in one training
            folder.
            A2.1.3.1.2.2. If a certification requires RPLs/SOIs, they will be included in the formal
            training folder.
        A2.1.3.1.3. Upgrade to next higher crew qualification.
        A2.1.3.1.4. Duty Familiarization training for aircrew members/OSFs.
        A2.1.3.1.5. Corrective action required as a result of a Q-3 evaluation, when a training folder
        is not already open. This requirement may be waived by the unit operations officer if correc-
        tive action is limited and would not warrant initiation of a training folder. If initiated, the flight
        examiner who evaluated the crewmember will enter comments pertinent to the training defi-
        ciency on the Training Comments Record.
     A2.1.3.2. Do not insert training folder forms into flight evaluation folders.
     A2.1.3.3. Active training folders must be maintained in a location readily accessible to instruc-
     tors, trainers, supervisory personnel, and the individuals in training. This location will be at the
     unit to which the student is assigned/attached for flying.
     A2.1.3.4. Formal schools will forward original training folders to the gaining unit after the stu-
     dent completes training. Original OPEN training folders must be hand-carried by the individuals
     to the gaining unit.
50                                                          AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


        A2.1.3.5. File and dispose of training folders IAW guidance found at the Air Force Records Dis-
        position Schedule (https://webrims.amc.af.mil), Table 36-44, Rule 1. Training folders may be
        returned to the trainee upon request.
        A2.1.3.6. All open training folders will have monthly review annotations. Inactive training fold-
        ers do not require monthly or quarterly reviews.
     A2.1.4. Training Folder Binder. A hard-sided binder will be used as the training folder. The binder
     cover sheet will be locally designed and placed on the front outside portion of the binder. As a mini-
     mum, the cover sheet will reflect the following information: Name, Rank, Aircrew Position, Type of
     Training, Training Start Date, and 120-Day Training Date.
        A2.1.4.1. Binder Spine. As a minimum the spine will reflect the following information: Last
        Name and Rank of individual in training.
     A2.1.5. Training Folder Sections. The training folder will be composed of the following sections:
        A2.1.5.1. Section 1--Checklist(s). This section contains locally developed checklists, (i.e.
        in-processing, initial upgrade, and requalification checklists).
        A2.1.5.2. Section 2--Administrative. This section will contain general administrative type
        form(s) or letter(s). Administrative type letters contained in this section are Memorandum for
        Records, (i.e. waiver for in-unit upgrades / and courseware, NAF approval to do in-unit upgrades
        etc.), ADSC forms and/or memos.
            A2.1.5.2.1. This section should be organized in the following sequence: Formal Upgrade
            course flow sheets or locally developed course flow sheets derived from formal upgrade
            course flow sheets, prerequisite worksheets (if applicable), ARMS ground training input
            worksheet (if applicable), and mission scenarios (if applicable).
        A2.1.5.3. Section 3--19 AF Form 15s. This section contains the following forms: 19 AF Form
        15, Aircrew Training Record - Ground Training Summary and 19 AF Form 15, Aircrew
        Training Record - Flying Training Summary. For circumstances in which a student has started
        his/her upgrade at Kirtland AFB and was unable to complete it there, units are authorized to use
        existing 19 AF Form 15s (applicable to specific upgrade) to complete the individual’s training.
        A2.1.5.4. Section 4--Type(s) of Training. This section contains all materials required by an
        individual to complete their specific upgrade or certification, such as Duty Familiarization,
        UH1N-MP-UQ, UH1N-MF-UQ, UH1N-IF-UQ, etc. This section will also contain materials
        required for upgrades that pertain to a unit’s unique missions, i.e. Water Operations, Hoist Opera-
        tions, Non-Hoist AIE Operations, Cargo Sling, etc. If there is more than one upgrade or certifica-
        tion being accomplished during the individual’s training, (i.e. Duty Fam, UH1N-MP-UQ Day
        Tactical, cargo sling, etc.) then each upgrade/certification will be separated by divider(s). This
        section will also contain AETC Form 73 and 19 AF Form 14. For circumstances in which a stu-
        dent has started his/her upgrade at Kirtland AFB and was unable to complete it there, units are
        authorized to use existing AETC Form 73 and 19 AF Form 14 (applicable to that specific upgrade)
        to complete the individual’s training.
        A2.1.5.5. Section 5--SOIs. This section will contain either a Formal School Upgrade or MAJ-
        COM-approved SOI.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       51


  A2.1.6. AETC Form 73, Aircrew Training Narratives. This form is used to document narrative
  descriptions of training events, monthly (DOT) reviews, operations (DO) reviews, and training
  progress reviews. AETC Forms 73 will be maintained in the applicable section of the training folder.
     A2.1.6.1. The unit commander, operations officer, or unit training officer/NCOIC will make an
     entry for anything that interrupts training for 10 duty days or more and an explanation as to why
     the training was stopped (i.e. DNIF, emergency leave, TDY). Enter the dates on which the training
     was stopped and restarted. Other remarks may be made as appropriate.
         A2.1.6.1.1. The unit commander, operations officer, or designated training supervisor may
         alter course flow with an SOTW to better match unit scheduling, maintenance, operational and
         weather needs. An SOTW does not allow training after the flight evaluation. Training altered
         by the SOTW will be accomplished prior to the evaluation for that phase. SOTWs will be
         annotated along with its justification on the AETC Form 73.
         A2.1.6.1.2. Notify MAJCOM through NAF of all upgrades that are placed on “Hold” or “Ter-
         mination”. Possible reasons for placing an individual on “Hold” might be due to DNIFs,
         TDYs, personal problems, etc. while a cause for “Termination” would be due to medical dis-
         qualification, or flying/academic deficiencies as per Figure A2.1., Commander’s Review Pro-
         cess.
         A2.1.6.1.3. Upon completion of all certifications and upgrades, a final DOT review will be
         accomplished ensuring all of the training has been completed. This entry also serves to close
         out the training folder.
     A2.1.6.2. Instructors or flight examiners will make comments for all certification, training, and
     evaluation flights. The following are considered major topic areas of the narrative description and
     will be annotated for every entry on the AETC Form 73. The student’s rank, last name, type of air-
     craft, and crew position will be hand-written/typed on the AETC Form 73. All other entries will be
     hand written.
         A2.1.6.2.1. Name. Enter the student’s rank and last name.
         A2.1.6.2.2. Type of Aircraft. UH-1N.
         A2.1.6.2.3. Crew Position. For upgrades, enter the crew position being upgraded to (i.e.
         Instructor Flight Engineer, Copilot, Aircraft Commander, Medical Technician, Aerial Photog-
         rapher, Flight Surgeon). For certifications, enter the current crew position.
         A2.1.6.2.4. Date. Self-explanatory.
         A2.1.6.2.5. Sortie ID. Enter the appropriate training period designator, numbered sequen-
         tially. (i.e. DT-x, DT-x, R-x, NR-x).
         A2.1.6.2.6. Profile/Strengths/Weaknesses/Recommendations. Describe the mission scenario/
         profile to accurately document each event; i.e. TAC, NVG, type/number of approaches, sites/
         LZs flown to, etc. Comments in this section should include an entry pertaining to general
         weather conditions (i.e. sky condition, visibility, winds, temp) and other pertinent weather
         information. Comments should also elaborate on student strengths and weaknesses, identify
         problem areas, record unusual circumstances and indicate student progress. Ensure weak-
         nesses, applicable restrictions, and additional training required to clear the weaknesses/restric-
         tions are clearly annotated and explained. Generalized comments, such as “Student made
52                                                    AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


     several minor errors on preflight that were corrected by the instructor,” are not acceptable.
     Specific errors must be documented. A comment will be entered whenever the achieved per-
     formance level is below the printed RPL. Enter the authorization of progression on proficiency
     advancements. For evaluations completed Q-1 enter “Profile: See AF Form 8 for details”). For
     evaluations graded Q-2 or Q-3, evaluators will make an entry using the profile/strengths/weak-
     nesses/ recommendations format. Make one entry for each training profile accomplished.
        A2.1.6.2.6.1. The format for comments is:
        A2.1.6.2.6.2. Profile:
            A2.1.6.2.6.2.1. The first written entry after Profile: will be Complete. or Incomplete.
            This immediately informs everyone whether or not the student completed all of his/her
            training during the flight period. After this entry, record the Grade for the sortie
            (Excellent, Satisfactory, or Unsatisfactory).
        A2.1.6.2.6.3. Strengths:
        A2.1.6.2.6.4. Weaknesses:
        A2.1.6.2.6.5. Recommendations:
            A2.1.6.2.6.5.1. Recommendations should include tasks requiring further training, the
            type training required and material required to be reviewed by the student for upcom-
            ing training. Include recommendations to progress to the next training period, skip sub-
            sequent periods (i.e. proficiency advancement), etc.
     A2.1.6.2.7. Evaluators, instructors and instructor candidates will sign below entered com-
     ments and print their Name, Rank, Branch of Service, and their duty title below their signature.
     For example,
          John T. Doe
        JOHN T. DOE, Capt, USAF
        Chief of Training
     A2.1.6.2.8. Student Review. Students will initial all entries. They will initial each training
     period’s comments prior to their next training period, indicating awareness of training status.
     The student’s initials will be placed just above the instructor’s signature. The student does not
     have to agree with the written comments before initialing the form.
     A2.1.6.2.9. Monthly/Quarterly Reviews. The monthly review is not required during the
     month in which the quarterly review is accomplished. Reviews will be documented on the
     AETC Form 73. The reviewer will insert “DOT Review” for monthly reviews. Unit operations
     officers are required to review training folders on a quarterly basis. The operations officer will
     insert “DO Review” for the quarterly reviews, as applicable, in the Sortie ID block. Comments
     concerning the student’s progress, status, and recommendations will be written in the profile/
     strengths/weaknesses/recommendations block. The reviewer will sign below their comments,
     and print their Name, Rank, Branch of Service, and duty title below their signature.
     A2.1.6.2.10. Operations Reviews. This review is required after the recommendation for a
     flight evaluation. It must be conducted prior to the flight evaluation. The operations officer or
     his designated representative will review the applicable phase of training to ensure that all
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       53


         flight and ground training requisites have been accomplished to the appropriate RPL. The
         reviewer initials in the “Operations Review” block of the 19 AF Form 15 to denote comple-
         tion. The reviewer will also make an entry of “OPS Review” in the Sortie ID block of the
         AETC Form 73 with accompanying comments in the profile/strengths/weaknesses/ recom-
         mendations block.
  A2.1.7. 19 AF Form 14, Aircrew Training Progress Record. This form provides training profiles,
  task listings, scheduled training, and RPLs for each ground/flight-training task IAW the respective
  SOI. This form reflects RPLs required for training sortie completion and is also used to document the
  student’s demonstrated task/sub-task performance and knowledge levels. An end of task RPL is anno-
  tated on the right side. This RPL must be maintained prior to the respective flight evaluation. Maintain
  19 AF Form 14 with the applicable training syllabus it was designed for in Section 4 of the training
  folder.
     A2.1.7.1. Name. Enter the student’s rank and last name.
     A2.1.7.2. Crew Position. For upgrades, enter the crew position being upgraded to. For certifica-
     tions, enter the current crew position.
     A2.1.7.3. Course/Phase. If not previously entered, enter ETCA formal school course identifier
     (i.e. UH1N-MP-UQ/Contact, UH1N-MF-UQ/Remotes, etc.).
     A2.1.7.4. Programmed Training Profile. The programmed training profile provides the pro-
     grammed training sequence including flight-training mission and identifies the type of training
     mission and number (i.e. AC-1, AI-2, EV-3, etc.). For ETCA courses, this section will reflect the
     course summary documents. When additional columns are required, enter the next number in the
     first blank column and grade the applicable tasks. If a training flight is continued on another sortie
     due to an incomplete lesson, indicate the same lesson number at the top of the first available
     unnumbered column and enter the grades of the maneuvers flown on that sortie in the appropriate
     boxes. The grades entered on reflown flights need not be slashed (/) through to indicate comple-
     tion. The last column to the far right of the form is used to verify that the individual has attained
     the required proficiency level upon completion of their training.
     A2.1.7.5. Actual Training Profile. Annotate actual training time of the sortie (i.e. 1.2, 1.9, 2.5,
     etc.). For formal upgrades accomplished in-unit, training flight duration will be as close as possi-
     ble to the formal course profile flight time.
     A2.1.7.6. Task/Topic Listing. Used to indicate the (P) performance or (K) knowledge level of the
     maneuver item tasks or sub-tasks that must be attained by the student on that particular flight. Use
     the left column to identify a general area (i.e., Flight Preparation, Normal Operations, Emergency
     Procedures, etc.). The formal school or MAJCOM will develop these listings from the appropriate
     task/objective documents and master task listings.
     A2.1.7.7. Minimum Events. This column reflects the minimum number of times a student must
     perform, or be exposed to an event/task on any given mission, series of missions, or phase of train-
     ing (i.e. UH1N-MP-UQ MIF item # 136, AIE Procedures 2). These events cannot be proficiency
     advanced and are minimum requirements.
     A2.1.7.8. Performance and Knowledge Grade. For 19 AF Form 14s with preprinted RPL grades,
     make a diagonal (/) slash through the grade if the student meets the RPL. If a higher or lower RPL
     grade is met, write the new grade over the preprinted one. If the job element contains an RPL of
54                                                            AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


        “R” (review) and the student satisfactorily completes the reviewed item, then slash (/) through the
        “R”. An RPL of “I” indicates a requirement for introduction of the maneuver. An instructor will
        demonstrate the task and place an “I” for introduction in the block. If the 19 AF Form 14 doesn’t
        have preprinted RPL grades, the instructor will indicate the grade attained by the student on each
        accomplished job element by writing the grade in the appropriate column and row.
            A2.1.7.8.1. For certain in-unit upgrades not all aspects of the SOI will be used. If this situation
            arises, line through the unused portions (P/K RPL columns) of the 19 AF Form 14 when these
            events are not required for the upgrade [i.e. AC mission requal upgrade (contact portion not
            applicable), (hoist operations not applicable), etc.]. Units are not authorized to change RPLs.
            RPLs on the 19 AF Form 14 can be modified as directed by MAJCOM/DO.
        A2.1.7.9. Required Proficiency Levels (P Gr and K Gr). These columns indicate the end of phase/
        course performance and knowledge proficiency standards required for each task and sub-task. Stu-
        dents will not be evaluated until required performance/knowledge levels are attained.
     A2.1.8. The 19 AF Form 15, Aircrew Training Record - Ground Training Summary. This sec-
     tion provides a chronological record of ground training events. Entries are required for academic
     ground training (GT), locally-developed/unit-specific ground training (LCL), remedial ground train-
     ing (GT-3/R-1), and cockpit procedural training (CPT). All of these ground training events require a
     19 AF Form 15 entry. Comply with the following instructions when documenting aircrew member
     training on the 19 AF Form 15.
NOTE: If an individual completes their academic upgrade training at Kirtland, units are authorized to use
the training folder provided by the schoolhouse. Unit DOTs must ensure all ground training requisites
have been completed.
        A2.1.8.1. Name. Enter student’s rank and last name.
        A2.1.8.2. Date. Self-explanatory.
        A2.1.8.3. Training Period. Enter the ground/academic training period identifier from either the
        course flow or prerequisite sheets in the Tng block. For remedial ground training, enter the respec-
        tive designator (i.e. GT-3/R-1, 11/SYS-9/R-1, 11/MSN-10/A/R-1, etc.).
        A2.1.8.4. Grade. Instructors will annotate an overall grade for each ground/academic training
        period.
            A2.1.8.4.1. Complete (C). Enter “C” if training is completed.
            A2.1.8.4.2. Incomplete (I). Enter “I” and the reason, when an additional training period is
            required to accomplish the lost training events originally scheduled for that training period.
            Use the following reasons for incompletion: “I-MX” for a maintenance abort or delay, “I-WX”
            for weather abort or delay, “I-OPS” for an operations abort or delay, or “I-OTH” for other rea-
            sons that the instructor will explain in his comments. All incomplete entries will be fully
            explained on the AETC Form 73.
                A2.1.8.4.2.1. To clear an incomplete academic/ground training period, the remaining por-
                tion will be accomplished during a subsequent academic/ground training period. If the
                incomplete academic/ground training period is a prerequisite for the subsequent academic/
                ground training period, the incomplete job element(s) must be completed prior to starting
                the subsequent academic/ground training period.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       55


       A2.1.8.5. Instructor/Trainer (Qual). Enter the name of the instructor/evaluator and their aircrew
       qualification (i.e. IP, IAP, IG, EF, etc).
       A2.1.8.6. Training Time. Self-explanatory. Do not include time normally associated with preb-
       riefing and debriefing training missions.
   A2.1.9. 19 AF Form 15, Aircrew Training Record - Flying Training Summary. T h i s s e c t i o n
   provides a chronological record of flying training events. Record flight-training events on training
   sorties and operational missions. All events scheduled will be logged, even if canceled by external
   factors (WX, MX, etc.). Indoctrination or orientation flights not part of the upgrade/certification do
   not require an entry in the training folder.
NOTE: Entries on the 19 AF Form 15, Aircrew Training Record – Flying Training Summary, will
also have an accompanying entry on the AETC Form 73.
       A2.1.9.1. Date. Self-explanatory.
       A2.1.9.2. Training Period. Enter the numbered flight training period designators; (i.e. AC-2,
       AI-3, EV-1, etc.). When units use formal school courseware, enter the lesson designators. Flights
       accomplished simultaneously will not be entered together on one line, but will be entered on two
       separate lines with the training times divided appropriately.
          A2.1.9.2.1. Extra (X) Sorties. Flying performed without accomplishing job elements, for
          example, an upgrading pilot returns from a TDY, DNIF, or leave etc. and the unit CC or DO
          recommends an extra (X) sortie to regain proficiency (i.e. DT-2/X-1, C-1/X-1). X-sorties are
          not to be used to complete deficient items or to avoid an unsatisfactory grade after receiving a
          “T” grade on a previous sortie. Enter “X” in the “Grade” column of 19 AF Form 15 for all
          X-sorties that are ungraded.
          A2.1.9.2.2. Remedial (R) Sorties. Remedial training required to improve a student's perfor-
          mance following an Unsatisfactory (U) grade, to include ground training, flight training, or
          flight evaluations. If two flights are prescribed, the first remedial training flight will not be
          graded, but an entry is required on AETC Form 73. If both remedial training flights are uti-
          lized, enter “X” in the training folder on the 19 AF Form 15 for the first flight and continue
          with the second remedial flight. An overall grade will be assigned for the second flight on the
          19 AF Form 15. As a minimum, all unsatisfactory job elements must be graded satisfactorily
          to complete the remedial sortie.
NOTE: Remedial training will be numbered the same as the deficient academic or flying lesson, fol-
lowed by an “R” and the number of the remedial training session. (Example: GT-3/R-1, C-4/R-2, EV-2/
R-1, etc).
       A2.1.9.3. Grade. Instructors or evaluators will compute an overall grade for each ride (instruc-
       tional or evaluation). Flight evaluation results will be annotated as Q-1, Q-2, or Q-3.
          A2.1.9.3.1. Satisfactory (S). If the student’s achieved performance/knowledge level meets or
          exceeds the listed RPL, for all tasks, the overall grade will be satisfactory (S). The student
          advances to the next programmed lesson or training period.
          A2.1.9.3.2. Training Required (T). If the student falls below the listed RPL for one or more
          job elements, the overall grade will be training required (T). If the job element was not graded
          below standards the last time it was graded and additional training periods remain in this phase
56                                                           AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


           of training that include this job element, then the student advances to the next programmed les-
           son or training period. If there are no additional training periods remaining that include this job
           element, then the grade will be unsatisfactory (U).
           A2.1.9.3.3. Unsatisfactory (U). If the student falls below the listed RPL on the same job ele-
           ment/task for two consecutive training periods, or falls below the listed RPL on any job ele-
           ment and no training periods remain prior to an evaluation, or if dangerous tendencies are
           noted, the overall grade will be unsatisfactory (U). The student requires a progress review
           from the unit commander or operations officer before scheduling any additional training.
           Refer to Section A2D for progress review guidance.

NOTES:
Instructors will notify the unit commander or operations officer of all “T” and “U” grades. Instructors will
annotate notification of the commander/operations officer in their comments on AETC Form 73.
The unit commander or operations officer will review all T and U grades carefully and identify students
who need special assistance or additional training. The unit commander or operations officer will deter-
mine whether a student receiving an unsatisfactory grade will be scheduled for additional academic train-
ing before another instructional ride. The unit commander or operations officer will annotate their actions
with an entry on the AETC Form 73.
           A2.1.9.3.4. Incomplete (I). The overall grade will be an incomplete (I) if any of the following
           conditions are met: (1) The student is not graded on all lesson job elements. (2) The student
           has not previously attained the RPL of the missed job element(s) and the RPL changes to a
           higher level on the next training period. (3) The student was graded “I” on the previous train-
           ing period and the missed job element(s) could not be accomplished during the current training
           period.
           A2.1.9.3.5. If the incomplete sortie is a prerequisite for the subsequent flight period, the
           incomplete job element(s) must be completed prior to starting the subsequent flight period. To
           clear an incomplete sortie, the missing job elements will be made up on subsequent flight peri-
           ods, if possible; otherwise, the lesson will be reflown covering the item(s) not previously
           graded. The training period remains incomplete until accomplishment of the job element(s) on
           a subsequent flight period.

NOTES:
The sortie may be graded complete if the RPL was previously achieved or if the RPL can be achieved on
a subsequent sortie where the RPL has not increased. The missed job element must be accomplished prior
to its RPL increase.
If “I” is used, it will be followed by the reason: “I-MX” for a maintenance abort or delay, “I-OPS” for an
operations abort or delay, “I-SYM” for a sympathetic abort or delay, “I-WX” for weather abort or delay,
“I-IN” for student requirements being incompatible with the sortie being flown, or “I-OTH” for other rea-
sons that the instructor will explain in his comments. All incomplete entries will be fully explained on the
AETC Form 73.
           A2.1.9.3.6. Proficiency Advancement (P). Students may be advanced on a proficiency basis if
           the end of phase RPL is attained early in that phase, upon recommendation of the instructor,
           and with the concurrence of the unit commander or operations officer. The student advances to
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                      57


        a later programmed lesson or training period at the discretion of the CC/DO. Document profi-
        ciency advancement as follows:
            A2.1.9.3.6.1. Instructor makes recommendation on the AETC Form 73.
            A2.1.9.3.6.2. Concurring official lines through the lesson on the course flow sheet and
            draws a vertical line through the appropriate lesson on the 19 AF Form 14. The concurring
            official enters appropriate remarks on the AETC Form 73, and enters a "P" in the actual
            training profile column(s) of the 19 AF Form 14 and in the grade block of the 19 AF Form
            15.
            A2.1.9.3.6.3. The student will initial above the concurring official's signature on the
            AETC Form 73 to indicate acknowledgment of their proficiency advancement.
            A2.1.9.3.6.4. The concurring official notifies the unit scheduler of the proficiency
            advancement.
        A2.1.9.3.7. Exceptional (E). If the student met or exceeded all RPLs and events in an excep-
        tional manner and in the judgment of the instructor or evaluator, the student performed in an
        exceptional manner; the overall grade will be exceptional (E). Consider proficiency advance-
        ment, if warranted.
        A2.1.9.3.8. Not Graded (X). This grade will be used on all X sorties. This grade also may be
        used on R sorties.
     A2.1.9.4. Instructor/Trainer (Qual). Enter the last name of the instructor or trainer and their high-
     est aircrew qualification (i.e. IF, IP, EF, EP, etc).
     A2.1.9.5. Training Time. Enter the actual training profile flight time from the 19 AF Form 14 in
     the top half of the block. Enter the student’s cumulative training profile flight time in the lower
     half of the training time block.
     A2.1.9.6. Mission Time. Enter the total mission (sortie) flight time for that training profile in the
     top half of the mission time block. Enter cumulative mission (sortie) flight time in the bottom half
     of the block.
     A2.1.9.7. Written Evaluations. Record data on written examinations required by the training pro-
     gram. Record AFI 11-202 Vol. 2 written examinations required by the training program. Do not
     enter EPE or BOLDFACE evaluations that were completed during the upgrade training.
        A2.1.9.7.1. Date. Enter date the written examination was completed.
        A2.1.9.7.2. Type. Enter AFI 11-202 Vol. 2 description or other appropriate identifier.
        A2.1.9.7.3. Grade. Make entries in accordance with AFI 11-202 Vol. 2 (i.e. 98%).
     A2.1.9.8. Performance Evaluation Summary. Include only flying evaluations. Record data on
     required evaluations (QUAL, INIT MSN, INIT INSTR, etc.) including final evaluation and
     reevaluation (if applicable).
        A2.1.9.8.1. Recom Date. Enter date recommended for a performance evaluation (QUAL,
        INIT MSN, INIT INSTR, etc.). Combined evaluations (i.e. QUAL/INSTM require only one
        recommendation).
58                                                            AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


NOTE: The instructor that recommends a student for an evaluation normally does not administer the
evaluation.
            A2.1.9.8.2. Type Evaluation. Enter AFI 11-202 Vol. 2 evaluation description or other appro-
            priate identifier.
            A2.1.9.8.3. Instructor/Trainer (Qual). Enter the last name of the instructor or trainer and their
            highest aircrew qualification.
         A2.1.9.9. Operations Review. This review is required after the recommendation for a flight eval-
         uation. It must be conducted prior to the flight evaluation. The operations officer or his designated
         representative will review the applicable phase of training to ensure that all flight and ground
         training requisites have been accomplished to the appropriate RPL. The reviewer initials in the
         “Operations Review” block of the 19 AF Form 15 to denote completion. The reviewer will also
         make an entry of “OPS Review” in the training period block of the AETC Form 73 with accompa-
         nying comments in the profile/strengths/weaknesses/ recommendations block.
         A2.1.9.10. Eval Date. Enter the date the evaluation was completed.
            A2.1.9.10.1. Evaluator. Enter the last name of the evaluator.
            A2.1.9.10.2. Grade. Flight evaluation results will be annotated as Q-1, Q-2, or Q-3.

Section A2B—GRADING STANDARDS AND CODES.

A2.2. Course Training Standards. This section explains course grading standards and training codes.
Course training standards describe the minimum overall performance levels required to progress and
graduate from a course. Each syllabus lists the course training standards and RPLs that students must
achieve for each sortie before progressing to subsequent training.
     A2.2.1. Grading Criteria. Instructors will determine both individual mission element grades and the
     overall mission grade by assessing the student’s performance against the RPLs.
     A2.2.2. Task Performance.


Code        Performance is:          Definition
                                     Individual
     1        Extremely Limited      Can do most activities only after being told or shown how
                                     Can do most of the behaviors in an activity, but not necessarily
     2        Partially Proficient
                                     to the desired levels of speed, accuracy and safety.
                                     Can do the behavior in an activity at the minimum acceptable
     3             Competent
                                     levels of speed, accuracy and safety.
                                     Can do all behaviors in an activity at the highest level of speed,
     4         Highly Proficient
                                     accuracy and safety.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       59


   A2.2.3. Task Knowledge.


Code      Knowledge of:          Definition
                                 Individual
                                 Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject or when
    A       Facts/Nomenclature used with a performance code, can state nomenclature, simple
                                 facts, or procedures involved in an activity.
                                 Can explain relationship of basic facts and state general
    B      Principles/Procedures principles about the subject or when used with a performance
                                 code, can determine step-by-step procedures for set activities.
                                 Can analyze facts and principles and draw procedures
                                 conclusions about the subject or when used with a performance
    C       Analysis/Operating
                                 code, can describe why and when each activity must be done and
                                 tell others how to accomplish activities.
                                 Can evaluate conditions and create new rules or concepts about
           Evaluation/ Complete the subject or when used with a performance code, can inspect,
    D
                  Theory         weigh, and design solutions related to theory involved with
                                 activities.

Section A2C—GENERAL REMEDIAL PROCEDURES.

A2.3. This section outlines progress review and remedial training procedures.
   A2.3.1. Instructor Requirements. When a crewmember/OSF in training receives a “U” grade on any
   ground/flight training, receives a Q-3 on a flight evaluation, fails a required examination, or fails to
   satisfactorily clear a Q-2 flight evaluation, they will receive a Progress Review. The instructor or
   flight examiner will document the deficiency on the AETC Form 73 using the Profile/Strengths/
   Weaknesses/Recommendations format. The instructor or flight examiner will recommend that the stu-
   dent receives remedial training sessions/flights as needed to improve deficient areas IAW the Com-
   manders Review Process, Figure A2.1. and also recommends that the student is entered into
   “Marginal Status.” The instructor or flight examiner will immediately notify the unit commander and/
   or operations officer of their recommendations.
   A2.3.2. Progress Review. The unit operations officer will conduct the Progress Review. A Progress
   Review is a detailed assessment of an aircrew member/OSF’s training progress. It is used to determine
   the effectiveness of training and the individual’s ability and desire to attain the RPLs prior to being
   entered into “Marginal Training Status” or a second-level progress review. The operations officer will
   meet with the student and instructor to review the student’s progress. The operations officer will brief
   the student on their status using Figure A2.1.. The operations officer will counsel the individual and
   document counseling on AETC Form 73. The operations officer will annotate the following remarks:
   Profile: Incomplete. Marginal Training Status, followed by appropriate comments and recommenda-
   tions or concurrence/non-concurrence with instructor’s recommendations using the profile/strengths/
   weaknesses/recommendations format. The entry will include a statement of failure (include relevant
   conditions), associated problems, and additional training recommendations. “Progress Review” will
   be annotated in the “TNG PROFILE” block of the AETC Form 73. The operations officer will advise
60                                                           AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


     the unit commander of his/her recommendations. For individuals attached to the flying unit, the oper-
     ations officer will inform the student’s supervisor of the student’s placement on marginal training sta-
     tus. The operations officer will direct all follow-on actions and document them on the AETC Form 73.
        A2.3.2.1. Unit commanders or operations officers may document formal counseling of students
        for other than academic or flying deficiency on AF Form 174, Record of Individual Counseling.
        The counselor should maintain a copy of the completed AF Form 174. A copy will also be given
        to the individual and the unit commander.
     A2.3.3. Remedial Training. This is additional training given after a student fails a measurement or
     does not attain an RPL. The instructor recommends type and amount of training IAW Figure
     A2.1.The unit commander or operations officer, as appropriate, must approve recommendations. This
     remedial training will be completed and the student removed from “Marginal Training Status” prior to
     changing phases or proceeding in the course. If the student is placed in “Marginal Training Status”
     due to failure of an evaluation flight, he/she will not be removed from “Marginal Training Status”
     until the evaluation flight is completed in a satisfactory manner. The unit commander or operations
     officer will remove the student from “Marginal Training Status”. The unit commander or operations
     officer will make an entry on the AETC Form 73 indicating that the individual has been removed from
     “Marginal Training Status” along with further recommended actions (if applicable).
        A2.3.3.1. Academic. Additional training required to help the student attain an RPL will be docu-
        mented on the AETC Form 73 to include the amount of time involved. The operations officer will
        determine maximum remedial academic training. If the student fails to meet the required RPL
        after receiving and completing remedial training, a Second Level Progress Review will be con-
        ducted.
        A2.3.3.2. Flying. Remedial training required to improve a student's performance following an
        Unsatisfactory (U) grade, to include ground training, will be documented on the AETC Form 73.
        Academic training will be accomplished prior to remedial training flights. The following proce-
        dures apply to remedial training flights:
            A2.3.3.2.1. The unit commander or operations officer will coordinate with the unit scheduler
            and unit instructors to give the student the highest priority possible commensurate with other
            unit mission requirements.
            A2.3.3.2.2. Unit commanders may authorize up to a maximum of two remedial training
            flights for any specific student deficiency.
            A2.3.3.2.3. Remedial training flights will satisfy the original training requirement if the stu-
            dent's performance is satisfactory. All remedial training flights will be annotated (AI-3/R-1,
            AI-3/R-2, NC-4/R-1, NC-4/R-2, etc.) at the top of the first unnumbered column on the 19 AF
            Form 14 along with the appropriate flight time and RPLs. If two flights are prescribed, the first
            remedial training flight will not be graded and an entry is required on the AETC Form 73.
            Enter the remedial training flight designation, and the grade of “X” on the 19 AF Form 15 and
            continue with the second remedial flight. The second remedial flight is graded using the fol-
            lowing procedures: All documentation is the same as the first remedial training flight except
            that an actual grade of E, S, I, or U will be entered on the 19 AF Form 15. All maneuvers
            accomplished on a remedial training flight will be graded on the 19 AF Form 14 with an
            appropriate RPL.
            A2.3.3.2.4. Consider using the same instructor for both remedial training flights.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                                       61


   A2.3.4. Second-Level Progress Review (SLPR). A Second-Level Progress Review (Section A2D)
   is a detailed assessment by the unit commander of a student's training progress to ensure that training
   provided has been effective and that the student has the desire and ability to attain the RPLs. A sec-
   ond-level progress review may result in the recommendation for a Progress Review Committee (PRC)
   action for CEAs or a Flying Evaluation Board (FEB) for officers. Document results or actions of
   SLPR on the AETC Form 73. “Second Level Progress Review” will be annotated in the “TNG PRO-
   FILE” block of the AETC Form 73.
   A2.3.5. Student Disenrollment or Elimination. Student disenrollment or elimination from a flying
   course will be accomplished IAW AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Rat-
   ings and Badges, and this instruction. The unit commander is responsible for ensuring that all training,
   evaluation, and counseling records have been properly prepared. The unit commander is responsible
   for disenrollment or elimination proceedings. Notify the appropriate MAJCOM through the appropri-
   ate numbered Air Force prior to any student being disenrolled or eliminated.
       A2.3.5.1. Rated officers recommended for elimination by a Second-Level Progress Review for a
       training deficiency will be called before an FEB IAW AFI 11-402 and this instruction.
       A2.3.5.2. Enlisted personnel, enrolled in a flying course, recommended for elimination by a PRC
       for a training deficiency will be disenrolled or eliminated IAW AFI 11-402 and this instruction.
       Refer to Section A2D for PRC procedures.
       A2.3.5.3. A student may be administratively disenrolled for reasons specified in the ETCA or for
       failure to maintain medical qualification. Document administrative actions on AETC Form 73.
       Eliminated or disenrolled students will complete a course Graduation/Evaluation report.
       A2.3.5.4. The Commander’s Review Process (Figure A2.1.) explains the procedures to be fol-
       lowed to determine the student's status and classification for training/evaluation deficiencies.

Section A2D—PROGRESS REVIEW AND PROGRESS REVIEW COMMITTEE PROCEDURES.

A2.4. This section outlines progress review administrative procedures for students making less than sat-
isfactory progress in training.
   A2.4.1. A Progress Review will be conducted by the unit operations officer when a student:
       A2.4.1.1. Fails to attain a satisfactory grade on:
           A2.4.1.1.1. An End-of-Phase (EOP) examination.
           A2.4.1.1.2. An End-of-Block (EOB) examination.
           A2.4.1.1.3. An End-of-Course (EOC) examination.
           A2.4.1.1.4. An academic examination.
           A2.4.1.1.5. A flying evaluation.
       A2.4.1.2. Receives an unsatisfactory grade on two consecutive or non-consecutive flying training
       lessons.
       A2.4.1.3. Fails to meet all RPLs on last flight prior to an evaluation.
       A2.4.1.4. Falls below the RPL on a job element and the same job element RPL was not met on the
       last flight on which it was graded.
62                                                          AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


        A2.4.1.5. If dangerous tendencies are noted on a training flight.
        A2.4.1.6. If entered into “Marginal Training Status”.
     A2.4.2. Progress Review Procedures.
        A2.4.2.1. The operations officer will:
           A2.4.2.1.1. Meet with the instructor or examiner and student involved and review the stu-
           dent's progress.
NOTE: Other personnel may be included at the discretion of the unit commander.
           A2.4.2.1.2. Brief the student’s status using the Commander’s Review Process (Figure A2.1.).
           A2.4.2.1.3. Document observations and recommendations on the AETC Form 73.
           A2.4.2.1.4. Advise the unit commander of recommendations, as appropriate.
        A2.4.2.2. A Second-Level Progress Review will be conducted by the unit commander when a stu-
        dent:
           A2.4.2.2.1. Continues to make unsatisfactory progress.
           A2.4.2.2.2. Is placed into “Marginal Training Status” for the second time in a phase of
           instruction.
NOTE: An evaluation is always considered to be its own phase.
           A2.4.2.2.3. Fails a final remedial flying training lesson.
           A2.4.2.2.4. Fails a flight evaluation for the second time.
           A2.4.2.2.5. Fails remedial academic training.
           A2.4.2.2.6. Fails an examination for the second time.
        A2.4.2.3. Second-Level Progress Review Procedures.
           A2.4.2.3.1. The unit commander will:
               A2.4.2.3.1.1. Meet with the operations officer, instructor or examiner, and student
               involved to review the student's progress.
NOTE: Other personnel may be included at the discretion of the unit commander.
               A2.4.2.3.1.2. Brief the student’s status using the Commander’s Review Process (Figure
               A2.1.).
               A2.4.2.3.1.3. Document observations and recommendations on the AETC Form 73.
               A2.4.2.3.1.4. Notify the Wing/OG CCs.
               A2.4.2.3.1.5. Notify the appropriate Numbered Air Force and MAJCOM.
        A2.4.2.4. Progress Review Committee. A Progress Review Committee (PRC) is a formal review
        and evaluation of an enlisted student's progress. Conditions which constitute a PRC:
           A2.4.2.4.1. Fails a third time to attain a satisfactory grade on:
               A2.4.2.4.1.1. An End-of-Phase (EOP) examination.
AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006                                                             63


            A2.4.2.4.1.2. An End-of-Course (EOC) examination.
            A2.4.2.4.1.3. A practical exercise examination.
            A2.4.2.4.1.4. An academic examination.
            A2.4.2.4.1.5. Remedial academic training.
        A2.4.2.4.2. Fails a final remedial flying training lesson for the third time.
        A2.4.2.4.3. Fails a flying evaluation for the third time.
        A2.4.2.4.4. Is recommended for elimination as a result of progress review action.
        A2.4.2.4.5. Continues to make unsatisfactory progress.
     A2.4.2.5. Upon the decision to recommend elimination, refer to AFI 11-401 and AFI 11-402 for
     applicable FEB or PRC procedures.
64                                        AFI11-2UH-1NV1_AMC_I 27 JULY 2006


Figure A2.1. Commander's Review Process
