BY ORDER OF THE CHIEF,                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-212, VOLUME 1
NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU
                                                                                 AIR NATIONAL GUARD
                                                                                          Supplement 1
                                                                                           15 MARCH 2005

                                                                   Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                               RANGE PLANNING AND OPERATIONS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: ANG/C4 (Mr. G. Bollen)                            Certified by: ANGRC/CV (Lt Col S. Wassermann)
                                                                                            Pages: 13
                                                                                       Distribution: F

Air Force Instruction (AFI) 13-212, Volume 1, Range Planning and Operations, 7 August 2001, is sup-
plemented as follows. This publication is applicable to all Air National Guard (ANG) Ranges.
1.1. Purpose. This supplement further defines ANG specific requirements and responsibilities to manage
ANG ranges in addition to guidance in AFI 13-212, Volumes I, II, and III. All ANG ranges have signifi-
cant land mass constraints and/or operational limitations. Due to these limitations, a high level of opera-
tional oversight, command and control is required to protect these national training assets.
1.2.1. ANG ranges are defined as either Primary Training Range (PTR) or Intermediate Training Ranges
(ITR) and provide service Class "A" capabilities. An ITR may also be referred to as a Combat Training
Center (CTC) Range. In the ANG, an ITR is often associated with a Combat Readiness Training Center.
The 266 Range Control Squadron (RANS) is an Electronic Combat Range (ECR).
1.2.2. ITR ranges will be equipped to operate at a higher level of tactical training (threats, etc.) than typ-
ical PTRs in order to accommodate larger scale deployments, Large Force Exercises (LFEs) not normally
available for Home Station Training.
1.3. Operations and Range Classifications. The Range Operating Agency (ROA) will normally be the
parent Wing, Combat Readiness Training Center (CRTC) or State Headquarters. ROA responsibilities
may be delegated no lower than the Range Commander.
2                                                       AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005


Table 1.1. (Added) ANG Ranges
              Primary Training Range or                    Range Operating Agency
             Intermediate Training Range
       Adirondack Range – ITR                      174FW Syracuse, NY
       Airburst Range – PTR                        140 FW Denver, CO
       Atterbury Range – PTR                       HQ IN ANG Indianapolis, IN
       Bollen Range – PTR                          193 SOW Middletown, PA
       Cannon Range – PTR                          131FW St. Louis, MO
       Grayling Range - ITR                        Alpena CRTC, MI
       Hardwood Range - ITR                        Volk Field CRTC, WI
       Jefferson Range - PTR                       HQ IN ANG Indianapolis, IN
       McMullen Range - PTR                        149 FW Lackland AFB, TX
       Razorback Range - PTR                       188 FW Ft. Smith, AR
       Shelby Range - ITR                          Gulfport CRTC, MS
       Smokey Hill - ITR                           184 ARW Wichita KS
       Townsend Range - ITR                        Savannah CRTC, GA
       Warren Grove Range - PTR                    177 FW Atlantic City, NJ
       266th RANS - ECR                            366 OSS, ID

1.3.1. ANG Ranges will be equipped and RCOs will be trained to act as Ground Forward Air Controllers
for CAS Training missions. RCOs will provide CAS input as well as laser illuminator and designator
wing weapons and tactics directive and in compliance with Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for
CSA, Joint Pub 3-09.3. ANG ranges will provide SSS and electronic threats as required by mission train-
ing requirements.
1.3.5. All ANG weapons ranges normally support the requirements of local ANG units and are available
for use by other United States (US) Military services. Due to relatively small landmass and proximity to
adjacent cultural areas, class B or C operations are not authorized on any ANG Range during weapons
employment operations or laser (emitting eye and/or skin hazards) operations.
1.4.2.1. The ROA will coordinate with Base Civil Engineering (BCE) for Title 40, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, Part 260, Military Munitions Rule. The ROA will coordinate with the BCE for UXO clearance.
If ANG support is required for UXO clearance, coordination through BCE and ANG, Airspace, Ranges
and Combat Readiness Training Division (ANG/C4R) is required.
1.5. Modernization Planning. The ANG Range Master Plan will be maintained and updated by ANG/
C4R.
1.5.1. (Added) The ROA for ANG PTRs, ITRs and ECRs will develop and maintain a Comprehensive
Range Plan.
1.6.4. Exemption or Waiver Coordination and Approval Requests will be forwarded through ANG/C4R
to HQ USAF/XOO-RA.
AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005                                                                         3


1.7. Volume Changes. Recommendations for changes to AFI 13-212 will be forwarded to HQ USAF/
XOO-RA by ANG/C4R
2.1.1. (Added) The ANG/C4R is designated the Functional Manager for ANG PTRs, ITRs and ECRs.
The ANG Range Council will act as an advisory committee to ANG/C4R. (See Attachment 4 (Added),
for Council Charter.)
2.7.5.1. ANG Range Local Supplements will establish procedures for complying with SAFE-RANGE.
ANG and Local Range Supplements to AFI 13-212, Volumes I-III, as well as local Range flight operation,
flying and ground safety procedure manuals will be located in the main tower facility.
2.7.7. The type of target selected or target construction will be based on target suitability and projected
life cycle cost. The following factors will be considered when selecting the type of target and construc-
tion; Level of target fidelity required to satisfy aircrew training requirements; Type training event(s) and
ordinance(s) the target will be used for; Target location and accessibility for replacement or maintenance;
Target material suitability and potential recycling opportunity. NOTE: Using the above criteria will assist
the range manager in selecting the appropriate target for a given event/scenario. For example; A soft tar-
get, Joint Modular Ground Target (JMGT) may be more appropriate for a given training/exercise event
due to the level of activity or target fidelity required. In other cases, such as for 30mm strafe it may be
more advantageous to use a durable hard target (main battle tank) to reduce the frequency of target
replacement. The final target determination should consider which target satisfies the training require-
ment and is the most cost effective.
2.7.10. RCOs for ANG ranges must be a Rated Officer with a minimum of 500 hours experience in a tac-
tical aircraft and experience in ordinance delivery on a tactical range. RCOs will be qualified as a Drop
Zone Safety Officer if the range has a certified Drop Zone. Waivers to these qualifications will be
requested through ANG/C4R. RCOs assigned to ANG Ranges are encouraged to maintain currency in
tactical aircraft.
2.7.10.1. (Added) RCO Currency. To maintain Range currency, each RCO must:
2.7.10.1.1. (Added) Complete initial qualification/certification training IAW this instruction and local
checkout procedures.
2.7.10.1.2. (Added) Perform RCO duty at least once every 365 days.
2.7.10.1.3. (Added) RCO Re-currency. If an RCO becomes non-current The Range commander, Range
Operations Officer or current RCO delegated by the range commander may re-certify the RCO by observ-
ing him/her in the performance of all RCO duties. After 365 days of non-currency the RCO must com-
plete the entire check out program.
2.7.10.1.4. (Added) The RCO/enlisted duty day should not exceed 12 hours. Duty days in excess of 12
hours require notification of the next higher level of authority. The ROA should establish local require-
ments for crew rest to ensure crew safety and safe conduct of range operations.
2.7.12. For the ANG, RTOs must be a rated officer with a minimum of 500 hours in tactical aircraft or
have Air Battle Manager/Weapons Director experience. Waivers to these qualifications will be requested
through ANG/C4R. RTOs assigned to ANG ACTS Ranges are encouraged to maintain weapon system
currency.
3.7. Inputs to the Unit Comprehensive Range Plan. ANG Range Comprehensive Range Plans will be
updated and archived annually for an indefinite period of time.
4                                                      AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005


3.7.3. ANG Ranges will coordinate environmental actions with the BCE.
3.7.6. ANG Range Decontamination Plans will be validated and approved by ANG/C4R.
3.8. (Added) Investment/Enabling Area Chart. Table 3.1. (Added), lists the ten-investment/enabling
areas for use in range sustainment, modernization and improvement plans. (Note: these investment/
enabling areas are closely related and often have complementary interests and requirements.)

Table 3.1. (Added) Ten-Investment/Enabling Areas for use in Range Sustainment, Modernization
and Improvement Plans.
      INVESTMENT /                 DESCRIPTION AND NOTES
      ENABLING AREA
      LAND                         Covers land lease/purchase and associated costs related to
                                   meeting mission needs while trying to accommodate competing
                                   land uses. Related issues involve range location, distance from
                                   user airfields, sufficient surface area, and the attributes of
                                   designated airspace that allows effective use of the land.
      AIRSPACE                     Covers actions taken designating and reserving airspace.
                                   Considerations include proximity to user airfields, airspace
                                   volume, its attributes and the amount of time it is needed/
                                   available. Other considerations include the land underneath and
                                   the airspace’s interrelation with the National Airspace System
                                   (NAS).
      ENVIRONMENTAL                Includes range sustainability and stewardship of natural and
                                   cultural resources to include public/tribal outreach efforts that
                                   promote a dialogue between the Air Force (AF) and local
                                   communities. Also considered are mandates such as the Sikes,
                                   Clean Air, and Endangered Species Acts, and working the EIAP.
                                   Additionally, this area may include monitoring environmental
                                   effects of operations and establishing mitigation measures.
      UNEXPLODED                   Covers removal of AEDA and other range residue on active and
      ORDNANCE/ RANGE              inactive ranges. Also included are efforts to reduce levels of
      RESIDUE                      residue and enhance clearance practices (e.g., hollow bomb
                                   initiative, plastic training ordnance, UXO detection, processing
                                   technologies, etc.).
      PHYSICAL PLANT               This involves infrastructure requirements primarily dealing with
                                   Civil Engineering and includes the construction, upgrade and
                                   maintenance of facilities, the repair and improvements of roads
                                   and utilities, and other recurring physical structure maintenance.
      SCORING AND                  This area includes Air-to-Surface scoring systems, air combat
      FEEDBACK SYSTEMS             mission record and replay capabilities, and ECM analysis
                                   systems for feedback on Electronic Combat Ranges.
AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005                                                                      5


       INVESTMENT /                  DESCRIPTION AND NOTES
       ENABLING AREA
       COMMUNICATION                 Includes Ground-Air and point-to-point systems and support on
       SYSTEMS                       the ranges and communications backbones such as microwave
                                     and fiber systems. Also covered are information protection
                                     requirements (such as encryption) and radio, data link, and
                                     instrumentation frequency management.
       INTEGRATED AIR      This area covers types and quantities of Electronic Combat
       DEFENSE/COUNTER AIR training equipment, Information Warfare and Information
       DEFENSE SYSTEMS     Operations assets, Space Warfare and Low Observable
                           resources, and the use of expendables (chaff and flares) and
                           towed decoys.
       TARGETS AND TARGET            Includes the types and quantity of ground targets such as
       ARRAYS                        conventional, strafe, urban warfare, and other target
                                     configurations.
       MANAGEMENT                    Represents overarching systemic or institutional work and
                                     generally covers procedures and administration. This area
                                     includes such activities as programming and supervision as well
                                     as scheduling issues, the modernization planning process, and
                                     reducing duplication of effort among the ranges.
3.9. (Added) Range Financial Planning Reporting Requirements. ANG Ranges will submit copies of
Fin Plans and spending reports annually to ANG/C4R.
4.1. Range Operations. RCOs must be familiar with Joint Publication (JP) 3-09, Doctrine for Joint Fire
Support, JP 3-09.1, Joint Laser Designation, and JP 3-09.3 to ensure range procedures are compatible and
consistent with appropriate operational doctrine.
4.1.1. ANG ranges will support day and night operational requirements.
4.1.2. Memorandums of Understanding, Host-Tenant Support Agreements and other formal agreements
between ANG Units and other MAJCOMs/Services concerning range use will be forwarded to ANG/C4R
for review.
4.1.2.5. HTSA will be archived indefinitely.
4.1.4.1. If the RCO cannot positively determine that aircraft parameters exist for safe ordnance release,
the RCO may delegate release authority to the flight lead, individual pilot, or FAC by declaring, "Autho-
rized flight lead/FAC control". In cases where the RCO delegates release authority, the RCO retains
authority to abort the pass or to take back clearance control at any time. At all times the RCO maintains
overriding munitions release and abort authority on the range.
4.1.4.1.1. The Night Vision Goggle computer based training (CBT) program will be successfully com-
pleted by all ANG Range personnel prior to use of NVDs and will be reviewed annually. This program is
available through ANG/C4R.
4.1.4.1.2. (Added) ANG target lighting will be a steady (not flashing, strobe, etc.) style light. Manned
sights will be marked with flashing or strobe lights. Range boundaries, if marked, will also be marked
with flashing or strobe lights.
6                                                           AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005


4.1.5.3.2. (Added) An Laser Safety Officer (LSO) will be present during any operation/mission employ-
ing lasers (emitting ocular and/or skin hazard) or IR pointers.
4.1.5.4. ANG ranges will not allow use of a single source pointer/marker/laser as the sole method to iden-
tify or mark targets.
4.1.6.1.2. Range Control Officers will monitor guard frequencies and will transmit on UHF/VHF guard
frequencies as appropriate.
4.1.6.1.2.1. (Added) The RCO will ensure that all air-to-ground and ground-to-air communications
recorders are working properly. Each recording will contain the range name, date, and time. Recordings
containing records of any range incident will be kept and secured until released by the investigating
agency.
4.1.6.1.2.2. (Added) All aircraft utilizing the range will monitor UHF Guard frequency.
4.1.6.1.2.3. (Added) Aircraft using UHF, VHF or Fm radios on the range will be on range assigned UHF/
VHF or FM frequencies.
4.1.7. ANG Ranges support both day and night operations.
4.1.7.2. Some Ranges, which are geographically separated from their host unit, must complete range
vehicle and equipment maintenance functions.
4.1.7.3. All ranges will maintain emergency generators sufficient to operate all utilities required for flight
operations in the event of commercial power outage.
4.3.1. Applies to all ANG Weapons Ranges.
4.3.3. SAFE-RANGE. All ANG Ranges will comply with SAFE-RANGE.
4.3.8. DU and Cluster Bomb Units (CBU) are not authorized for use on any ANG range.
4.3.9. Also submit an AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 813, Request for Environmental Impact
Analysis.
4.3.11. ANG ranges will develop and publish local armament safety procedures in their local supplement
to AFI 13-212, Volumes I-III.
4.3.12. ANG ranges will develop and publish local emergency jettison procedures in their local supple-
ment to AFI 13-212, Volumes I-III.
4.3.14.4. The ROA will be the approving authority for resuming range operations following an aircraft
accident involving range operations.
5.1.3.1. ANG Ranges will provide basic through advanced electronic threats as required by units in
accordance with range capabilities.
5.1.4.1.1. (Added) All ANG range personnel who operate or maintain EC threat simulators and visual
cueing systems will be trained by a unit or contractor developed training program that includes the follow-
ing areas; initial orientation to mission, organization and safety, hands-on training with threat simulator,
radio and visual cueing devices, and refresher training as deemed necessary by the ROA.
5.2.1. ANG C4R is the validating agency for new or additional threat systems for ANG range inventory.
The originating ROA will validate the requirement by official letter to ANG C4R. The request must
AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005                                                                         7


include the number and type system required, mission requirements and confirmation of maintenance
facility, funding and personnel to adequately support the requested system.
5.2.2. ANG/C4R is the approval authority for deactivating or decommissioning any ANG electronic
threat asset. ANG/C4R will provide disposition instructions for all ANG electronic threat equipment.
5.2.4. ANG ITRs, PTRs, ACTS, and ECR will use ACC/DOR developed software to electronically report
utilization data for equipment tracked by ACC/DOR.
6.1. Reporting Requirements. ANG ranges will submit monthly utilization reports no later than ten
workdays following the reporting period IAW the format and procedures established by ANG/C4R. ANG
ITRs, PTRs, and ECR will use ACC/DOR developed software to electronically report utilization data for
equipment tracked by ACC DOR.
7.1. Range Maintenance. ROAs will submit exemptions IAW AFI 13-212, Volume I, Paragraph 1.6., to
the clearance criteria for areas that cannot be cleared due to accessibility or other conditions.
7.3. AEDA/Range Residue Clearance/Decontamination. Any use of explosives for ordnance safing/
disposal by UXO contractors, and other contractors will be permitted only after a Site Specific Safety
Plan (SSSP) is approved by ANG/C4R, Weapons Safety (ANG/SEW), and Civil Engineering Explosive
Ordinance Disposal (EOD) (ANG/CEXD). For the purposes of this instruction, the following definitions
for EOD/UXO technicians apply: (1) EOD refers to military EOD personnel of any branch of the US
Armed Forces. (2) UXO refers to those contracted personnel that are trained to handle/inspect explosive
ordnance. This plan will address all aspects of the explosive operations to be conducted to include the fol-
lowing:
7.3.1.10. ANG Ranges will not permit Cluster Munitions or DU munitions.

Table 7.1. (Added) Site Specific Safety Plan (SSSP) Items.
Item Topic
A.            Organization, Qualifications, and Responsibilities of Personnel Project Manager, UXO
              Site Safety and Health Officer, UXO QAE. NOTE: Any contracted UXO clearance or
              disposal work shall contain provisions for QAE surveillance visits by the government
              (e.g., military EOD, ACC/DOR representative, ROA personnel or Contracting Officer
              designated personnel). These surveillance visits will be performed at least once during
              each scheduled UXO range clearance operation. Additional surveillance visits will be
              accomplished depending on breadth and scope of contracted work performed.
              Surveillance reports will be forwarded to the Contracting Officer and copies provided
              to HQ ACC/DORI. Safety deficiencies noted by the EOD QAE will be immediately
              identified to the Project Site Manager and/or the UXO Site Safety and Health Officer.
B.            Site Description and Contamination Characterization.
C.            Hazard Analysis and Risk Assessment.
D.            Training (i.e., medical monitoring, site-specific training, hazard communication).
E.            Personal Protective Equipment.
F.            Medical Surveillance.
G.            Environmental and Personal Monitoring.
H.            Site Control (i.e., Access, Communication, Security).
8                                                          AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005


I.             Personnel and Equipment Decontamination.
J.             Hazardous Waste Management.
K.             Emergency Response and Contingency Procedures.
L.             Spill Containment.
M.             Heat/Cold Stress Monitoring.
N.             Logs, Reports, and Record Keeping.
7.4.7. (Added) Command Range Residue Removal (R3) Procedures. The ROA Resource Manager (RM)
will ensure that the ACC Four-Step Process for Range Residue Removal and Recycling is followed.
7.4.7.1. (Added) Step 1. All range residue to include target and ordnance residue will be checked by
EOD/UXO technicians and approved for handling prior to any processing.
7.4.7.2. (Added) Step 2. At the conclusion of each range clearance, a chain of custody will be established
for all residue inspected by EOD/UXO personnel. The residue will be secured in the Residue Holding
Area until released for processing.
7.4.7.3. (Added) Step 3. An independent third party EOD/UXO quality assurance evaluator will verify all
processed material and certify the load on a DD Form 1348-1, DoD Single Line Item Release/Receipt
Document, and the chain of custody document. Active duty and Active Reserve Component (ARC) EOD
personnel may perform QAE duties contingent upon availability. Requests for military EOD support
should be submitted at least 30 days prior to the start of operations through appropriate Headquarters
(HQ) EOD functional managers (ACC/AFRC/ANG) and base civil engineer commanders.
7.4.7.4. (Added) Step 4. If contracted, AF Quality Assurance Evaluators shall survey contractor perfor-
mance to verify compliance with all contract specifications and safety requirements. Additionally, all
material shall be secured and under chain of custody receipt until the material is directly consumed.
7.4.8. (Added) Residue Holding Areas (RHA). A RHA is a secured area with appropriate administrative/
physical controls that limit access. The RHA should be located outside the Weapons Safety Footprint
Area. All range residue material will be checked and approved for movement by qualified EOD/UXO
technicians prior to placement in the RHA. Residue in holding areas shall be segregated according to type
of residue. Segregation categories include (but are not limited to) full-scale practice munitions, sub-scale
practice munitions, light metal and commercial grade vehicles, armored vehicles, Smokey SAMs,
non-recyclable residue, radioactive components awaiting disposition by the base's Bioenvironmental
Flight, etc.
7.4.9. (Added) Radiological Sweep. Range residue will be swept by radiological equipment by appropri-
ately trained personnel. This survey includes aircraft components, dials, gauges, tank starting units, etc.,
to determine if radioactive components are present. If radioactive components are found, remove, segre-
gate, and package radioactive items for government pick-up and disposal. All residues shall be checked
for radioactivity before removal from range. Follow Nuclear Regulatory Guide 1.86, Termination of
Operating Licenses for Nuclear Reactors, Table 1. Be aware that level of radioactive activity allowed by
smelters and scrap yards is less than that allowed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
7.4.10. (Added) Range Residue Certification. Range residue will be checked to ensure that it is inert and/
or free of explosives by the Senior UXO supervisor, before any processing will occur. No site activity will
take place without the presence of qualified UXO personnel. The Senior UXO supervisor is responsible
for all contractor on-site range residue certification activities. The Senior UXO supervisor shall have at
AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005                                                                           9


least 15 years combined active duty military EOD, ANG EOD technician and contractor UXO experi-
ence, to include at least ten years in supervisory positions, and be a graduate of the US Navy EOD School.
A minimum of six years of the required 15 years experience shall be on active duty or an ANG EOD tech-
nician in military EOD units. This individual shall have documented experience with and/or specialized
training in the type of munitions/ordnance items expected while on each site. All proposed UXO person-
nel are subject to the approval of HQ ACC EOD Branch (ACC/CEXE). Contractors will provide list of
UXO personnel and their qualifications for approval at least 30 days prior to the start of each range oper-
ation.
7.4.11. (Added) Processing. Prior to commencing, work plans will be developed to address the work to
be performed, procedures, range schedule (for the overall project and for each range) and resources nec-
essary and relevant to the accomplishment of the project objectives. The work plan will address specific
milestones such as field survey duration, scope of the effort, start and completion timelines. The process
for demilitarizing munitions and munitions residue shall leave them in a condition where they will not be
recognizable as munitions. DoD 4160.21-M and DoD 4160.21-M-1, Defense Demilitarization Manual,
will be followed to ensure proper demilitarization is accomplished. All processed material will be accom-
panied by a completed DD Form 1348-1 Issue Release/Receipt Document and DD Form 1348-2, Issue
Release/Receipt Document with Address Label and chain-of-custody documentation (locally produced).
Sub-scale practice bombs (e.g., bomb dummy unit (BDU)) and other sub-scale practice munitions,
expended rockets and warheads, inert projectiles; guided missile parts and guided bomb components will
be run through a process that reduces these items into four-inch pieces or smaller and unrecognizable as
munitions items. Full-scale inert bombs will be cut up into at least two pieces (after the tail and front por-
tions of the bomb have been removed/cut off). The inner filling will be removed.
7.4.12. (Added) Third Party UXO Quality Assurance (QA). For contracted range residue removal opera-
tions, no site activity will take place without third party UXO QA personnel on-site. The UXO QA will
have "stop work" authority and will monitor the UXO actions to ensure project compliance and safety.
The third party UXO QA may be a contractor or military EOD if the UXO QA is contracted. This person
shall have at least 15 years experience in the UXO field and must be a graduate of the US Navy EOD
school. This person may be an independent UXO contractor (but under no circumstances will this individ-
ual report to the contract and/or R3 site manager) or government personnel from Air Force Specialty
Codes (AFSCs) in TO 11A-1-60, Inspection Of Reusable Munitions Containers And Scrap Material Gen-
erated From Items Exposed To Or Containing Explosives, who are authorized to sign munitions residue
inspections. In all cases the UXO QA will fill out a chain-of-custody form documenting custody transfer
of all residue removed from the range. Active duty and ARC EOD personnel may perform QAE duties
contingent upon availability. Requests for military EOD support should be submitted at least 30 days prior
to the start of operations through appropriate BCE Commanders through ANG/C4R. If military EOD is
used for UXO QA, the senior military EOD person must be at least a 7-Skill Level.
10                                                      AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 4160.21-M-1, Defense Demilitarization Manual
TO 11A-1-60, Inspection of Reusable Munitions Containers and Scrap Material Generated From Items
Exposed To or Containing Explosives
JP 3-09, Doctrine for Joint Fire Support
JP 3-09.1, Joint Laser Designation,
Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 260, Military Munitions Rule
Nuclear Regulatory Guide 1.86, Termination of Operating Licenses for Nuclear Reactors

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFSC— Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Active Reserve Component
BCE—Base Civil Engineering
BDU— Bomb Dummy Unit
EOD—Explosive Ordinance Disposal
CBT—Computer Based Training
CBU—Cluster Bomb Units
CRTC—Combat Readiness Training Center
CTC—Combat Training Center
HQ—Headquarters
IMT—Information Management Tool
ITR—Intermediate Training Ranges
JMGT—Joint Modular Ground Target
LSO—Laser Safety Officer
LFE—Large Force Exercises
NAS—National Airspace System
QA—Quality Assurance
R3—Range Residue Removal
RHA—Residue Holding Areas
AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005                                                                  11


RM— Resource Manager
ROA—Range Operating Agency
SSSP—Site Specific Safety Plan
US—United States
A2.1.2.1.20. (Added) JP 3-09, Doctrine for Joint Fire Support, JP 3-09.1, Joint Laser Designation, and
JP 3-09.3, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Close Air Support.
12                                                       AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005


                                         Attachment 4 (Added)

                                ANG RANGE COUNCIL CHARTER
A4.1. (Added) ANG Range Council Charter. The following is the ANG Range Council Charter

AIR NATIONAL GUARD RANGE COUNCIL CHARTER
Effective 1 December 2003

1. This charter establishes the Air National Guard (ANG) Range Council - its purpose, goal, objectives,
and membership. The need for this council was recognized at the January 1988 Range conference and is
outlined in AFI 13-212, Volume I, Range, Planning and Operations.

2. PURPOSE - To serve as an advisory group to the Air National Guard Readiness Center Range
Manager, ANG/C4RR.

3. GOAL - To increase ANG range efficiency and capability.

4. OBJECTIVES -

     a. To aggressively pursue an agenda of general interest and benefit to all ANG ranges.

     b. To provide consolidated positions for these issues to ANG/C4RR.

     c. To provide staff support for ANG/C4RR generated range issues requiring field inputs.

    d. To provide a pool of functional expertise, from ANG range personnel, for specialized needs at
designated ranges.

5. The Council will consist of one voting member from each ANG Range, the 266 RANS, and one
non-voting member from each AFRC range. At least eight Council members must be present (Quorum)
if a decision is required on a motion/proposal. Council Chairman and Vice-Chairman will be elected
every two years, preferably during an ANG Range Conference. Nominations will be solicited and
election ballots prepared between meetings. The ANG Range Manager will be included as a non-voting
member of the council.

6. The Council will meet three times annually, typically in January, May, and September. The meetings
will be at various ANG ranges, other locations at the Council's discretion, or in the Washington, DC
metropolitan area. Ranges expecting inspections within 6-12 months, or ranges having pressing needs
should be visited first.




                                               PATRICK C. WELCH
                                               Chief, Airspace, Ranges and Combat Readiness Training
AFI13-212V1_ANGSUP1 15 MARCH 2005                                            13


                                DANIEL JAMES III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                Director, Air National Guard
