BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2C-130J
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   VOLUME 2

                                                                           22 NOVEMBER 2005
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 10 AUGUST 2010

                                                                                  Flying Operations

                                                  C-130J AIRCREW EVALUATION CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil. for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/A37V                                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO
Supersedes: C-130J CONOPS ANNEX-                                      (Maj Gen Teresa M. Peterson)
            B, 1 June 2002.                                                               Pages: 50


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-2, Aircraft Rules and
Procedures. It establishes evaluation criteria for the operation of C-130J aircraft. It applies to all
Air Force personnel operating the C-130J combat delivery aircraft. This instruction applies to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. It is used in conjunction
with AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, and the appropriate
MAJCOM supplement.

The Privacy Act of 1974 applies to certain information gathered pursuant to this instruction. The
Privacy Act System Number F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS)
covers required information. The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1974 as amended in 1996 affects
this instruction. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFPD 37-1, Information Management, and
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil..

This document is new and must be completely reviewed.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change clarifies Instructor evaluation requirements, specifies pilot crew position
documentation, deletes copilot references, clarifies pilot instrument evaluation requirements,
provides maximum effort takeoff/landing guidance, clarifies the Operational Mission Evaluation
requirement, updates loadmaster grading criteria, and provides a new loadmaster flight
evaluation worksheet. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
2                                                                          AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005



Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                               4
     1.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................    4
     1.2.    Key Words and Definitions. ..................................................................................                  4
     1.3.    Deviations and Waivers. ........................................................................................               4
     1.4.    Supplements. ..........................................................................................................        4
     1.5.    Requisition and Distribution Procedures. ..............................................................                        5
     1.6.    Improvement Recommendations. ..........................................................................                        5
     1.7.    Evaluations. ............................................................................................................      5
     1.8.    Evaluation Requirements. ......................................................................................                5
     1.9.    Grading Policies. ....................................................................................................         6
     1.10.   Conduct of Evaluations. .........................................................................................              7
     1.11.   Use of IMT Form 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet. .........................................                                   8
     1.12.   Aircrew Testing. ....................................................................................................          8
     1.13.   Typical C-130J Evaluation Profile(s). ...................................................................                      8
     1.14.   Multiple C-130J Model Certifications. ..................................................................                       8

Chapter 2—PILOT EVALUATIONS                                                                                                                 9
     2.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................    9
     2.2.    Instrument/Qualification Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Requalification). ......                                           9
     2.3.    Mission Evaluations (Initial, Periodic, and Requalification). ................................                                 9
     2.4.    Instructor Evaluations (Initial, Periodic, and Requalification). .............................                                10
     2.5.    Operational Mission Evaluation. ...........................................................................                   11
     2.6.    Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE). .............................................................                          11
     2.7.    Pilot Grading Criteria. ............................................................................................          11

Chapter 3—LOADMASTER EVALUATIONS                                                                                                           31
     3.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................   31
     3.2.    Qualification Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Requalification). .........................                                  31
     3.3.    Mission Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Requalification). .................................                                31
     3.4.    Instructor Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Requalification). ..............................                                31
     3.5.    Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE). .............................................................                          32
     3.6.    Loadmaster Grading Criteria .................................................................................                 32

Chapter 4—FORMS AND IMTS ADOPTED                                                                                                           43
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                                                    3


     4.1.   IMTs Adopted. .......................................................................................................   43

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      44

Attachment 2—PILOT FLIGHT EVALUATION WORKSHEET EXAMPLE                                                                              47

Attachment 3—LOADMASTER FLIGHT EVALUATION WORKSHEET EXAMPLE                                                                         49
 4                                                    AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005



                                            Chapter 1

                                  GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This instruction provides flight examiners, instructors, and aircrews with
procedures and evaluation criteria/tolerances to be used during the administration of flight
evaluations according to AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program.
Specific areas for evaluation are prescribed to ensure an accurate assessment of the proficiency
and capabilities of aircrews. Flight examiners will use this AFI when conducting aircrew
evaluations. Instructors will use this AFI when preparing aircrews for qualification.
1.2. Key Words and Definitions.
     1.2.1. “Will” and “Shall” indicate a mandatory requirement.
     1.2.2. “Should” is normally used to indicate a preferred, but not mandatory, method of
     accomplishment.
     1.2.3. “May” indicates an acceptable or suggested means of accomplishment.
     1.2.4. “Note” indicates operating procedures, techniques, etc., that are considered essential
     to emphasize.
1.3. Deviations and Waivers. Report deviations or exceptions, without waivers, through
normal command channels to the parent MAJCOM Stan/Eval. MAJCOM Stan/Eval will notify
lead command for follow-on action, if necessary.
     1.3.1. Waiver authority for this AFI is MAJCOM/DO IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 2.
     1.3.2. MAJCOM/DOs shall forward a copy of approved long-term waivers to this AFI to
     lead command for follow-on action, if required.
1.4. Supplements. MAJCOMs and units may supplement this instruction to clarify policies,
procedures, and unique mission requirements. Comply with AFI 33-360, Volume 1, Air Force
Content Management Program—Publications, guidance regarding publication supplements.
Comply with AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, for supplement coordination.
     1.4.1. MAJCOM and unit supplements will not be less restrictive than this instruction.
     1.4.2. MAJCOM Supplements. Forward MAJCOM/DO-approved supplements, with
     attached AF IMT 673, Request to Issue Publication, to lead command (HQ AMC/A3) for
     review. HQ AMC/A3 will provide a recommendation and forward to HQ USAF/XOOT for
     approval (according to AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures). Use the following
     OPR’s address: HQ AMC/A37V, 402 Scott Dr., Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL, 62225-5302.
     Electronic copies may be sent via e-mail to HQ AMC/A37V’s tactical branch organizational
     box at: AMC/A37VX.
     1.4.3. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)/Air National Guard (ANG) will coordinate
     command supplements with the gaining active duty MAJCOM and the active duty NAF with
     stan/eval oversight responsibility prior to publication/revision.
     1.4.4. Unit Supplements. Units will coordinate their supplement with the next higher
     Numbered Air Force (NAF)/MAJCOM, as applicable, prior to publication. AFRC/ANG units
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                 5


   will submit unit supplements to AFRC/ANG HQ for approval. AFRC/ANG HQ will provide
   a copy of approved supplements to the gaining MAJCOM and the active duty NAF with
   Stan/Eval oversight responsibility.
1.5. Requisition and Distribution Procedures. Units will establish hard copy distribution
requirements of this AFI.
1.6. Improvement Recommendations. Submit suggested improvements to this instruction on
an AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through MAJCOM channels to
HQ AMC/A37V, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL, 62225-5302 according to AFI 11-
215, Flight Manual Procedures, and MAJCOM supplement.
1.7. Evaluations. This instruction establishes standardized instrument, qualification, mission,
and instructor evaluation criteria. It also establishes the areas and sub-areas necessary for the
successful completion of evaluations, and which required areas/sub-areas will be considered
critical or non-critical.
1.8. Evaluation Requirements. Whenever practical, evaluations should be accomplished
concurrently. Aircrews will complete the following evaluations at 17-month frequency IAW AFI
11-202, Volume 2, and the appropriate MAJCOM supplement.
   1.8.1. Instrument (INSTM) Evaluation. All C-130J pilots will successfully complete a
   periodic instrument evaluation. The flight phase will evaluate pilot performance and
   application of instrument procedures and maneuvers in a Weapon System Trainer (WST) or
   actual aircraft. The ground phase includes a requisite open-book written instrument
   examination IAW AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Course Program.
   1.8.2. Qualification (QUAL) Evaluation. All C-130J crewmembers will successfully
   complete a periodic qualification evaluation. The flight phase will evaluate performance and
   application of flight manual procedures and maneuvers. Evaluation may be accomplished in
   a WST for pilots, and in an Aircrew Training Device (ATD) for loadmasters. The ground
   phase includes the following requisites: open-book and closed-book examinations, Boldface
   examination, and an emergency procedures evaluation (EPE).
   1.8.3. Mission (MSN) Evaluations. All mission qualified C-130J crewmembers will
   successfully complete a periodic mission evaluation. MSN evaluations may be accomplished
   in conjunction with the QUAL evaluation (e.g., QUAL/MSN). Mission evaluation profiles
   will be as realistic as possible with a minimum number of simulated events. The flight phase
   will evaluate performance and application of operational procedures and include a sampling
   of maneuvers for which the individual is qualified. Evaluation may be in WST for pilots and
   in an ATD for loadmasters. The ground phase includes the following requisites: open-book
   examination, Boldface examination, and an emergency procedures evaluation (EPE).
       1.8.3.1. Unit baseline qualifications. Unit supplements will list baseline qualifications
       crewmembers must hold to be considered Mission Ready in the unit’s mission. Group
       Standardization and Evaluation office (OG/OGV) will develop mission evaluation
       profiles to sample these qualifications. See and of this instruction for required items that
       must be evaluated. Any crewmember that maintains a qualification level below this
       baseline will have restrictions listed on their “MSN” AF IMT 8.
 6                                                      AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


        1.8.3.2. For units/aircrew with an airdrop requirement, MSN evaluations for all crew
        positions should include actual airdrop loads, if possible. For units/aircrew with a NVG
        requirement, MSN evaluations for all crew positions should be at night utilizing NVGs if
        scheduling permits.
     1.8.4. Instructor (INSTR) Evaluations. See AFI 11-202 Volume 2 for Instructor Evaluation
     requirements. Aircrew members designated as instructors will be evaluated on their ability to
     instruct during all periodic evaluations. Crewmembers may use their initial INSTR
     evaluation to satisfy the requirements of a periodic evaluation provided all evaluation
     requirements for the periodic evaluation are met. Evaluation may be in WST for pilots and in
     an ATD for loadmasters.
     1.8.5. Emergency Procedures Evaluations (EPE). Use AFI 11-202, Volume 2 and the
     following: Evaluate an aircrew member’s knowledge of emergency procedures (EPs) and
     aircraft systems knowledge for all QUAL and MSN evaluations. The EPE will include areas
     commensurate with the examinee’s graduated training (e.g., initial, line, instructor, or
     evaluator). See specific crew position chapters of this AFI for EPE requirements.
        1.8.5.1. OGVs will develop and maintain a list of EPE program requirements (topics,
        special interest etc.). An EPE guide for each crew position will be developed detailing the
        evaluation areas and conduct of the EPE. Examiners may use one continuous scenario
        throughout the EPE, or may use different scenarios as required to ensure appropriate
        areas are evaluated.
        1.8.5.2. EPEs should not be conducted immediately before or during a flight evaluation.
        When possible, EPEs should be conducted in an ATD. If an ATD is not available, the
        EPE may be verbally evaluated. Examinees may use publications normally available in
        flight. The examinee must recite, perform, or write all Boldface items.
        1.8.5.3. Examinees receiving an overall EPE grade of unqualified will be placed in
        supervised status until recommended additional training and re-evaluation are completed.
        Examinees receiving an overall EPE grade of unqualified because of unsatisfactory
        Boldface procedures will not be permitted to fly until a successful re-evaluation is
        accomplished. Accomplish additional training IAW AFI 11-202, Volume 2.
1.9. Grading Policies.
     1.9.1. When in-flight evaluation of a required area is not possible, the area may be verbally
     evaluated. Flight examiners will make every effort to evaluate all required areas in-flight or
     in an ATD before resorting to this provision. If an alternate method is used to complete the
     evaluation, document in the Additional Comments portion of the AF IMT 8. Use of this
     provision must be approved by the examinee’s commander. The commander’s signature on
     the AF IMT 8 acknowledges this provision has been approved.
     1.9.2. Do not verbally evaluate takeoffs, instrument approaches, landings or cargo loading
     that fulfill minimum evaluation requirements listed in and .
     1.9.3. Critical Areas. Critical areas require adequate accomplishment by the aircrew member
     in order to achieve the mission objectives successfully. If an aircrew member receives an
     unqualified grade in any critical area, the overall grade for the evaluation will be unqualified.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                   7


   Critical areas are identified by “(Critical)” following the applicable area title, and the shading
   of the Q- block on the AF IMT 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet. See examples at and .
   1.9.4. Crew Resource Management (CRM). If CRM is downgraded during the evaluation,
   the evaluator will also complete an AF IMT 4031, CRM Skills Criteria
   Training/Evaluation. The completed IMT will be forwarded to OG/OGV, for inclusion in
   quarterly trends, and wing training so that the data can be passed to the MAJCOM CRM
   program manager.
1.10. Conduct of Evaluations.
   1.10.1. Flight examiners will pre-brief the examinee on the purpose, conduct, requirements
   and general criteria of the evaluation. Flight examiners will then evaluate the examinee in
   each area/sub-area.
   1.10.2. Flight examiners should not evaluate personnel they have primarily trained or
   recommended for upgrade. Flight examiners should normally not evaluate personnel who
   serve as rating officers on their performance reports.
   1.10.3. Aircrew Training System (ATS) contractors will not be in the seat during evaluations
   in an ATD.
   1.10.4. Unless otherwise specified, flight examiners may conduct the evaluation in any crew
   position or seat which will best enable the flight examiner to observe the examinee’s
   performance.
   1.10.5. Evaluators will note discrepancies and deviations from prescribed tolerances and
   performance criteria during the evaluation. They will compare the examinee’s performance
   with the tolerances provided in the grading criteria and assign an appropriate grade for each
   area.
      1.10.5.1. An evaluation will not be changed to a training mission to avoid documenting
      substandard performance, nor will a training mission be changed to an evaluation, with
      the exception of a N/N evaluation.
      1.10.5.2. The judgment of the flight examiner, guidance provided in AFI 11-202,
      Volume 2, and this AFI, will be the determining factors in assigning an overall
      qualification level on the AF IMT 8. The flight examiner should thoroughly critique all
      aspects of the flight. During the critique, the flight examiner will review the examinee’s
      overall rating, specific deviations, area/sub-area grades assigned, and any additional
      training required.
   1.10.6. In the event of unsatisfactory performance, the flight examiner will determine
   recommended additional training requirements. Required additional training will not be
   accomplished on the same flight. EXCEPTION: Additional training on the same flight is
   allowed when unique situations presenting valuable training opportunities exist (i.e.,
   thunderstorm avoidance, crosswind landings). This option requires flight examiner discretion
   and judicious application. When used, the examinee must be informed when the additional
   training begins and ends.
      1.10.6.1. An ATD may be used to accomplish additional training and rechecks. Areas for
      additional training and rechecks should be limited to those areas/sub-areas that can be
      realistically accomplished in an ATD.
 8                                                    AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


        1.10.6.2. The flight examiner who administered the original evaluation should not
        administer the recheck.
1.11. Use of IMT Form 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet. Units (normally the OGV) will
complete the AF IMT 3862, using the examples in and to use as an evaluation worksheet,
entering each title, area number and text (in the order illustrated). Units may add special interest
items and/or local evaluation requirements. The worksheet should be used in flight to ensure all
required areas are evaluated. The completed worksheet will serve as a temporary record of the
evaluation and will be filed in the aircrew member’s Flight Evaluation Folder (FEF) until the AF
IMT 8 is completed and filed.
1.12. Aircrew Testing.
     1.12.1. Open-Book Exam. An open-book examination is a requisite for QUAL and MSN
     evaluations. The open-book QUAL exam will consist of a minimum of 60 questions. The
     open-book MSN exam will consist of a minimum of 40 questions, at least 25% of which will
     come from tactical doctrine documents related to C-130J combat operations (AFTTP). If a
     combined examination is created for combination evaluations (QUAL/MSN), it will have the
     appropriate number of questions for each portion. For periodic INSTR evaluations, a portion
     of the open-book exam will include instructor questions. A separate (unique) INSTR open-
     book exam is not required.
     1.12.2. Closed-Book Exam. A closed-book examination is a requisite for QUAL evaluations.
     The exam will consist of a minimum of 20 questions from the Master Question File (MQF).
     1.12.3. Boldface exam. A boldface exam is a requisite for any periodic evaluation.
1.13. Typical C-130J Evaluation Profile(s). Unit OG/CC or OG/OGV will determine the
evaluation profiles suitable for aircrew evaluations. These profiles will include all required items
in and and include a sampling of other items.
1.14. Multiple C-130J Model Certifications. Accomplish difference training IAW AFI 11-2C-
130J Volume 1, Aircrew Training (pending). A periodic evaluation may be accomplished in any
aircraft model in which the individual is certified.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                9


                                           Chapter 2

                                   PILOT EVALUATIONS

2.1. General. This chapter standardizes initial, periodic, and re-qualification evaluations,
including requirements for instrument/qualification, mission, and instructor evaluations.
   2.1.1. Flight examiners will not intentionally fail any equipment during flight evaluations,
   but may deny the use of systems not affecting safety of flight.
   2.1.2. Under no circumstances will a flight examiner allow the aircraft to slow below one
   engine-out Vmca or exceed aircraft limitations specified in the flight manual, regardless of
   tolerances listed for specific areas.
   2.1.3. If the flight manual recommends a specific airspeed range for performance of a
   maneuver, the flight examiner will apply the grading criteria to the upper and lower limits of
   that range.
   2.1.4. Evaluator pilots may conduct evaluations when scheduled as primary aircrew
   members.
   2.1.5. Pilots may be evaluated in either the left or right seat. The term “Pilot” also includes
   Mobility Pilot Development (MPD) pilots. Pilots who are not Aircraft Commanders will
   have a crew position of “FP” on their AF form 8. The “MP” crew position will be used on an
   AF form 8 for Aircraft Commanders and when the evaluation concludes training leading to
   certification as an Aircraft Commander (such as an Operational Mission Evaluation).
   2.1.6. DELETED
2.2. Instrument/Qualification Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Requalification). C-130J
INSTM evaluations will be flown concurrently with QUAL evaluations. The profile will include
the following:
   2.2.1. A minimum of one precision, one non-precision, and one Category II (if qualified)
   approach will be flown. Do not combine the precision and Category II approaches. One of
   the approaches will be flown without use of the autopilot and autothrottles. Initial CAT II
   qualification evaluations require an approach to a missed approach and an approach to a
   landing. CAT II procedures may be evaluated on a CAT I approach. If possible, approaches
   should be flown to airfields other than home station or deployed locations.
   2.2.2. Holding or a Procedure Turn will be accomplished.
   2.2.3. Circling and a VFR pattern are required if weather and traffic permit..
   2.2.4. Simulated Emergency procedures will include: 3-engine instrument approach, 3-
   engine go around, and a 3-engine landing.
   2.2.5. A full (100%) and a partial flap (50% or 0%) landing is required as well as touch and
   go procedures.
2.3. Mission Evaluations (Initial, Periodic, and Requalification). C-130J MSN evaluations
may be accomplished in conjunction with the INSTM/QUAL evaluation. Depending on the
unit’s mission, or crewmember’s qualification, the MSN evaluation will consist of an airdrop
 10                                                    AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


profile, a maximum effort profile, and/or formation procedures. NVG usage and actual airdrop
loads are desired.
   2.3.1. The maximum effort profile will consist of a maximum effort takeoff, tactical
   approach and maximum effort landing. The tactical approach will consist of either a high or
   low altitude tactical arrival. Landings will be performed on an actual landing zone, if
   available. If not available, a larger runway with clearly identifiable LZ markings (IAW AFI
   13-217, Drop Zone and Landing Zone Operations) may be used. One go-around is permitted,
   provided the aircraft does not touch down short of the zone (defined as the first 500 feet of
   useable runway).
       2.3.1.1. Pilots should accomplish the maximum effort takeoff and landing from the left
       seat (Exception: Instructor Pilots/Instructor Pilot candidates see paragraph 2.4).
       2.3.1.2. Pilots that only maintain an airland maximum effort qualification (non-airdrop)
       will fly an IFR or VFR high altitude route (minimum of 20 minutes long and 5000’ AGL)
       to a TOA at an airfield. The arrival will consist of either a high altitude tactical arrival or
       a penetration decent to a low altitude tactical arrival. The arrivals will be to a maximum
       effort landing.
   2.3.2. The airdrop profile will consist of a route (30 minute minimum from departure to
   TOT), SKE or visual formation procedures (if applicable), airdrop and recovery. The type of
   formation procedures will alternate for each periodic MSN evaluation. This does not
   preclude units from accomplishing both types of formation procedures on a MSN evaluation.
   The profile will be planned as a two-ship minimum. This does not preclude the completion of
   the evaluation as a single ship due to unforeseen circumstances.
       2.3.2.1. Element Lead Pilot. Accomplish the evaluation in the element lead position.
       2.3.2.2. Flight Lead Pilot. Accomplish the evaluation in the formation lead position.
       Examinee should participate in mission commander duties.
       2.3.2.3. DELETED
   2.3.3. For units/aircrew with a MSN evaluation requirement, Area 49 (Defensive
   Systems/Tactics) and Area 50 (Threat Avoidance) will be evaluated.
2.4. Instructor Evaluations (Initial, Periodic, and Requalification). Flight examiners will
place particular emphasis on the examinee’s ability to recognize student difficulties and provide
timely and effective corrective action. Instructor pilots should be able to brief, observe, assess,
and debrief the student’s overall performance. State that instructional ability was evaluated in the
comments section of the AF IMT 8. List a minimum of two areas instructed by the examinee.
INIT or RQ INSTR evaluations will be conducted with a qualified pilot occupying the other seat.
For initial evaluation, the examinee will occupy the right seat; for recurring or RQs he/she may
occupy either seat.
   2.4.1. During periodic QUAL evaluations, instructors will initiate a simulated aircraft
   malfunction requiring a simulated engine shutdown, simulated engine-out approach and go-
   around. The instructor will be evaluated on his ability to ensure safe simulated engine-out
   operations.
   2.4.2. If airdrop qualified, all INIT and RQ INSTR evaluations require the examinee to
   instruct a SKE or visual low-level route and airdrop.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                              11


    2.4.3. All instructor areas/sub-areas must be evaluated.
2.5. Operational Mission Evaluation. Prior to Aircraft Commander certification, all pilots,
except those previously certified as Aircraft Commanders in Mobility Air Forces (MAF) C-130
or C-17 aircraft, will complete an Operational Mission Evaluation. Flight examiners will
evaluate the examinee’s ability to operate in command while performing the unit’s mission. The
flight should be an off-station operational or training mission. OG/CC may substitute a local
mission to preclude lengthy certification delays. Gaining MAJCOM Stan/Eval is the waiver
authority for this evaluation requirement. The evaluation will be documented as a “SPOT” and
the remarks section will include the following: “This evaluation was conducted in conjunction
with Aircraft Commander certification.”
2.6. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE).
    2.6.1. The INSTM/QUAL EPE will cover a cross section of aircraft systems knowledge and
    emergencies. All Boldface procedures will be evaluated. Examinees should demonstrate an
    understanding of aircraft systems beyond the actual steps required for an EP. Category I
    navigation procedures and Takeoff and Landing Data (TOLD) knowledge will be evaluated.
    2.6.2. MSN EPEs will include knowledge of C-130J mission employment guidance, airdrop
    emergency procedures, tactics, threats, defensive system operation and the effect of degraded
    systems.
2.7. Pilot Grading Criteria.
    2.7.1. GENERAL.

Area 1. Directives/Publications/Personal and Professional Equipment.
Q Possessed an adequate knowledge of all applicable directives and procedures, and
  understood how to apply both to enhance mission accomplishment. Publications were
  current and properly posted. Had all required personal/professional equipment. Displayed
  satisfactory knowledge of the care and use of personal/professional equipment. Required
  equipment inspections were current.
Q- Possessed a limited knowledge of directives but could locate information in appropriate
   publications. Publications were current but improperly posted.
U   Unaware of established directives and procedures and/or could not locate the min the
    appropriate publication in a timely manner. Publications were not current. Did not have
    required personal/professional equipment. Required equipment inspections were overdue or
    equipment was unserviceable.
Area 2. Mission Preparation/Planning/Performance.
Q Checked all factors applicable to flight such as weather, notices to airmen
  (NOTAM),alternate air- fields, airfield suitability, fuel requirements, charts, etc. Correctly
  computed performance data using applicable CNI-MU pages, and crosschecked with
  PFPS/tab-data/performance charts as required.
Q- Made minor errors or omissions in checking all factors that could have detracted from
   mission effectiveness. Limited knowledge of performance capabilities. Made minor errors
   in computing performance data.
 12                                                     AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


U     Made major errors or omissions that would have prevented an effective mission.
      Inadequate knowledge of aircraft performance. Committed major errors in utilizing the
      CNI-MU TOLD pages. Major errors in crosschecking/manually computing performance
      data.
Area 3. Briefings.
Q Contributed to the briefing content to ensure it included all applicable information.
  Briefings effectively organized and presented in a logical sequence. Covered all pertinent
  items. Effectively used available briefing aids.
Q- Allowed omission of items pertinent but not critical to the mission. Briefings lacked
   continuity or contained unnecessary repetition. Some difficulty communicating clearly.
   Did not make effective use of available briefing aids. Dwelled on non-essential items.
U     Failed to conduct/attend required briefings. Omitted essential items or did not correct
      erroneous information that could affect mission accomplishment. Demonstrated lack of
      knowledge of subject. Briefing poorly organized and not presented in a logical sequence,
      resulting in confusion. Presented erroneous information that would affect safe/effective
      mission accomplishment.
Area 4. Use of Checklist.
Q Consistently used and called for the correct checklist and gave the correct response at the
  appropriate time throughout the mission.
Q- Checklist responses were untimely and/or crewmember required continual prompting for
   correct response.
U     Used or called for incorrect checklist or consistently omitted checklist items. Unable to
      identify the correct checklist to use for a given situation. Did not complete checklist prior to
      the event.
Area 5. Safety Consciousness (Critical).
Q Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft operation and
  mission accomplishment.
U     Not aware of, or did not comply with, all safety factors required for safe aircraft operation
      or mission accomplishment. Operated the aircraft in a dangerous manner.
Area 6. Flight Discipline(Critical).
Q Exhibited strict flight and crew discipline. Prepared and completed mission in compliance
  with existing instructions and directives.
U     Failed to exhibit strict flight and crew discipline. Failed to comply with existing
      instructions and directives that did, or could have, jeopardized safety of mission success.
Area 7. Airmanship/Situational Awareness(Critical).
Q Maintained situational awareness and exercised sound judgment throughout the mission.
  Conducted the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension. Prioritized tasks
  properly.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                            13


U   Lacked situational awareness. Faulty judgment resulted in decisions that had negative
    mission impact. Lacks the skills to prioritize tasks. Unaware of significant events that
    impacted the mission.
Area 8. Crew Coordination/Crew Resource Management (CRM). See AFI 11-290,
Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, and use AF IMT 4031, CRM Skills
Criteria Training/Evaluation, as a reference.
Q Effectively coordinated with other aircrew members throughout the assigned mission.
  Demonstrated operational knowledge of other crewmembers’ duties and responsibilities.
  Effectively applied CRM skills throughout the mission.
Q- Crew coordination skills detracted from mission accomplishment. Demonstrated limited
   knowledge of other crewmembers’ duties and responsibilities.
U   Poor crew coordination or unsatisfactory knowledge of other crewmember duties and
    responsibilities negatively affected mission accomplishment or safety of flight.
Area 9. Communication Procedures.
Q Had a complete knowledge of and complied with the correct communications procedures.
  Transmissions were concise with proper terminology. Complied with and acknowledged all
  required instructions. Asked for/provided clarification when necessary.
Q- Made minor deviations from procedures that required re-transmissions. Slow in initiating,
   or missed, required radio calls. Transmissions contained extraneous matter, were not in
   proper sequence, or used non-standard terminology. Slow to ask for/provide clarification
   when necessary.
U   Used incorrect procedures; poor performance caused confusion and jeopardized mission
    accomplishment. Omitted numerous radio calls. Failed to use precise, stated terminology.
    Did not ask for/provide clarification when necessary.
Area 10. Life Support Systems/Egress.
Q Displayed thorough knowledge of location and use of life support systems and equipment.
  Demonstrated and emphasized the proper operating procedures used to operate aircraft
  egress devices such as doors, windows, hatches, life rafts, and escape ropes.
Q- Showed limited knowledge of location and use of life support systems and equipment.
   Unsure of the proper operating procedures used to operate some of the aircraft egress
   devices.
U   Displayed unsatisfactory knowledge of location and use of life support systems and
    equipment. Unable to properly operate aircraft egress devices.
Area 11. Knowledge/Completion of Forms.
Q Completed all required forms and/or flight plans accurately, on time and IAW applicable
  directives. Related an accurate debrief of significant events to applicable agencies (Intel,
  Maintenance, etc.)
Q- Made minor errors on forms and/or flight plans that did not affect the mission. Incorrectly
 14                                                    AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      or incompletely reported some information due to minor errors, omissions, and/or
      deviations.
U     Did not accomplish required forms and/or flight plans. Omitted or incorrectly reported
      significant information due to major errors, omissions, and/or deviations.

2.7.2. QUALIFICATION.
Area 12. Aircraft Preflight Inspection.
Q Accomplished required inspections in a thorough and proficient manner as outlined in
  applicable checklists and/or directives without deviations or omissions. Properly checked
  aircraft systems and components IAW flight manual. Coordinated with ground support
  personnel. Correctly determined aircraft status.
Q- Displayed Minor deviations or omissions in the accomplishment of required inspections as
   outlined inapplicable checklists and/or directives.       Limited knowledge of proper
   procedures for checking aircraft systems/componential flight manual.
U     Failed to accomplish required inspections in a thorough and proficient manner. Major
      deviations or omissions. Omitted or improperly checked aircraft systems/components
      IAW flight manual. Did not coordinate with ground support personnel. Unable to
      determine correct aircraft status. Required assistance to complete inspections or exceeded
      time allotted causing a mission delay.
Area 13. Ground Operations/Taxi.
Q Established and adhered to station, start engine, taxi, and take-off time to assure thorough
  preflight, check of personal equipment, crew/passenger briefings, etc. Accurately
  determined readiness of aircraft for flight. Completed all systems preflight/postflight
  inspections IAW flight manual. Conducted taxi operations according to flight manual, AFI
  11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground, and local procedures.
Q- Made minor procedural errors that did not detract from mission effectiveness with respect
   to start engine, taxi, and take-off time, preflight, check of personal equipment,
   crew/passenger briefings, etc. Completed all systems preflight/postflight inspections IAW
   flight manual with minor discrepancies.
U     Made errors that directly contributed to a late takeoff that degraded the mission. Failed to
      accurately determine readiness for flight. Failed to preflight/postflight a critical
      component or could not conduct a satisfactory preflight/postflight inspection.
Area 14. Takeoff.
Q Maintained smooth, positive aircraft control throughout the takeoff. Performed the takeoff
  IAW flight manual and as published/directed.
Q- Made minor deviations from published procedures without affecting safety of flight.
   Aircraft control was safe but not consistently smooth and positive. Hesitant in application
   of procedures/corrections.
U     Made a potentially dangerous takeoff. Exceeded aircraft/systems limitations. Failed to
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                             15


    establish proper climb attitude. Excessive deviation from intended flight path. Violated
    flight manual procedures. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 15. Basic Aircraft Control.
Q Maintained positive aircraft control. Experienced minor deviations but corrected in timely
  manner.
    Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS
    Altitude: +/-100 feet
    Heading/Course: +/-5 degrees
Q- Frequent deviations in airspeed altitude or heading, but does not compromise flight safety.
   Slow to correct deviations. Exceeds Q criteria but does not exceed:
    Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS
    Altitude: +/-200 feet
    Heading/Course: +/-10 degrees
U   Exceeds Q- criteria.
Area 16. Automation Management.
Q Established/followed guidelines for the operation of automated systems; aware of when
  systems should be disabled, and when programming actions must be verbalized and
  acknowledged. Established/followed Pilot Flying (PF) and Pilot Monitoring (PM)
  responsibilities with regard to automated systems. Periodically reviewed and verified the
  status of aircraft automated systems. Verbalized and acknowledged entries and changes to
  automated systems parameters. Allowed sufficient time for programming the Mission
  Computer. Used automated systems at appropriate levels to reduce workload, but reduced
  or disengaged level of automation when programming demands could have reduced
  situational awareness or created work overloads.
Q- Had limited knowledge of guidelines for the operation of automated systems; unclear as to
   when systems should be disabled, or when programming actions must be verbalized and
   acknowledged. Slow to establish/follow Pilot Flying (PF) and Pilot Monitoring (PM)
   responsibilities with regard to automated systems. Slow to review and verify the status of
   aircraft automated systems. Inconsistently verbalized and acknowledged entries and
   changes to automated systems parameters. Did not always allow sufficient time for
   programming the Mission Computer.            Inconsistently used automated systems at
   appropriate levels.
U   Did not establish/follow guidelines for the operation of automated systems; unaware of
    when systems should be disabled, or programming actions that must be verbalized and
    acknowledged. Did not establish/follow Pilot Flying(PF) and Pilot Monitoring (PM)
    responsibilities with regard to automated systems. Did not periodically review and verify
    the status of aircraft automated systems. Did not verbalize and acknowledge entries and
    changes to automated systems parameters.          Failed to allow sufficient time for
    programming the Mission Computer. Did not use automated systems at appropriate levels,
 16                                                  AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      to decrease workload. Did not reduce or disengage level of automation when
      programming demands reduced situational awareness or created work overloads.
Area 17. VFR Pattern.
Q Performed traffic pattern and turn to final/final approach IAW published procedures.
  Aircraft control was smooth and positive. Did not over/under-shoot final approach.
  Constantly cleared area of intended flight. Effectively divided lookout workload among
  the crew.
Q- Performed traffic pattern and turn to final/final approach with minor deviations to
   published procedures. Controlled aircraft safely, but was not consistently smooth and
   positive. Over/under-shot final approach slightly but was able to intercept a normal glide
   path. Adequately cleared area of intended flight. Slow to divide lookout workload among
   the crew.
U     Did not perform traffic pattern and/or turn to final/final approach IAW published
      procedures. Displayed erratic aircraft control. Over/under-shot final approach by a wide
      margin requiring a go-around or potentially unsafe maneuvering on final. Did not clear
      area of intended flight. Failed to divide lookout workload among the crew effectively.
Area 18. Landings. Include sub-areas for Full Flap, Partial Flap (50% or 0%), Engine-out,
Touch/Stop-and-Go landings.
Sub-area 18A. Full Flap Landing.
Sub-area 18B. Partial Flap (50%/0%)Landing.
Sub-area 18C. Engine-out Landing.
NOTES:
1. Specific items to evaluate include threshold airspeed, runway alignment, flare, touchdown
   speed and landing in a crab.
2. Airspeed tolerances apply to computed touchdown airspeed.
Q Performed landings as published/directed IAW flight manual and met the following
  criteria:
      Airspeed: +/-5 KIAS
      Touchdown Zone: Within 1000 feet of intended touchdown point
      Centerline: +/-15 feet left or right
Q- Performed landings with minor deviations to procedures as published/directed. Landed in a
   slight crab. Exceeded Q criteria but not the following:
      Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS
      Touchdown Zone: Threshold-3000 feet
      Centerline: +/-25 feet left or right
U     Did not perform landing as published/directed. Exceeded Q- criteria.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                              17


Sub-area 18D. Touch/Stop and Go Landing.
Q Maintained positive aircraft control while the aircraft was on the runway from landing to
  takeoff. Properly applied flight manual procedures.
Q- Controlled aircraft safely, but was not consistently smooth and positive. Slow to correctly
   apply flight manual procedures.
U   Allowed aircraft to deviate in an unsafe or potentially unsafe manner. Failed to properly
    apply flight manual procedures.
Area 19. Landing Roll/Braking/Propeller Reversing.
Q Performed landing roll procedures as published/directed IAW flight manual. Braking
  action and propeller reversing commensurate with landing conditions.
Q- Performed landing roll procedures with minor deviation to procedures as
   published/directed. Braking action and propeller reversing not accomplished
   commensurate with landing conditions, but did not jeopardize safety. Braking or propeller
   reversing action not applied smoothly.
U   Did not perform landing roll procedures as published/directed. Braking or propeller
    reversing accomplished in an unsafe manner. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 20. All Engine Go-Around.
Q Initiated and performed go-around promptly and IAW flight manual and directives.
  Applied smooth control inputs. Acquired and maintained a positive climb.
Q- Slow or hesitant to initiate go-around. Slightly over-controlled the aircraft. Made minor
   deviations which did not affect mission accomplishment or compromise safety.
U   Did not initiate go-around when appropriate or directed. Made major deviations or
    misapplication of procedures that could have led to an unsafe condition.
Area 21. Engine-out Operations
Q Used appropriate control inputs for asymmetric condition. Gave proper consideration to
  maneuvering the aircraft with regard to the inoperative engine.
Q- Made minor deviations in aircraft control, which occasionally allowed the aircraft to fly
   uncoordinated.
U   Consistently controlled the aircraft erratically resulting in uncoordinated flight. Did not
    maneuver the aircraft with regard to the inoperative engine with due regard to aircraft
    safety.
Area 22. Engine-out Go Around
Q Performed all required procedures IAW the flight manual and directives. Applied the
  correct control inputs is a smooth, positive, and coordinated manner.
Q- Made procedural errors which did not affect safety. Aircraft control was not smooth and
   positive. Applied rudder and aileron inputs in the correct direction with some tendency to
   over/under control.
 18                                                   AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


U     Made incorrect rudder and/or aileron inputs. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 23. Boldface Emergency Procedures (Critical).
Q Correct, immediate responses in the proper sequence.             Maintained aircraft control.
  Coordinated proper crew actions.
U     Incorrect sequence, unsatisfactory response, or unsatisfactory performance of corrective
      actions.
Area 24. Other Emergency Procedures.
Q Operated within prescribed limits and correctly diagnosed problems. Performed/explained
  proper corrective action for each type of malfunction. Effectively used available resources.
Q- Operated within prescribed limits but slow to analyze problems or apply proper corrective
   actions. Did not effectively use and/or experienced delays, omissions, or deviations in use
   of checklist and/or available resources.
U     Exceeded limitations. Unable or failed to analyze problem or take proper corrective action.
      Did not use checklist and/or available resources.
Area 25. Systems Operations/Knowledge/Limitations.
Q Demonstrated/explained complete knowledge of aircraft systems, operating limitations and
  procedures.
Q- Possessed a limited knowledge of aircraft systems operations and limitations in some
   areas. Used individual technique instead of established procedure and was unaware of
   differences.
U     Demonstrated unsatisfactory systems knowledge.        Unable to demonstrate or explain
      procedures, or aircraft systems operations.


    2.7.3. INSTRUMENT.

Area 26. Instrument Departure/SID.
Q Complied with all restrictions or controlling agency instructions. Made all required
  reports. Applied course/heading corrections promptly. Demonstrated smooth, positive
  control.
Q- Made minor deviations in navigation during departure. Was slow to comply with
   controlling agency instructions or unsure of reporting requirements. Slow to apply
   course/heading corrections. Did not always control the aircraft smoothly and/or positively.
U     Failed to comply with published/directed departure, or controlling agency instructions.
      Accepted an inaccurate clearance. Controlled the aircraft erratically.
Area 27. En Route Navigation.
Q Navigated satisfactory using all available means. Used appropriate navigation procedures.
  Complied with clearance instructions. Aware of position at all times. Remained within the
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                    19


    confines of assigned airspace.
Q- Made minor errors in procedures/use of navigation equipment. Slow to comply with
   clearance instructions. Had some difficulty in establishing exact position and course.
   Slow to adjust for deviations in time and course.
U   Made major errors in procedures/use of navigation equipment. Could not establish
    position. Failed to recognize checkpoints or adjust for deviations in time and course. Did
    not remain with the confines of assigned airspace. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 28. Holding/Procedure Turn.
Q Performed entry and holding IAW flight manual, published procedures and directives.
Q- Performed entry and holding procedures with minor deviations.
U   Did not perform holding procedures IAW flight manual, directives, or published
    procedures.
Area 29. Use of NAVAIDs.
Q Ensured NAVAIDs were properly tuned, identified, and monitored.
Q- Made some errors when tuning, identifying, and monitoring NAVAIDs.
U   Did not ensure NAVAIDs were tuned, identified, and monitored.
Area 30. Descent/Arrival.
Q Performed descent as directed. Complied with all flight manual, controller issued, or
  STAR restrictions in a proficient manner. Accomplished all required checks. Briefed
  STAR procedures and crew workload.
Q- Performed descent as directed with minor deviations that did not compromise mission
   safety. Slow to accomplish required checks. Partially briefed STAR procedures and crew
   workload.
U   Performed descent with major deviations. Did not accomplish required checks. Erratic
    corrections. Exceeded flight manual limitations. Failed to brief STAR procedures and
    crew workload adequately.
Area 31. Precision Approaches (PAR, ILS and IPRA).
NOTES:
1. Use the following criteria as general tolerances for airspeed, altitude, heading, glide slope,
   and course.
2. Airspeed tolerances are based on computed approach speed.
Q Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS
    Altitude: Initiated missed approach at decision height +50/-0feet
    Heading: +/-5 degrees of controller’s instructions(PAR)
    Glide Slope: Within one dot (ILS)
 20                                                     AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      Course: Within one dot (ILS)
Q- Exceeds Q criteria but does not exceed:
      Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS
      Altitude: Initiated missed approach at decision height +100/-0feet
      Heading: +/-10 degrees of controller’s instructions(PAR)
      Glide Slope: Within one dot low, two dots high (ILS)
      Course: Within two dots (ILS)
U     Exceeds Q- criteria.
Sub-area 31A. PAR.
Q Flew approach IAW flight manual, directives, or published procedures. Responded to
  controller’s instructions in a smooth and timely manner. Established initial glide path and
  maintained with only minor deviations. Complied with decision height. Was in a good
  position to execute a safe landing.
Q- Flew the approach with minor deviations. Was slow to respond to controller’s instructions
   and make corrections. Complied with decision height. Was in a good position to permit a
   safe landing. Elevation did not exceed well above or well below glide path.
U     Did not fly the approach IAW flight manual, directives, or published procedures. Made
      erratic corrections and did not respond to controller’s instructions resulting in erratic glide
      path control. Did not comply with decision height and/or position would not have
      permitted a safe landing. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Sub-area 31B. ILS.
Q Flew approach IAW flight manual, directives, published procedures. Made smooth and
  timely corrections to azimuth and glide slope. Established initial glide path and maintained
  with only minor deviations. Complied with decision height criteria and was in a good
  position to execute a safe landing.
Q- Flew the approach with minor deviations. Was slow to make corrections resulting in poor
   glide path control. Complied with decision height criteria and was in a satisfactory
   position to make a safe landing.
U     Did not fly approach IAW flight manual, directives, or published procedures. Erratic
      corrections. Did not comply with decision height and/or position at decision height would
      not have permitted a safe landing. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Sub-area 31C. CAT II ILS. Use the same criteria as sub-area 31B.
Sub-area 31D. IPRA. Use the same criteria as sub-area 31B.
Area 32. Non Precision Approaches ( NDB, Localizer, ASR, VOR/TACAN).
Sub-area 32A. NDB.
Sub-area 32B. Localizer.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                21


Sub-area 32C. ASR.
Sub-area 32D. VOR/TACAN.
NOTES:
1. Use the following description and criteria as general tolerances for airspeed, altitude at
   MDA, heading, course, timing, and distance with all engines operating.
2. Airspeed tolerances are based on computed approach speed.
Q Flew the approach IAW published procedures. Made smooth and timely responses to the
  controller’s instructions (ASR). Used appropriate descent rate to arrive at MDA at or
  before VDP (if depicted). Was in position at MDA to execute a safe landing.
    Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS
    MDA: +100/-0 feet
    Course: +/-5 degrees at MAP (NDB, VOR, TACAN), within one dot (LOC)
    Timing: Compute/adjusted timing to determine MAP within 10 seconds(when required).
    Distance: Determined MAP within +0.0/-0.5 Miles (nothing past the MAP)
Q- Performed approach with minor deviations. Was slow to respond to controller’s
   instructions and make corrections (ASR). Arrived at MDA at or before the MAP, but past
   the VDP (if depicted); however, was in position to make a safe landing. Exceeded Q
   criteria but does not exceed:
    Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS
    MDA: +150/-0 feet
    Course: +/-10 degrees at MAP (NDB, VOR, TACAN), within two dots (LOC)
    Timing: Compute/adjusted timing to determine MAP within 20 seconds(when required)
    Distance: Determined MAP within +0/-1.0 Miles (nothing past the MAP)
U   Did not fly approach IAW published procedures. Maintained steady-state flight below the
    MDA. Failed to compute or adjust timing to determine MAP (when required) and was not
    in position to make a safe landing. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 33. Circling Approach.
Q Properly identified aircraft category for the approach and remained within the lateral limits
  for that category. Complied with controller’s instructions. Attained runway alignment.
  Did not descend from the MDA until in a position to place the aircraft on a normal glide
  path or execute a normal landing.
    Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS
    Altitude: +100/-0 feet
Q- Properly identified aircraft category for the approach and remained within the lateral limits
   for that category. Was slow to comply with controller’s instructions. Slow to attain
 22                                                     AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      runway alignment.
      Airspeed: +15/-5 KIAS
      Altitude: +150/-0 feet
U     Did not properly identify aircraft category or exceeded the lateral limits of circling
      airspace. Did not comply with controller’s instructions. Did not attain runway alignment,
      was potentially unsafe. Descended from the MDA before the aircraft was in a position for
      a normal glide path or landing. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 34. Missed Approach.
Q Executed missed approach IAW flight manual, directives, published procedures.
  Complied with controller’s instructions. Applied smooth control inputs.
Q- Executed missed approach with minor deviations to published procedures but was slow to
   comply with controller’s instructions. Slightly over controlled the aircraft.
U     Did not execute missed approach IAW flight manual, directives, or published procedures.
      Did not comply with controller’s instructions. Deviated from procedures, that could have
      led to an unsafe condition. Exceeded Q- criteria.


    2.7.4. MISSION.

Area 35. Pre-Takeoff.
Q Established and adhered to station, start engine, taxi, and take-off times to assure thorough
  preflight, check of personal equipment, crew/passenger briefings, etc. Accurately
  determined readiness of aircraft for flight. Performed all preflight checks prior to takeoff.
Q- Minor procedural errors, that did not detract from mission effectiveness, with station, start
   engine, taxi, and take-off times, check of personal equipment, crew/passenger briefings,
   etc. Minor discrepancies with preflight checks prior to takeoff.
U     Omitted checklist items. Failed to determine the readiness of aircraft for flight. Made
      errors that directly contributed to a late takeoff, degrading the mission or making it non-
      effective. Did not taxi as briefed (pilot error) and contributed to late takeoff or confusion
      in the formation. Major discrepancies with preflight checks prior to takeoff.
Area 36. Takeoff.
NOTE: Use Sub-area 14 criteria and the following (for single ship takeoffs, use Area 14
criteria only).
Q Maintained smooth control. Properly briefed crew on appropriate abort calls. Followed
  established procedures.
Q- Made minor deviations from established procedures.                     Was slow to make
   inputs/corrections when encountering vortices.
U     Jeopardized safe execution of the takeoff by use of improper procedures. Did not use
      appropriate side of runway (N/A for feed-on method).
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                               23


Area 37. Departure/Assembly.
NOTE: Use sub-area 26 criteria and the following:
Lead Criteria.
Q Controlled aircraft smoothly IAW flight manuals, directives or published procedures.
  Considered wingmen’s requirements.
Q- Made minor deviations in procedures. Was occasionally rough on controls. Was
   inconsistent when considering wingmen, which made it difficult for them to maintain
   position.
U   Did not fly departure IAW flight manuals, directives or published procedures. Was rough
    on controls and gave no consideration to the wingmen.
Wingman Criteria.
Q Made smooth control inputs. Maintained position with only momentary deviations.
  Maintained good separation and complied with leader’s instructions. Performed a
  smooth, timely rejoin.
Q- Made minor deviations to published procedures. Over controlled the aircraft to the extent
   that formation position was inconsistent. Slow to respond to leader’s instructions. Was
   slow to rejoin.
U   Did not fly procedures IAW flight manuals, directives or published procedures. Was
    rough on the controls and made abrupt position corrections. Did not maintain safe
    separation or formation position. Failed to comply with leader’s instructions. Flew an
    unsafe rejoin.
Area 38. Formation Communication Procedures. Use area 9 criteria.
Area 39. Enroute Formation Procedures.
Lead/Element Lead Criteria. (Visual/SKE)
Q Demonstrated positive control of formation/element IAW flight manual, directives or
  published procedures. Established appropriate formations. Was smooth on controls and
  considered wingmen. Planned ahead and made timely decisions. Ensured wingmen flew
  proper position. Displayed complete understanding of formation procedures.
Q- Made minor deviations to published procedures. Inconsistently managed the flight. Was
   occasionally rough on controls. Maneuvered excessively making it difficult for wingmen
   to maintain position. Did not always plan ahead and/or hesitant in making decisions.
   Lacked complete understanding of formation procedures.
U   Did not fly procedures IAW flight manual, directives or published procedures. Did not
    establish appropriate formations. Was rough on the controls and maneuvered erratically
    causing wingmen to break out or overrun formation. Gave little consideration to the
    wingmen.          Failed to ensure wingmen maintained proper position.         Placed
    formation/wingmen in unsafe position or circumstances. Did not understand formation
    procedures.
 24                                                  AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


NOTE: SKE also use the following:
Q Did not rush FCIs. Identified and complied with FCI and SKE ACAWS Special Alerts
  and advisories. Displayed complete understanding of relationship between mission
  computer, SKE, and AFCS systems.
Q- Rushed or occasionally missed FCIs causing potential wingman confusion. Was slow to
   identify or comply with SKE ACAWS Special Alerts and advisories. Did not have
   complete understanding of relationship between mission computer, SKE, and AFCS
   systems.
U     Consistently missed FCIs. Did not identify or failed to comply with SKE ACAWS
      Special Alerts and advisories. Unable to understanding the relationship between mission
      computer, SKE, and AFCS systems.
Wingman Criteria. (Visual/SKE)
Q Maintained position with only momentary deviations. Made smooth and immediate
  position corrections. Maintained safe separation and complied with leader’s instructions.
  Flew a smooth, timely rejoin. Displayed complete understanding of formation
  (Wingman) procedures.
Q- Made minor deviations to published procedures. Slow to comply with leader’s
   instructions. Varied position considerably. Over controlled aircraft. Was slow to rejoin.
   Lacked complete understanding of formation(Wingman) procedures.
U     Did not fly procedures IAW flight manual, directives or published procedures. Did not
      comply with leader’s instructions. Unable to maintain formation position. Abrupt
      position corrections. Did not maintain safe separation. Flew an unsafe rejoin. Did not
      understand formation(Wingman) procedures.
NOTE: SKE also use the following:
Q Identified and complied with FCI and SKE ACAWS Special Alerts and advisories.
  Displayed complete understanding of relationship between mission computer, SKE, and
  AFCS systems.
Q- Occasionally missed or slow to respond to FCIs or SKE ACAWS Special Alerts and
   advisories. Did not have complete understanding of relationship between mission
   computer, SKE, and AFCS systems.
U     Consistently missed FCIs or failed to comply with SKE ACAWS Special Alerts and
      advisories. Unable to understanding the relationship between mission computer, SKE, and
      AFCS systems.
Area 40. Enroute Navigation.
Q Remained within 3 NMs of course centerline and was certain of aircraft position
  (Exceptions to course centerline tolerance: Threat avoidance, weather deviation, air
  traffic control assigned heading, time control, etc.). Thorough knowledge of en route time
  status in relation to objective area. Complied with all altitude restrictions. Adhered to all
  airspace restrictions.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                 25


Q- Uncertain of exact aircraft position due to marginal navigational procedures. Flew3 to 5
   NMs from course without the above exceptions. Better awareness of required timing
   events or en route time status could have avoided unplanned maneuvering.
U   Exceeded 5 NMs during enroute navigation without the above exceptions. Unable to
    maintain position awareness throughout most of the route. Unable to accurately assess
    required timing or unaware of mission time status, jeopardizing formation integrity or
    mission accomplishment. Violated airspace restrictions. Poor airspeed control resulted in
    numerous or extreme airspeed adjustment. Descended below minimum altitude
    restrictions.
Area 41. Defensive Systems/Tactics.
Q Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of defensive systems/tactics. Able to properly set
  up the defensive system and use appropriate settings. Applied appropriate tactics to avoid
  the threat and minimize exposure. Executed the proper evasive maneuver when given an
  immediate threat. Completely briefed crew on threat calls/duties.
Q- Unsure on proper setup of the defensive systems and settings. Minor errors in threat
   analysis or tactics selection. Was unfamiliar with appropriate tactic for a given scenario.
   Did not completely brief crew on threat calls/duties.
U   Displayed an unsatisfactory knowledge of defensive systems. Made major errors in threat
    analysis or tactics selection would have resulted in an unsuccessful mission. Did not
    execute an effective evasive maneuver when given an immediate threat. Failed to brief
    crew on threat calls/duties.
Area 42. Threat Avoidance.
Q Able to plot threats in-flight and formulate a plan of action to avoid lethal range of given
  threat system.. Aware of appropriate tactics to avoid threats and exposure.
Q- Made minor errors in plotting and avoiding the lethal range of a given threat system.
   Made minor errors in threat analysis or tactics selection.
U   Unable to plot a given threat. Did not avoid lethal range of given threat system. Not
    aware of appropriate tactics for specific threats or terrain.
Area 43. Slowdown.
Q Thorough knowledge of slowdown procedures.            Complied with all published/briefed
  procedures.
Q- Limited knowledge of slowdown procedures. Minor deviations did not affect mission
   accomplishment or formation integrity.
U   Unsatisfactory knowledge of slowdown procedures. Major deviations adversely affected
    mission accomplish mentor formation integrity.
Area 44. DZ Alignment.
Q Correctly identified the DZ and made appropriate corrections to fine-tune track. Flew the
  track IAW mission plan or as updated by crew.
 26                                                   AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


Q- Identified the DZ late despite clear marking and sufficient landmarks.              Aligned
   satisfactorily, but tended to angle.
U     Unable to identify DZ due to poor technique or pilot error. Did not fly proper alignment,
      or unaware of alignment error. Did not accomplish the mission due to poor DZ
      acquisition, alignment or deviation from procedures, resulting from pilot error or
      omission. Did not recognize a no-drop situation.
Area 45. Airdrop.
Q Met the following tolerances:
      Airspeed: +/-5 KIAS
      Altitude: +50/-0 feet
Q- Exceeded Q criteria but did not exceed:
      Airspeed: +10/-5 KIAS
      Altitude: +100/-50 feet
U     Did not recognize an o-drop situation. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 46. Time Over Target/Time Of Arrival.
Airdrop Criteria.
Q +/-60seconds (Visual)
      +/-90seconds (SKE)
Q- +/-90seconds (Visual)
      +/-2minutes (SKE)
U     Exceeded Q- criteria.
TOA Criteria.
Q +/-5minutes
Q- +/-7minutes
U     Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 47. Airdrop Accuracy.
Q Applied proper procedures and correctly entered information into the computer. Was
  within200 yards of carp centerline or formation position at green light.
Q- Slow to apply proper procedures or entered in incorrect information into the computer, but
   did not adversely effect the airdrop. Was within 300 yards of carp centerline or formation
   position at green light. No drop due to crew error, but was called by the crew.
U     Exceeded Q- Criteria.
Area 48. Escape.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                  27


Q Escape and recovery executed IAW published or briefed procedures.
Q- Minor errors in escape and/or recovery procedures that did not affect mission
   accomplishment.
U   Major deviations from procedures that negatively affected mission accomplishment,
    formation integrity, or flight safety.
Area 49. Formation Recovery.
NOTE: Use area 31, 32 and 39 criteria and the following:
Q Visual: Rolled out on final in position to intercept glide path to touchdown.
    SKE: Positioned aircraft to fly a normal glide path to touchdown at the DH/MAP.
Q- Visual: Rolled out on final above or below the glide path, over or undershot final, but able
   to make a normal landing.
    SKE: Arrived at FAF out of position to fly a normal glide path to touchdown or flew an
    unstable approach, but able to make a normal landing.
U   Visual: Rolled out on final in a position that required a go-around, due to poor procedures
    or techniques. Did not initiate unplanned go-around when required.
    SKE: Intercepted a final that required a missed approach or go-around, due to poor
    procedures or techniques. Did not initiate an unplanned go-around when required.
Area 50. Formation Landing.
NOTE: Use area 18 criteria and the following (for single-ship landings, use area 18 criteria
only):
Q Maintained appropriate formation position throughout landing.             Followed briefed
  procedures for reversing and braking.
Q- Landed with approach separation exceeding 9,000 feet for SKE or 30 seconds for visual
   landings, but the landing interval did not cause following aircraft to execute go-around or
   missed approach.
U   Attempted to touchdown with approach separation less than 5,000 feet (SKE) or 15
    seconds(visual) spacing from the previous aircraft. Long landing interval caused
    following aircraft to execute go-around/missed approach. Did not follow briefed reversing
    and braking procedures.
Area 51. Flight Leadership (Lead Only).
Q Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of threat analysis and route construction. Applied
  appropriate tactics to avoid the threat and minimize exposure. Correctly planned the route
  of flight, with emphasis on obstruction clearance. Made timely and appropriate inputs to
  target/crew study. Thoroughly coordinated mission with other agencies, if applicable.
  Relayed all flight commands consistent with procedures, briefings, and threat. Passed
  information to formation aircraft in a timely manner. Provided positive guidance in
  leading the formation. Stayed abreast of time status and worked with crew to determine
 28                                                     AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      corrective action. Able to verbalize corrective action for gaining or losing time.
      Effectively divided workload among crew and monitored performance. Challenged
      deviations to standard or the briefed plan.
Q- Made minor errors in route construction, threat analysis, or tactics selection. Unfamiliar
   with appropriate tactic for a given scenario. Made minor errors providing signals, or
   signals not given appropriately for type formation or threat. Flew an erratic profile, but
   did not jeopardize safety of follower aircraft. Provided minimal leadership in the conduct
   of the flight. Unable to clearly verbalize TOT adjustment techniques. Poorly divided
   workload among crew and monitoring of performance. Slow to challenge deviations to
   standard or the briefed plan.
U     Made major errors in threat analysis or route construction. Could not safely fly planned
      profile. Unable to locate classified threat parameters. Did not contact appropriate
      agencies. Poorly planned, performed or lead the mission resulting in an unsuccessful
      mission. Did not pass critical information to other aircraft in-flight. Failed to effectively
      divide workload among crew and monitor performance. Failed to challenge deviations to
      standard or the briefed plan.
Area 52. NVG Usage/Limitations.
Q Properly preflighted, handled and utilized night vision goggles (NVGs) in
  accomplishment of the mission. Recognized benefits/limitations of NVGs.
Q- Made minor omissions or deviations during preflight or utilization of NVGs. Caused no
   serious damage to equipment/aircraft and did not negatively affect the mission.
U     Used incorrect procedures for NVGs, which caused damage to equipment/aircraft or
      mission failure.
Area 53. High/Low Altitude Tactical Arrival.
Q Followed procedures as briefed. Controlled the aircraft smoothly and positively
  throughout the recovery. Ensured the aircraft was in position to intercept glide path to
  maximum effort landing. Constantly cleared area of intended flight.
Q- Performed recovery with minor deviations to published procedures. Did not always
   control the aircraft positively and/or smoothly. Over/under-shot final approach slightly,
   but was able to intercept glide path to maximum effort landing.
U     Did not perform the recovery IAW flight manual, directives or published procedures.
      Displayed erratic aircraft control. Over/under-shot final approach requiring a go-around
      or potentially unsafe maneuvering to intercept final. Did not clear area of intended flight.
Area 54. Maximum Effort Procedures.
Q Displayed satisfactory knowledge of maximum effort procedures. Described and applied
  terms such as acceleration check speed, MFLMETO, three-engine Vmca, etc. Thoroughly
  analyzed departure/landing runway and surrounding terrain. Reviewed all applicable
  TOLD and thoroughly briefed crew on their duties.
Q- Showed minor gaps in knowledge and/or awareness of published procedures. Made
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                               29


    minor errors in describing or applying the appropriate terms (listed above) or concepts.
    Made minor errors or omissions in TOLD or crew briefing.
U   Did not perform procedures IAW flight manual, directives or published procedures.
    Unable to analyze landing zone constraints or verbalize concerns posed by terrain or other
    factors. Could not describe or apply the appropriate terms(listed above) or concepts.
    Made major errors in TOLD data review or crew briefing. Possessed an unsatisfactory
    knowledge of maximum effort procedures.
Area 55. Maximum Effort Takeoff.
Q Maintained smooth positive control throughout departure roll and takeoff. Climbed IAW
  flight manual, published directives or procedures until clear of obstacle. Reviewed all
  applicable TOLD and thoroughly briefed crew on their duties.
Q- Made abrupt control inputs. Made minor deviations from flight manual, published or
   briefed procedures, but did not jeopardize safety. Made minor errors or omissions in
   TOLD or crew briefing.
U   Did not takeoff IAW with flight manual, directives or published procedures. Did not use
    Vmca when conditions permitted. Raised flaps too quickly with relation to airspeed.
    Performance of maneuver jeopardized safety. Made major errors in TOLD data review or
    crew briefing. Exceeded Q- criteria.
Area 56. Maximum Effort Landing.
Q Maintained smooth approach path and constant aim point; made positive corrections when
  necessary. Landed on centerline within the zone (defined as the first 500feet of usable
  runway) without excessive bouncing or crab. Maintained runway centerline during
  rollout.
    Airspeed    +/- 5 Knots
Q- Made minor deviations to published procedures. Aim point wandered or corrections were
   not smooth or timely. Landed in zone but had excessive bouncing or crab. Landed within
   10 feet from centerline.
    Airspeed   +10/- 5 Knots
U   Landed short of, or beyond, the landing zone. Or did not execute a go-around when
    required. Exceeded Q- criteria.

2.7.5. INSTRUCTOR GRADING CRITERIA.
Area 57. Instructor Ability. (Critical)
Q Demonstrated the ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate guidance
  when necessary. Planned ahead and made timely decisions. Identified and corrected
  potentially unsafe maneuvers/situations.
U   Unable to effectively communicate or provide timely feedback to the student. Did not
    provide corrective action when necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student
    problems. Did not identify unsafe maneuvers/situations in a timely manner. Made no
 30                                                    AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      attempt to instruct.
Sub-area 58. Instructor Demonstration. (Critical)
Q Effectively demonstrated correct procedures, systems operation or flight maneuvers.
  Thorough knowledge of applicable aircraft systems, procedures, publications, and
  directives.
U     Ineffective or incorrect demonstration of procedures, systems operation, or flight
      maneuvers. Insufficient depth of knowledge about applicable aircraft systems, procedures,
      and/or proper source material.
Sub-area 59. Student Briefing/Critique. (Critical)
Q Briefings were well organized, accurate, and thorough. Reviewed student’s present level
  of training and defined mission events to be performed. Demonstrated the ability during
  the critique to reconstruct the flight, offer mission analysis, and provide guidance where
  appropriate. Training grade reflected the actual performance of the student relative to the
  standard. Assessed both technical and CRM performance. Allowed the student to self-
  assess own performance. Pre-briefed the student’s next mission, if required.
U     Briefings were unsatisfactory or non-existent. Did not review student’s past performance.
      Failed to adequately critique student or analyze the mission. Training grade did not reflect
      actual performance of student. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Failed to
      assess both technical and CRM performance. Did not allow the student to self-assess own
      performance. Incomplete pre-briefing of student’s next mission, if required.
Sub-area 60. Knowledge of Training Forms.
Q All required forms were accomplished on time and IAW applicable directives.
  Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of forms/publications required for mission
  accomplishment. Training documentation was concise and readable.
Q- Displayed limited knowledge of forms/publications. Required forms were completed
   with some delay and IAW applicable directives. Minor errors or omissions in training
   documentation.
U     Knowledge of mission required forms/publications was inadequate. Did not accomplish
      required forms. Omitted or incorrectly documented significant training information.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                    31



                                             Chapter 3

                                LOADMASTER EVALUATIONS

3.1. General. This chapter standardizes initial, periodic, and requalification evaluations,
including requirements for qualification, mission, and instructor evaluations.
3.2. Qualification Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Requalification). Qualification
evaluations will consist of aircraft preflight, loading of palletized cargo or rolling stock, in-flight
procedures, cargo offload, and aircraft postflight. If a periodic QUAL evaluation is combined
with a MSN evaluation, an airdrop platform/CDS can be used for evaluating the qualification
loading requirement. If a load is not available for a periodic evaluation, palletized, airdrop
platform, or vehicular cargo will be static loaded upon completion of the flight portion. All
General and Qualification areas/sub-areas are required qualification evaluation items. When in-
flight evaluation of Area 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 30, 31 and 32 are not possible, these areas
may be verbally evaluated.
3.3. Mission Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Requalification).
   3.3.1. Initial and requalification (unqualified over two years) mission evaluations will
   consist of a mass CDS (minimum four containers) or sequential heavy equipment (HE) load.
   If a mass CDS or sequential HE load cannot be dropped for the evaluation, a single HE
   platform may be dropped provided sequential HE and mass CDS airdrop rigging was
   completed during training.
   3.3.2. Periodic and requalification (unqualified less then two years) mission evaluations will
   consist of a minimum of a single CDS container or single HE platform.
   3.3.3. The evaluator will not conduct two separate mission evaluations on the same flight
   with only one airdrop load aboard. An airdrop sortie and evaluation may be credited if an
   unplanned no-drop is called after completion of the Run-In checklist provided the no-drop
   was not due to loadmaster error. All General and Mission areas/sub-areas are required
   mission evaluation items.
   3.3.4. Document initial personnel and heavy equipment restriction when an actual personnel
   or heavy equipment airdrop is not completed during initial mission training on AF IMT 8.
   Use the following statement when actual personnel cannot be performed during initial
   mission training:
   RESTRICTIONS:
   SUPERVISED STATUS for personnel airdrop until an actual static line personnel airdrop is
   accomplished. Final certification will be accomplished under the supervision of a loadmaster
   instructor or flight examiner.
   Actual personnel airdrop accomplished on __________.
3.4. Instructor Evaluations (Initial, Periodic and Requalification). Flight examiners will
place particular emphasis on the examinee’s ability to: recognize student difficulties, provide
timely and effective corrective action, and observe, assess, and debrief the student’s application
of CRM skills. All instructor areas/sub-areas are required instructor evaluation items. The
 32                                                  AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


comments section of the AF IMT 8 should include a statement that instructional abilities were
evaluated and list a minimum of two areas the examinee instructed.
3.5. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE).
    3.5.1. The EPE shall cover the following areas during a QUAL evaluation: Emergency
    signals; ground emergencies; in-flight emergencies (fuselage fire/smoke and fume
    elimination, in-flight door warning, rapid decompression, cargo door and ramp failure, cargo
    jettison, bailout procedures), landing emergencies (landing gear retracted, ditching) and
    systems knowledge.
    3.5.2. The EPE shall cover the following areas during a MSN evaluation: Personnel, HE,
    CDS/CRRC, any other mission specific airdrop emergencies, and systems knowledge.
3.6. Loadmaster Grading Criteria
    3.6.1. GENERAL.
Area 1. Directives/Publications/Personal and Professional Equipment.
Q Possessed an adequate knowledge of all applicable aircraft publications and procedures,
  and understood how to apply both to enhance mission accomplishment. Publications were
  current and properly posted. Had all required personal/professional equipment. Displayed
  satisfactory knowledge of the care and use of personal/professional equipment. Required
  equipment inspections were current.
Q- Possessed a limited knowledge of directives but could locate information in appropriate
   publications. Publications were current but improperly posted.
U     Unaware of established procedures and/or could not locate them in the appropriate
      publication in a timely manner. Publications were not current. Did not have required
      personal/professional equipment. Required equipment inspections were overdue or
      equipment was unserviceable.
Area 2. Mission Preparation/Planning/Performance.
Q Checked all factors applicable to flight such as itinerary, aircraft configuration, fuel
  requirements, airdrop load sequence, etc.
Q- Made minor errors or omissions in checking all factors that could have detracted from
   mission effectiveness. Did not fully comply with directives.
U     Made major errors or omissions that would have prevented an effective mission.
Area 3. Briefings.
Q Contributed to the briefing content to ensure it included all applicable information.
  Briefings effectively organized and presented in a logical sequence. Covered all pertinent
  items. Effectively used available briefing aids.
Q- Allowed omission of items pertinent but not critical to the mission. Briefings lacked
   continuity or contained unnecessary repetition. Some difficulty communicating clearly.
   Did not make effective use of available briefing aids. Dwelled on non-essential items.
U     Failed to conduct/attend required briefings. Omitted essential items or did not correct
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                 33


    erroneous information that could affect mission accomplishment. Demonstrated lack of
    knowledge of subject. Briefing poorly organized and not presented in a logical sequence,
    resulting in confusion. Presented erroneous information that would affect safe/effective
    mission accomplishment.
Area 4. Use of Checklist.
Q Consistently used the correct checklist and gave the correct response at the appropriate
  time throughout the mission.
Q- Checklist responses were untimely and/or crewmember required continual prompting for
   correct response.
U   Used incorrect checklist or consistently omitted checklist items. Unable to identify the
    correct checklist to use for a given situation. Did not complete checklist prior to the event.
Area 5. Safety Consciousness (Critical).
Q Aware of and complied with all safety factors required for safe aircraft equipment
  operation and mission accomplishment.
U   Not aware of, or did not comply with, all safety factors required for safe aircraft equipment
    operation or mission accomplishment. Operated the aircraft equipment/systems in a
    dangerous manner.
Area 6. Flight Discipline(Critical).
Q Exhibited strict flight and crew discipline. Prepared and completed mission in compliance
  with existing instructions and directives.
U   Failed to exhibit strict flight and crew discipline. Failed to comply with existing
    instructions and directives that did, or could have, jeopardized safety of mission success.
Area 7. Airmanship/Situational Awareness(Critical).
Q Maintained situational awareness and exercised sound judgment throughout the mission.
  Conducted the flight with a sense of understanding and comprehension. Prioritized tasks
  properly.
U   Lacked situational awareness. Faulty judgment resulted in decisions that had negative
    mission impact. Lacks the skills to prioritize tasks. Unaware of significant events that
    impacted the mission.
Area 8. Crew Coordination/Crew Resource Management (CRM). See AFI 11-290,
Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, and use AF IMT 4031, CRM Skills
Criteria Training/Evaluation, as a reference.
Q Effectively coordinated with other aircrew members throughout the assigned mission.
  Demonstrated operational knowledge of other crewmembers’ duties and responsibilities.
  Effectively applied CRM skills throughout the mission.
Q- Crew coordination skills detracted from mission accomplishment. Demonstrated limited
   knowledge of other crewmembers’ duties and responsibilities.
 34                                                 AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


U     Poor crew coordination or unsatisfactory knowledge of other crewmember duties and
      responsibilities negatively affected mission accomplishment or safety of flight.
Area 9. Communication Procedures.
Q Complete knowledge of, and compliance with, correct communications procedures.
  Makes concise radio and interphone transmissions with proper terminology.
Q- Occasional deviations from procedures required re-transmissions or resetting codes. Slow
   in initiating or missed several required radio/interphone calls. Transmissions contained
   extraneous matter, were not in proper sequence, or used non-standard terminology.
U     Incorrect procedures or poor performance caused confusion and jeopardized mission
      accomplishment. Omitted numerous radio/interphone calls.
Area 10. Life Support Systems/Egress.
Q Displayed thorough knowledge of location and use of life support systems and equipment.
  Demonstrated and emphasized the proper operating procedures used to operate aircraft
  egress devices such as doors, windows, hatches, life rafts, and escape ropes.
Q- Showed limited knowledge of location and use of life support systems and equipment.
   Unsure of the proper operating procedures used to operate some of the aircraft egress
   devices.
U     Displayed unsatisfactory knowledge of location and use of life support systems and
      equipment. Unable to properly operate aircraft egress devices.
Area 11. Knowledge/Completion of Forms.
Q All required forms were complete, accurate, readable, accomplished on time and IAW
  directives. Provided an accurate debrief of significant events to applicable agencies (Intel,
  Maintenance, etc.).
Q- Minor errors on forms did not affect conduct of the mission. Incorrectly or incompletely
   reported some information due to minor errors, omissions, and/or deviations.
U     Did not accomplish required forms. Omitted or incorrectly reported significant
      information due to major errors, omissions, and/or deviations.

3.6.2. QUALIFICATION.
Area 12. Aircraft Preflight Inspection.
Q Accomplished required inspections in a thorough and proficient manner as outlined in
  applicable checklists and/or directives without deviations or omissions. Properly checked
  aircraft systems and components IAW flight manual. Coordinated with ground support
  personnel. Correctly determined aircraft status.
Q- Displayed Minor deviations or omissions in the accomplishment of required inspections
   as outlined inapplicable checklists and/or directives. Limited knowledge of proper
   procedures for checking aircraft systems/components IAW flight manual.
U     Failed to accomplish required inspections in a thorough and proficient manner. Major
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                 35


    deviations or omissions. Omitted or improperly checked aircraft systems/components
    IAW flight manual. Did not coordinate with ground support personnel. Unable to
    determine correct aircraft status. Required assistance to complete inspections or exceeded
    time allotted causing a mission delay.
            Sub-area 12A. Prior To Entering
            Sub-area 12B. Interior Inspection
            Sub-area 12C. Exterior Inspection/Top Of Airplane
            Sub-area 12D. Power-Up
            Sub-area 12E. Initial Preflight
            Sub-area 12F. Airdrop Prep (MSN or QUAL/MSN only)


Area 13. Emergency Equipment.
Q Demonstrated sound knowledge of emergency equipment. Located, inspected, distributed
  and/or demonstrated the proper use of life support and emergency equipment.
Q- Demonstrated limited knowledge of emergency equipment. Had difficulty locating,
   inspecting, and/or demonstrating the proper use of life support and emergency equipment.
U   Has an unsatisfactory knowledge of emergency equipment. Failed to inspect, distribute
    and/or demonstrate the proper use of life support and emergency equipment.
Area 14. Aircraft Configuration.
Q Ensured the aircraft was properly configured to accommodate oncoming load. Was
  familiar with various configurations as outlined in applicable instructions/directives and
  properly stowed configuration items that were not used.
Q- Had difficulty configuring the aircraft, but did not impede aircraft loading. Has limited
   knowledge of various configurations as outlined in applicable instructions/directives.
U   Failed to ensure proper aircraft configuration or caused loading delays. Possesses
    unsatisfactory knowledge of seat and litter configurations. Failed to properly stow
    configuration items.
Area 15. Load Planning/Inspection.
Q Accurately planned cargo and/or passenger loads and met aircraft CG limits. Inspected
  cargo for proper preparation and documentation.
Q- Had some difficulty planning a load of cargo and/or passengers to meet CG limits. Did
   not accurately inspect cargo for proper preparation and documentation.
U   Unable to plan a load of cargo and/or passengers and meet CG limits. Failed to inspect
    cargo for proper preparation and documentation.
Area 16. Onload/Offload Procedures.
Q Correctly onloaded/offloaded cargo/passengers in a safe and timely manner. Cargo
  entered into MFCD/CNI with less than 10 inches variance from actual load placement.
Q- Had difficulty correctly onloading/offloading cargo/passengers in the aircraft. Cargo
 36                                                    AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      loaded in MFCD/CNI 10-20 inches from actual load placement.
U     Failed to correctly or safely onload/offload cargo/passengers in the aircraft. Loading
      procedures caused undue delay. Cargo loaded in MFCD/CNI more than 20 inches from
      actual load placement. Heavy Equipment and Combat offload platforms not programmed
      in the MFCD exactly as they are in loaded in the aircraft.
Area 17. Supervisory Abilities.
Q Established and maintained control of all personnel during loading operations.
Q- Established and maintained control of all personnel, but made minor supervisory errors;
   however, they but did not compromise safety.
U     Did not establish or maintain control of all personnel and/or safety was compromised.
Area 18. Tie Down/Restraint.
Q Correctly calculated and applied the correct amount of restraint to a given item.
  Understood and could state the principles of restraint.
Q- Had difficulty calculating and applying the correct amount of restraint. Did not fully
   understand the principles of restraint.
U     Failed to correctly calculate and apply the correct amount of restraint. Did not understand
      and could not state the principles of restraint.
Area 19. Winching Procedures.
Q Correctly demonstrated and/or explained winching procedures.
Q- Had difficulty demonstrating and/or did not completely explain correct winching
   procedures, but did not compromise safety.
U     Failed to demonstrate and/or did not explain correct winching procedures. Compromised
      safety.
Area 20. Hazardous Material.
Q Understood hazardous cargo procedures. Complied with the provisions of AFJMAN 24-
  204, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, and followed the
  procedures for air movement of hazardous cargo under tactical, contingency or emergency
  conditions.
Q- Understood hazardous cargo procedures, but made minor deviations stating them.
   Partially complied with the provisions of AFJMAN 24-204, and/or followed the
   procedures for air movement of hazardous cargo under tactical, contingency or emergency
   conditions.
U     Did not understand hazardous cargo procedures provided in AFJMAN 24-204.
      Compromised safety.
Area 21. Aircraft Limitations.
NOTE: Limitations may include, but are not limited to: cargo floor; roller; station;
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                 37


compartment; pallet weight, height and nets; and loading aids (ground loading ramps, truck
loading ramps, bridge plates, pry bars, ramp support and shoring).
Q Correctly stated, understood, and could apply the correct limitations associated with the
  aircraft, on loading/offloading, and associated equipment.
Q- Had difficulty stating various limitations. Located correct limitations in the loading
   manual. Safety was not compromised.
U   Failed to display required knowledge of aircraft limitations, and/or could not locate
    correct limitations in the loading manual. Safety was compromised.
            Sub-area 21A. -9 Loading Limits
            Sub-area 21B. Pallet/Cargo Limits
            Sub-area 21C. Loading Aids

Area 22. Passenger Handling.
Q Correctly briefed and performed passenger handling procedures.
Q- Had difficulty briefing and/or performing passenger-handling procedures.
U   Failed to brief and/or did not perform proper passenger handling procedures.
Area 23. Anti-Hijacking/Aircraft Security.
Q Explained proper anti-hijacking/aircraft security procedures.
Q- Had difficulty explaining proper anti-hijacking/aircraft security procedures.
U   Could not explain proper anti-hijacking/aircraft security procedures.
Area 24. Border Clearance.
Q Completed/explained border clearance requirements IAW current directives. Correctly
  followed MAJCOM guidelines.
Q- Had difficulty explaining border-clearance requirements.         Minor mistakes degraded
   effectiveness.
U   Could not accurately complete forms. Was unaware of command guidance, or could not
    explain requirements.
Area 25. Weight and Balance.
Q Correctly entered weight and balance data into the CNI-MU. Manually completed DD
  Form 365-4 with only minor mistakes. Errors in takeoff or landing gross weights did not
  exceed +/- 500 pounds. Percent of MAC was within +/- 0.5 percent. Did not exceed
  aircraft gross weight takeoff limits. Did not exceed CG limitations for takeoff or landing.
Q- Entered weight and balance data into the CNI-MU with minor errors. Manually
   completed DD Form 365-4 with errors in takeoff or landing gross weights by +/-501 to
   1,000 pounds or percent of MAC limitations by +/-0.6 to 1.0 percent. Did not exceed
   aircraft gross weight takeoff limits. Did not exceed CG limitations for takeoff or landing.
 38                                                   AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


U     Incorrectly entered weight and balance data into the CNI-MU. Manually completed DD
      Form 365-4 with errors in takeoff or landing gross weights by +/-1,000 pounds or percent
      of MAC limitations by +/-1.0 percent. Exceeded aircraft gross takeoff weight/CG limits.
Area 26. Scanner Duties.
Q Periodically performed scanner duties by monitoring aircraft interior and exterior for
  abnormal conditions.
Q- Did not scan in a timely manner to recognize abnormal conditions.
U     Failed to perform scanner duties by monitoring or making periodic checks of the aircraft
      interior and exterior for abnormal conditions.
Area 27. Engine Running On load/Offload.
Q Followed/explained proper procedures for engine running on load/offload operations.
Q- Had difficulty following/explaining proper procedures for engine running on load/offload
   operations.
U     Did not follow/explain proper procedures for engine running on load/offload operations.
Area 28. Combat Offload (If Observed).
Q Followed/explained proper procedures for combat offload operations.
Q- Had difficulty following/explaining proper procedures for combat offload operations.
U     Did not follow/explain proper procedures for combat offload operations.
Area 29. Systems Knowledge.
NOTE: Systems knowledge may include, but are not limited to: oxygen, APU, Ramp and
Door, fuel, hydraulics, electrical, landing gear, ACAWS, and ECHS
Q Demonstrated sufficient knowledge of aircraft systems and operation limitations both with
  and without reference to the flight manual and/or available resources.
Q- Displayed limited knowledge of aircraft systems operations and limitations in some areas.
   Used individual technique instead of established procedure and was unaware of
   differences.
U     Displayed unsatisfactory systems knowledge. Unable to demonstrate or explain the
      procedures for aircraft systems operations with or without reference to the flight manual
      and/or available resources.
             Sub-area 29A. Oxygen
             Sub-area 29B. ECHS
             Sub-area 29C. Ramp and Door
             Sub-area 29D. APU
             Sub-area 29E. Fuel System/Refueling
             Sub-area 29F. ACAWS
             Sub-area 29G. Landing Gear
             Sub-area 29H. Hydraulic Systems
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                               39


           Sub-area 29I. Electrical


Area 30. Boldface Emergency Procedures. (Critical)
Q Correct, immediate responses in the proper sequence. Coordinated proper actions.
U   Incorrect sequence, unsatisfactory response, or unsatisfactory performance of corrective
    actions.
Area 31. Other Emergency Procedures.
Q Correctly analyzed, stated, and understood aircraft emergencies and performed required
  procedures to correct the emergency/malfunction. Effectively used available resources.
Q- Correctly analyzed and understood aircraft emergencies but had difficulty
   performing/stating required procedures to correct the emergency/malfunction. Did not
   effectively use and/or experienced delays, omissions, or deviations in use of checklists
   and/or available resources.
U   Failed to analyze, state, and did not understand aircraft emergencies and/or could not
    perform required procedures to correct the emergency/malfunction. Did not use checklist
    and/or available resources.
Area 32. NVG Usage/Limitations.
Q Properly preflighted, handled and utilized night vision goggles (NVGs) in
  accomplishment of the mission. Recognized benefits/limitations of NVGs.
Q- Made minor omissions or deviations during preflight or utilization of NVGs. Caused no
   serious damage to equipment/aircraft and did not negatively affect the mission.
U   Used incorrect procedures for NVGs, which caused damage to equipment/aircraft or
    mission failure.


    3.6.3. MISSION.

Area 33. Airdrop Rigging Procedures.
Q Correctly rigged and identified key airdrop components.
Q- Had difficulty rigging and/or identifying key airdrop components.
U   Improperly rigged and/or identified key airdrop components.
Area 34. Joint Airdrop Inspection.
Q Correctly completed the joint airdrop inspection using applicable inspection form.
Q- Had difficulty completing the joint airdrop inspection using applicable inspection forms.
U   Failed to complete the joint airdrop inspection using applicable inspection form.
Area 35. Airdrop Knowledge.
 40                                                   AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


Q Correctly demonstrated and understood airdrop procedures and airdrop load information.
Q- Had difficulty demonstrating and/or understanding airdrop procedures and airdrop load
   information.
U     Could not demonstrate and/or understand airdrop procedures and airdrop load
      information.
             Sub-area 35A. CDS
             Sub-area 35B. Heavy equipment
             Sub-area 35C. Personnel


Area 36. Airdrop Emergency Procedures.
Q Correctly analyzed, stated, and understood aircraft/airdrop emergencies and performed
  required procedures to correct the emergency/malfunction. Effectively used available
  resources.
Q- Correctly analyzed and understood aircraft/airdrop emergencies but had difficulty
   performing/stating required procedures to correct the emergency/malfunction. Did not
   effectively use and/or experienced delays, omissions, or deviations in use of checklists
   and/or available resources.
U     Failed to analyze, state, and did not understand aircraft/airdrop emergencies and/or could
      not perform required procedures to correct the emergency/malfunction. Did not use
      checklist and/or available resources.
Area 37. Defensive Systems/Tactics.
Q Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of defensive systems/tactics. Provided appropriate
  threat calls and appropriate inputs to crew during mission.
Q- Was unfamiliar with appropriate tactic for a given scenario. Did not make timely inputs
   to crew during mission. Made minor errors providing threat calls to crew during mission.
U     Possessed an unsatisfactory knowledge of defensive systems. Made major errors in threat
      analysis or tactics selection would have resulted in an unsuccessful mission. Failed to
      properly perform threat calls/duties.
Area 38. Systems Knowledge.
Q Displayed satisfactory knowledge of systems, ensuring satisfactory operation within
  prescribed limits. Explained proper corrective action for each type of malfunction.
Q- Had difficulty in displaying a satisfactory knowledge of systems. Was slow to analyze
   problems or apply proper corrective actions.
U     Failed to display a satisfactory knowledge of systems. Was unable to analyze problems or
      apply proper corrective actions.
              Sub-area 38A. CDS
              Sub-area 38B. Heavy Equipment
              Sub-area 38C. Personnel
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                               41


           Sub-area 38D. ADS System


Area 39. Coordinated Tasks Briefing.
Q Correctly briefed the coordinated tasks IAW current directives.
Q- Had difficulty briefing the coordinated tasks IAW current directives.
U   Failed to accomplish the coordinated tasks briefing IAW current directives.


    3.6.4. INSTRUCTOR GRADING CRITERIA.

Area 40. Instructor Ability. (Critical)
Q   Demonstrated the ability to communicate effectively. Provided appropriate guidance
    when necessary. Planned ahead and made timely decisions. Identified and corrected
    potentially improper actions/situations.
U   Unable to effectively communicate or provide timely feedback to the student. Did not
    provide corrective action when necessary. Did not plan ahead or anticipate student
    problems. Did not identify unsafe actions/situations in a timely manner. Made no
    attempt to instruct.
Area 41. Instructor Demonstration. (Critical)
Q   Effectively demonstrated correct procedures or systems operation. Thorough knowledge
    of applicable aircraft systems, procedures, publications, and directives.
U   Ineffective or incorrect demonstration of procedures or systems operation. Insufficient
    depth of knowledge about applicable aircraft systems, procedures, and/or proper source
    material.
Area 42. Student Briefing/Critique. (Critical)
Q   Briefings were well organized, accurate, and thorough. Reviewed student’s present level
    of training and defined mission events to be performed. Demonstrated the ability during
    the critique to reconstruct the flight, offer mission analysis, and provide guidance where
    appropriate. Training grade reflected the actual performance of the student relative to the
    standard. Assessed both technical and CRM performance. Allowed the student to self-
    assess own performance. Pre-briefed the student’s next mission, if required.
U   Briefings were unsatisfactory or non-existent. Did not review student’s past performance.
    Failed to adequately critique student or analyze the mission. Training grade did not reflect
    actual performance of student. Overlooked or omitted major discrepancies. Failed to
    assess both technical and CRM performance. Did not allow the student to self-assess own
    performance. Incomplete pre-briefing of student’s next mission, if required.
Area 43. Knowledge of Training Forms.
Q   All required forms were accomplished on time and IAW applicable directives.
    Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of forms/publications required for mission
 42                                                AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      accomplishment. Training documentation was concise and readable.
Q- Displayed limited knowledge of forms/publications. Required forms were completed
   with some delay and IAW applicable directives. Minor errors or omissions in training
   documentation.
U     Knowledge of required mission forms/publications was inadequate. Did not accomplish
      required forms. Omitted or incorrectly documented significant training information.
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                   43



                                      Chapter 4

                            FORMS AND IMTS ADOPTED

4.1. IMTs Adopted. AF IMT 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification; AF IMT 4031, CRM
Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation; DD Form 365-4, Weight and Balance Clearance Form
F; AF IMT 3862, Flight Evaluation Worksheet; AF IMT 673, Request to Issue Publication;
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                       CARROL H. “HOWIE” CHANDLER, Lt General,
                                       USAF
                                       DCS/Air and Space Operations
 44                                             AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures
AFI 11-2C-130J, Volume 1, C-130J Aircrew Training
AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training
AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program
AFI 11-202, Volume 3, General Flight Rules
AFI 11-215, Flight Manuals Program (FMP)
AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground
AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program
AFI 13-217, Drop Zone and Landing Zone Operations
AFI 33-360, Volume 1, Air Force Content Management Program—Publications
AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Course (IRC) Program
AFJMAN 24-204, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFPD 37-1, Information Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAWS—Advisory Cautions and Warning System
AFCS—Automatic Flight Control System
AGL—Above Ground Level
APU—Auxiliary Power Unit
ASR—Airport Surveillance Radar
ATD—Aircrew Training Device
ATS—Aircrew Training System
CDS—Container Delivery System
CG—Center of Gravity
CNI/MU—Communications Navigation IFF/Management Unit
CRM—Cockpit/Crew Resource Management
CRRC—Combat Rubber Raiding Craft
DZ—Drop Zone
ECHS—Enhanced Cargo Handling System
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                          45


EPE—Emergency Procedures Evaluation
FAF—Final Approach Fix
FCI—Flight Command Indicator
FEF—Flight Evaluation Folder
HE—Heavy Equipment
IAW—In Accordance With
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
ILS—Instrument Landing System
IMT—Information Management Tool
INIT—Initial
INSTM—Instrument Evaluation
INSTR—Instructor Evaluation
IPRA—Integrated Precision Radar Approach
LOC—Localizer
LZ—Landing Zone
MAP—Missed Approach Point
MAC—Mean Aerodynamic Chord
MDA—Minimum Descent Altitude
MFLMETO—Minimum Field Length for Maximum Effort Takeoff
MQF—Master Question File
MPD—Mobility Pilot Development
MSN—Mission Evaluation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NDB—Non-directional Radio Beacon
NOTAM—Notice to Airman
NVG—Night Vision Goggles
PAR—Precision Approach Radar
PF—Pilot Flying
PFPS—Portable Flight Planning System
PM—Pilot Monitoring
QUAL—Qualification Evaluation
RQ—Re-qualification
 46                                          AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005


SID—Standard Instrument Departure
SKE—Station Keeping Equipment
STAR—Standard Terminal Area Routing
TOLD—Takeoff and Landing Data
TOT—Time Over Target
TOA—Time Of Arrival
TACAN—Tactical Air Navigation System
VDP—Visual Descent Point
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
VOR—Very High Frequency Omni-directional Radio Beacon
WST—Weapons System Trainer
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                          47


                                     Attachment 2
              PILOT FLIGHT EVALUATION WORKSHEET EXAMPLE

Figure A2.1. C-130J Pilot Flight Evaluation Worksheet.




Figure A2.1. Continued.
48   AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005
AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005                              49


                                    Attachment 3
          LOADMASTER FLIGHT EVALUATION WORKSHEET EXAMPLE

Figure A3.1. C-130J Loadmaster Flight Evaluation Worksheet.




Figure A3.1. Continued.
50   AFI11-2C-130JV2 22 NOVEMBER 2005
