BY ORDER OF THE                                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-114, VOLUME 3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                                                                         1 JUNE 2009
                                                                                              Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                                           AIR SUPPORT OPERATIONS CENTER (ASOC)
                                                                                        OPERATIONS PROCEDURES


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:                   ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-
                                 Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. for downloading or
                                 ordering.

RELEASABILITY:                   There are no releasability restrictions on this publication..


OPR: HQ ACC/A3Y                                                            Certified by: HQ AF/A3O-A (Col Steven A. Ruehl)
                                                                                                                Pages: 36


This volume implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 13-1, Theater Air Control System. It
provides guidance for Air Force personnel to perform duties within a United States Air Force (USAF)
Air Support Operations Center (ASOC). This Air Force Instruction (AFI) is applicable to the Air
National Guard (ANG). This AFI applies to Air Force Reserve (AFR) personnel assigned to ASOC
units or assigned to ASOC duties. Refer to paragraph 1.4. for waiver information and paragraph 1.6. for
rules regarding supplements. This is a completely new instruction. It establishes the operating
procedures for USAF Air Support Operations Centers and incorporates the majority of the unclassified
information on ASOCs from Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1, Volume 26,
Tactical Employment – Theater Air Control System.
This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
(PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in this instruction are
Title 10 § 8013, AFI 36-2608, and E.O. 9397. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA
statement. System of records notice F036 AF PC C, Military Personnel Records System (October 13,
2000, 65 FR 60916) applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.



Chapter 1—POLICIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                3
       1.1.   Introduction. ........................................................................................................................   3
2                                                                                                                AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


      1.2.   Policies. ...............................................................................................................................   3
      1.3.   Responsibilities. ..................................................................................................................        3
Table 1.1.   Responsibilities. ..................................................................................................................        3
      1.4.   Waivers. ...............................................................................................................................    4
      1.5.   Deployments. .......................................................................................................................        4
      1.6.   Supplements. .......................................................................................................................        4

Chapter 2—AIR SUPPORT OPERATIONS CENTER MISSION AND ORGANIZATION                                                                                         5
      2.1.   General. ...............................................................................................................................    5
      2.2.   Mission. ...............................................................................................................................    5
      2.3.   ASOC Operations Personnel and Duty Position Descriptions. ...........................................                                       7
      2.4.   ASOC Support Personnel and Duty Position Descriptions. ................................................                                     9
      2.5.   ASOC Integration. ...............................................................................................................           9

Chapter 3—ASOC OPERATIONS                                                                                                                                12
      3.1.   ASOC Execution. ................................................................................................................            12
      3.2.   ASOC Coordination. ...........................................................................................................              16
      3.3.   ASOC Planning. ..................................................................................................................           18
      3.4.   Adopted Forms. ...................................................................................................................          21

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                           22

Attachment 2—THEATER AIR CONTROL SYSTEM                                                                                                                  28

Attachment 3—MILITARY DECISION MAKING PROCESS                                                                                                            30

Attachment 4—COMMUNICATIONS LINKS/NETS                                                                                                                   32

Attachment 5—AIR SUPPORT OPERATIONS CENTER EQUIPMENT                                                                                                     33

Attachment 6—ASOC INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS                                                                                                                36
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                                 3



                                               Chapter 1

                                POLICIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Introduction. This instruction establishes operating procedures for personnel assigned to a United
States Air Force (USAF) Air Support Operations Center (ASOC). Personnel will have varying
backgrounds and skills with different levels of experience and proficiency.
     1.1.1. ASOC Mission and Function. The ASOC is the primary control agency of the Theater Air
     Control System (TACS) for execution of air and space power in direct support of land operations—
     its primary mission is to control air operations short of the Fire Support Coordination Line (FSCL).
     Normally collocated with the senior Army fires element, the ASOC coordinates and directs air
     support for land forces at the tactical level. The ASOC is directly subordinate to the Air and Space
     Operations Center (AOC), and is responsible for the coordination and control of air component
     missions in its assigned area. Located within the supported ground commander’s Area of Operation
     (AO), the ASOC’s designated area typically extends to the FSCL for actual control of mission
     execution, and may extend to the corps’ forward boundary for planning and advisory purposes. Air
     missions that fly within the ASOC’s control area but do not directly support the ground component
     will normally be coordinated through the ASOC to deconflict with ground force maneuver and fires
     in addition to receiving target and threat updates.
1.2. Policies. The operating procedures outlined in this instruction facilitate the employment of ASOC
personnel to effectively and efficiently accomplish their duties and responsibilities. This instruction is
applicable to operations and support personnel assigned to ASOC duty positions.
1.3. Responsibilities. Specific responsibilities are listed in Table 1.1. Air Combat Command (ACC) is
considered the Lead Command for this instruction. ACC/A3Y is the officer of primary responsibility
for ACC.

Table 1.1. Responsibilities.
                                                                 Group Commander
                                                                 Unit Commander
                                                                 Unit Supervisors
                                                                 User Command
                                                                 AF/A3O-AYO
                                                                 ACC/A3Y




 R
 U
 L
 E     RESPONSIBILITY
       Establish policy and provide guidance for ASOC
 1                                                               X
       procedures.
       Resolve operational issues that arise between using
 2                                                                   X
       major commands (MAJCOMs).
       Resolve implementation and interpretation issues that
 3                                                                   X
       arise during use of these procedures.
       Review and process all change requests to this
 4                                                               X X X
       instruction.
4                                                                         AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


      Resolve major operational issues that arise between
 5                                                                    X
      units within their purview.
      Forward all requested MAJCOM supplements to
      ACC/A3Y for coordination. Inform all MAJCOM
 6                                                                 X X
      Offices of Primary Responsibility (OPRs) of approved
      supplements to this AFI.
      Execute group-level responsibilities over squadrons that
 7    lack group oversight or assign group-level                   X X
      responsibility directly to the squadron.
      Ensure compliance with this instruction by their
 8    subordinate units. Provide staff support and assist those           X
      units to meet DOC statement readiness requirements.
      Forward recommended supplements to this instruction
      and any supporting documents to the parent MAJCOM
 9                                                                        X
      for review. The Group and MAJCOM will review
      approved supplements annually.
      Identify operational shortfalls that adversely impact
      combat capability through appropriate channels using
 10                                                                       X X
      the USAF Status of Resources and Training System
      (SORTS).
      Maintain duty position descriptions for all assigned
 11                                                                       X X X
      positions.


1.4. Waivers. Unless otherwise noted, the waiver authority for this instruction is HQ ACC/A3Y. The
coordination process for the waiver will go through the appropriate chain of command to HQ
ACC/A3Y. Waivers to this instruction are valid for one year from approval date, unless specified
otherwise.
1.5. Deployments. Individuals deploying to fill an ASOC requirement must deploy combat mission
ready for the duty position they are tasked to support for that deployment. Refer to AFI 13-114, Volume
1, ASOC Training Program, for training requirements.
1.6. Supplements. MAJCOMs and/or subordinate groups may supplement this instruction in order to
provide specific guidance to their aligned units. The parent MAJCOM Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) must approve all group-level supplements. HQ ACC/A3Y will coordinate prior to publication on
all MAJCOM supplements. MAJCOM OPRs will forward all approved supplements to the other
MAJCOMs within 30 days of publication. The National Guard Bureau will provide a copy of any
approved supplement to their gaining MAJCOM.
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                                5


                                              Chapter 2

          AIR SUPPORT OPERATIONS CENTER MISSION AND ORGANIZATION

2.1. General. This chapter describes the composition and mission of the ASOC, and its mission within
the TACS. The chapter identifies responsibilities of the ASOC, describes the various ASOC duty
positions, and how an ASOC integrates with the Army and Air Force elements of the TACS.
2.2. Mission. The ASOC is the principle command and control (C2) node for integrating air and space
power into counterland operations within the land component commander’s area of operation (AO). As
a subordinate element of the air and space operations center (AOC), the ASOC is responsible for the
direction of air component assets involved in air operations directly supporting the ground combat
element in its assigned area. It processes and coordinates air missions requiring integration with other
supporting arms and ground forces. Its primary mission is to control air operations short of the fire
support coordination line (FSCL). The ASOC is organized into Operations and Support.
   2.2.1. Operations. Matches allocated air component assets to prioritized land component
   requirements. Executes that portion of the Joint Force Air Component Commander’s (JFACC’s) Air
   Battle Plan requiring integration with ground force supporting arms and maneuver objectives.
   Maintains and enhances situational awareness to all agencies contacting the ASOC. Provides
   procedural control of air component assets within the supported ground commander’s AO requiring
   integration with supporting arms and ground forces; processes CAS requests, and controls the flow
   of allocated aircraft; integrates aircraft operating within its assigned area (normally short of the
   FSCL) using airspace coordination measures/fire support coordination measures (ACM/FSCM);
   assigns and directs allocated air component aircraft to the joint terminal attack controllers (JTACs);
   and manages the Air Force Air Request Net (AFARN)/Joint Air Request Net (JARN) and allocated
   tactical air direction net (TAD) frequencies. Additionally, the ASOC may coordinate in other
   mission areas, to include air interdiction (AI), information operations (IO), electronic warfare (EW),
   intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), suppression/destruction of enemy air defenses
   (SEAD/DEAD), and joint personnel recovery, normally short of the FSCL.
   2.2.2. Support. The support section provides the following: administrative management and
   personnel accountability for ASOC and subordinate tactical air control party (TACP) personnel,
   long-haul communications, theater deployable communications-integrated communications access
   package (TDC-ICAP) operations, theater battle management core systems (TBMCS) connectivity,
   ASOC GATEWAY operations, Joint Range Extension and Datalink Interface Control/network
   management, power production, heating, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC), vehicle operation
   and logistics/supply operations. Additionally, provides maintenance of assigned equipment to
   enable combat operations.
   2.2.3. Location. The ASOC usually collocates with the senior Army tactical echelon and
   coordinates operations with the aligned TACP, Army Fires Cell (FC), Airspace Command and
   Control (AC2) and other supporting arms (e.g. ISR), allocated aircraft, and the AOC. The ASOC
   Director, Assistant Director and planners must consider several factors in choosing a location:
       2.2.3.1. Communications. The single most important factor to consider for ASOC location is its
       ability to communicate. The ASOC should be located and equipped to maintain reliable, secure
       communications with aircraft (voice and/or digital) to its maximum operating depth. The ASOC
       must also be able to communicate securely and effectively with all elements of the TACS,
       assigned land component tactical operations center, and other ground-based agencies. As a
6                                                                          AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


       subordinate element of the AOC, the ASOC must be able to collaborate and share situational
       awareness with the AOC via TBMCS, datalink, and Internet Relay Chat (IRC) operations.
       2.2.3.2. Security. Protection from the enemy’s direct and indirect fire weapons is essential for
       the ASOC to maintain continuous operations. As the ASOC operates in a net-centric
       environment, security of communications, networks, and datalinks is critical to mission success.
       2.2.3.3. Multiple command posts. The ASOC is a centralized operations center and cannot be
       split between command posts.
    2.2.4. Functions. The ASOC provides tactical C2 to ensure the proper, real-time integration of
    offensive air power with U.S. and coalition ground forces anywhere in the world. As such, the
    ASOC will perform, but is not limited to, the following key functions:
       2.2.4.1. Executes the air tasking order (ATO) as directed by the JFACC to meet the ground
       commander’s objectives by coordinating and integrating air, space and cyber power in support
       of air component operations.
       2.2.4.2. Provides procedural control of CAS aircraft operating in the AO inside the FSCL.
       Provides procedural control of other air component aircraft as required.
       2.2.4.3. Establishes, maintains, and operates the autonomous reach-forward and reach-back
       communications architecture/infrastructure necessary for mission execution, to include the
       AFARN/JARN.
       2.2.4.4. Provides decentralized execution of immediate air support in coordination with the
       established ground commander’s weight of effort and priority of fires. Obtains clearance of fires
       from the FC.
       2.2.4.5. Integrates, coordinates, directs and controls other air component missions, as required,
       within its assigned area (primarily inside the FSCL) in direct support of land maneuver
       objectives, and as directed by the JFACC.
       2.2.4.6. Coordinates air missions that fly within the ASOC’s control area but do not directly
       support the ground component and other supporting arms activities (i.e. ATACM missions) to
       deconflict with ground force maneuver and fires, in addition to receiving target and threat
       updates.
       2.2.4.7. Assists with time-sensitive targeting and friendly force location information to CAS, AI,
       SEAD, airlift/airdrop, ISR, IO, and personnel recovery missions within their AO.
       2.2.4.8. Assists the senior air liaison officer (ALO)/TACP with advising the senior ground
       maneuver commander on the proper integration of air, space and cyber power, to include CAS
       employment, target nominations for those AI and SEAD missions that support the ground force,
       and that part of airborne ISR and airlift that directly supports the land component.
    2.2.5. Procedures.
       2.2.5.1. The ASOC receives the ATO, airspace control order (ACO), air operations directive,
       special instructions (SPINS), OPTASKLINK, and rules of engagement (ROE) from the AOC,
       and transmits this information, if required, to the TACPs collocated with ground maneuver units.
       2.2.5.2. During execution of the ATO, the ASOC provides C2 for all missions tasked to the
       ASOC within the ground commander’s AO, and provides coordination, situational awareness
       and battlespace integration for air operations.
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                                   7


       2.2.5.3. The ASOC responds to changing situations by processing requests for immediate air
       support submitted by TACPs/JTACs sent to the ASOC primarily via the AFARN/JARN, or other
       means as the ASOC directs. Once the JTAR is approved by the ground force, the ASOC tasks
       allocated on-call missions or diverts (with supported commander approval) scheduled missions.
       The AOC will normally grant the ASOC control (launch and divert authority) of missions tasked
       to it on the ATO.
          2.2.5.3.1. If the ASOC has not been given control of on-call or scheduled missions, they
          must receive permission and instructions from the AOC to launch or divert air support
          missions.
2.3. ASOC Operations Personnel and Duty Position Descriptions. Operations personnel include
fighter duty officers; fighter duty technicians; intelligence duty officers; and intelligence duty
technicians. The duty position descriptions for ASOC Operations personnel are as follows:
2.3.1 ASOC Director. The senior ALO, normally the corps ALO, becomes the ASOC director and
exercises operational control (OPCON) of all subordinate TACPs. The ASOC director is the joint force
air component commander’s (JFACC’s) primary representative to the senior tactical ground commander.
   2.3.2. Assistant ASOC Director.         When deployed, the ASOS commander (or designated
   representative, e.g. ASOG Deputy Commander) acts as the assistant ASOC director, and performs
   overall supervisory functions of the ASOC and personnel resources.
   2.3.3. Fighter Duty Officer (FDO). The FDO is normally a rated officer (pilot, navigator or air
   battle manager), but may also be a senior 1C4XX (1C471 or higher). They are responsible for
   executing operational functions in the ASOC. The FDO performs the following duties:
       2.3.3.1. Senior Air Director (SAD). The Senior Air Director is the senior ASOC officer that
       oversees ASOC personnel, and is responsible for ASOC operations. The SAD acts as the
       primary operational liaison between the supported ground unit and the AOC on ASOC matters.
       The SAD assists the senior Corps/Division ALO with advising the senior ground maneuver
       commander on the proper integration of airpower, and coordinating air support requests (ASRs)
       through Army channels.
       2.3.3.2. ATO Manager (ATOM). The ATOM monitors CAS stacks; maintains situational
       awareness (SA) on the ground fight; assigns air missions to active joint tactical air strike requests
       (JTARs); maintains the status of the web air request processor (WARP) in the Theater Battle
       Management Core System (TBMCS); maintains tactical level liaison with the CAS Duty Officer
       (CASDO) at the AOC; maintains tactical level liaison with the FC duty officer in the Army
       command post (CP); and reviews target locations.
       2.3.3.3. Air Space Manager (ASM). The Air Space Manager, in conjunction with the Army
       AC2, assists in managing the airspace in the ground commander’s AO. This includes
       coordinating/using ACMs, FSCMs, and killboxes/joint fires areas; and maintaining SA on all
       missions under ASOC control. The ASM ensures ground fires and other supporting arms are
       deconflicted with ASOC controlled aircraft. The ASM maintains tactical level liaison with
       Army’s AC2, the FC and aviation duty officers in the Army CP, control and reporting center
       (CRC), AOC Airspace Control Cell, the AOC Interdiction Duty Officer, and the Corps/Division
       TACP Interdiction Coordinator. They also review target locations, and coordinate mission
       routing and target airspace.
   2.3.4. Fighter Duty Technician (FDT). The FDT assists the FDO with all his responsibilities. The
   FDT performs the following duties:
8                                                                            AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


       2.3.4.1. Crew Superintendent (CS). The Crew Superintendent is the senior enlisted 1C4 that, in
       conjunction with the SAD, oversees ASOC operations. The CS focuses on the technical aspects
       of the ASOC processes, ensuring the JARN and PC duty position personnel are effectively
       accomplishing their duties. The CS works with the ATOM to process immediate JTARs, and
       monitors the status of assigned TACPs and JTACs.
       2.3.4.2. JARN Voice Operator(s). This duty position manages the voice JARN system (i.e.
       UHF SATCOM and/or high frequency [HF]). They record and review immediate voice JTARs
       (hardcopy DD Form 1972) to begin the JTAR tasking process. The JARN Voice Operator
       passes the JTAR approval or disapproval (DD Form 1972 Section II or III data) back to the
       requestor. They notify the TACPs/JTACs when assigned aircraft have checked-in with the
       ASOC, and take mission reports from the TACPs.
       2.3.4.3. JARN Digital Operator(s). This duty position manages the digital JARN (i.e. TACP-
       Close Air Support System [CASS] to TBMCS). Through the WARP function in TBMCS, they
       review immediate digital JTARs (softcopy DD Form 1972 in WARP) to begin the JTAR tasking
       process. The JARN Digital Operator electronically passes the JTAR approval or disapproval
       back to the requestor. Additionally, they are responsible for recording JTARs received by other
       digital means (i.e. integrated work station [IWS]/Internet Relay Chat [IRC], email, joint
       automated deep operations coordination system [JADOCS], etc.) and entering these JTARs into
       WARP.
       2.3.4.4. Procedural Controller 1 (PC1). In conjunction with the ASM, Procedural Controller 1
       is responsible for the procedural control of assigned aircraft. PC1 coordinates with the CRC to
       accept aircraft hand-off, provides aircraft check-in briefs, and maintains SA on all ASOC
       controlled aircraft, including stack deconfliction. They must be able to communicate with
       assigned aircraft operating in their AO. The PC1 provides situational awareness to aircrews on
       Army supporting arms that are a factor to operations, situation update, 9-line, and targeting data,
       when available. Position may also be manned by a FDO. The situation update should include
       the unit mission, enemy disposition, threat activity in the target area, weather, friendly positions
       and current FSCMs/ACMs, whenever possible.
       2.3.4.5. Procedural Controller 2 (PC2). In conjunction with the ASM, Procedural Controller 2
       is also responsible for the procedural control of assigned aircraft. Their duties include relaying
       JTARs to aircraft once they are tasked, and ensuring these tasked aircraft receive a hand-off to
       the TACP/JTAC. They accept/provide aircraft check-out briefs, and ensure the aircraft receives
       a positive hand-off to a control agency upon check-out. The PC2 records Phase 1 battle damage
       assessment (BDA) or any other in-flight report and any JTAC mission effectiveness reports, and
       provides this information to the appropriate Intel agencies. PC2 coordinates with the CRC to
       provide hand-off of aircraft and directs aircraft back to CRC control. Like PC1, they maintain
       SA on all ASOC controlled aircraft, and Army air missions in the vicinity of ASOC missions.
       Position may also be manned by a FDO.
    2.3.5.    Intelligence Duty Officer/Intelligence Duty Technician (IDO/T). Intelligence personnel
    work with the FDOs and FDTs in ASOC operations as well as provide intelligence support to the
    ASOC Director. They operate various systems to assist them in the accomplishment of the duties,
    and establish and maintain close ties to AOC intelligence functions and aligned Army G2
    intelligence staffs.
       2.3.5.1. Monitor the battlespace, and deconflict/validate CAS requests with all targets on the
       joint integrated prioritized target list (JIPTL), as well as the restricted target list (RTL) and no-
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                                  9


       strike list (NSL). They conduct combat assessments, and are knowledgeable in the employment
       of ISR and Non-Traditional ISR assets and capabilities.
       2.3.5.2. Track enemy and friendly disposition, monitor order of battle, land component priority
       of fires, CAS allocation and priority, weather, and keep the ASOC aware of all threats prior to
       and during air operations. Intel personnel ensure the ASOC is equipped with an accurate and
       effective intelligence common operating picture (COP), and perform ad hoc tasks to provide SA
       to all ASOC personnel. They also ensure threat and AO updates are relayed to subordinate
       TACPs/JTACs and aircrew via PC 1.
       2.3.5.3. Intel specialists record BDA and other pertinent Mission Report (MISREP) data to the
       DD Form 1972 section III via WARP, and ensure BDA and MISREP data is channeled to the
       appropriate Air Force agencies.
       2.3.5.4. Coordinates with collocated Army intelligence cell (G-2), the ISR Division in the AOC,
       and intelligence personnel at the wing operations centers (WOC) and TACP for mission planning
       requirements. Maintain liaison with the AOC SIDO and G-2 ISR Cell for on-going ISR flight
       operations within the ASOC’s assigned area.
       2.3.5.5. Assist in the production of essential elements of information published in the ATO
       SPINS. They produce and disseminate effects summaries from in-flight reports and situation
       reports from deployed TACPs/JTACs.
       2.3.5.6. Fuse information from multiple sources to produce an ASOC common operating picture
       for better situational awareness.
2.4. ASOC Support Personnel and Duty Position Descriptions. Support personnel include
communications officers; satellite communications (SATCOM); communications/computer; ground
radio; personnel management, power professional; HVAC; supply; and vehicle maintenance specialists.
   2.4.1. Communications Flight Commander. The Communications Flight Commander is the officer
   responsible for integrating communications between the ASOC, Army and AOC. They manage and
   employ all communication and C2 networks, direct the operations of the maintenance control center
   cell, and oversee the ASOC support personnel. Manages the ASOC Gateway/datalink.
2.5. ASOC Integration.
   2.5.1. Mission Integration.    The ASOC, as part of the TACS, works with the AOC, CRC,
   subordinate TACPs, forward air controllers (airborne) [FAC(As)], airborne warning and control
   system (AWACS), and joint surveillance target attack radar system (JSTARS). The ASOC must
   coordinate directly with the elements of the Army Air-Ground System, specifically the Army
   FECC/FSE/FC, AC2, and the G-2, to establish good working relationships.
   2.5.2. Fire Support Integration. The ASOC must ensure the effects of air operations are closely
   integrated with the desired results of the ground commander’s scheme of maneuver. This requires
   ASOC operations personnel to be knowledgeable of the Army’s Military Decision Making Process
   (MDMP) and its possible/selected courses of action (COAs). This involvement includes assisting
   the Corps/division ALO/TACP in the development of ground force CAS priorities and SEAD
   contingency plans and ensuring the proper use of ISR and tactical airlift assets.
       2.5.2.1. Fires Cell (FC). Within the senior maneuver force commander’s staff resides the
       targeting function that supports air-to-ground operations. Shared battlespace must be
       coordinated with the affected ground force commanders to identify and integrate with supporting
       arms (ISR, Fires, airlift, etc.) posing a threat to the safe access of air component aircraft to the
10                                                                           AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


        target area. The FC has the delegated authority to clear all fires within the maneuver force
        boundaries. The ASOC and FC should have organic liaison personnel and communications with
        their respective cells. The FC integrates lethal and non-lethal targeting processes for the ground
        commander. The FC is responsible for target development, fire support planning and
        coordination, and electronic attack currently dispersed among multiple units and staff sections.
        Ground commanders delegate authority to the FC to conduct effects planning, recommend
        allocation of effects resources, and coordinate the supporting effects regardless of arm or service.
        The FC has electronic linkages to joint C2 systems, and receives joint personnel and equipment
        augmentation, when required. The FC could also be referred to as the Fires and Effects
        Coordination Cell (FECC) or the Fire Support Element (FSE).
     2.5.3. Army G-2 ISR Integration. Land force commanders normally use an interrelated process to
     enhance joint fire support planning and interface with the joint targeting cycle by a methodology
     known as decide, detect, deliver, and assess (D3A). D3A facilitates synchronized maneuver,
     intelligence, and fire support. Upon execution of the collections plan, ISR assets detect HPTs and
     firing units deliver fires on them in accordance with the commander’s guidance. The use of organic
     Army UAS assets for target acquisition and tracking presents a unique hazard to Joint Airpower
     integration requiring continuous ASOC coordination to ensure airspace deconfliction, Armed-FMV
     integration, and sensor-to-shooter support to aircrew.
     2.5.4. Airspace Integration. The ASOC coordinates airspace operations in the Army’s deep, close,
     and rear AOs.        This requires continuous involvement with AC2. The ASOC and AC2 will
     nominate ACMs through Army channels to the Battlefield Coordination Detachment (BCD) for
     inclusion in the ACO. The ASOC develops minimum risk routes (MRR) for safe passage of aircraft
     transiting through their AO, and coordinates aircraft routing from rear orbit/hold points to forward
     contact/initial points. The ASOC monitors all ACMs within its AO. The goal is to deconflict fixed-
     wing assets with Army assets maneuvering or firing within the AO while maximizing freedom of
     maneuver and operational effectiveness. The ACO, along with the timely execution of airspace
     coordination areas, forms the basis for procedural control that deconflicts and integrates air
     component assets. Additionally, the ASOC should ensure its contact points are within UHF radio
     range and situate their communications systems to maximize coverage throughout the AO.
     2.5.5. AOC Integration. The AOC is the senior operational-level TACS element responsible for
     planning, directing, coordinating, controlling and assessing air and space operations. The AOC
     exercises overall command and control of CAS aircraft. The ATO, ACO, and SPINS task,
     deconflict and integrate CAS aircraft. The ASOC is responsible for the coordination within its
     assigned area. The ASOC normally exercises TACON of joint forces made available for tasking by
     the AOC. The ASOC collaborates with the AOC through TBMCS, IRC, and digital/secure phone
     coordination with various combat operations elements, including the CASDO, SODO and SIDO.
     (see paragraph A2.2)
     2.5.6. AWACS Integration. The AWACS may provide aircraft hand-off and radio relay to the
     ASOC. It can communicate with the ASOC via secure, jam-resistant (e.g., HAVE QUICK II) UHF,
     secure very high frequency (VHF) voice, UHF tactical satellite (TACSAT) communications, and
     Link 16. The ASOC must plan and coordinate with AWACS air battle managers to effectively
     integrate aircraft flow and rapidly resolve airspace conflicts. The ASOC should always notify
     AWACS and the AOC immediately upon scrambling ground-alert missions. (see paragraph A2.5)
     2.5.7. JSTARS Integration. The JSTARS can provide the ASOC with enhanced battlefield SA to
     facilitate effective and responsive AI and CAS operations. It can communicate with the ASOC via
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                          11


  secure, jam-resistant (e.g., HAVE QUICK II) UHF, secure VHF voice, and UHF TACSAT
  communications. The ASOC or Army FC, if equipped with a Joint STARS Work Station, may be
  able to receive JSTARS moving target indicator and synthetic aperture radar imagery. (see
  paragraph A2.7)
  2.5.8.   CRC Integration.     The CRC may provide aircraft hand-off to the ASOC, and can
  communicate with the ASOC via UHF TACSAT, IRC, voice, and Link 16 communications links.
  The ASOC must plan and coordinate the CRC air battle managers to effectively integrate aircraft
  flow and rapidly resolve airspace conflicts. The ASOC will notify the CRC and the AOC
  immediately upon scrambling ground alert missions.
  2.5.9. TACP Integration. The ASOC must correlate TACP/JTAC location(s) with CAS tasking to
  ensure that JTACs are available at the right place and the right time to provide required terminal
  attack control. Additionally, TACP must report their status to the ASOC with sufficient frequency
  and detail for the ASOC to understand their operational capabilities and limitation and how the
  ASOC can support the TACPs.
  2.5.10. FAC(A) Integration. FAC(A), being an airborne element of the TACS, can provide the
  ASOC with the speed, flexibility and range to quickly get terminal attack control capability
  anywhere on the battlefield. The ASOC must provide the FAC(A) with all the information pertinent
  to operating area where the ASOC tasks them. When a TACP/JTAC is not already there, the ASOC
  must provide contact frequencies and callsigns of the ground commander and fires functions in
  addition to commander’s intent and scheme of maneuver.
  2.5.11.    TAC(A) Integration. The Tactical Air Coordinator (Airborne) is an extension of the
  ASOC. It is an airborne element of the TACS located far enough from threats and jamming to
  provide a communications relay between the ASOC, TACPs, and JTACs, and provides procedural
  control of CAS aircraft outside the communications range of the ASOC. The ASOC must provide
  the TAC(A) with all of the information pertinent to the operating area where the ASOC works with
  them.
12                                                                          AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


                                               Chapter 3

                                         ASOC OPERATIONS

3.1. ASOC Execution. The ASOC planning and coordination is meant to support ASOC execution. In
many instances, planning, coordination and execution will be occurring concurrently to minimize the
time from requirement identification to support on scene. To execute quickly and correctly and for
maximum effect, ASOC situational awareness of assets available, land component priorities and
pertinent coordination requirements must remain high.
     3.1.1. CAS Execution. Command and control of air component assets to execute joint fire support
     to meet land component requirements. Immediate CAS missions may be filled by on-call CAS,
     diverting scheduled CAS, or requesting AOC re-role aircraft tasked to perform another mission. The
     method depends on the ground commander’s priorities and available assets.
        3.1.1.1. Preplanned. Preplanned CAS are allocated CAS missions that the land component
        coordinated through their channels in time for inclusion in the ATO. Preplanned CAS requests
        are submitted IAW procedures outlined in theater SPINS and Army standing operating
        procedures (SOPs), and are normally submitted through the fires cell (FC) at each echelon of
        command, and coordinated through the commander, TACP, FC, and G-3/S-3 at each echelon.
        Ultimately, the requests are passed to the BCD in sufficient time for inclusion in the ATO. The
        important thing to remember about preplanned CAS is that the requesting forces must forward
        the requests up through the land component channels as soon as the need is identified.
        Preplanned CAS missions can be tasked on the ATO as either scheduled or on-call.
            3.1.1.1.1. Scheduled. Through the ATO planning process, scheduled CAS missions are
            designated a target and given specific mission information to meet planned ground force
            operations. Scheduled CAS missions are designed to be employed at a flow rate that
            complements the ground commander’s scheme of maneuver. Additionally, the ATO tasks
            these assets to support a specific ground element. This provides lower echelons with a CAS
            window and type of aircraft/munitions availability.
               3.1.1.1.1.1. Scheduled missions have all necessary information to find and contact the
               ASOC/TACP/JTAC. Normally, the aircraft will contact the airspace control agency
               (CRC or AWACS) prior to transfer to the ASOC. The JARN operator should query the
               TACP/JTAC for any mission updates prior to aircraft check-in and pass updates to the
               PC. The PC, in turn, will pass any necessary updates (mission or threat), route the
               aircraft to the assigned contact/initial point (normally via an MRR), and include call sign,
               number and type of any other aircraft working in the area, along with any other
               supporting arms activity affecting mission accomplishment.
               3.1.1.1.1.2. If the TACP/JTAC (on ground commander authority) cancels their scheduled
               CAS mission, the ASOC will need to look for an alternate target or killbox for the
               mission. This may require the ASOC to place the mission into an orbit (procedural
               deconfliction) until the mission can be retasked (see paragraph 3.1.1.3 on CAS
               Divert/Retasking).
            3.1.1.1.2. On-call. On-Call missions identify an anticipated requirement for CAS to be
            available during a specific time period, and configured with ordnance for the anticipated
            target/desired effect. On-call missions will not have specific information on tasking in the
            ATO, and generally maintain two alert postures: ground alert (GCAS) and airborne alert
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                            13


        (XCAS). The ASOC will have to pair this mission to a specific air support request and relay
        mission details. As soon as the pairing is complete, the ASOC should relay mission details to
        the aircraft or preferably to the wing operations center, CRC and AOC prior to aircraft launch
        to provide aircrew the maximum opportunity for mission planning and target area study.
        Updates and aircraft routing should follow scheduled mission procedures once the ASOC has
        paired and passed mission details. While awaiting tasking, the ASOC should consider on-
        call aircraft’s capability to concurrently perform non-traditional ISR.
     3.1.1.2. Immediate requests. Immediate requests are requests that do not meet the time criteria
     for inclusion in an ATO. The land component must provide a relative priority of immediate
     requests against other immediate and preplanned requests for the ASOC to know how to allocate
     available air component assets. Immediate requests are passed directly to the ASOC primarily
     via the AFARN/JARN. The ASOC must coordinate closely with the FC to understand land
     component priorities among all requests and in light of published priorities of fires.
        3.1.1.2.1. JTAR Process. Typically, a JTAC sends the immediate JTAR to the ASOC via
        the AFARN/JARN. The JARN Operator receives and reviews the request. If there are any
        discrepancies or omissions, the request will go back to the sender for clarification. The
        request then goes to the IDO/IDT that checks the target information, threats, friendly
        locations, target environment, etc. Again, if there are any discrepancies or omissions, the
        request will go back to the sender for clarification. The request will then go to the ATOM.
        The ATOM will coordinate with the Army (FC, G-3 Air, or designated representative) for
        approval, and then match the request against an available CAS asset. When the Army
        approves or disapproves a request, the JARN Operator notifies the requesting JTAC
        immediately. The ATOM in turn notifies the ASM, who will then coordinate the routing and
        mission airspace for the assigned CAS mission sortie.
        3.1.1.2.2. Command levels between the corps/division and originating requestor may
        disapprove the request, with reason, over the AFARN/JARN. Silence, over the voice
        AFARN/JARN, is implied approval from intermediate echelons. If disapproved at the
        corps/division level, the ASOC notifies the TACP of the disapproved request with the reason
        for disapproval in section 2 of the JTAR. If approved, the ASOC sends the JTAC section 3
        of the JTAR, which includes mission number, aircraft call sign and type, number of aircraft,
        ordnance, and time-on-target.
        3.1.1.2.3. In summary, the ASOC processes a JTAR IAW ground commander’s approval
        and guidance, deconflicts the routing and target area (coordinates with Army AC2, G-2, and
        FC, and AOC), and then matches it against available CAS missions.                    Final
        approval/disapproval rests with the Army, either the ground commander or designated
        representative.
        3.1.1.2.4. Ground Alert CAS (GCAS). GCAS assets maintain a capability to takeoff under
        a specified launch time criteria. Normally, the AOC delegates scramble authority to the
        ASOC. The ASOC should scramble GCAS sorties, as necessary, to fill immediate requests
        or to backfill diverted pre-planned missions. The ASOC contacts the WOC and directs the
        aircraft to the CP/ROP where mission information and TACP hand-off occur. If the AOC
        retains scramble authority for ground alert aircraft, the ASOC must contact the AOC to
        request that aircraft be scrambled and sent to a CP/ROP. Coordinate with the FC prior to
        scrambling aircraft to confirm that known requests’ priorities are sufficiently high to
        outweigh potential future requests because once the aircraft launch they cannot launch again
14                                                                           AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


            until being refit and rearmed. Inform TACPs/JTACs, CRC and AC2 of scramble plans and
            time before assets will be on station.
            3.1.1.2.5. Airborne CAS (XCAS). XCAS are airborne assets that loiter at a predetermined
            orbit point awaiting tasking. If not tasked prior to a designated fuel state or end of
            vulnerability time, the aircraft must be tasked to a secondary target or killbox/ACM/FSCM to
            optimize air assets. Unpaired airborne on-call missions will probably be the most responsive
            available asset, but may not have optimum ordnance, sensors or target acquisition.
            Coordinate XCAS pairing to immediate requests with the FC. Inform TACPs/JTACs, CRC
            and AC2 of pairings.
        3.1.1.3. CAS Divert/Retasking. For immediate requests with a higher priority than pre-planned
        missions, when on-call assets are not available or cannot achieve the desired effect, the ASOC
        will coordinate with the FC to divert the pre-planned mission to the higher priority immediate
        request. With FC/ground commander approval, inform the pre-planned requester (TACP/JTAC)
        of the diversion and any plans to backfill the diverted assets. Inform all affected TACPs/JTACs
        of CAS divert plans.
        3.1.1.4.     Re-role Missions.      Should the ASOC exhaust all allocated assets or the land
        component submit immediate requests requiring specialized effects, the ASOC may need to
        request a re-role of other assets under AOC control to meet land component requirements. Final
        approval/disapproval authority for a re-role mission is at the AOC. Should the AOC re-role
        assets, the ASOC will have to provide re-roled aircrews with all mission details for planning and
        execution. Additionally, coordinate with the FC to fully integrate re-roled aircraft into the land
        component fire support plan.
        3.1.1.5.     Aircraft Check-in. ASOC must provide aircrew with pertinent information for
        mission accomplishment. The ASOC must inform aircrew of threats (enemy or environmental)
        within their working AO, land component’s priority targets, closest friendlies (if available), any
        friendly artillery missions (include impact coordinates, gun to target line, max ordinate) or other
        friendly supporting arms activity affecting their AO (ISR, EW, helicopters, etc.), other aircraft
        operating in the AO, and call sign, frequency and handover point of agency providing control
        and clearance of fire. This may include directing the mission aircraft from the CP/ROP to the
        appropriate IP for execution. For pre-planned missions, the ASOC only needs to provide
        changes or situation updates to ATO information and threat briefs. The ASOC should
        authenticate any aircraft not operating in secure modes after routing aircraft to prevent conflicts.
        The procedural controller normally receives the hand-off from the CRC and checks in aircraft. If
        out of voice radio range of the CP/ROP, the process can use Link-16 or the CRC, AWACS,
        JSTARS or FAC(A) to relay the pertinent information.
        3.1.1.6.    Aircraft Check-out. ASOC must understand and disseminate aircraft generated
        effects. Aircrew should pass mission results, including BDA, during check-out for the ASOC to
        document on the Inflight Report (JP 3-09.3) to indicate air component fulfillment of the land
        component request. ASOC must route aircraft to prevent conflict and to expedite the aircraft’s
        RTB for refit and rearm. The procedural controller normally notifies the CRC of the hand-off
        and checks out aircraft.
     3.1.2. ISR Execution. Many land component requests will include specified or implied requests
     for ISR support. ASOC personnel must anticipate and actively pursue ISR that enhance fulfilling
     land component support requests.
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                              15


     3.1.2.1. Collection Management changes.          ASOC intelligence functions must maintain
     situational awareness on available ISR assets and leverage their capabilities to enhance or fulfill
     land component requirements. The ASOC must maintain a close liaison with the AOC SIDO
     and request information available from AOC level ISR sources.
     3.1.2.2.     Non-traditional ISR options. Tactical level target acquisition and avionics systems
     include an inherent capability to provide ISR. The ASOC must leverage these non-traditional
     sources of ISR when the opportunity presents itself. The ASOC can use unpaired XCAS holding
     in CAS stacks, aircraft enroute to or from target areas and completed mission with time on
     station still available to meet land component ISR requirements without tasking additional air
     component assets.
  3.1.3.      Air Interdiction. AI missions are normally under the control of the JAOC and
  CRC/AWACS, however, AI missions short of the FSCL must be coordinated with the ASOC. The
  ASOC must coordinate with the FC, AC2, G2, and AMD to ensure safety of friendly personnel. The
  ASOC may be responsible for coordinating the opening and closing of killboxes or Joint Fires Areas
  for AI engagements. While the ASOC normally does not provide targeting information to AI
  missions, it may be required to do so for dynamic attacks. The ASOC is also responsible for
  tracking AI missions in their supported ground unit’s AO.
  3.1.4. SEAD Execution. Enemy air defense present a direct threat to the effective and efficient
  application of airpower. The ASOC should use all avenues to mitigate threats to CAS assets and
  other assets supporting the land component
     3.1.4.1. Pre-planned SEAD. ASOC should preview pre-planned missions for SEAD plans and
     allocated SEAD assets for mission scheduled into areas of known threats. Query TACPs if
     SEAD plans are inadequate.
     3.1.4.2. Pop-up SEAD. ASOC should request SEAD support for all pop-up threats that will
     affect known missions. First request SEAD support from organic land component assets before
     requesting theater level SEAD support from the AOC.
     3.1.4.3. Clearance of fire. If non-land component assets are providing SEAD support, the
     ASOC must plan how the assets will get clearance of fire to expend ordnance within the land
     component AO. The ASOC can request that the assets contact the JTAC to get clearance of fire
     from the local ground commanders or the ASOC can work clearance of fire through the FC. If
     requesting clearance of fire from the FC, provide attack axis, TOT window and launch altitude
  3.1.5. EW/IO Execution. EW/IO assets operating with the ASOC AO require procedural control
  and integration within the ASOC airspace. Transit routes or orbits and altitudes must mesh with
  other airspace users. The ASOC must maintain reliable communication contact in order to meet
  their procedural control responsibility
     3.1.5.1. Kinetic (leaflet drops, etc) and Non-Kinetic (Jamming) EW/IO effects must also be
     coordinated to allow freedom of action for Joint Air operations. IO effects may negatively
     impact other Counterland operations without coordination with the ASOC.
  3.1.6. CSAR and other specialized missions. CSAR or other specialized mission may require
  large volumes of airspace requiring ACMs that may not be under the control of the ASOC. ASOC
  planning must include any missions that will transit or have ACMs in the ASOC AO. The ASOC
  will coordinate with the AOC, CRC, and assist the on-scene commander as required/directed. Even
  though the ASOC will not have control, the on-scene commander or controlling agency may require
  the ASOC to coordinate land component clearance of fires for assets working there.
16                                                                           AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


     3.1.7. Airlift. Airlift is not an inherent function of the ASOC, but airlift/airdrop missions operating
     within the ASOC AO may require procedural control and integration from CRC hand-off to entry in
     their restricted operating area (ROA)/restricted operating zone (ROZ). Once in the ROA/ROZ, if
     aircraft are under ASOC control, the ASOC normally hands-off the aircraft to a terminal controller.
     ASOC airspace planning must incorporate all airspace users even if not under direct mission control
     of the ASOC.
     3.1.8. Air Tasking Order/Airspace Control Order/Special Instructions Dissemination. The AOC
     disseminates the ATO to the ASOC via TBMCS. If TBMCS is not available, the AOC may use
     other means, such as the secret internet protocol network (SIPRNET), the Army’s JADOCS, or
     AFATDS via the BCD to transmit the ATO. The ASOC parses the pertinent information from the
     ATO, ACO and SPINS, and if required, sends that information to their assigned TACPs. TACPs
     should be able to parse their own pertinent information from JADOCS or AFATDS.
3.2. ASOC Coordination. The ASOC mission to execute the Air Battle Plan requiring integration with
Army supporting arms and maneuver requires coordination crossing functional component boundaries.
To make timely and appropriate Airpower decisions, to include matching land component requirements
to airpower capabilities, the ASOC must have high situational awareness and be able to coordinate with
all affected agencies in near real time. This requires that the ASOC have systems capable of interfacing
into air and land component command and control systems.
     3.2.1. Systems. The ASOC must have and use systems that permit cross component collaboration,
     that can gain the situational awareness necessary to make well founded recommendations that
     correctly match air component capabilities to immediate land component air support requests, and
     systems that automate mission tracking to maintain all affected agencies’ SA.
        3.2.1.1. Collaboration. Tools include internet chat rooms, meetings/briefings, telephone calls
        and VTCs. Systems include, but not limited to, TBMCS Web applications (WARP, ESTAT,
        etc.), SIPRNET, JABBER, Adobe Connect, IRC, IWS, JADOCS Managers, VOIP/ROIP,
        Command Post of the Future (CPoF), and telephone switches.
        3.2.1.2. Common Operating Picture. The ASOC must maintain a common operating picture to
        maximize SA of its AO. The necessary information includes pertinent data from the land and air
        components on friendly/enemy orders of battle, maneuver boundaries, active FSCMs and ACMs,
        current reference points, current air tracks, target and air threat locations. Systems include
        JADOCS, C2PC, TBMCS WEBMAP, TACP-CASS, Falconview, and various ISR feeds.
        3.2.1.3. Automated mission tracking. TBMCS automated mission tracking displays the current
        Air Battle Plan execution, and provides all users with current information on the status and
        tasking of air component resources. ESTAT/WARP applications show available resources and
        permit automated matching of allocated air component resources to preplanned and immediate
        land component requirements. Each command and control center updates the system during
        mission progression. That information gives the ASOC necessary data to choose the best option
        for meeting dynamic situations.
     3.2.2. Internal Coordination. Prior to executing, the ASOC needs to share information, situational
     awareness, confer and reach a conclusion on the best course of action to take based on land
     component requirements and priorities. An internal ASOC chat room has proved successful as a
     collaboration tool to disseminate information across all positions rapidly. Each duty position should
     have input, but the final decision will rest with the SAD or in his absence the ATOM.
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                           17


  3.2.3.   External Coordination. The ASOC links the air component to the land component and
  melds the operational to the tactical. The ASOC has a requirement to coordinate with air and land
  command and control at operational and tactical levels.
     3.2.3.1. Land Component.
         3.2.3.1.1. FC/FECC/FSE. The ASOC must coordinate with the FC when changing planned
         resources or matching on-call assets to immediate requests. The ASOC must also get
         clearance of fire from the FC for air component assets employing ordnance not under the
         control of a JTAC.
         3.2.3.1.2. AC2. As the delegated land component authority for airspace, the ASOC must
         coordinate and integrate air component airspace requirements with AC2. Procedural control
         plans, reference points and ACMs needs close coordination with AC2 to ensure air and land
         components make maximum use of AO airspace.
         3.2.3.1.3. G2. Land component intelligence sources can provide a plethora of information
         on enemy ground order of battle and courses of action. Establishing, maintaining and
         enhancing links between air and land intelligence functions can only improve ASOC
         situational awareness and understanding of land component collection requirements.
         3.2.3.1.4. Ground Commander. As the delegated authority within maneuver boundaries, the
         ground commander initiates preplanned and immediate air support requests that creates a
         requirement for air support. The ASOC’s conduit for coordination with the ground
         commander is the TACP.
     3.2.3.2. Air Component.
         3.2.3.2.1. AOC. As the senior element of the TACS, the AOC does the operational planning
         that results in the allocated resources of the ATO. The ASOC needs to keep operational level
         decision makers’ situational awareness as high a possible by providing mission updates via
         TBMCS ESTAT/WARP.
            3.2.3.2.1.1. CASDO. As the designated manager of JFACC CAS assets, the CASDO is
            a key element for the ASOC to consult in recommending assets to the land component.
            The CASDO also acts as a conduit for the ASOC to leverage supplemental resources for
            SEAD, CSAR, tankers and re-role AI assets from other members of the combat
            operations cell.
            3.2.3.2.1.2. SIDO. As the designated operational manager of JFACC intelligence, the
            SIDO is a key element for the ASOC to consult when needing information and real time
            ISR. Since the JFACC is normally designated collection operations management (COM)
            authority, the CCO exercises COM for JFACC ISR assets. Through close coordination
            with the SIDO, the ASOC IDO/IDT can use the RSTA to ensure the supported land
            component has the necessary ISR assets available if/when an immediate request arises.
            In some cases, the SIDO can delegate COM for tactical ISR assets to the ASOC to assist
            the TACP, e.g. MQ-1.
            3.2.3.2.1.3. Airspace Management Cell. The airspace management cell of the AOC
            normally fulfills the JFACC assigned responsibility for Airspace Control Authority. In
            conjunction with AC2 the ASOC should coordinate ACMs and procedural control plans
            with the AOC airspace management cell in order for the ACO/SPINS to contain the
            necessary information for aircrew and controllers.
18                                                                         AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


            3.2.3.2.2. Aircraft/WOC. To optimize combat airpower and enhance safety of friendly air
            operations, the ASOC needs to create and coordinate procedural control plans that allocated
            aircraft can easily understand and execute. The broader the dissemination of their local
            airspace control plan through such vehicles as the ACO will permit aircrew and wings to plan
            more efficiently.
            3.2.3.2.3. TACP/JTAC. Mobile field units may not always have access to all C2 systems. It
            is incumbent on the ASOC to ensure subordinate TACPs/JTACs have all necessary
            information, to include ATO, ACO, and SPINS, in a useful format. This may mean that the
            ASOC parses and reformats ATO, ACO, and/or SPINS information and disseminates to
            subordinate TACPs/JTACs via secure and reliable methods. This may require using
            available land component systems such as JADOCS or AFATDS. War is a dynamic
            endeavor and the ASOC should query TACPs/JTACs on status and obtain situation updates
            about their tactical situation and equipment operability.
            3.2.3.2.4. CRC/AWACS/JSTARS. The ASOC must provide and get information from all
            other TACS elements. CRC and AWACS provide airspace information and aircraft handoff
            sequencing. JSTARS provides information on the dynamics of the ground situation. As a
            command and control node, the ASOC must work to maintain and provide high levels of
            situational awareness to all entities with which it has contact.
3.3. ASOC Planning. While TACP ALOs and JTAC have primary responsibility for planning air
support of ground forces, the ASOC must remain cognizant of these planning efforts and the criteria
applied in deciding on the approved course of action. Similarly, while the AOC has primary
responsibility for planning air operations, the ASOC must perform many planning functions in deciding
what capability to match to immediate air support requests.
     3.3.1. Understand the joint force commander’s objectives with associated operational-level effects
     and assessment indicators and the implications to ASOC Operations. The CONOPS will set
     priorities between and among the functional components that directly affect resources allocation and
     hence ASOC resource allocation real-time decisions of air support assets to land component
     requirements.
     3.3.2. Understand the land component air support requirement driven by the CONOPS, primarily in
     the Operational Fires section.
        3.3.2.1. Know land component objectives. The MDMP (See Attachment 3) will produce a five
        paragraph operations order (OPORD) or fragmentary order (FRAGO) that contains all critical
        information outlining ground commander’s intent, objectives, scheme of maneuver and fire
        support plan that drives the requirement for air component delivered joint fire support. ASOC
        daily planning starts with reviewing and understanding the current OPORDs and FRAGOs.
        3.3.2.2. Know land component priority of fire/fire support concept, and review land component
        target synchronization matrix. That same OPORD or FRAGO will either have paragraphs that
        spells out priority of fires among and between the various subordinate units or may have an
        Annex D that gets even more specific about joint fire support concepts. ASOC decisions must
        reflect these same priorities.
        3.3.2.3. Understand land component battlespace and its implications to ASOC operations.
            3.3.2.3.1. Unit maneuver boundaries and associated TACP/JTACs. ASOC planning must
            include a detailed understanding of the friendly order of battle and how the various maneuver
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                              19


         units will accomplish the scheme of maneuver. This ASOC planning also needs to correlate
         ground unit designation with associated TACP/JTACs.
         3.3.2.3.2. Fire support coordination measures. Permissive and restrictive fire support
         coordination measures will apply equally to all components whether the fire is ground or air
         delivered. The ASOC must know and then communicate these measures to aircraft and
         TACPs.
         3.3.2.3.3. Enemy ground order of battle. Equally important to understanding friendly order
         of battle is detailed knowledge of enemy order of battle that correlates unit designation to
         combat capability and equipment type.
         3.3.2.3.4. Know the Support Crew requirements for proper site location(s) for the TDC-
         ICAP equipment, and logistics areas for maintenance and personnel support.
         3.3.2.3.5. Know the requirements for the life support area site setup, and Army-provided
         requirements such as security, food, water, ammunition, and medical care.
  3.3.3. Understand the air component commander’s direction/intent and those resources allocated to
  support land component objectives from the AOD and ATO.
     3.3.3.1. Know the air component resources allocated to support land component from the AOD
     and ATO as driven by JFC apportionment.
         3.3.3.1.1. Know preplanned and on-call CAS resources. ASOC planning must discriminate
         between allocated missions that have already been planned and approved within ground force
         coordination channels and missions that the JFACC allocated to CAS but are on-call to meet
         emerging land component requirements. Preplanned missions have sufficient information
         within the ATO to find and contact their JTAC in order to complete their tasking, but will
         require updated information from the ASOC on factors impacting safe access to the target
         area. Supplemental information from the ASOC will improve mission accomplishment
         through situation updates and enhance safety of flight through procedural control integration
         and deconfliction with other airspace users. On-call missions, either XCAS or GCAS, will
         require additional information from the ASOC or other command and control agencies to
         provide fire support or create effects. By studying and understanding mission types, the
         ASOC can customize situation updates for aircrafts.
         3.3.3.1.2. Understand the capability and limitations of ATO allocated resources.
            3.3.3.1.2.1. Aircraft. Know aircraft data such things as speed, range, fuel capacity and
            primary mission/pilot proficiency to consider mission impact on time to reach a target
            area versus time available, number of engageable targets, loiter time in target area and
            time required to integrate into the ground commander’s fire support plan. Know the
            aircraft digital communications capabilities and addresses. Other important factors are
            susceptibility to air defenses (ground or air), available countermeasures and
            communications capability.
            3.3.3.1.2.2. Munitions (kinetic and non-kinetic). Know munitions data such things as
            specific number and type of munitions carried, guidance methods (precision, non-
            precision) and requirements (coordinate type, laser/thermal), effects of weather, weapons
            effects and ways to alter effects, danger close distance and potential impact on friendly or
            follow-on forces. GPS system accuracies based on current satellite configuration.
            3.3.3.1.2.3. Sensors and avionics. Know how the sensors and avionics available in
20                                                                           AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


               targeting pods, radars or munitions along with navigation and data links will assist in
               target acquisition and engagement.
               3.3.3.1.2.4. Enemy air order of battle/air defense. Know and understand the air defense
               threat of the ASOC AO and its impact on allocated aircraft types to include planning how
               to suppress threats prioritized by mission. Find this information in air component
               intelligence summaries.
            3.3.3.1.3. Identify pertinent supplemental support resources available.
               3.3.3.1.3.1. ISR, SEAD, EW, IO, AI/INT, Tanker, CSAR, Airlift. Know available assets
               and how to access their capability through the AOC divisions, cells or teams or other
               TACS agencies. The land component may require ISR, EW, IO, CSAR or airlift effects.
               Aircraft allocated to work with the ASOC may require SEAD, EW, Tanker or CSAR
               effects. AI/INT is a possible source should CAS priority require re-role of assets.
        3.3.3.2. Understand airspace as outlined in the ACP, ACO, SPINS, ADP and host nation
        procedures.
            3.3.3.2.1. ASOC lateral and vertical limits. The FSCL, unit boundaries and hand-off points
            will likely define the lateral limits of airspace where the ASOC will exercise procedural
            control. Know the vertical limits as well. The coordinating altitude is usually the ASOC
            floor and requires coordination with AC2 for aircraft working below that altitude. The upper
            limit depends on many factors, but it should generally not be less than 20,000 ft with at least
            10,000 feet of vertical altitude available. SPINS should contain information on altitudes,
            ingress and egress routes.
            3.3.3.2.2. Adjacent control agencies. Know the call sign and contact frequency or
            coordination method for all adjacent agencies, lateral and vertical. For air component
            frequencies, consult the SPINS. For land component frequencies, consult the command and
            signal paragraph of the OPORD.
            3.3.3.2.3. Applicable airspace coordination measures and reference points. Know and plot
            all ACMs within the vertical and lateral limits of the ASOC airspace. Know distances to
            important ACMs such as tanker tracks and MRRs. Know and plot orbit/hold points, contact
            points, hand-off/over points, TACP/JTAC initial points. Provide inputs as required to change
            ACO reference points. Coordinate with AC2 to understand land component airspace.
            3.3.3.2.4. Understand implications of current and forecast weather conditions for the ASOC
            AO, as well as the launch/divert base status. Knowing all the above, know how weather will
            affect/limit ASOC procedural control options and capability to safely route aircraft to and
            from tasking. Base weather conditions could affect aircraft availability and timing.
            Coordinate as needed with AWACS and CRC to mitigate any identified limitations. Air
            Force weather teams, collocated with ground forces, will have weather information available.
            3.3.3.2.5. Plan aircraft ingress and egress routing from hold/orbit points to TACP/JTAC
            contact/initial points. Use altitudes in accordance with the above and promulgated
            procedures in SPINS. Using all the above planning information develop aircraft ingress and
            egress routes and altitudes that minimizes potential conflicts and optimize the flow of aircraft
            into the land components battlespace.
     3.3.4. Understand joint, land and air components’ communications plans from J6, G6 and A6.
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                            21


       3.3.4.1. Know allocated frequencies. Use assigned frequencies to maintain connectivity with the
       AOC, TACPs, aircraft and assigned ground unit headquarters.
       3.3.4.2. Air control and tactical air direction nets.
          3.3.4.2.1. JARN/AFARN. Operate and disseminate JARN protocols.
          3.3.4.2.2. ASOC chat rooms. Create or find appropriate chat rooms to coordinate and
          execute each duty position. As a minimum, the ASOC should plan to have an internal chat
          room for coordination between crew positions and an external chat room to disseminate
          ASOC guidance or direction. The ASOC should be in an FC, CASDO, SIDO and
          AC2/Airspace Management Cell chat room, if established. Chat room organization should
          be identified in the component communication plans.
          3.3.4.2.3. Tactical data links. The ASOC must set up and use ASOC systems to establish
          and maintain data link connectivity. The ASOC is responsible for ensuring OPTASKLINK
          compliance by subordinate TACPs and JTACs, activating filters, evaluating link
          effectiveness, monitoring track exchanges, validating ad ensuring tracks are dropped when
          directed, and initiating data link messages onto the link when directed. The ASOC will also
          provide the TACP/JTAC with track numbers and update the Mission Planner file.
       3.3.4.3. Know command and control communications architecture. Communication flight needs
       to understand how they fit into the larger command and control network and what unique
       capabilities, such as TDC-ICAP, ASOC Gateway and TACP-CASS that they bring to their AO.
          3.3.4.3.1. Air component – reference SPINS and component communication plans.
          3.3.4.3.2. Land component – reference OPORD/FRAGO command and signal paragraphs.
3.4. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1972, Joint Tactical Airstrike Request




                                              RICHARD E. WEBBER, Maj Gen, USAF
                                              Asst DCS, Operations, Plans, & Requirements
22                                                                        AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


                                            Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Note: Air Force publications listed below can be found at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
 clicking on ―Departmental‖ and then selecting the appropriate document series (Publication or Special)
for the publication.

AFDD 2-1.3, Counterland Operations, 11 September 2006
AFDD 2-1.7, Airspace Control in the Combat Zone, 13 July 2005
AFI 13-114, Volume 1, Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) Training Program
AFMAN 33-363 Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 13-1, Theater Air Control System. 11May 1995
Note: The AFTTP 3-1 volumes listed below can be found at
http://www.naic.wrightpatterson.af.smil.mil/Documents/HANDBOOK/SXX00001/HTML/main.html
(classified site).
AFTTP 3-1, Volume 26, Tactical Employment; Theater Air Control System (TACS), 12 December 2005
AFTTP 3-1, Volume 30, Tactical Employment; JSTARS, 15 January 2007
Note: The AFTTP(I) publications listed below can be found at https://wwwmil.alsa.mil/, clicking on
―MTTPs‖ and then selecting the appropriate document.
AFTTP(I) 3-2.6, J-FIRE MTTP for the Joint Application of Firepower, 20 December 2007
Note: Access to Army Field Manuals (FM) requires use of an Army Knowledge Online account:
https://www.us.army.mil/appiansuite/login/login.fcc.
FM 3-0, Operations, 14 June 2005
FM 5-0, Army Planning and Orders Production (formerly FM 101-5), 20 January 2005
Note: The Joint Publications listed below can be found at http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/nipr_index.html
and clicking on ―Joint Publications‖ in the left-hand column.
JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms
JP 3-03, Joint Interdiction, 3 May 2007
JP 3-09, Joint Fire Support, 13 November 2006
JP 3-09.3, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Close Air Support (CAS), 3 September 2003;
C1 2 September 2005
JP 3-30, Command and Control for Joint Air Operations, 5 June 2003
JP 3-52, Joint Doctrine for Airspace Control in the Combat Zone, 30 August 2004
JP 6-0, Joint Communications System, 13 April 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC2—Airspace Command and Control (Army)
ACM—Airspace Coordination Measure
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AFARN—Air Force Air Request Net
AFATDS—Advanced Field Artillery Tactical Data System
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                 23


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AFTTP(I)—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (Interservice)
AI—Air Interdiction
ALE—Automatic Link Establishment
ALO—Air Liaison Officer
AM—Amplitude Modulation
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Area of Operation
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AOD—Air Operations Directive
ASM—Air Space Manager
ASOC—Air Support Operations Center
ASR—Air Support Request
ATO—Air Tasking Order
ATOM—Air Tasking Order Manager
AWACS—Airborne Warning and Control System
BCD—Battlefield Coordination Detachment
BDA—Battle Damage Assessment
C2—Command and Control
CAS—Close Air Support
CASDO—Close Air Support Duty Officer (AOC)
COA—Course of Action
COP—Common Operating Picture
CP—Contact Point
CRC—Control and Reporting Center
CS—Crew Superintendent
DAGR—Defense Advanced GPS Receiver
DD—Department of Defense
DEAD—Destruction of Enemy Air Defenses
24                                                                   AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


DOC—Designed Operational Capability
FAC(A)—Forward Air Controller (Airborne)
FC—Fires Cell
FDO—Fighter Duty Officer
FDT—Fighter Duty Technician
FECC—Fires and Effects Coordination Cell
FM—Field Manual (U.S. Army); Frequency Modulation
FSCL—Fire Support Coordination Line
FSCM—Fire Support Coordination Measure
FSE—Fire Support Element
G-2——Army component intelligence staff officer (Army division or higher)
G-3——Army component operations staff officer (Army division or higher)
GCAS—Ground Close Air Support
GPS—Global Positioning System
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HF—High Frequency
HMMWV—High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle
IAW—In Accordance With
IDO—Intelligence Duty Officer
IDT—Intelligence Duty Technician
IP—Initial Point
IRC—Internet Relay Chat
IWS—Integrated Work Station
JADOCS—Joint Automated Deep Operations Coordination System
JARN—Joint Air Request Net
JFACC—Joint Force Air Component Commander
JFLCC—Joint Force Land Component Commander
JFSOCC—Joint Force Special Operations Component Commander
JIPTL—Joint Integrated Prioritized Target List
JMMTIDS—Joint Moving Map Tactical Information Display System
JP—Joint Publication
JSOAC—Joint Special Operations Air Component
JSTARS—Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                        25


JTAC—Joint Terminal Attack Controller
JTAR—Joint Tactical Air Strike Request
KDU—Keypad Display Unit
LOS—Line of Sight
MAJCOM—Major Command
MBITR—Multi-Band Inter/Intra Team Radio
MDMP—Military Decision Making Process
MISREP—Mission Report
MRR—Minimum Risk Route
MTI—Moving Target Indicator
NAVSTAR—Navigation Satellite Timing and Ranging
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NSL—No-Strike List
NVIS—Near Vertical Incidence Skywave
OPCON—Operational Control
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PC—Procedural Controller; Personal Computer
PLGR—Precision Lightweight GPS Receiver
PPS—Precise Positioning Service
ROP—Rear Orbit Point
ROVER—Remotely Operated Video Enhanced Receiver
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance, Targeting and Acquisition
RTL—Restricted Target List
S-2——Army brigade or battalion intelligence staff officer
S-3——Army brigade or battalion operations staff officer
SA—Situational Awareness
SAD—Senior Air Director
SAR—Synthetic Aperture Radar
SAASM—Selective Availability Anti-Spoofing Module
SATCOM—Satellite Communications
SEAD—Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses
SIDO—Senior Intelligence Duty Officer (AOC)
26                                                                        AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


SINCGARS—Single Channel Ground to Air Radio System
SIP—Session Initiation Protocol
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Network
SOCCE—Special Operations Command and Control Element
SODO—Senior Operations Duty Officer
SOF—Special Operations Force
SOLE—Special Operations Liaison Element
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SPINS—Special Instructions
SPS—Standard Positioning Service
SSB—Single Side Band
TACP—Tactical Air Control Party
TACP—CASS—Tactical Air Control Party-Close Air Support System
TACS—Theater Air Control System
TACSAT—Tactical Satellite
TAD—Tactical Air Direction (Net)
TBMCS—Theater Battle Management Core System
TOD—Time of Day
UAV—Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
USAF—United States Air Force
UTC—Unit Type Code
VHF—Very High Frequency
WARP—Web Air Request Processor
WGS—World Geodetic System
WOC—Wing Operations Center
XCAS—Airborne Close Air Support

Terms
Operations Personnel—-Individuals assigned to an ASOC duty position with the following AFSCs:
11XXU, 12XXU, 13BXU, 14NX, 1C4X1, 1C5X1, and 1N0XX.
Support and Maintenance— Personnel--Individuals (other the Operations personnel) assigned to an
ASOC unit type code (UTC) duty position.
Tactical Air Control Party (TACP)—-A subordinate operational component of a tactical air control
system designed to provide air liaison to land forces and for control of aircraft. (JP 3-09.3) TACPs are
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                            27


the principal Air Force liaison elements aligned with Army maneuver units from battalion through corps
and consist of air liaison officers and joint terminal attack controllers. TACPs advise ground
commanders on the capabilities and limitations of aerospace power and provide the primary Air Force
terminal attack control of close air support in support of ground force. (AFDD 2-1.7)
28                                                                          AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


                                              Attachment 2
                                THEATER AIR CONTROL SYSTEM

A2.1. Theater Air Control System (TACS) Integration. The TACS, based on the tenet of centralized
control and decentralized execution, is well suited for CAS planning and execution through liaison with
the ground forces. In the AOC, CAS planning and execution is facilitated through integration of the
battlefield coordination detachment (BCD), special operations liaison element (SOLE), naval and
amphibious liaison element, and Marine liaison officer. Finally, the AOC CASDO works with the
ASOC to provide assets to the TACP or JTAC in the field who have the responsibility to direct the
delivery of weapons on target.
A2.2. AOC Combat Operations. The CASDO and the SIDO are normally the focal point for CAS
issues in the AOC Combat Operations Division. ASOCs work in close coordination with the CASDO
and SIDO for immediate CAS concerns with the AOC. The CASDO is often in charge of a CAS cell
made up of CAS experts, JTACs, or ALOs and is responsible for the following:
     A2.2.1. Monitors execution of the ATO to optimize support to the battle situation.
     A2.2.2. Ensures the WOCs for each asset are informed of changes in the ATO, and the WOCs
     coordinate their own changes with the AOC.
     A2.2.3. Remains in close contact with the ASOC via radio, phone, or secure Internet relay chat
     programs (e.g., IRC, IWS or Jabber).
     A2.2.4. Informs the senior operations duty officer (SODO) of potential deviations from the ATO.
     Additionally, up channels recommendations if inefficiency is noted in areas such as inappropriate
     munitions load, aircraft not flying primary mission, excessive tanker off load, and so forth.
     A2.2.5. Coordinates with the BCD to ensure the joint force land component commander (JFLCC)
     CAS objectives are being met.
     A2.2.6. Coordinates with the SODO and BCD to re-role AI missions to CAS, when necessary.
     A2.2.7. Ensures SODO/chief of combat operations is updated on killbox/ACM/FSCM status.
A2.3. Battlefield Coordination Detachment (BCD). The BCD is the JFLCC’s liaison to the air
component. The BCD represents the JFLCC and keeps the AOC informed of changing ground unit
locations, requests airspace control measures for the JFLCC, advises of shifting CAS priorities, receives
preplanned CAS requests, and aids in CAS request prioritization for ATO inclusion.
A2.4. Special Operations Liaison Element (SOLE). Like the BCD, the SOLE provides the same
functions for the special operations component command. Due to the nature of special operations forces
(SOF), it is imperative that deconfliction for airpower, especially in open Air Force killboxes/joint fires
areas or beyond the FSCL, is coordinated real-time with the SOLE.
A2.5. Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) Integration. The AWACS can provide
aircraft hand-off and radio relay to the ASOC. It can be connected to the ASOC via secure, jam-
resistant (HAVE QUICK II) UHF, clear VHF voice, and secure UHF SATCOM. The ASOC must
effectively plan and coordinate with AWACS via the air operations C2 net to integrate aircraft flow and
resolve airspace conflicts. The ASOC should always notify AWACS and the AOC immediately upon
scrambling ground-alert CAS missions.
A2.6. Control and Reporting Center (CRC) Integration. The CRC provides control of air assets,
provides aircraft hand-off to the ASOC or other controlling agencies (e.g. U.S. Marines’ direct air
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                              29


support center), and can be connected to the ASOC via HAVE QUICK UHF, secure VHF voice, and
secure UHF SATCOM links. The CRC also provides air defense warnings to the ASOC when required.
A2.7. Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) Integration. JSTARS can provide
the ASOC with enhanced battlefield SA to facilitate effective and responsive CAS operations. The
ASOC or Army FC, if so equipped, may be able to receive JSTARS moving target indicator (MTI) and
synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imagery. MTI is normally used to locate enemy units and potential
targets. MTI/SAR imagery can also be cross-checked with other real-time ISR feeds from unmanned
aerial vehicles (UAVs) and RC-135 Rivet Joint. The ASOC can also use the MTI display to correlate
friendly and enemy information attained from other sources used in the target prioritization process.
When required, the AOC can delegate limited ASOC functions to the JSTARS. It is imperative that an
Army G-3 element with CAS approval authority be in immediate radio contact with the JSTARS
mission crew. (For more information on JSTARS integration, see AFTTP 3-1.30, Tactical Employment
– JSTARS)
A2.8. Forward Air Controller (Airborne) [(FAC(A)]. Due to the inherent nature of airpower, the
FAC(A) brings several important advantages to the fight: rapid response, range, and agility on the
battlefield; broader situational awareness; good communications linkage with other elements of the
TACS; and an airborne perspective of the battlefield. When able to work in conjunction with JTACs,
the FAC(A) complements the JTAC’s unique capabilities and perspective on the battle as an airborne
extension of the TACP.
A2.9. Tactical Air Control Party (TACP). The TACP is the principal Air Force liaison element
aligned with Army maneuver units from battalion through corps. The primary mission of corps through
brigade-level TACPs is to advise their respective ground commanders and staffs on the capabilities and
limitations of air, space and cyber power, and assist the ground commander in planning, requesting,
deconflicting, and coordinating CAS, air interdiction, airlift, and ISR. The battalion TACP provides the
primary terminal attack control of CAS in support of ground forces.
A2.10. Joint Special Operations Air Component (JSOAC). Although not part of the TACS, the
JSOAC maintains a small fleet of fixed- and rotary-wing assets for use by the joint force special
operations component commander (JFSOCC). Some of these aircraft, such as the AC-130, are capable
of performing CAS but may only be used if released to the JFACC for tasking.
   A2.10.1. Special Operations Command and Control Element (SOCCE). The SOCCE is subordinate
   to the JFSOCC, and performs C2 or liaison functions according to mission requirements and as
   directed by the JFSOCC. Its level of authority and responsibility may vary widely. It is the C2 focal
   point for CAS requests for SOF units in support of a conventional joint or Service force.
A2.11. Strike Coordination and Reconnaissance (SCAR). A mission flown for the purpose of
detecting targets and coordinating or performing attack or reconnaissance on those targets. Strike
coordination and reconnaissance missions are flown in a specific geographic area and are an element of
the command and control interface to coordinate multiple flights, detect and attack targets, neutralize
enemy air defenses and provide battle damage assessment. (JP 1-02) SCAR missions may serve as an
extension of the ASOC in areas where FAC-As are not available.
A2.12. Tactical Air Coordinator (Airborne) [TAC(A)]. An officer who coordinates, from an aircraft,
the actions of other aircraft engaged in air support of ground or sea forces. (JP 1-02) The TAC-A
serves as an extension of the ASOC. The TAC(A) may provide communications relay between the
ASOC and aircraft under its control, and may assist the ASOC by providing localized area control
between the ASOC and JTAC, such as during ―heavy traffic‖ CAS operations.
30                                                                           AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


                                               Attachment 3
                             MILITARY DECISION MAKING PROCESS

A3.1. General. While the ASOC is a primary C2 node in the TACS, it is also a customer of
information produced by the Army’s Military Decision Making Process (MDMP). The TACP is
primarily responsible for participating in MDMP; however, understanding the process provides greater
ASOC insight into actual ground force requirements. Furthermore, ASOC personnel may be required to
assist ALOs with the planning process as a tertiary ASOC function. Detailed information on the MDMP
can be found in FM 5-0, Army Planning and Orders Production
     A3.1.1. The Military Decision Making Process (MDMP) has seven steps. Each step in the process
     begins with an input that builds upon the previous steps, and each step has an output that drives
     subsequent steps.
A3.2. MDMP Steps. The seven steps in the MDMP are: Receipt of Mission; Mission Analysis;
Course of Action (COA) Development; COA Analysis; COA Comparison; COA Approval; and Orders
Production.
     A3.2.1. Step 1 – Receipt of Mission. The decision making process begins with the receipt or
     anticipation of a new mission, and is itself a six-part process that takes approximately 45 minutes.
     Typically, a corps may be planning for an operation 72 hours in advance, a division for 48 hours, a
     brigade for 12 to 24 hours, and a battalion for 6 to 8 hours; although based on the type of mission,
     time to execute could be compressed. Receipt of mission consists of staff alert (ALO notified),
     preparation (read applicable portion of HHQ notification), initial assessment conducted (determine
     resources and constraints), available time allocation, commander’s initial guidance issued (ALO
     assists), and warning order issued.
     A3.2.2. Step 2 – Mission Analysis. Mission analysis is the most crucial step of the MDMP.
     Mission analysis is a 17-step process (steps are not included in this document) which uses the
     METT-TC (Mission, Enemy, Terrain and weather, Troops and support available – Time available,
     Civil considerations) process to define the mission objectives. It is also the beginning of the process
     to determine possible courses of action. The ground commander will release the approved mission
     statement which will clearly define the unit’s mission.
     A3.2.3. Step 3 – Course of Action (COA) Development. After receiving guidance, the staff
     develops COAs for analysis and comparison. The commander’s guidance and intent focuses staff
     creativity toward producing a comprehensive, flexible plan within available time constraints. COA
     development consists of six steps:
        A3.2.3.1. Analyze Relative Combat Power. Typically accomplished by weighing the individual
        effectiveness of air and space platforms against anticipated enemy surface forces, including
        ADA threats and assigning numerical values in order to determine force ratios.
        A3.2.3.2. Generate Options. Develop the possible COAs.
        A3.2.3.3. Array Initial Forces. Identifies the total number of units needed, develops a base of
        knowledge to make decisions, and identifies possible methods of dealing with the enemy during
        scheme of maneuver development.
        A3.2.3.4. Develop the Scheme of Maneuver. Develops the scheme of maneuver, which
        describes how arrayed forces will accomplish the commander’s intent. The ALO assists in
        developing engagement areas, target areas of interest, triggers, objective areas, and obstacle plan,
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                               31


       and a movement plan. This also includes determining - at the division and brigade - who will
       work at the tactical operations center (TOC) and tactical command posts. For the battalion, this
       means determining where to place the forward-based JTAC teams.
       A3.2.3.5. Assign Headquarters. Staff assigns headquarters to groupings of forces, and creates a
       task organization.
       A3.2.3.6. Prepare COA Statements and Sketches. Involves development of COA statements and
       battle graphics sketches to clearly portray how the unit will accomplish the assigned mission.
3.2.4. Step 4 – COA Analysis (War Game). The COA analysis identifies the best COA based on the
commander’s intent. The war game is a disciplined process that attempts to visualize the flow of a battle.
During the war game, the staff begins to develop a detailed plan and determines the strengths and
weaknesses of each COA.
3.2.5. Step 5 – COA Comparison. COA comparison is a systematic method for choosing the best COA
from the developed COAs. The TACP must identify strengths and weaknesses associated with each
COA. The TACP must provide accurate Air Force data for inclusion in the Army decision matrix. The
planning team will decide the best means for employment of air and space power based on the decision
matrix. The TACP must compare, critique, and refine the plan based on the tenets of air and space
power.
3.2.6. Step 6 – COA Approval. The ground commander selects the optimum COA during this stage.
The staff will start the entire process over again if the commander rejects all developed COAs. The
approved COA is refined into a final plan and is normally the basis for the OPORD.
3.2.7. Step 7 – Orders Publication. Once the rehearsal results are known, the staff issues the OPORD
based on the commander’s final guidance. The commanders ensure each TACP and ASOC member
understands the plan and are prepared to implement it.
32                                                                         AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


                                             Attachment 4
                                COMMUNICATIONS LINKS/NETS

A4.1. Air Force Air Request Net (AFARN)/Joint Air Request Net (JARN). The AFARN/JARN is
the C2 link between the ASOC and subordinate JTACs for request and coordination of immediate air
support. The ASOC controls the AFARN/JARN and will activate and operate as many nets as necessary
depending on requirements, available equipment, and allocated frequencies. The normal mode for the
AFARN/JARN will be secure UHF SATCOM digital communication using TACP-CASS. The ASOC
must be capable of operating the AFARN/JARN (secure) on other radios or on other C2 systems (e.g.
HF, IRC, IWS, Jabber or TACP-CASS) when the tactical situation requires.
A4.2. TACP Administration (Admin) Net. This HF (VHF/AM backup) net is used to pass urgent
administrative, logistics, and command information between the ASOC and TACP elements. This can
also be accomplished using an Internet Relay Chat function or using the TACP-CASS digital Chat (via
TACSAT).
A4.3. Tactical Air Direction (TAD) Net. This UHF net (VHF or FM backup) is used by the ASOC,
TACPs or FAC(A)s for directing and/or controlling air support mission aircraft. The TACP is the prime
user of this net and is allocated specific frequencies to conduct tactical operations. The ASOC is also
authorized to enter this net to pass time-sensitive information. The TAD net should be reserved for time
critical terminal attack control information only. The list of TAD frequencies is published in the SPINS.
TAD frequencies may be secure or non-secure. Do not discuss the TAD frequency on a non-secure net;
use the TAD number.
A4.4. In-Flight Report Net. This UHF net is used for the airborne transmission of in-flight reports to
the elements of the TACS. Aircraft normally pass ASOC personnel an in-flight report when departing
the ASOC AO. In the case of degraded communications, the CRC, AWACS, or JSTARS can relay this
information to the ASOC.
A4.5. Tactical Air Control Net. The purpose of this net is to coordinate mission direction of airborne
aircraft under control of the CRC. The ASOC interfaces with the air control net through the command
and control net.
A4.6. Command and Control Net. This net may also be referred to as the air operations net or the air
defense command and control net. The air operations net interfaces with other ground and airborne
TACS units primarily through UHF SATCOM systems that are always secure. This net is used for
command traffic (normally from the AOC to the CRC, AWACS and JSTARS, including operations and
air defense warnings.
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                           33


                                          Attachment 5
                    AIR SUPPORT OPERATIONS CENTER EQUIPMENT

A5.1. General. An ASOC uses many different types of radios and equipment to aid in communications
and navigation.
A5.2. Radio Equipment. An ASOC has a combination of vehicle and man-portable radio systems to
use.
   A5.2.1. AN/MRC-144/AN/GRC-206 Communications System. The AN/GRC-206 communications
   pallet can be mounted in an M-series high mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicle (HMMWV). The
   consolidated system is referred to as an AN/MRC-144. The AN/GRC-206 communications pallet
   can also be mounted in an M-113 armored personnel carrier or an M-2 Bradley infantry fighting
   vehicle. The GRC-206 version 5 consists of two VHF/FM Single Channel Ground to Air Radio
   System (SINCGARS), a UHF/AM HAVE QUICK II, a VHF/AM, and an HF/SSB automatic link
   establishment (ALE); it may be remotely located up to 3 kilometers with no degradation. The GRC-
   206 version 6 cannot access HF/SSB ALE nets. Version 5 is principally designed to be placed at
   each TOC where remote operations are required. The specific radios used include the AN/VRC-83,
   AN/URC-113 and AN/VRC-91.
      A5.2.1.1. AN/VRC-83 (VHF-UHF). Two VRC-83s are mounted in the radio set. When
      configured for UHF operations, it is HAVE QUICK/HAVE QUICK II-capable. Secure voice is
      provided on both radios with the KY-57 or the KY-99A. The system is line-of-sight (LOS)
      limited.
      A5.2.1.2. AN/URC-113 (HF). The URC-113 is a pallet-mounted HF/SSB radio. When
      operated over short distances (30 to 300 miles), it is best used with a near vertical incidence
      skywave (NVIS) antenna. Secure voice is provided by the KY-99A. Signal reliability is limited
      by environmental and atmospheric conditions.
      A5.2.1.3. AN/VRC-91 (VHF/FM). There are two VRC-91 SINCGARS radio sets mounted in
      the pallet. The system is LOS limited.
   A5.2.2. Man-portable/Manpack radios.
      A5.2.2.1. AN/PRC-150 (HF). The AN/PRC-150(C) is an advanced HF-SSB/VHF-FM manpack
      radio that provides reliable tactical communications through enhanced secure voice and data
      performance, networking, and extended battery life. In addition to the HF capability, the
      transceiver’s extended frequency range (to 60 MHz) provides secure voice and data in the VHF
      band.
      A5.2.2.2. AN/PRC-113 (UHF-VHF/AM). The PRC-113 portable transceiver is HAVE
      QUICK/HAVE QUICK II-capable. The RT-1319B can be pallet mounted without any loss of
      operational capability. It is secure capable with the KY-57 or KY-99A. This system is limited
      to LOS only.
      A5.2.2.3. AN/PRC-117F Tactical Radio. The PRC-117F is a man-portable, tactical radio that
      weighs 15.9 pounds with batteries. It operates in the 30 to 512 MHz frequency range with
      embedded crypto in which COMSEC can be loaded. The radio is software programmable and is
      capable of multi-band communications in VHF-FM, VHF-AM, UHF-AM, and UHF-SATCOM.
      It is PSN-11/PSN-13 compatible for TOD transfer and coordinate display via the keypad display
      unit (KDU). The KDU is remote capable from the radio set up to 250 feet. It is SINCGARS SIP
34                                                                            AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


        and HAVE QUICK/HAVE QUICK II-capable. Power output is maximum 20 watts FM and 10
        watts AM. The UHF-SATCOM mode power output is 20 watts.
        A5.2.2.4. AN/PRC148 Multi-Band Inter/Intra-Team Radio (MBITR). The MBITR is a hand-
        held ruggedized radio that weighs less than 2 pounds with battery. It is capable of 30 to 512
        MHz continuous frequency coverage in the AM/FM spectrum with voice or data. It is
        SINCGARS SIP and HAVE QUICK II-capable. Power output is 5 watts continuous. With the
        low power output, satellite communications requires precise antenna orientation. A power
        amplifier is available and recommended for uninterrupted satellite communications.
A5.3. Navigation Equipment.
     A5.3.1. Global Positioning System (GPS). The NAVSTAR GPS provides continuous, real-time,
     all-weather, global, 3-dimensional navigation information. A GPS receiver needs to have line of
     sight to at least four GPS satellites to accurately calculate position, velocity and time. GPS provides
     two levels of navigation accuracy: the standard positioning service (SPS) (an unencrypted signal
     available to all users) and the precise positioning service (PPS) (an encrypted signal for US military
     users).
     A5.3.1.1. Datums. Geodetic datums define the size and shape of the Earth, as well as the origin
     and orientation of the coordinate system used to reference and map the Earth. Using the wrong
     geodetic datum can induce GPS position errors as great as or greater than all of the other types of
     GPS errors combined, as much as hundreds of meters. The standard for GPS receivers is the World
     Geodetic System-1984 (WGS-84) datum plane. For operations in the field, the user’s map/chart may
     be a datum plane different than WGS-84. It is imperative to recognize any datum mismatch
     scenarios and resolve the issue.
        A5.3.1.2. GPS Vulnerabilities. Adversaries may attempt to jam or spoof the GPS navigational
        signal. Additionally, friendly jamming operations may interfere with GPS receiver operations.
            A5.3.1.2.1. Jamming. Typically, jamming will prevent a receiver from locking onto the
            GPS signal during its initialization or signal acquisition phase. If the jamming is strong
            enough, it can cause the receiver to break-lock and cause the navigation solution to fail.
            Report unexplained GPS anomalies to the G-2/S-2 and AOC.
            A5.3.1.2.2. Spoofing. Spoofing is when the adversary provides deceptive GPS signals,
            thereby misguiding the GPS receiver with false location data. SPS receivers are very
            susceptible to spoofing because they rely on the unencrypted signals; PPS receivers using the
            encrypted signal are not. When operations permit, use the encrypted PPS signal.
     A5.3.2. PSN-13 Defense Advanced GPS Receiver (DAGR). The DAGR is the replacement GPS
     receiver for the PSN-11 Precision Lightweight GPS Receiver (PLGR). The GPS program office
     began replacing PLGRs with the DAGR in FY05 and plans to replace all fielded PLGRs by FY13.
     The Rockwell Collins DAGR is advertised to incorporate five times the capabilities and functions of
     the PLGR while reducing the overall size, weight and power requirements of the receiver. The
     receiver includes a graphical user interface which greatly enhances the user's effectiveness and
     safety. The DAGR also incorporates anti-jam/anti-spoofing improvements for enhanced protection
     and is the first U.S. program to include the next generation security device, the Selective Availability
     Anti-Spoofing Module (SAASM), for handheld GPS receivers.
A5.4. Tactical Air Control Party – Close Air Support System (TACP-CASS).
AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009                                                                                35


   A5.4.1. The TACP Close Air Support System (TACP-CASS) mission software package is the key
   integrating component of TACP/ASOC digital communications networks. At its core, TACP-CASS
   is a data base that processes and stores messages, target data, friendly tracks, ATO/ACO
   information, and Falcon View based maps and imagery. A graphic user interface allows operators to
   view maps, view imagery, compose messages, create new tracks, and other functions.
   A5.4.2. Although the same TACP-CASS program is loaded on computers fielded at all echelons
   from the ASOC down to the front-line JTACs, software configurations and permissions are changed
   to provide those functions required at each echelon of the TACP/ASOC C2 architecture. At the
   ASOC level, TACP-CASS receives air support requests over the JARN via UHF SATCOM or HF
   radio transmissions. TACP-CASS then automatically passes these requests through TBMCS to the
   web-based air request processor (WARP) application that allows ASOC operators to pair CAS
   missions with the air support request.
   A5.4.3. TACP-CASS is also a key component of the ASOC Gateway. TACP-CASS receives
   Target track information via UHF SATCOM from forward TACPs/JTACs, processes the
   information, and passes JTIDS formatted messages to the Gateway’s JRE software for transmission
   on Link 16 and SADL networks. Then, when Link 16 and SADL aircraft tracks are received by the
   Gateway, JRE forwards this information back to TACP-CASS for display in the ASOC and
   forwarding via SATCOM to forward TACPs and JTACs.
   A5.4.4. Finally, TACP-CASS provides LOS UHF/VMF digital communications with strike aircraft
   equipped with improved data modems using AFAPD message protocols (F-16C Block 40/50 aircraft
   and some attack helicopters), MTS protocols (AV-8B), and VMF protocols (F/A-18 now and A-10C,
   B-52, and F-35 in the future).
A5.5. Remotely Operated Video Enhanced Receiver (ROVER). The full motion video (FMV)
downlink provides the ground user the ability to gain real-time intelligence/targeting video for use.
FMV is passed to ground control stations and manpacks such as the ROVER III. The ROVER III
receiver system is comprised of an omnidirectional antenna, receiver/decoder/control unit, and laptop
utilized to receive the transmitter data and provide real-time video feed to the user. Although only a few
downlink-capable targeting pods are currently fielded, all Litening AT and Sniper XR pods will be
upgraded for downlink capability in the future. Platforms capable of transmitting FMV include
unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV)/remotely piloted vehicles (RPV), SCATHEVIEW C-130, P-3, AC-
130, and aircraft equipped with downlink-capable targeting pods, but future Litening AT and Sniper XR
pods will be downlink capable.
36                                                                            AFI13-114V3 1 JUNE 2009


                                               Attachment 6
                                ASOC INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

A6.1. ASOG Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) Responsibilities. The ASOC SIO will oversee and
ensure effective and efficient intelligence integration to ASOC operations. The SIO will ensure
intelligence personnel are prepared for ASOC intelligence duty position operations. The SIO will
ensure ASOC Intelligence Operators are trained with and provide other operators with the best available
intelligence information and materials to enhance readiness, facilitate planning and execute assigned air-
ground missions. The ASOC SIO must maintain balanced focus of both operational and tactical mission
support requirements.
A6.2. ASOC SIO Duties. The ASOC SIO will:
     A6.2.1. Provide tailored intelligence support based on training requirements in AFI 13-114, Volume
     1, Air Support Operations Center (ASOC) Training Program.
     A6.2.2. Establish programs with active lines of communication to all supported units to publish
     tailored intelligence training products for intelligence and operations personnel, such as:
     Intelligence briefs; Internal/External training briefs; etc.
     A6.2.3. Provide intelligence support to commanders and their staffs through current, relevant
     intelligence products and briefings, focusing on enemy capabilities, enemy tactics, enemy
     deployment/employment and the threat situation in the unit’s area of responsibility.
     A6.2.4. Monitor Intelligence Oversight training for all Intelligence personnel in the unit.
     A6.2.5. Oversee career progression and training for all intelligence personnel in the unit, including
     any assigned or attached intelligence Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA). Review every
     intelligence officer and enlisted performance report (OPR/EPR) and decoration produced within the
     unit to ensure the duties of intelligence personnel are properly reflected.
