                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                        WASHINGTON, DC



                                                                   AFI10-201_AFGM2014-01
                                                                   13 May 2014


MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: HQ AF/A3/5
      1630 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington DC 20330-1630

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training
System, 19 Apr 2013

COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Memorandum immediately implements changes
to AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, 19 Apr 2013. Changes include
guidance regarding the Designed Operational Capability (DOC) Statement, Basic identity Data
Element (BIDE) reporting, the Chemical, Biological Defense Readiness Training (CBDRT)
Report, Major Equipment Location (MEQLOCN) reporting, and tier waiver levels for wing level
and below to include FOA and DRU requirements. This guidance moves all functionally
specific reporting rule data to AF Tables, on the Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS)
website under References at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs, deletes the training method C
option 2 specific conversion tables, and deletes the term Direct Supporting Unit (DSU). It also
adds guidance for units to consider status of completion of quarterly/semi-annual/annual training
plans and apply the assessment to the overall C-level. Compliance with this publication is
mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the
information herein prevails IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. This
Memorandum applies to all Major Commands (MAJCOM), including Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and to the Air National Guard (ANG), Field Operating Agencies (FOA), and
direct reporting units (DRU). Guidance found in AFI 10-201 remains valid unless changed by
this Guidance Memorandum. Requests for waivers must be submitted through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or if a non-tiered requirement, to the
publication OPR for consideration. Submit supplements and change requests to the Air Force
Readiness Integration Division (AF/A3O-IR), 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC
20330-1480, Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), using the AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

The following paragraphs of AFI 10-201 are amended:
1.2. Unit Registry and Reporting Requirements. All units with a United States Air Force
(USAF) PAS code will be registered in SORTS. Units, normally squadrons, with a Unit
Descriptor Code (UDC) of combat, combat support, or combat service support within the PAS
record, are considered measured units. (T-0) These measured units are required to have a
SORTS DOC Statement in DRRS, on the DOC Statement tab within the Current Unit Status
(CUS) page, at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs (T-1), and report in SORTS (T-0).
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Functional Area Managers (FAMs) and Command Reporting
Organizations (CROs) have three months (six months for ARC) from the date of this publication
to submit and publish all DOC Statements in DRRS, via the Admin/Air Force Administrative
Interfaces/Manage and Approve DOC Statement functions (T-1). For further guidance on DOC
Statement development, see paragraph 1.7. Measured unit SORTS reporting begins after a unit
activates, the DRRS Core Mission Essential Task List is built IAW AFI 10-252, Defense
Readiness Reporting System, the DOC Statement is published on the DRRS CUS page, and
continues until the unit becomes inactive. Provisional and task organized units are also
considered measured units. The Service Component or Combatant Commander (CCDR)
directing the establishment of the unit will determine the organizational reporting structure.
1.2.1. DELETED
1.2.2. DELETED
1.2.3.2.2. DELETED
1.2.3.3.2. DELETED
1.2.3.4.2. DELETED
1.2.4. DELETED
1.3. Frequency of SORTS Reporting. AF units will report SORTS monthly, no later than
(NLT) the 15th of each month. AF units will continuously monitor changes in the overall C-
level, overall reason code, measured area levels, measured area reason codes, PCTEF data, Get
Well Dates (GWD), and unit location. AF units will report changes to any of the aforementioned
areas within 24 hours of the change. Units must verify that the report arrived in the database
within 24 hours of the event requiring the report. (T-0)

1.6. Information Reported in SORTS. Reference CJCSM 3150.02B for all mandatory data
fields and formats. Reference the Registration Table, in AF Tables on the DRRS Homepage



2
under References at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs, for the Authoritative Data Source (ADS)
to populate those fields and the applicable Coordination Office to resolve discrepancies.
1.6.1. through 1.6.7. DELETED
1.7. DOC Statement. The DOC Statement is for readiness reporting purposes. It provides a
measured unit a convenient single document listing information from all ADSs that determine
the pool of resources and training to measure in the readiness reporting system. The DOC
Statement, itself, is not a source document. The DOC Statement does not establish, organize,
design, equip, or task a unit. It is a centralization of information from several ADSs that do
establish, organize, man/equip, and task a unit. All automatically populated data on the DOC
Statement, in DRRS, comes from the ADSs; therefore, no additional staffing is required for the
CRO to publish it. In cases where the ADS supplies inaccurate data, action must be taken to
resolve the issue within the ADS. Reference the DOC Statement Table, in AF Tables on the
DRRS Homepage under References at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs, for the ADSs and
corresponding offices to resolve discrepancies. SORTS reporting continues during ADS
resolution efforts, and once resolved, a new DOC Statement shall be published (T-1). Pen/Ink
changes to DOC Statements are not allowed. All added notes/remarks must include the
authoritative source reference for the information. Notes/Remarks added to the DOC Statement,
using the Manage UTC Template function, will be prefaced with the applicable MAJCOM(s), as
well as the authoritative source reference for the information. In the measured area sections of
the DOC Statement, no specialized table data will be listed, including ESSA, ERSA, TRSA
and/or packet data. This data shall be listed in the AF Tables. Each measured unit, normally at
the squadron level, shall have a single DOC Statement listing all Mission Essential Tasks (T-1).
No two DOC Statements shall reference the same resources. All measured units shall have their
DOC Statement published in DRRS, on the CUS page, DOC Statement tab, with an effective
date no more than two years old (T-1). Additional information on how to draft, edit, submit, and
publish the DOC Statement can be found in the DOC Statement Users Guide on the DRRS
Homepage under References at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs.
1.7.1. through 1.7.4.3. DELETED
1.8.1. Deployed Resources Consideration. When projecting resource status for units fully or
partially deployed, units with mobility-only or dual (mobility and in-place/in-garrison) missions will
count all deployed resources as available, regardless of their current deployed location, as long as
they are mission ready and available within the response time (T-1). Units with in-place/in-
garrison only missions will count deployed resources as unavailable if the current deployed
location prevents the resources from returning/re-deploying within the unit’s response time
(T-1). Other exceptions are units with non-returnable equipment upon redeployment; these
units, once re-deployed, will no longer count that equipment on-hand because that equipment
is removed from their supply account, see Paragraph 4.10. Units normally assigned to
Geographic Combatant Commands; e.g., PACOM, having resources deployed outside their
CCDR’s area of responsibility (AOR), may have concerns that those resources cannot
accomplish their specified CCDR task(s) within the designated response time (only because


3
they are too far away, and not because they require additional personnel, equipment, or
training). DRRS is the means to highlight this type of concern; assess the specified CCDR
Mission Essential Task (MET) and provide remarks in DRRS explaining the unit’s reduced
capability due to assets deployed outside their CCDR’s AOR. This maintains SORTS as the
resource-based system and DRRS as the capability-based system. Units will consider the
following factors, as a minimum, when projecting unit resource status out to its response time
(T-1):
1.9.5. C-5. The unit is undergoing a Service-directed resource action and is not prepared, at this
time, to undertake the mission set for which it is organized or designed.
1.9.7. Assigning the Overall C-level. Based on unit readiness, unit commanders or designated
representatives, assign the Overall C-level each time it is reported. Normally, the lowest level
of the four measured resource areas is reported as the Overall C-level provided it is a realistic
indication of the unit’s readiness (based on the C-level definitions). The measured area data
cannot be arbitrarily changed from calculated values (must be reported per the specified formulas
and tables). If the lowest measured area level is not a realistic indication of the unit’s Overall C-
level, commanders may only lower the overall C-level and must provide a complete and detailed
explanation of why it is being lowered in the REASN remark. Commanders shall not assess up
(T-1). Higher echelons of command may add remarks to a unit’s SORTS report to further explain
a situation or deficiency but may not change subordinate unit C-levels. When assigning the
overall C-level, commanders shall consider assessing downward, if unable to meet the
requirements of their quarterly, semi-annual/annual training plan (e.g., Ready Aircrew Program
(RAP)) (T-1). For further guidance, see Paragraphs 2.4.3., 2.10.8.6 and 6.7. In addition,
commanders should consider the following factors when determining the overall unit C-level:
any support provided directly to your unit by another measured unit (e.g., maintenance unit
support provided to an aviation unit), inspection results, assistance team results, and program
readiness reviews. Units attaining an Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI) or Nuclear
Surety Inspection (NSI) Marginal or Unsatisfactory inspection result will consider lowering the
Overall C-level and providing remarks outlining deficiencies and resource improvement
timetables. The remarks should reflect training requirements and/or fix actions, as deemed
necessary from the inspection report, with expected completion dates. The commander will
provide rationale using the Overall Reason (REASN) remark label, when the unit is less than
C-1 (T-1). The following factors should also be considered:
1.9.8. Assigning C-5 as the Overall C-level. A parent MAJCOM may authorize use of C-5 for
units undergoing a service-directed resource action and which are not prepared to undertake any
portion of the mission set for which they are organized or designed. Units authorized to report
C-5 will continue to compute and report measured area P-, S-, R-, T-levels at least monthly unless
directed to do so more frequently by the parent MAJCOM (T-0). C-5 status will not exceed 18
months for Active Duty units or three years for Guard/Reserve units. C-5 cannot be reported in
any measured resource area. C-5 is only used when authorized by the parent MAJCOM and one
of the following conditions exists:



4
1.9.8.1. Unit Transition. Unit transitions include modernization/conversion of major equipment
(i.e., F-15s to F-22s), modernization/upgrade of software in major equipment (i.e., extensive
equipment testing/personnel user training), a change in a unit’s mission (which can be
accomplished without changing the major equipment involved), and/or a change in a unit’s home
station location (higher headquarters approval may be required). When a unit is undergoing
transition, C-5 may be authorized when the first measured area level would require an overall
C-4. Note: If reporting Overall C-5, units will continue to report current measured area P-, S-,
R-, T-levels (T-0). Units undergoing transition will report C-5 as the Overall C-level until the
new DOC is approved and all measured areas (except areas authorized to report C-6) have
improved to C-3 (T-2), and considering timelines in Paragraph 1.9.8. The FAM must notify the
CRO when a unit begins and completes a transition or major conversion so the readiness office
can update the ACTIV field in GSORTS.

1.9.8.3. Unit Inactivation. Inactivating units will continue to report SORTS measured areas
based on their current DOC Statement (T-1). Units may be authorized to report C-5 after the
first measured area requires an overall C-4. Units must continue to report SORTS until unit
inactivation is authorized by the publication of a command order (G-Series) and the SORTS
DOC Statement is rescinded (T-0). Once a unit has been inactivated, MAJCOM CROs will
ensure all pertinent unit data is removed from the GSORTS/DRRS database.
1.10.3.1.2. Establish an adequately manned readiness office and assign FAM responsibilities for
each measured unit type reporting in SORTS (T-1).
1.10.3.2. DELETED
1.10.3.2.1. DELETED
1.10.3.2.2. DELETED
1.10.4.13. MAJCOM/CROs will publish or reject the DOC Statement via the DRRS “Approve
DOC Statement” function under Admin/Air Force Administrative Interfaces, on the DRRS
Homepage at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs, within 10 duty days after the FAM submits it. If
rejected, the CRO will provide notes, explaining to the FAM what needs to be changed for
approval. ADS discrepancies shall not delay publication of DOC Statements, as long as the
FAM annotates resolution efforts in the Notes Section (T-1). The CRO assists the FAM
coordinate resolution efforts, along with the unit monitor. The CRO shall also ensure no
specialized table data is listed in the Measured Area Section, including ESSA, ERSA, TRSA
and/or packet data. This type of data shall reside in the AF Tables on the DRRS Homepage
under References (T-1).
1.10.5.4. Develops and submits new DOC Statements via the DRRS “Manage DOC Statement”
function under Admin/Air Force Administrative Interfaces, on the DRRS Homepage at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs (T-1). In cases where the ADS supplies inaccurate data, the


5
FAM takes action, in coordination with the MAJCOM/CRO and unit monitor, to resolve the
issue within the ADS. Reference the DOC Statement Table, in AF Tables on the DRRS
Homepage under References, for a list of corresponding offices to help resolve discrepancies.
This shall not delay publication of the DOC statement. The FAM shall annotate resolution
efforts in the Notes Section (T-1). Once ADS discrepancies are resolved, the FAM shall submit
a new DOC Statement (T-1). The FAM ensures all added notes/remarks are prefaced with the
authoritative source reference for the information. Notes/Remarks added to the DOC Statement,
using the Manage UTC Template function, shall be prefaced with the applicable MAJCOM(s),
as well as the authoritative source reference for the information. The FAM ensures no
specialized table data is listed in the Measured Area Section, including ESSA, ERSA, TRSA
and/or packet data. This type of data shall reside in the AF Tables on the DRRS Homepage
under References (T-1). The FAM also ensures all applicable approved/published DOC
Statements, in DRRS, have an effective date no more than two years old (T-1). In the event the
two year limit has been exceeded, the FAM will create and submit a new DOC Statement (T-1).
1.10.5.5. Ensures the DOC Statement accurately reflects the Core METL, based on that unit
type’s Core METL standard template. If inaccurate, the FAM coordinates with the unit to
correct the Core METL IAW AFI 10-252 (T-1).
1.10.5.6. When designated as lead FAM and no HAF FAM is identified, coordinates updates to
AF Tables on the DRRS Homepage under References at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs with
all other MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs with equity (T-1).
1.10.5.9 DELETED
1.10.8 DELETED
1.10.10.1.1. Review SORTS reports to ensure they are accurate, timely, valid, and complete.
This includes ensuring that remarks explain actions, circumstances, and/or situations impacting
the measured resource areas (T-3).

1.10.10.1.2. Establish procedures to ensure the reports, that are required to reach the
GSORTS/DRRS database within 24 hours, are not delayed (T-0). The 24 hour clock begins
with the event that causes the resource or training status change and ends when the report is
posted in the GSORTS/DRRS database.

1.10.10.1.3. Ensure Wing/Base SRO SORTS office is adequately manned (normally, two or
more 1C3X1 Command Post Journeymen, 5-level Senior Airmen, with at least one year
retainability) and GSORTS/DRRS data handling training is maintained to ensure uninterrupted
reporting during both peacetime and contingencies regardless of unit TDY and leave activities
(T-2).

1.10.10.2.2. Enters into SORTS, via the input tool, only that C-level data approved by the
commander of the measured unit (T-0). This includes the RICDA date data field, which cannot


6
be updated without a report, from the measured unit commander. The RICDA date reflects the
report “as of”’ currency date.

1.10.10.2.3. Maintains a current record of each subordinate unit’s GSORTS data (T-3). This data
must include, as a minimum, UIC, Unit Name, UDC, DOCID, Unit Location, BIDE UTC
(DEPID Code 9 UTC), MAJCOM, Overall C-Level, Overall Reason Code, Overall Reason
Remarks, Measured Area C-Levels, Measured Area Reason Codes and Remarks, and date of
report.
1.10.10.2.4. DELETED
1.10.10.2.4.1. DELETED
1.10.10.2.4.2. DELETED
1.10.10.2.5. Provides technical assistance to measured units (T-2).
1.10.10.2.6. As a minimum, conducts and documents initial SORTS training for subordinate
unit SORTS monitors (T-2). Documented training records must be maintained at the
Wing/Base level (T-2). The AETC Advanced Distributed Learning System (ADLS) AF
Readiness Reporting Course, once released, meets this requirement (T-2).

1.10.10.2.7. Conducts and documents commander initial SORTS training (T-2). (The
Commander will receive initial, normally within 60 days of assignment or before submitting a
SORTS report (T-2).)

1.10.10.2.8. Notifies the subordinate monitors immediately if discrepancies are found in unit
reports. Ensures SORTS monitors submit correction reports within 24 hours (T-0).

1.10.10.2.9. DELETED
1.10.10.3.1. Produces automated data products to serviced units that show in-garrison
requirements (e.g., in-garrison support plan), manpower authorization data from the Manpower
Programming and Execution System (MPES), and requirements to authorizations comparison (T-
2).

1.10.10.3.2. Notifies measured units as changes to requirements and authorizations occur. If
change negatively affects unit capability, works with MAJCOM FAM for fix action and get well
date (T-2).

1.10.10.3.3. Identifies requirement and/or authorization discrepancies (UMD/UTC comparison)
with unit deployment manager and jointly resolve mismatch issues with MAJCOM FAM for
resolution (T-2).
1.10.10.3.4. Provides UMD requirement data and analysis information to unit SORTS monitors


7
(T-3).
1.10.10.4. Supporting Force Support Squadron (FSS) Installation Personnel Readiness (IPR)
Office. Produces the SORTS Personnel Availability Roster, or similar document, listing
assigned personnel, projected inbounds, current official duty status, current DAV codes, and
provides personnel expertise regarding personnel deployment availability to measured and direct
support units, as required. The roster will be provided on a monthly basis in sufficient time for
commanders to use the product in finalizing their monthly SORTS report (T-3).
1.10.10.5. Wing/Base Civilian Personnel Office: Provides civilian personnel rosters to the
measured units, as required (T-3).
1.10.11.1.1. Designates, in writing, alternates who are capable of completing all SORTS
reporting actions in absence of the commander (not contractors) (T-0).
1.10.11.1.2. Appoints SORTS monitors, normally two or more, and ensures they are adequately
trained to perform SORTS duties, emphasizing the need for accuracy and attention-to-detail (T-
3). (The Commander and appointed monitors shall receive initial training, normally within 60
days of assignment or before submitting a SORTS report. The AETC ADLS AF Readiness
Reporting Course, once released, meets this requirement (T-2)). If one of the two monitors is
deployed, an alternate should be appointed.
1.10.11.1.3. Ensures report submissions meet established time lines and ensures uninterrupted
reporting during both peacetime and contingencies regardless of unit TDY and leave activities
(T-0). See Paragraph 1.10.4.7.
1.10.11.1.4. Ensures data reflected in the SORTS report adequately reflects the unit’s ability to
undertake the full-spectrum missions for which the unit is organized or designed (T-0).

1.10.11.1.5. Reviews remarks monthly for additions, changes, or deletions. Ensures remarks are
updated, along with the as-of-date for each remark, each time a full report or a partial report
containing remarks is submitted. Reviews data and remarks for quality and assigns an Overall
C-level based on the measured data and subjective factors in Paragraphs 1.9.7.1. through
1.9.7.5 (T-0).

1.10.11.1.5.1. When reporting less than C-1, whether commander assessed d o w n or not,
the unit commander will describe in a REASN remark what mission(s) or portions of the
mission(s) the unit is not performing, not capable of performing, and, if applicable, the reason
for assessing down (T-0).

1.10.11.1.5.2. Explains deficiencies in layman’s terms, addressing planned corrective
actions and a get well date, if determinable (T-0).

1.10.11.1.6. Each time a new report is processed, signify their review of their current database
by signing an SRO provided SORTS product that reflects the current data in the GSORTS


8
database (T-1).

1.10.11.1.7. DELETED
1.10.11.1.8. Maintains awareness of the DOC Statement on the CUS page and implications to
SORTS reporting by referencing the DOC Statement during the monthly reporting process (T-1).
1.10.11.1.8.1. DELETED
1.10.11.1.8.2. DELETED
1.10.11.1.9. Ensures personnel duty status (medical, leave, TDY, administrative action, etc.) is
monitored daily by designated support staff and changes are reported IAW AFI 36-2134, Air
Force Duty Status Program, as they occur (T-2).
1.10.11.1.10. Ensures that a process is established for the availability tracking of DoD civilians
reported in the unit's SORTS reports (T-0).
1.10.11.2.1. Unit SORTS monitors shall have a valid classified (SIPRNET) email address (T-0).
To handle SORTS problems at the lowest possible level and prevent circumvention of command
authority levels, Unit SORTS Monitors will initiate all contact with AF/A3O-IR through their
parent Wing SORTS Manager, MAJCOM FAM and MAJCOM SORTS Offices (T-2).

1.10.11.2.2. Prepare unit SORTS report after collecting information, extracting data from
existing records, calculating percentages and measured area levels, assigning reason codes,
and preparing remarks (T-0).
1.10.11.2.3. Advise the commander regarding ADS discrepancies, reflected on the DOC
Statement, and assist the FAM and CRO in resolution efforts (T-1).
1.10.11.2.4. Ensure reports are prepared and submitted monthly, NLT the 15th of each month (T-
0).
1.10.11.2.4.1. Validate unit data each time data is processed into the SORTS database (T-1).
Use a SORTS product, provided by the SRO or downloaded from the DRRS Dashboard, CUS
page, or B/I. Notify the SRO immediately if discrepancies are found (T-1).
1.10.11.2.4.2. Track discrepancies in subsequent reports to ensure they have been corrected (T-
1).

1.10.11.2.4.3. Ensure remarks contain all appropriate details such as AFSCs, part numbers,
get well dates, defined acronyms, etc. The reporting unit is responsible for deleting remarks
that are no longer required or reporting those remarks to be deleted to their SRO (T-0).
1.10.11.2.4.4. Verify personnel duty status accuracy with the FSS (T-3). Refer to AFI 36-
2134 for duty status reporting and program management guidance.



9
1.10.11.2.4.5. Ensure the unit commander is thoroughly briefed prior to obtaining his/her
signature on the unit SORTS report for release authority, advising of any discrepancies noted in
previous reports and actions being taken to correct them (T-0).

1.10.11.2.4.6. Ensure the commander approved reports are submitted through the Wing
SORTS manager, or submitted through necessary electronic media and accurately processed by
the GSORTS database, NLT than the 15th of each month (T-0).
1.10.11.2.4.7. Ensure an error-free SORTS report is submitted when all unit coordination has
been accomplished (T-0).
1.10.11.2.4.8. Review and provide commander with the SORTS report(s) of any unit providing
critical mission support (i.e. maintenance units supporting an aviation unit) to determine if a
lower overall C-level should be assessed due to any degraded capability of the supporting unit
(T-2).

1.10.12. through 1.10.12.2.5. DELETED
1.10.13.3. The AETC ADLS AF Readiness Reporting Course, once released, replaces the
SORTS Data Handlers Course.
1.11.1. Wing/Base SRO. Wing/Base SRO, normally the Command Post, will maintain the
SORTS readiness program during the transition to DRRS (T-1).
1.11.2. DELETED
2.3.1.1. Two units will not count the same resource(s) as available (T-1).
2.3.1.2. A unit’s Overall C-level will be based only on the resources and training organic
(assigned or allocated) to it (T-0).

2.3.1.3. Units calculate and report area levels for all four measured resource areas (P, S, R, and T)
unless exempted by Table 2.1 (T-0). Use only published objective criteria for measurement (T-0).
Do not subjectively raise or lower measured resource area levels (T-0).

2.3.1.4. Only measured unit commanders, or their designated alternates, can assign the unit’s
Overall C-level (T-0). Commanders report the lowest of the four measured levels as the Overall
C-level, unless factors like those listed in Paragraph 1.9.7. warrant a downward change (T-0).
2.3.1.6. Units not reporting a C-1 in all areas must clearly indicate the reason(s) (T-0). Refer to
Paragraph 2.10., for specific remark content requirements.
2.4. Forecasting Overall C-level Changes. Use this element whenever the Overall C-level is
not a “1”, is an assessed downward Overall C-level (C-2/3/4X), a C-level change is
predicted, or when the Forecast Date of Change (CADAT) expires. If concrete indications of
an impending change in the unit’s Overall C-level exist, forecast what C-level the unit will


10
change to, and the date the unit will change C-levels (T-1).

2.4.1. When a unit forecasts a change in its C-level, the unit must report the forecasted level in
the Forecast Change Rating (CARAT) field (T-0). Units must also report the forecasted date of
change in the CADAT field (T-0). When a unit reports degraded C-levels and it is unable to
forecast a change date, the responsible MAJCOM FAM must provide the unit assistance to
determine a best estimate forecast for insertion into the SORTS report. Forecasts are not required
for units reporting C-1 that expect no change. The CARAT and CADAT fields must be updated
every time a SORTS report is submitted (T-0).

2.4.2. In addition to the CARAT and CADAT field information, unit commanders will, at a
minimum, provide remarks that forecast expected C-levels at 3, 6, and 12 months from the time
of the report under the CADAT remark label (T-1). Unit commanders may add remarks, in
addition to the minimums listed above, forecasting C-levels beyond the 12 month look, as
desired. Use the following example for Forecast Remarks (T-1):
2.4.3. When the forecasted C-level change is due to the forecasted inability to meet
quarterly/semi-annual/annual training plan requirements (e.g., RAP), units shall preface forecast
remarks with “TRNG PLAN RQMT” and include the issues, impacts and fix actions in the 3, 6
and 12 month forecast remarks IAW Paragraph 2.4.2 (T-1).
2.5. Limiting Factor(s) (LIMFACs). A LIMFAC is a problem, deficiency, or condition that
decreases or prevents a unit from accomplishing its full-spectrum mission(s) for which it is
organized or designed, and which usually requires assistance from higher headquarters to
resolve. Within the scope of SORTS reporting, remarks must be created to address any
LIMFAC. Overall LIMFAC remarks will be reported under the Current Overall Category Level
(READY) label (T-0). More detailed LIMFAC remarks may be reported in the four measured
resource areas. Examples of LIMFACs include critical AFSC or equipment shortages, problems
with aircrew training, personnel experience levels, Mobility Readiness Spares Package (MRSP)
and In-garrison Readiness Spares Package (IRSP) pacing item shortages, etc.
2.6. Use of the Percent Effective (PCTEF) Field. PCTEF provides a subjective assessment of
the unit’s ability to execute its currently assigned mission(s), also known as its “A-Level”,
where “A” means “assigned”. Assigned missions can be a Named Operation, AEF deployment,
OPLAN execution, etc. PCTEF reporting is required for units that are preparing to deploy or
currently deployed and will be reported for full or partial unit deployments (T-0). However, units
will only report PCTEF if 5% or more of the unit is deploying or deployed (assigned personnel
and/or on-hand equipment) (T-1). PCTEF reporting is required no later than 120 calendar days
prior to the deployment or upon receipt of an appropriate order (T-0). Generally, a unit
commander receives assigned missions through a higher headquarters order or directive (e.g.,
Execute Order (EXORD), Prepare to Deploy Order (PTDO), Deployment Order (DEPORD), or
notification from Installation Deployment Officer, etc.). PCTEF reporting continues until
redeployment or release from the orders for the assigned mission (T-0). While an assigned
mission normally requires a unit to deploy away from its home station, PCTEF reporting


11
requirements can also apply to assigned missions which can be executed by a unit from its home
station location (e.g., Operation NOBLE EAGLE). PCTEF reporting is not required for training
exercises. When reporting PCTEF, a commander will only assess resources organic to the unit,
and the assessment will only consider those assets directly supporting the assigned mission (T-1).
For example, a unit might have 24 aircraft and 36 crews, but only 6 aircraft and 9 crews are
supporting an assigned mission. The commander’s PCTEF assessment would be for the 6 aircraft
and 9 crews, and their ability to execute the assigned mission. If a unit uses loaned equipment,
aircraft and/or personnel to complete an assigned mission, then the unit is meeting its assigned
mission requirement. However, any impacts to the unit’s ability to meet its full-spectrum
mission(s) (i.e., the situation that created the need for loaned resources) will be addressed via the
C-Level (T-2).
2.6.1. While reporting PCTEF, units will continue reporting overall C-Level (T-0). PCTEF, or
“A-Level”, will not necessarily correlate with a unit’s overall C-Level. For example, if the unit
has an assigned mission, PCTEF will capture the commander’s assessment against the current
assigned mission, while the overall C-Level will continue to assess the unit’s ability to execute
its full-spectrum mission(s) for which it is organized or designed.

2.6.2. For units with multiple assigned missions, the value (1-4) in the PCTEF field will reflect
the lowest A-level rating for the assigned missions (e.g., multiple assigned missions means a unit
with an Operation New Dawn and an Operation Enduring Freedom tasking) (T-0). However, the
unit commander will include a PCTEF remark for each assigned mission (T-0). If a unit has
resources preparing for an assigned mission, in addition to other resources already deployed for
an assigned mission, that unit will use the PCTEF field to assess its already deployed assets,
accompanied by commander’s remarks to show an assessment(s) of the other resources preparing
to deploy (T-1).
2.6.4. Commander’s remarks are mandatory when reporting in the PCTEF field. Using plain
text under the PCTEF label, identify the assigned mission (e.g., Operation New Dawn,
Operation Enduring Freedom), current status (deployed or preparing to deploy), percent of
resources (personnel and equipment) tasked to deploy or deployed, the deployment dates, a
description of any reduced readiness condition(s) for the assigned mission, and any action(s)
underway or planned to remedy the reduced readiness condition(s) to include a GWD, if
determinable. Format the PCTEF remark according to the example below (T-0):

2.7. Deployed Resources Availability. In SORTS, units with mobility-only or dual (mobility
and in-place/in-garrison) missions will count deployed assets (personnel and equipment) as
available, regardless of current deployed location (T-1). Units with in-place/in-garrison only
missions will count deployed assets as unavailable when the current deployed location prevents
assets return/re-deploy within the unit response time (T-1). Reference Table 2.4. for expanded
reason codes for partially deployed units. Other exceptions are units with non-returnable
equipment upon redeployment; these units, once re-deployed, will no longer count that
equipment as on-hand because that equipment is removed from their supply account, see
Paragraph 4.10. AF/A3O-IR, in coordination with the JS, will decide, on a case-by-case basis,


12
the extent of reporting for units deployed to operate in a stand-alone capacity, as a temporary
or provisional unit, and units which transfer, loan, or supplement personnel or supplies (e.g.,
resources turned in to personnel or supply system) from several units to form a temporary or
provisional unit. For considerations regarding unit response times, reference paragraph 1.8.
2.8.4. Current listing of all assigned personnel, including DoD civilians, and duty status from
supporting personnel office.
2.8.5. AF Tables on DRRS Homepage, under References at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil.
2.8.6 through 2.8.16 DELETED
2.10. Preparing Narrative Remarks. Remarks are a critical component of SORTS and are
required whenever a measured resource subarea percentage drives a measured area level less
than 1. See Table 2.4., Remarks Guidance Matrix. Remarks will highlight problem areas for
each individual label regardless of whether the reported percentage is the actual driver of the
overall C-level. Remarks will be written IAW with the following guidance (T-0):
2.10.1. Use remarks to give supplemental information concerning unit Overall C-level, or
measured area level, and SORTS LIMFACs. Remarks must be checked and verified for
accuracy each time any portion of a report is submitted. Revise content and remark date as
necessary to maintain validity. Remove remarks that no longer apply. If the same remarks from
the previous report remain valid, resubmit the remarks and update the remark date (T-1).
2.10.4.1. Write a remark using the PRRES label (Primary Reason Measured Resource Subarea
Level for Personnel not C-1) to discuss the personnel area when less then P-1 (T-0).
2.10.4.3. Regardless of P-level, if personnel shortages exist, identify them in a remark using the
PERTP rem ark label by listing each involved; AFSC, number of personnel authorized or
required, assigned, available, in upgrade training (UGT), the identifying personnel reason code
(PRC), corrective actions, and a GWD for each;
“AFSC/AUTH/ASGN/AVAIL/UGT/PRC/CORRECTIVE ACTIONS/GWD” (T-0). Include a
discussion of action(s) taken to resolve the problem. Use Chapter 3, Table 3.4., to indicate
applicable PRCs.
2.10.4.4. If critical personnel shortages exist, they will be identified in the PERTC remark label:
AFSC/AUTH/ASGN/AVAIL/UGT/PRC/CORECTIVE ACTIONS/GWD (T-0). If units packet,
the aforementioned format will be used for each packet.
2.10.5.1. Write a remark using the ESRES label (Primary Reason Measured Resource Subarea
Level for Equipment and Supplies not C-1) when equipment and supplies On-hand is less than S-
1. Ensure each subarea field, reflecting a percentage of “less than 90%” is described in the
associated remark label; e.g., ESSA1-9. Ensure remarks accurately reflect the specified reason
code (Table 4.3.) and contain all pertinent details such as readiness driver national stock number
(NSN), item data, get well date, kit serial number (as applicable), on-hand versus authorized


13
quantities, POC, etc. Remarks for each allowance standard equipment shortage resulting in a
LIMFAC must contain the NSN, quantity short, allowance source code, equipment account
number, and an account custodian POC (T-0).
2.10.5.1.1. DELETED
2.10.5.1.2. DELETED
2.10.5.1.3. For units that centrally store equipment or supplies for multiple units and are
responsible for reporting inventory and status of the equipment or supplies, then those units will
note that they centrally manage the equipment and will also list the stock-level percentage, by
regulation, it is required to maintain, within the remarks (T-1).

2.10.5.2. Write a remark using the Major Equipment Possessed (MEPSD) label to account for an
aircraft maintenance unit’s aircraft assigned but not possessed (T-1). Report the total number
of assigned backup aircraft inventory (BAI), the tail number and location of aircraft in
programmed depot maintenance (PDM) aircraft, on loan to or from another unit, and estimated
return date(s). In the aircraft summary, Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) units will report the
number of systems authorized, assigned and possessed.

2.10.5.3. Using the RICDA label, all SORTS reporting units will include a written remark
supplying the full rank and name of their primary and alternate SORTS monitors (T-1).
Minimum entry will include contact telephone number(s) and e-mail address(s). Also in the
RICDA remark field, the following measured units will report on non-CBRNE mobility bags
(Personal Protective Equipment A-bags and B-bags):
2.10.5.3.1. Units that maintain their own mobility bags use the following format (T-1):

2.10.5.3.2. Units that centrally manage mobility bags for other units, use the following format
(T-1):
2.10.5.3.3. Units that rely on another unit to centrally manage their mobility bags are not
required to report on these bags; use the following format (T-1):
2.10.6. For units providing rationale for the Equipment Condition area, write a remark using the
ERRES label (Primary Reason Measured Resource Area Level for Equipment Condition not C-
1) when equipment and supplies condition is less than R-1. Ensure each subarea field reflecting a
percentage “less than 90%” status is described in the associated remark label; e.g., ERSA1-9 (T-
0).
2.10.7.1. Write a remark using the TRRES label (Primary Reason Measured Resource Subarea
Level for Training not C-1) when the training condition is less than T-1. Write remarks for each
subarea reported as less than 85%; e.g., TRSA1-9 for units using Method C (T-0).
2.10.7.2. Regardless of training method, when multiple subareas are less than T-1, summarize
problems in a remark using the TRRES label. Ensure each subarea field reflecting “less than


14
T-1” status is described in an individual label remark, regardless of method used (T-1).
2.10.7.3. When current or forecast Air Education and Training Command (AETC) formal
training school allocation deficiencies exist, write a remark using the TRRAT label. Begin the
narrative remark with “AETC:” followed by the deficiency short title, and continue with a
detailed summary of current or future deficiency, the current status or action taken to resolve the
deficiency, additional actions required, and the impact on the unit’s ability to undertake its
wartime mission. Format the AETC formal training school allocation deficiency narrative
according to the example below (T-1):
2.10.8. Overall C-level data must be explained in a REASN label remark (Overall Reason Unit
Subarea is not C-1). The remark should summarize problems in sufficient detail to ascertain unit
readiness and prompt review of specific measured area remarks. The following situational
examples would require a remark (T-0):

2.10.8.6. When a unit is unable to meet the requirement of its quarterly/semi-annual/annual
training plan (e.g., RAP), units shall consider assessing downward in the overall C-level. When
the commander assesses downward for the training plan shortfall, overall REASN remarks shall
be prefaced with “TRNG PLAN RQMT” (T-1).

2.10.9. Using the RICDA label, all SORTS reporting units will include a written remark
supplying the full rank and name of their primary and alternate SORTS monitors (T-1).
Minimum entry will include contact telephone number(s) and e-mail address(s). Current DOC
Statement date will be included as the final line of text. EXAMPLE: (date) SORTS MONITORS
FOR THE 123XFW ARE PRIMARY TSGT JOHN DOE. ALTERNATES SSGT JANE DOE
AND A1C JAMES SMITH. DSN 999-8888/ 7777. E-MAIL 123XFW@EXAMPLE.AF.MIL.
Current DOC Statement date: DDMMMYY.
2.11.1. Assigning a PRC. Units must report a reason code against the Overall C-level using the
reason codes in Table 2.5., unless reporting C-1 (T-0). When partially deployed, use
D/E/F/G (T-0). See Table 2.7. for additional clarification on use of PRCs.

2.11.2. Reporting a PRC. The PRC will be entered in the REASN field (T-0).
2.11.2.2. If the Overall C-Level is changed to a lower level by the commander’s assessment, the
X reason code will be used (T-0). See paragraph 2.13. for reason codes.

2.11.2.3. If the Overall C-level is based solely on measured area calculations (REASN not X and
not C-1) and the unit is partially deployed, P, S, R, or T will be placed in REASN and the
D/E/F/G as described below will be placed in the SECRN field (T-0). For PCTEF guidance,
reference Paragraph 2.6.

2.11.2.4. If the Overall C-Level is C-1, there is no partial deployment reflected (no DEFG
needed), and one or more of the resource areas are not measured (reported as code 6), the 6
reason code will be used (T-0). No remarks are required for a 6 reason code.


15
2.11.2.5. If the Overall C-Level is capped by AF FAMs, (i.e., due to resource allocation) below
C-1, enter the maximum level possible in the Category Level Limitation (LIM) label for primary
missions Enter a P, S, R, or T in the Reason for Category Level Limitation (RLIM) label for the
area most affected by the resource allocation (T-1).
2.12. Assigning a Secondary or Tertiary Reason Code. If the Overall C-Level is changed to
a lower level by the commander, enter X in REASN field and assign a secondary code to
explain the primary reason for the decision to change the C-level (T-0) (See Table 2.7. for
additional clarification on use of secondary and tertiary reason codes).
2.12.1. When downgrading, use the applicable reason codes in Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter
5, and Chapter 6 (T-0).
2.12.2. SECRN and TERRN are mandatory if REASN equals X, Overall is less than 1 and assets
are deployed. D, E, F, or G is used in SECRN field, and proper reason code in TERRN (T-0).
2.13. SPECAP Data. SPECAP are special capabilities listed in the SMCC Table in AF Tables
on the DRRS Homepage under References at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs. The ADS for
SPECAP Data is the WMP-3 Part 1, Appendix C. The applicable codes are entered in the
SMCC 1 through 4 data fields.
2.13.1. through 2.13.3. DELETED
2.14. DELETED
3.1.2.2. Officers who have a critical AFS as their duty and/or primary AFSC, and enlisted who
have a critical AFSC as their control and/or primary AFSC are considered critical.

3.1.2.5. Critical Personnel Assigned (CPASG) is determined by counting the number of critical
personnel assigned to authorized positions on the UMD with the correct AFSC. An officer must
have the correct duty and/or primary AFSC and enlisted personnel must have the correct control
and/or primary AFSC compared to the critical position requirement on the UMD (T-1).

4.2.1.1. Additional and/or backup inventory in excess of the number authorized.

4.2.2. through 4.4.4.3. DELETED

4.6.4. through 4.6.4.4. DELETED

4.7.1. Select the lowest percentage value from EQSEE and EQSSE, then convert that percentage
into the equipment and supplies S-level using Table 4.2. If the S-level has changed since the last
report, enter it in the ESRAT label.




16
4.7.2. If the AF Tables, on the DRRS Homepage under References at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs, lists nothing to report for EQSEE and EQSSE, then S-6 is
reported in ESRAT and SNM in ESRES.

4.9. through 4.9.6 DELETED

4.11. DELETED

5.4.4. DELETED

5.5.1.2. Table 5.2 is used to convert the equipment condition area percentage into an R-level.

5.7.1 through 5.9 DELETED

6.1. Training. Training requirements for assigned personnel will be measured using Method C,
Option 1 (Unit Training; DRRS transition: Method A), Method B (Crew/Team Training; DRRS
transition: Method B), and/or Method C, Option 2 (CAF Training; DRRS transition: Method C).
To identify which units typically use which methods, reference the Training Method Reporting
Table found in the AF Training Tables on the DRRS Homepage, under References at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs. For all reportable training by unit type, reference the
Measured Training Table at the same link above. ARC units will not count newly assigned
personnel toward training calculations until they have completed either technical school (for
AFRC units), or Basic Military Training (BMT) plus 12 weeks of federal military service (for
ANG units). Regardless of Method, if less than T-1, Table 6.3 is used to determine the
applicable reason code entered in TRRES.

6.1.1. through 6.1.3.2. DELETED

6.2.2. The number of crews assigned is entered in the TCRAS field. The number of crews
trained or qualified mission ready, not limited to by-name formed or hard crews, is entered in the
TCRAV field. If ten or more crews are assigned, the percentage from the number of crews
trained divided by the number of crews assigned, multiplied by 100, is entered in the TRUTC
field. If nine or less crews are assigned, Table 6.1 is used to determine the percentage entered in
the TRUTC field. Table 6.2 is used to determine the overall T-level. If number assigned exceeds
number authorized on UMD or other-than-aircrew training requirements exist, status of training
for overages and other-than-aircrew AFSCs may be reported by AFSC in the TRRES remark,
until the Air Force Input Tool allows for multiple sub-areas/packets for Method B unit types.

6.2.2.1 through 6.2.4.3. DELETED

6.3. Method C, Option 1: Unit Training (DRRS Transition: Method A). For each training
type or event requirement within a sub-area, determine the percentage of assigned personnel
trained by dividing the number trained by the number assigned with that requirement. If less


17
than nine are assigned with the training requirement, Table 6.1 is used to determine the
percentage entered into the sub-area. The worst percentage from all sub-areas is entered into
TRUTC and Table 6.2 is used to determine the overall T-level. If number assigned exceeds
number authorized on UMD, status of training for overages may be reported in another sub-area.
If no other sub-area is available, status of training for overages may be reported by AFSC in the
TRRES remark.

6.4. Method C, Option 2: CAF Training (DRRS Transition: Method C). Reference AF
Training Tables on the DRRS homepage, under References, at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs,
to determine which units use this method and what to report in each TRSA, for example Basic
Mission Capable (BMC), Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and Special Capabilities (SPECAP)
requirements. For each crew position, the percentage trained is determined by dividing the
number trained/qualified by the number assigned with those training requirements and multiplied
by 100. For SORTS reporting purposes, aircrew on probation are not counted as trained. This
approach will best capture/tell the story of the health of aircrew training (telling it like it is),
when aircrew are not consistently flying the minimum sorties, missions, and/or events as directed
by their MDS Vol 1s and/or RAP Tasking Memos. If nine or less are assigned, Table 6.1 is
used to determine the percentage entered in the sub-area. For multiple position crews, the worst
crew position percentage becomes the overall percentage for the sub-area. The worst percentage
of all sub-areas is entered in TRUTC, and Table 6.2 is used to determine the overall T-level. If
number assigned exceeds number authorized or other-than-aircrew AFSC training requirements
exist, status of training for overages and/or other-than-aircrew AFSCs may be reported by AFSC
in another sub-area. If no other sub-areas are available, then the status of training for overages
and/or other-than-aircrew AFSCs may be reported by AFSC in the TRRES remark, until the Air
Force Input Tool allows for more sub-areas/packets for Method C, Option 2 type units.

6.4.1 through 6.5.5. DELETED

6.7. Units shall subjectively assess the status of progress in completing quarterly/semi-
annual/annual training plan requirements (e.g., RAP) and apply the progress assessment toward
their overall C-level (T-1). If unable to meet the requirements of the training plan, unit
commanders shall consider assessing downward in the overall C-level. When the commander
assesses downward for the training plan shortfall, overall remarks shall be prefaced with “TRNG
PLAN REQMT” (T-1). For further guidance, see Paragraphs 1.9.7, 2.4.3 and 2.10.8.6.

Chapter 7

CHEMICAL-BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE READINESS TRAINING (CBDRT) REPORT

7.1. CBDRT C-Level. All AF measured units are required to report the status of CBDRT,
concurrent with the resources readiness report (SORTS report), via RAS-IT/AF-IT. The CBDRT
is used to assess the unit’s ability to perform the mission(s) for which the unit was organized or
designed under chemical or biological conditions. The CBDRT includes an overall CBDRT C-


18
level, based on the worse of two measured areas, CBDRT equipment and supplies on-hand (S-
level) and CBDRT training (T-level). The CBDRT C-Level is listed in the CBDREADY field,
and if less than C-1, a reason is listed in the CBDREASN remark field. The applicable reason
code from Table 7.3 is listed in the CBDREASN field.

7.2. CBDRT S-Level. Reportable CBRNE defense/response equipment and supplies are listed in
the CBDRT Equipment Table, IAW AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management, and AFI 10-
2501, found in AF Tables on the DRRS homepage, under References, at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs. The overall CBDRT S-level is determined by the worst
percentage from six sub-areas listed in the table, dividing the number MRA by the total required
within each sub-area. The S-level is entered in the CBDESRAT field, and if less than S-1, a
reason is listed in ESRES remark field. The applicable reason code from Table 4.3 is listed in
the CBDREASN field. If a unit has no requirement for equipment within a sub-area, then “0” is
entered in that sub-area. Table 7.1 is used to change CBDESRAT percentage to S-level.

7.3. CBDRT T-Level. Reportable CBRNE defense/response training is listed in the CBDRT
Training Table, IAW AFI 10-2501, found in AF Tables on the DRRS homepage, under
References, at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/drrs. The overall CBDRT T-level is determined by
dividing the total number current in CBRNE training by the total number of assigned personnel
with the training requirement. The T-level is entered in the CBDTRRAT field, and if less than
T-1, a reason is listed in the CBDTRRES remark field. The applicable reason code from Table
6.3 is listed in CBDREASN field. Table 7.2 is used to change CBDTRRAT percent to T-level.

 Table 7.1. Changing CBDRT Equipment and Supplies Percentage into S-Level

     R                         A                                      B
     U     if the lowest of the CBD equipment               then CBDESRAT will be
     L                 and supplies
     E   on-hand percentage is in the range from
     1                    90 to 100                                      S-1
     2                     80 to 89                                      S-2
     3                     65 to 79                                      S-3
     4                      0 to 64                                      S-4




19
Table 7.2. Changing CBDRT Training Percentage into T-Level
 R                        A                                       B
 U   If the training percentage is in the range          then CBDTRRAT will be
 L                      from
 E
 1                   85 to 100                                        T-1
 2                    70 to 84                                        T-2
 3                    55 to 69                                        T-3
 4                     0 to 54                                        T-4

Table 7.3. REASN codes for CBDRT
 R                           A                                   B
 U          If the overall CBRNE C level is              Then the REASN code is
 L
 E
 1 Less than C-1 and the reason most effecting                    S
             C level is CBRNE equipment
 2 Less than C-1 and the reason most effecting                    T
         C level is CBRNE individual or unit
                         training
 3 C-5 and a resource area is reported as P-/S-                  N
                         /R-/T-6
 4               Not Reported by the Unit                        N




                                          JAMES J. JONES, Maj Gen, USAF
                                          Assistant DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements




20
                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
EO 13526, Classified National Security Information, 29 December 2009
DoDM 5200.01 V1, DoD Information Security Program: Overview, Classification, and
Declassification, 24 February 2012
DoDM 5200.01 V2, DoD Information Security Program: Marking of Classified Information, 24
February 2012
DoDI 5400.04, Provision of Information to Congress, 17 March 2009
CJCSI 3401.02B, Force Readiness Reporting, 31 May 2011
CJCSM 3150.02B, Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS), 25 March 2011
CJCSI 5714.01D, Policy for the Release of Joint Information, 18 April 2012
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012
AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives, 12 February 2003
AFI 10-209, RED HORSE Program, 8 May 2012
AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program, 6 September 2012
AFI 10-214, Air Force Prime RIBS Program, 27 February 2006
AFI 10-252, Defense Readiness Reporting System, 9 August 2012
AFI 10-2912, Aeromedical Evacuation Readiness Program, 10 January 2012
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
January 2007
AFI 13-1AOC Volume 3, Operational Procedures – Air Operations Center (AOC), 2 November
2011
AFI 13-1, AD Volume 3, Air Defense Command and Control Operations, 12 June 2009
AFI 13-1, CRC Volume 3, Operational Procedures – Control and Reporting Center (CRC), 21
January 2010
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting, 26 January 2012



21
AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, 7 March 2012
AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management, 8 August 2013
AFI 23-226, Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment (CWDE) Consolidated Mobility Bag
Management, 1 May 1997
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures, 2 May 2005
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 32-3001, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Program, 2 June 2011
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS), 24 May 2006
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 2 April 2008
AFI 36-2134, Air Force Duty Status Program, 8 October 2004
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
AFI 38-205, Expeditionary Manpower Management, 24 May 2012
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management, 1 July 2011
AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 February 1994
AFMAN 10-2503, Operations in a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield
Explosive (CBRNE) Environment, 7 July 2011
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 25 November 2011
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 8 November 2011
Prescribed Forms
AF IMT 723, SORTS DOC Statement
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACFTA—aircraft availability
ACM—advisory compliance message
ACTIV—activity code
ADCON—administrative control


22
ADLS—advanced distributed learning system
ADP—advanced data processor
ADR—air defense region and armament delivery recording
ADS—air data system and air defense sector, or authoritative data source
AE—Aeromedical Evacuation
AEF—Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFCAT—Air Force Catalog
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System
AFF—Air Force Form
AFFOR—Air Force forces
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AF—IT —Air Force Input Tool
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPDL—Air Force Personnel Desire List
AFSC—Air Force specialty code
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFTR—Air Force Training Record
AGE—aerospace ground equipment
ALC—air logistics center
ALCE—airlift control element


23
ALCF—air launch control facility
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMOS—air mobility operations squadron
AMS—air mobility squadron
ANAME—abbreviated name
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—air & space operations center
AOR—area of responsibility
API—aircrew position identifier
ARMS—aviation resource management system
ARUSD—spares assessment driver
AS—allowance standard
ASM—aircraft sustainability model
ASOC—air support operations center
ASUS—air support squadron
ATARS—theater airborne reconnaissance system
ATC—air traffic control
ATO—air tasking order
AUTODIN—Automatic Digital Network
AWADS—adverse weather aerial delivery system
AWP—awaiting parts
BAI—backup aircraft inventory
BAM—basic access module
BEAR—basic expeditionary airfield resources
BIDE—Basic Identity Data Element
BII—Base Information Infrastructure
BMC—basic mission capable
BW/CW—biological and chemical warfare
C-1X—assessed overall C-level
C2—command and control


24
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization and Custody Receipt Listing
CADAF—Forecast Subarea Date of Change
CADAT—Forecast Date of Change
CADS—Containerized Ammunition Distribution System
CAF—Combat Air Force
CALCM—conventional air launched cruise missile
CAM—chemical agent monitor
CANN—cannibalized
CARAF—Forecast Subarea Change Rating
CARAT—Forecast Change Rating
CATLIM—category limit
CBDRT—chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosive defense report
CBRNE—chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosive
CCT—combat crew training
CE—civil engineer
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CI—counter intelligence
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
C-Level—category level
CMR—crew mission ready and combat mission ready
COAF—country of international affiliation
COMM—communications
COMSEC—communications security
CONPLAN—concept plan
CONUS—continental United States
CPASG—critical personnel assigned
CPAUR—critical personnel required/authorized
CPAVL—critical personnel available


25
CPR—cardiopulmonary resuscitation
CPU—central processing unit
CR—contingency response
CRC—control and reporting center
CRO—command reporting organization or combat rescue officer
CRTCD—country code
CRYPTO—cryptographic
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
CSAR—combat search and rescue
CSERV—combatant commander/service command
CUS—Current Unit Status
CWD—chemical warfare defense
CWDE—chemical warfare defense equipment
DAV—Deployment Availability
DCAPES—deliberate and crisis action planning and execution segment
DCN—deployment control number
DCNDY—deployment control number (USAF)
DDMMMYY—day, month and year
DECON—decontamination
DEFCON—Defense Readiness Condition
DEFG—D, E, F, & G (deployed) reason codes
DEPID—deployment indicator
DEPORD—deployment order
DET—detachment
DHCP—dynamic host control protocol
DIFM—due-in from maintenance
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DMLSS—defense medical logistics standard support
DMS—defense message system
DNS—domain name service


26
DO—director operations
DOC—designed operational capability
DOCID—designed operational capability statement identifier
DOCNR—designed operational capability statement number
DoD—Department of Defense
DP—deep penetration
DRU—direct reporting unit
DRRS—Defense Readiness Reporting System
DSO—direct support objective
DSU—direct support unit
EA—electronic attack
EAP—emergency action plan
ECM—electronic countermeasure
ECU—environmental control unit
EDD—electronic data display
EDMX—expeditionary depot maintenance
EJB—enhanced jukebox
EO—executive order
EOD—explosive ordnance disposal
EQCONDN—equipment condition
EQRED—equipment condition support equipment percentage
EQREE—equipment condition combat essential equipment percentage
EQRET—equipment return date
EQSEE—equipment and supplies On-hand resource area for combat essential equipment
percentage
EQSSE—equipment and supplies On-hand resource area for support equipment percentage
EQSUPPLY—equipment and supplies On-hand
ERRAF—equipment condition resource area category subarea level
ERRAT—equipment condition resource area category level
ERRC—expendability, recoverability, reparability code



27
ERREF—primary reason equipment condition category subarea not C-1
ERRES—primary reason equipment condition category level not C-1
ERSA—equipment condition subarea
ESL—equipment and supplies listing
ES—electronic support
ESRAF—equipment and supplies On-hand resource area subarea category level
ESRAT—equipment and supplies On-hand resource area category level
ESREF—primary reason equipment and supplies On-hand subarea notC-1
ESRES—primary reason equipment and supplies On-hand not C-1
ESSA—equipment and supplies subarea
ETIC—estimated time in commission
EW—electronic warfare
EXDAC—expected availability category
EXORD—execute order
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FARP—forward area refueling point
FM—frequency modulation
FOA—field operating agency
FSP—forward supply points
FSV—frequency selective voltmeter
GAM—global aided munition
GAO—General Accounting Office
GBU—guided bomb unit
GCCS—global command and control system
GEODSS—ground based electro-optical surveillance system
GEOFILE—geographical location file code
GEOGR—geographical location of equipment
GEOLOC—geographical location code
GEONA—geographic name
GMF—ground mobile forces


28
GMFP—global military force policy
GPS—global positioning system
G-Series—command order
GSORTS—Global Status of Resources and Training System
GTACS—ground theater air control system
GWD—get-well date
HALO—high altitude low opening
HARM—high-speed anti-radiation missile
HE—high explosive
HF—high frequency
HOGEO—home geographical location
HTA—high threat area
HVAC—heating ventilation and air conditioning
IADS—integrated air defense system
IAW—in accordance with
ICAM—improved chemical agent monitor
ICBM—intercontinental ballistic missile
ICR—information collections and reporting reports
IDP—Integrated Defense Plan
IG—Inspector General
IIR—imaging infrared
IMA—individual mobilization augmentee
INMARSAT—international maritime satellite
IP—internet protocol
IPE—individual protective equipment
IPR—installation personnel readiness
IPS—information processing system
IRSP—in-garrison readiness spares package
ISSL—initial spares support list
ITN—information transfer nodes


29
IWB—inquire war reserve material balance
JAAT—joint air attack team
JAG—Judge Advocate General
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
JDAM—joint direct attack munition
JIT—just in time
JMO—joint maritime operation
JOPES—joint operational planning and execution system
JQRR—joint quarterly readiness report
JS—Joint Staff
LANA—low altitude navigation
LANTIRN—low altitude navigation and targeting infrared for night
LAPES—low altitude parachute extraction system
LIM—category level limitation
LIMF—category level limitation
LIMFAC—limiting factor
LIMS—EV – Logistics Information Management System – Enterprise View
LMR—land mobile radio
LNAME—long name
LNO—liaison officer
LOGDET—logistics details
LOGFOR—logistics force packaging system
LORAN—long range aid to navigation
LRS—logistics readiness squadron
LS/HD—low supply high demand
LTA—low threat area
MAJCOM—major command
MANFOR—manpower force packaging system
MAP—material availability percentage
MARC—mobile ALCE reaction communications


30
MASS—multiple access sequential selection
MC—mission capable
MCCC—mobile consolidated command center
MDS—mission-design-series
MDT—message display terminal
MEARD—major equipment authorized/required
MEASG—major equipment assigned
MEDLOG—medical logistics
MEL—minimum equipment list
MEML—minimum essential manning list
MEMRA—major equipment mission ready and available
MEPOS—major equipment possessed
MEPSD—major equipment possessed
MEQLOCN—major equipment location and crew information
MEQPT—major equipment
MESEN—designated item serial number
MET—Mission Essential Task
METL—Mission Essential Task List
MHE—materials handling equipment
MICAP—mission capable
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MILSTAR—military strategic and tactical relay system
MIS—maintenance information system
MISCAP—mission capability
MJCOM—major command (database identifier)
MMG—military maintenance group
MMHE—munitions material handling equipment
MMS—military maintenance squadron
MPES—manpower programming and execution system
MPF—Military Personnel Flight


31
MR—mission ready
MRA—mission ready and available
MRDSS—medical readiness decision support system
MRL—medical resource letter
MRSP—mobility readiness spares package
MS—mobile surgical
MSAS—mobility support advisory squadron
MSL—medical stock list
MTA—medium threat area
MTF—medical treatment facility
MTOE—modified table of organization and equipment
MTT—mobile training team
MWD—military working dog
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NAVAIDS—navigational aids
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NMCC—National Military Command Center
NMC—not mission capable
NOSC—Network Operations and Security Center
NSI—Nuclear Surety Inspection
NSN—National Stock Number
NVD—night vision goggle
O/H—on hand
O&STQ—Order & Ship Time Quantities
OCONUS—outside the continental United States
OL—operating location
OPCON—operational control
OPLAN—operation plan
OPORD—operation order


32
OPR—office of primary responsibility
OPSEC—operations security
ORGLOCN—general status organization and location
ORI—operational readiness inspection
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OSS—operations support squadron
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PAS—personnel accounting symbol
PBAS—Portable Biological Aerosol Sample Kit
PC—personnel computer
PCA—permanent change of assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PCTEF—Percent Effective
PDM—programmed depot maintenance
PEC—program element code
PEQS—primary equipment operational status
PERSTREN—personnel strength status
PERTP—total personnel percentage
P-level——personnel category level
PERTC—critical personnel percentage
PJ—pararescue specialist
PMAI—Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory
PMC—Partially Mission Capable
PNAF—primary nuclear airlift
POS—primary operating stock
PRC—primary reason code or personnel reason code
PRGEO—present geographical location
PRIME BEEF—Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
PRP—personnel reliability program
PRRAT—primary reason measured resource area level for personnel not C-1


33
PRREF—primary reason measured resource subarea level for personnel not C-1
PRRES—primary reason measured resource area level for personnel not C-1
PTDO—prepare to deploy order
PUIC—parent unit identification code
QRRC—quarterly readiness report to congress
RADIAC—radiation, detection, indication and computation
RAM—random access memory
RAP—ready aircrew program
RAS—readiness assessment system
RAS-IT —readiness assessment system-input tool
READY—current overall category level
REASF—overall reason unit subarea is not C-1
REASN—overall reason organization is not C-1
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
RFI—ready for issue
RICDA—date of change of category information
RICDF—date of change of subarea category information
R-level——equipment condition level
RLIM—reason for category level limitation
RLIMF—reason for category level subarea limitation
RPA—remotely piloted aircraft
RPI—rated position identifier
RPTDUIC—reported unit identification code
RPTNORG—reporting organization
RPTOR—reporting organization unit identification code
RSP—readiness spares package
SABC—Self Aid Buddy Care
SAM—surface-to-air missile
SAR—search and rescue
SART—strategic aircraft reconstitution team


34
SATCOM—satellite communication
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SBRPT—subordinate reporting organization
SBSS—standard base supply system
SCAMP—single channel anti-jam man-portable
SCPS—survivable collective protection system
SEAD—suppression of enemy air defense
SecDef——Secretary of Defense
SECRN—secondary reason organization not C-1
SEDY—support equipment status
SEI—system engineering and integration
SEQFR—support equipment forecast ready date
SF—security forces
SHF—super high frequency
SHORAD—short range air defense
SIPRNET—SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network
SLAR—side looking airborne radar
S-level——equipment and supplies On-hand category level
SMAA—special mission aircraft available
SMAC—special mission crews available
SMCC—special mission capability code
SMRA—special mission required aircraft
SMRC—special mission required crews
SOF—special operations forces
SOLL—special operations low-level
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SORTS—LIMFAC —SORTS limiting factor
SPEAR—Special Emitter Array
SPECAP—Special Mission Capability
SRO—subordinate reporting organization


35
SSB—single side band
STT—Special Tactics Team
STAMP—Standard Air Munitions Package
STANEVAL—Standardization and Evaluation
STE—secure telephone equipment
STU—Secure Terminal Unit
SUBOVRAL—Subordinate Overall C-level
TACAN—tactical air navigation
TACP—tactical air control party
TACS—tactical air control system
TARRP—Tactical Air Rapid Response Package
TASDAC—tactical secure data communications
TBA—Training Business Area
TBMCS—theater battle management core system
TCARQ—trained personnel authorized or required
TCP/IPC—transmission control protocol information processing code
TCRAS—trained personnel assigned
TCRAV—trained personnel available
TCTO—time compliance technical order
TDY—temporary duty
TEAFR—team status satisfactory forecast date
TEDY—assigned team status
TERREC—tactical electronic reconnaissance
TERRF—tertiary reason unit is not C-1
TERRN—tertiary reason organization not C-1
TFA—technology forecasting and assessment
TIBS—tactical Information broadcast service
T-level——training category level
TMTHD—training method
TPASG—Total Personnel Assigned


36
TPAUTH—Total Personnel Required/Authorized
TPAVL—Total Personnel Available
TPFDD—Time Phased Force and Deployment Data
TQT—task qualification training
TRANSFER—transfer status
TREAD—type of report (SORTS vs. CBDRT)
TROPO—tropospheric scatter
TRRAF—training measured resource subarea
TRRAT—training measured resource area
TRREF—Primary Reason Training Resources subarea not C-1
TRRES—Primary Reason Training Resource Area not C-1
TRSA—Training Subarea
TRUTC—Training Measured Area Percentage
TSART—tanker strategic aircraft reconstitution team
TSSR—tropospheric scatter (TROPO) satellite support radio
UDC—Unit Descriptor Code
UGT—Upgrade Training
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
UIC—Unit Identification Code
ULC—Unit Level Code
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
UPMR—Unit Personnel Manning Roster
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFCENT—United States Air Forces Central
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USCENTAF—United States Central Command Air Forces
USERID—user identification
UTA—UTC availability
UTC—unit type code


37
UTCFR—unit type code forecast ready date
UTE—user terminal element
VAL—vehicle authorization list
VHF—very high frequency
VI—visual information
WMD—weapons of mass destruction
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan
WPAAR—War Plans Additive Requirements Report
WRE—war readiness engine
WRM—war reserve material
WSMIS—Weapon System Management Information System
WSMIS—SAM —Weapon System Management Information System Sustainability Assessment
Module
Terms
Administrative Control (ADCON)—Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or
other organizations in respect to administrative matters such as personnel management, supply,
services, and other matters not included in operational missions of the subordinate or other
organizations.
Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS)— system used to manage equipment
across the Air Force
Alert Mission—The mission wherein trained operational crews maintain a combat-ready
mission or weapon system in readiness to perform the unit’s mission(s) within designated
reaction time in conjunction with planned application of other forces.
Allocation—The process to identify the applicable resources a direct support unit provides to
one or more measured units.
Allowance Standard (AS)—An equipment allowance document that prescribes basic
allowances for organizational equipment, and provides the control to develop, revise, or change
equipment authorization inventory data.
Apportion (Planning)—The resource made available to the commander of a unified command
for deliberate planning. Apportioned resources are used in the development of operations plans
and may be more or less than those allocated for execution planning or actual execution.
Apportionment (Air)—The determination and assignment of the total expected effort by
percentage and/ or by priority that should be devoted to the various air operations and/or
geographic areas for a given period of time.



38
Assigned Aircraft—Aircraft allocated to a unit by serial number on an assignment order
according to aerospace vehicle distribution directives.
Assigned Crews—The number of personnel who have signed into the measured unit and who
are or who will become part of a primary duty crew. The squadron commander and operations
officer can be counted as assigned for C-level reporting but not for crews formed as reported in
the MEQLOCN set.
Assigned Personnel—All US military and Emergency Essential DOD civilian personnel are
considered available to a unit regardless of AFSC, skill level or grade as long as they are not in
excess to the requirements of AFSC, skill level, grade, or authorized personnel restrictions.
Authorized Personnel—Those personnel authorized to a measured unit based on the UMD.
Available Equipment—Equipment availability depends on unit mission according to the
following:
1. Units with a generation mission may count possessed equipment on temporary deployment as
available if the equipment can be returned to the measured unit and prepared for employment
within the unit's response time.
2. Units with a mobility mission may count possessed equipment as available regardless of
location if it can be configured and packaged for deployment within the unit's response time.
Authoritative Data Source (ADS)—ADSs are databases that provide unit resource (personnel,
equipment) authorizations, personnel assignment and duty status data, equipment possession and
condition data, and training data for the unit.
Available Personnel—Personnel who can be physically present and ready to accomplish the
mission(s) within the unit response time. For units with mobility or dual missions, personnel are
counted as available, regardless of current deployed location, in SORTS. For units with in-
garrison-only missions, personnel are counted as unavailable if deployed outside the assigned
COMBATANT COMMAND’s AOR. Additionally, the unit commander determines availability,
if DAV codes apply, reference AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning.
Backup Aircraft Inventory (BAI)—Aircraft over and above the primary mission aircraft
inventory (PMAI) to permit scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, modifications, and
inspections and repair without reduction of aircraft available for the operational mission.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of a crew who has satisfactorily completed Initial
Qualification Training (IQT) prescribed to be fully qualified to perform the basic unit operational
missions but does not maintain CMR status.
Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR)—Equipment and supplies necessary for
establishing base for a variety of missions.
Category Levels (C—Levels) —A five-point scale showing the degree to which a unit meets
standards within the four measured areas.




39
Combat Air Forces (CAF)—Air Force units designed to and usually tasked to employ
ordinance on targets. These units include: Fighter, Bomber, and Missile (ICBM), and Special
Operations. Commands that are members of the CAF are ACC, AETC, AFRC, AFSOC, AFSPC,
ANG, PACAF, and USAFE.
Combat Essential Equipment—Combat essential equipment is one of two major categories of
equipment in SORTS. It includes the primary weapon systems or service-designated items of
equipment assigned to a unit to undertake its specified wartime mission.
Combat Forces—Those forces whose primary mission(s) are to participate in combat.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of a crewmember who has satisfactorily
completed MQT prescribed to be fully qualified to perform the basic unit operational missions
and maintains qualification and proficiency in these missions.
Combat Service Support Elements—Forces whose primary mission is to provide essential
capabilities, functions, activities, and tasks necessary to sustain all elements of combat and
combat support forces at all levels of war. Includes, but not limited to, Mission Support, Force
Support, Contracting, Wing Staff Agencies, Comptroller, and select FOAs providing reach back
support (e.g., AF Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA), AF Operations Group (AFOG), AF
Intelligence, and Surveillance & Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA).
Combat Support Units—Forces whose primary mission is to provide combat support to combat
forces and is a part or prepared to become a part, of a theater, command, or task force formed for
combat operations (e.g., munitions, maintenance, intelligence, weather, medical,
communications, etc.). Includes, but not limited to, Airlift, Refueling, Aircraft Maintenance,
Munitions, Security Forces, Rescue (Aviation), Numbered AF, Air Operations, Air Control,
Weather, Space (Operations, Communications, Reconnaissance, etc), Communications, Logistics
Readiness, Aerial Port, Aerospace Evacuation, RED HORSE, Prime BEEF (includes engineer,
fire emergency services (FES), EOD, and CE emergency management personnel), Intelligence,
Medical, and any FOA that has consolidated all of their resources and deploys them into theater
(e.g., AF Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI))
Combat Units—Forces expected to fire weapons, conduct reconnaissance, or engage in other
activities directly related to combat operations. Includes, but not limited to, all Fighter, Bomber,
Reconnaissance, Special Tactics, Rescue (Guardian Angel), Special Ops, Missile, and Airborne
Command and Control squadrons regardless of MAJCOM.
Commander’s Assessment—Unit commander’s evaluation of data (obtained through SORT S
measurement and/or information available to the commander outside the measurement system
that impacts the unit's ability to undertake the designed mission) and judgment on which C-level
best represents the actual readiness of the unit's ability to undertake the mission for which it was
organized or designed; commanders are only authorized to assess down.
Command Reporting Organization (CRO)—The MAJCOM agency that has direct
responsibility for SORTS.




40
Command, Control, Communications, Computer and Intelligence Systems (C4I)—
Integrated systems of doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment,
facilities, and communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and
control, through all phases of the operational continuum.
Composite Reports—SORTS reports constructed from data collected and reported by
subordinate units in their individual unit SORTS reports. While not allowed for units when
reporting at an Overall C-level (double counting), secondary and tertiary mission SORTS reports
(suboverall C-levels) may be composite reports using data reported on at least an Overall C-level
by subordinate units.
Control Air Force Specialty Code (CAFSC)—This code is used as a management tool to make
airman assignments, to assist in determining training requirements, and to consider individuals
for promotion.
Critical Air Force Specialty Code—An AFSC identified as essential to the launch, recovery, or
turn around of a unit's weapon system, or the direct accomplishment of the unit's specified
wartime mission.
Critical Personnel—Officers who have a critical Air Force specialty code (AFSC) as their duty
or primary AFSC and airmen who have a critical AFSC as their control or primary AFSC.
Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segment (DCAPES)—The Air Force
standard automated data processing subsystem of the Joint Operation Planning and Execution
System (JOPES), which is used by operations, logistics, and manpower/personnel planners at all
command levels, to develop and maintain force packages and task requirements for operation
plan Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data.
Deployable—Resources sourced to an OPLAN, CONPLAN, OPERATIONS PLAN 8010-FY,
or WMP in a SORTS DOC Statement.
Deploy/Deployment— To relocate a unit, or an element thereof, to a desired area of operations
or to a staging area. Deployment will be accomplished with all required personnel and
equipment. Deployment begins when the first aircraft, personnel, or item of equipment leaves the
home base. The force is deployed when the last component of the unit has arrived.
Deployed (for SORTS Assessment)—These resources are not currently at home station by
reason of execution of a properly authorized movement order or Joint deployment order.
Additionally, not recallable by a commander ’s Leave and TDY recall message. Normally,
deployment in support of training exercises or Joint exercises would not preclude recall or
release of forces by the exercising commander.
Designed Operational Capability (DOC)—A summary of a units mission and resources for
which it has been organized, designed, and equipped.
Desire List—An inquiry product run by the Military Personnel Flight (MPF) to reflect a listing
of levies tasked to a unit, and the unit personnel currently eligible to fill the requirements. The
Desire List is a flexible product in that various personnel aspects can be queried.



41
Direct Support Objective (DSO)—The supply support parameter used in both the Dyna-
METRIC and Aircraft Sustainability Models to indicate the minimum number of mission capable
aircraft necessary to generate a unit's required wartime sorties. The DSO is used in the
computation and assessment of Readiness Spares Packages.
Direct Support Unit (DSU)—Military organization whose resources are measured in SORTS
but are reported under the unit identification code (UIC) of another unit (e.g., aircraft
maintenance, pararescue, etc.). They are also called resource units.
Detachment—1) A part of a unit separated from its main organization for duty elsewhere and 2)
A temporary military unit formed from other units or parts of units.
Dyna—METRIC Microcomputer Analysis System (DMAS)—DMAS is a PC based spares
capability assessment program similar to WSMIS-SAM. On-hand spare parts data is gathered at
the unit level and the assessment process is done locally vice central processing provided by
WSMIS-SAM.
Element—The nomenclature used to account for manpower authorizations and to identify Air
Force personnel on duty with agencies outside the Air Force. Although not a unit for
organizational purposes, an element may function as a unit if so designated and a commissioned
officer eligible to command either assumes command or is appointed on orders as commander.
Employment—Employment involves the tactical use of aircraft in a desired area of operation. In
airlift operations it is the movement of forces into or within a combat zone or objective area,
usually in the assault phase. Also, it is the strategic, operational, or tactical use of forces and
materiel in an area or theater of operations.
Equipment—In logistics, all non-expendable items needed to outfit or equip an individual or
organization.
Equipment and Supplies On—hand—Equipment that is possessed by the unit. When
equipment is measured in the equipment and supplies on-hand measured resource area and
equipment condition is not measured for that asset, it must be operationally ready to
deploy/employ for the unit assigned mission.
Equipment Condition—The status of an item of equipment in the possession of an operating
unit that indicates it is capable of fulfilling its intended mission and in a system configuration
that offers a high assurance of an effective, reliable, and safe performance.
Extended Active Duty (EAD)—A tour of active duty (normally more than 90 days) by a
member of the Air Reserve Components (ARC). Strength accountability for persons on EAD
changes from ARC to the active forces. Members do not receive credit for active duty training
and active duty in a service academy or armed forces preparatory school.
Force Protection—the process of detecting threats and hazards to the Air Force and its mission,
and applying measures to deter, preempt, negate or mitigate them based on an acceptable level of
risk. FP is a fundamental principle of all military operations as a way to ensure the survivability




42
of a commander’s forces. The Air Force takes an integrated approach to FP in order to conserve
the force’s fighting potential.
Full Mission Capable—Material condition of an aircraft or training device indicating that it can
perform all of its missions.
Full Spectrum Mission—A unit’s home-station tasks combined, simultaneously, with
mobility/deployed tasks from assigned missions.
Functional Area Manager (FAM)—The FAM is the individual responsible for the
management and planning of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to
support wartime and peacetime contingencies.
Generation Mission—Wartime mission for which the measured unit will normally generate and
employ from its peacetime home station. Does not include the OPERATIONS PLAN 8010-FY
mission.
Get Well Date— date by which measured resource area or overall C-level reaches a “2” and/or
“1”. In most Joint forums, a category level of “1” and/or “2” is considered “ready”.
GSORTS—Global Status of Resources and Training System is the Joint version of the SORTS
system. For most Air Force purposes, it is synonymous with SORTS. GSORTS is also used to
refer to the Global Command and Control System tools for manipulation and retrieval of SORTS
data in the database.
In—garrison Generation—Performing all mission functions (employment) from the Home
location, including aircraft generation and launch, and security forces units. Does not include the
OPERATIONS PLAN 8010-FY mission.
In—garrison Readiness Spares Package (IRSP)—Spares and repair parts intended for use as
base support for units that plan to operate in-garrison during wartime considering the available
maintenance capability. IRSP represents the difference between the primary operating stock
levels expected to be available to the unit in wartime and its total wartime requirement.
Just—In-Time Training (JIT Training)—A training frequency created to identify highly
perishable, deployment-centric tasks warranting review and refresher training immediately prior
to deployment.
Logistics Detail (LOGDET)—The standard passenger and equipment movement requirements
for each UTC.
Logistic Force Packaging Subsystem (LOGFOR)—A MEFPAK subsystem that provides
equipment and materiel requirements and summarized transportation characteristics through its
Logistics Detail component.
Major Equipment—Combat essential equipment that is key to a unit's capabilities as defined in
its authorization documents and central to its ability to undertake its mission (e.g. an F-16 to an
F-16 squadron or transportable communications equipment to a combat communications
squadron).



43
Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging System (MEFPAK)—A data system designed to
support contingency and general war planning with predefined standardized manpower and
equipment force packages. MEFPAK, which operates in the command and control environment,
is composed of two subsystems: the Manpower Force Packaging System (MANFOR) and the
Logistics Force Packaging System (LOGFOR).
Manpower Force Packaging System (MANFOR)—The MEFPAK component which provides:
The title of the unit or force element and its unique Joint Chiefs of Staff unit type code. The
capability statement containing the definition of unit capability. The manpower detail by
function, grade (officers only) and Air Force specialty code required to meet the defined
capability.
Measured Units—Air Force active duty, Reserve, and Air National Guard units that are
registered in SORTS with a unit descriptor code (UDC) which identifies the unit as combat,
combat support, or combat service support.
Measured Units (Reporting Units)—All planned and actual JTF HQs, combat, combat support
and combat service support units of the operating forces, including Active duty, AF Reserve, and
Air National Guard, and provisional units apportioned to or deployed in support of a CJCS or
combatant command-directed OPLAN, CONPLAN, Service war planning document or assigned
in the “Forces For Combatant Commands” document are designated as measured units (units that
report SORTS).
Mission Capability Statement (MISCAP)—A short paragraph associated with each UTC that
describes significant employment information. The MISCAP briefly explains mission capability,
and states the types of bases to which a unit can be deployed (i.e., BEAR base, standby
deployment base, or limited operating base).
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training required to achieve a basic level of
competence in a unit’s primary tasked mission; a prerequisite for CMR and BMC status.
Mission Ready and Available (MRA) Aircraft—MRA aircraft have operational full system list
(FSL) or basic system list (BSL) items for the stated mission and are available within the
response time. The aircraft are configured with required suspension equipment, weapons are
uploaded, servicing is completed, and pre-flights are done. The major command determines
which list will be used, which items are required, and the aircraft configuration.
Mission Ready and Available Crews—Primary duty crews who are mission ready and
available to undertake the unit's specified wartime tasking. The measured unit commander
determines crew availability.
Mission Ready and Available Equipment—Equipment that is available and in condition to
perform the functions for which designed within the response time.
Mission Set—Any grouping of missions (EXAMPLE: All missions for which an organization is
organized or designed; chemical biological defense; conventional, nuclear; engagement, peace-
keeping/ peace-making; etc.).



44
Mobility Mission—A wartime mission for which the measured unit will normally mobilize and
deploy to another area of operation prior to employment.
Mobility Readiness Spares Package (MRSP)—An air transportable package of war reserve
materiel spares, repair parts, and related maintenance supplies required to support planned
wartime or contingency operations of a weapon or support system for a specified period of time
pending re-supply. MRSP may support aircraft, vehicles, communications systems, and other
systems as appropriate.
Notional Task—The condition of being prepared to execute a mission set against a planned
requirement that is in fact not tasked, but representative of a probable task in contingency or
deliberate planning actions. Units sourced to the Air Force War and Mobilization Plan against
apportioned requirements that are not currently tasked to any OPLAN, CONPLAN, or
OPERATIONS PLAN 8010-FY are notionally tasked to be able to deliver their Designed
Operational Capability within their response time if allocated to a crisis or sourced to a TPFDD.
Operational Control (OPCON)—Transferable command authority that may be exercised by
commanders at any echelon at or below the level of combatant command. Operational control is
inherent in Combatant Command (command authority) and is the authority to perform those
functions of command over subordinate forces involving organizing and employing commands
and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary
to accomplish the mission.
Operating Location (OL)—Part of a unit that is geographically separated from its parent unit. It
is used to account for personnel by location. Personnel remain assigned to the parent unit so the
command supervision or other features provided by a detachment are not needed. An OL has
none of the administrative attributes of a unit.
Operation Plan—A plan for a single or series of connected operations to be carried out
simultaneously or in succession. It is usually based upon stated assumptions and is in the form of
directive employed by higher authority to permit subordinate commanders to prepare supporting
plans and orders. The designation “plan” is usually used instead of “order” in preparing for
operations well in advance. An operation plan may be put into effect at a prescribed time, or on
signal, and then becomes and operation order (CJCSM 3150.02, Global Status of Resources and
Training System (GSORTS)). Plans are prepared by Combatant Commanders in response to
requirements established by the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff and by commanders of
subordinate commands in response to requirements tasked by the establishing unified
commander. Operation plans (OPLANs) are prepared in either complete format of an OPLAN,
or as a concept plan (CONPLAN).
Organic Equipment—Equipment authorized, required, and under the direct control of the unit.
Other— Any organization not designated as Combat, Combat Support, or Combat Service
Support.
Overhead Crew—A person or a group of people assigned or attached to the organization in a
status other than that of primary duty crew (e.g., wing training officers, safety officers,


45
maintenance officers, missile squadron commanders, etc.) who maintain mission ready status.
Overhead crewmembers WILL NOT be counted in the personnel or training C-level calculations.
Overall C—level—Commanders of measured units and operations officers who maintain
mission ready status may be counted in the personnel and training C-level calculations.
Pacing Item—An individual line item whose shortage more closely reflects support capability
rather than overall fill rates.
Possessed Aircraft—Aircraft for which actual responsibility has been given to a measured unit
for operational use. Aircraft temporarily absent but remaining under the operational control
(OPCON) of the measured unit are considered possessed aircraft. This includes aircraft
possessed by a unit’s supporting maintenance facilities until the aircraft are lost from the unit
according to AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting.
Possessed Equipment—Equipment for which the measured unit has been given actual
responsibility according to applicable supply regulations for operational use.
Primary Air Force Specialty Code—The awarded AFSC in which an airman is most highly
qualified to perform duty.
Primary Aircraft Authorization Aircraft—Authorized to a unit for performance of its
operational mission. The primary authorization forms the basis for the allocation of operating
resources to include manpower, support equipment, and flying hour funds (CJCSM 3150.02,
Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Primary Duty Crewmember—A person assigned or attached to a measured unit for the explicit
purposes of operating that unit’s primary mission weapon system.
Primary Mission—The wartime mission that is most resource demanding. The only exception is
when a unit has a less resource demanding mission of higher priority, such as that from a specific
OPLAN.
Registered Units—Units that have the potential to support, by deployment or otherwise, a CJCS
or combatant command-directed contingency plan, Single Integrated Operations Plan , or
contingency operation. These units (which do not report SORTS) are registered in GSORTS
through the BIDE and ORGLOCN sets.
Reporting Units—Units with a Unit Descriptor Code (UDC) of combat, combat support, or
combat service support and are required to report in SORTS.
RICDA—The “as of date” of the unit GSORTS report.
SORTSREPAF—A unit GSORTS report submitted by Air Force units.
Special Mission Capability—An enhancement to mission accomplishment. It provides
opportunities for accomplishment in various situational scenarios, adds tactical flexibility to
mission accomplishment, and normally requires additional training and or specialized equipment.
Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)—A JCS controlled, automated data
system primarily created to provide authoritative identification, location, and resource


46
information. It is used throughout the chain of command to measure the daily resource status of
operating forces.
Subarea—A class of equipment or supply within a SORTS major category of equipment. The
major categories are combat essential equipment and support equipment and supplies.
Subordinate Mission—Those missions, which stand by themselves as directed sub-elements
within the primary mission. Subordinate missions are not secondary missions but integral
elements of the primary mission.
Subordinate Reporting Organization (SRO)—The wing or base-level agency that is
designated to enter data into SORTS for the combat, combat support, and combat services
support units at that location. Often it is the reports cell of the unit command post.
Supplies—In logistics, all material and items used in the equipment, support and maintenance of
military forces (CJCSM 3150.02, Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Support Equipment—All equipment required to perform the support function except that which
is an integral part of the mission equipment. Does not include any equipment required to perform
mission operation functions (AFDD 1.2, Air Force Glossary).
Suspension Equipment—All aircraft devices such as racks, adapters, missile launchers, and
pylons used for carriage, employment and jettison of aircraft stores. (CJCSM 3150.02, Global
Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Tasked—Assignment to perform a specific mission or task allotted by higher component.
Total Personnel—The total number of personnel authorized or required by the measured unit.
Unit Descriptor Code (UDC)—A one character, alphanumeric code indicating the component,
general status, and primary mission for which the organization was established; stored in the
Joint SORTS database as a 3 character code.
Unit Identification Code (UIC)—A six-character, alpha-numeric code that uniquely identifies
each Active, Reserve, and National Guard unit of the Armed Forces (CJCSM 3150.02,Global
Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Unit in Cadre Status—A unit is in cadre status when it deploys assets to support a task force or
rotational unit, and the assets of the original unit are depleted to the extent that it cannot
undertake its wartime mission.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of
five characters that uniquely identify a "type unit”. The first character is established IAW
CJCSM 3150.02B.
War and Mobilization Plan (WMP)—The Air Force supporting plan to the Joint Strategic
Capabilities Plan. The six volumes of the WMP extends through the Six Year Defense Program
to provide continuity in short and mid-range war and mobilization planning. It provides current
planning cycle policies and planning factors for the conduct and support of wartime operations.
It establishes requirements for development of mobilization and production-planning programs


47
to support sustained contingency operations of the programmed forces. The WMP encompasses
all functions necessary to match facilities, manpower, and material with planned wartime activity
(AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary).
War Reserve Material (WRM)—Material required, in addition to mobility equipment, RSP,
and primary operating stocks needed to support wartime activities reflected in the US Air Force
War and Mobilization Plan until the industrial base has generated sufficient deliveries to equal
planned wartime consumption (AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary).
Wartime Mission—A task or group of tasks assigned to a unit in an approved operations plan
and expected to be executed during some level of armed conflict whether incident, limited war,
or general war.
Wartime Resources—Personnel, equipment, and organic supply assets required to accomplish a
unit’s wartime mission.
Weapon System Management Information System— Sustainability Assessment Module
(WSMIS-SAM)—AFMC/LGI managed module of WSMIS that provides aircraft spare parts
capability assessments using the USAF War and Mobilization Plan Volume 5 (WMP-5) as the
source for standard operational scenarios. WSMIS-SAM combines On-hand and authorized
spare parts data, applies a given flying scenario, then determines aircraft availability and or sortie
generation capability for a given unit(s).

Attachment 2 DELETED

Attachment 3 DELETED

Attachment 4 DELETED

Attachment 5 DELETED

This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this memorandum,
or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication, whichever is
earlier.




48
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-201
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                19 APRIL 2013

                                                                                     Operations

                                                                    STATUS OF RESOURCES
                                                                    AND TRAINING SYSTEM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A3O-IR                                                            Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                         (Maj Gen James Jones)
                                                                                     Pages: 134
Supersedes:   AFI 10-201, 13 April 2006


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. This document
provides Air Force procedures for those areas listed in the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Manual (CJCSM) 3150.02, Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS), and
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3401.02, Global Status of Resources
and Training System, as requiring Service direction. This Instruction applies to all Major
Commands (MAJCOM), including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and to the Air
National Guard (ANG), Field Operating Agencies (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU). The
reporting requirement in Chapter 3 of this publication is exempt from licensing in accordance
with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections. Waiver authority is Air
Force, Director of Integration and Resources (AF/A3O-I). Submit waiver requests through the
respective MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Readiness Office to AF/A3O-I. Submit supplements and
change requests to the Air Force Readiness Integration Division (AF/A3O-IR), 1480 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1480, Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force         Records        Disposition         Schedule        (RDS)          located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include changes to personnel and equipment measurement baselines, guidance on
classification/declassification, Designed Operational Capability (DOC) Statement requirements,
deployed asset availability, overall commander assessments, Assigned Mission Percent Effective
(PCTEF) levels, and the Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive
Defense Report (CBDRT), as well as new guidance on the SORTS to Defense Readiness
Reporting System (DRRS) transition, affecting Direct Supporting Units (DSU) and specific
guidance for maintenance units.


Chapter 1—SORTS GENERAL POLICY                                                                                                              6
       1.1.    SORTS. ..................................................................................................................    6
       1.2.    Unit Registry and Reporting Requirements. ..........................................................                         7
       1.3.    Frequency of SORTS Reporting. ...........................................................................                    8
       1.4.    SORTS Data Classification. ...................................................................................               9
       1.5.    Releasing SORTS Data to Outside Agencies. .......................................................                           10
       1.6.    Information Reported in SORTS. ..........................................................................                   11
       1.7.    SORTS DOC Statement. ........................................................................................               12
       1.8.    Measuring Unit Resources using Unit Response Time. ........................................                                 13
       1.9.    Category-Levels (C-levels) and Associated Remarks. ..........................................                               14
       1.10.   Air Force SORTS Agency Duties and Responsibilities. ........................................                                17
       1.11.   SORTS to DRRS Transition. .................................................................................                 26
Table 1.1.     HQ USAF Functional Offices ................................................................................                 28
Table 1.2.     Classification Guidance .........................................................................................           30

Chapter 2—REPORTING CATEGORY LEVEL (C-LEVEL) DATA ELEMENTS                                                                                 31
       2.1.    General Resource Relationship to Unit Combat Preparedness. .............................                                    31
       2.2.    Air Force Specific Requirements. ..........................................................................                 31
       2.3.    General Policy for C-level Calculations. ...............................................................                    31
       2.4.    Forecasting Overall C-level Changes. ...................................................................                    31
Figure 2.1.    Forecast Remark ....................................................................................................        32
       2.5.    Limiting Factor(s) (LIMFACs). .............................................................................                 32
       2.6.    Use of the Percent Effective (PCTEF) Field. .........................................................                       32
       2.7.    Deployed Resources Availability. .........................................................................                  34
       2.8.    What Is Needed to Prepare C-level Data. ..............................................................                      34
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                                                                     3


       2.9.    ADS Information. ..................................................................................................          35
       2.10.   Preparing Narrative Remarks. ................................................................................                35
Figure 2.2.    RICDA Remark for Units Maintaining Own Mobility Bags .................................                                       37
Figure 2.3.    RICDA Remark for Units Centrally Managing Mobility Bags. ............................                                        37
Figure 2.4.    RICDA Remark for Units Whose Mobility Bags are Managed by Another Unit .                                                     37
Figure 2.5.    TRRAT Remark for AETC Formal Training School Allocation Deficiencies ......                                                  38
       2.11.   Overall Reason Codes. ...........................................................................................            39
       2.12.   Assigning a Secondary or Tertiary Reason Code. .................................................                             39
       2.13.   SPECAP Data. .......................................................................................................         40
       2.14.   CBDRT. .................................................................................................................     40
Table 2.1.     Air Force Instruction References For C-level Data ...............................................                            41
Table 2.2.     Mandatory Remarks Guidance Matrix ...................................................................                        42
Table 2.3.     Standard Reason Codes for Air Force Units ..........................................................                         43
Table 2.4.     Expanded Reason Codes for Partially Deployed Units .........................................                                 43
Table 2.5.     Use of Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Reason Codes .......................................                                 44

Chapter 3—PERSONNEL MEASURED AREA DATA                                                                                                      45
       3.1.    Personnel. ...............................................................................................................   45
       3.2.    Determining Personnel Availability. .....................................................................                    47
       3.3.    Total and Critical Personnel Percentage Calculation. ............................................                            47
       3.4.    Personnel Reason Codes. .......................................................................................              48
Table 3.1.     Personnel Available Percentage Matrix for Nine or Less People ..........................                                     48
Table 3.2.     Changing Total Personnel Percent into a P-Level .................................................                            48
Table 3.3.     Changing Critical Personnel into a P-Level ...........................................................                       48
Table 3.4.     Reporting Personnel Reason Codes .......................................................................                     49

Chapter 4—EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES ON-HAND MEASURED AREA DATA                                                                                 51
       4.1.    Equipment and Supplies On-hand Reporting. ........................................................                           51
       4.2.    Equipment and Supplies Subareas (ESSAs). .........................................................                           51
       4.3.    Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR) General Policy. ........................                                       51
       4.4.    MRSP and IRSP Authorizations. ...........................................................................                    52
       4.5.    Subarea Percentage Calculations. ..........................................................................                  53
       4.6.    Combat Essential and Support Equipment On-hand Percentage Calculations. .....                                                53
       4.7.    Equipment and Supplies On-hand S-Level Calculations. ......................................                                  53
       4.8.    Equipment and Supplies On-hand Reason Codes. .................................................                               54
 4                                                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


      4.9.    ASM and WSMIS-SAM. .......................................................................................                     54
      4.10.   Non-Returnable Deployed Equipment. ..................................................................                          55
      4.11.   Aircraft Engine Computations. ..............................................................................                   55
Table 4.1.    Percentage On-hand Matrix for Nine or Less Items ..............................................                                56
Table 4.2.    Non-AMXS Units-Changing On-hand Percentage into an S-Level ......................                                              56
Table 4.3.    Reporting Equipment and Supplies On-hand Reason Codes .................................                                        57

Chapter 5—EQUIPMENT CONDITION MEASURED AREA DATA                                                                                             60
      5.1.    Equipment Condition Reporting. ...........................................................................                     60
      5.2.    Equipment Condition Subareas (ERSAs). .............................................................                            60
      5.3.    Subarea Percentage Calculations. ..........................................................................                    60
      5.4.    Combat Essential and Support Equipment Condition Percentage Calculations. ...                                                  61
      5.5.    Equipment Condition R-Level Calculations. .........................................................                            61
      5.6.    Equipment Condition Reason Codes. ....................................................................                         62
      5.7.    Equipment Considered MRA. ................................................................................                     62
      5.8.    BEAR Equipment Condition Measured Area. .......................................................                                62
      5.9.    Required Remarks for Maintenance Units. ............................................................                           62
Table 5.1.    Percentage Mission Ready and Available Matrix for Nine or Less Items .............                                             63
Table 5.2.    Changing Equipment Condition Area Percentage into an R Level ........................                                          63
Table 5.3.    Reporting Equipment Condition Reason Codes ....................................................                                64

Chapter 6—TRAINING MEASURED AREA DATA                                                                                                        66
      6.1.    Training. .................................................................................................................    66
      6.2.    Method B: ..............................................................................................................       66
      6.3.    Method C, Option 1: ..............................................................................................             67
      6.4.    Method C, Option 2: ..............................................................................................             68
      6.5.    Calculating and Explaining the Training T-Level. ................................................                              70
      6.6.    JIT Training. ..........................................................................................................       71
Table 6.1.    Percent Trained Matrix for Nine or Less People or Crews ....................................                                   72
Table 6.2.    Training Percentage T-level ...................................................................................                72
Table 6.3.    Reporting Training Reason Codes .........................................................................                      73

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               76

Attachment 2—DESIGNED OPERATIONAL CAPABILITY (DOC) STATEMENT
             DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                    102
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                               5


Attachment 3—BASIC IDENTITY DATA ELEMENT (BIDE) REPORTING            120

Attachment 4—CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL, RADIOLOGICAL, NUCLEAR AND HIGH-
             YIELD EXPLOSIVE DEFENSE REPORT (CBDRT)                  124

Attachment 5—MAJOR EQUIPMENT LOCATION AND CREW INFORMATION
             (MEQLOCN)                                               133
 6                                                                     AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


                                             Chapter 1

                                  SORTS GENERAL POLICY

1.1. SORTS. SORTS is an internal management tool for use by the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), Services, Combatant Commands (COCOMs), and Combat Support
Agencies. It is a single automated resource-based reporting system within the Department of
Defense (DoD) functioning as the central registry of all operational units of the US Armed
Forces and certain foreign organizations. SORTS has a threefold purpose: it provides data
critical to crisis planning, provides for the contingency and peacetime planning processes, and is
used by the Chief of Staff United States Air Force (CSAF) and subordinate commanders in
assessing their effectiveness in meeting Title 10, “United States Code,” responsibilities to
organize, train, and equip forces for combatant commands. All units with a United States Air
Force (USAF) Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) code will be registered in SORTS. A unit is
defined in accordance with (IAW) AFI 38-101. In addition, GSORTS data is used by other joint
automated systems. Examples are the Global Transportation Network (GTN), Joint Operation
Planning and Execution System (JOPES), National Military Command Center (NMCC)
Command and Control System, and the Nuclear Planning and Execution System.
     1.1.1. SORTS provides broad bands of readiness information on selected unit status
     indicators and includes a commander’s subjective assessment on the unit’s ability to execute
     the mission(s) for which a unit was organized or designed. When employed in response to a
     crisis or operations plan, SORTS provides a broad assessment of unit status based on the
     unit’s ability to execute the mission(s) for which the unit was organized or designed and the
     current mission(s) for which the unit may be employed. SORTS is not designed to function
     as a detailed information management system objectively counting all conceivable variables
     regarding personnel, training, and logistics. SORTS is not designed to be used as an input
     for the performance appraisal of a unit or a unit commander.
     1.1.2. The AF uses SORTS information in assessing readiness, determining budgetary
     allocation and management action impacts on unit level readiness, answering congressional
     inquiries, analyzing readiness trends, and supporting readiness decisions. SORTS also
     provides indications of the efficacy of resource allocation decisions and the impacts of
     budgetary constraints on resourcing unit requirements.
     1.1.3. SORTS measurement criteria is designed and developed by Functional Area Managers
     (FAM) to provide valid assessments regarding unit readiness. Commanders, or their
     designated alternates, assess measurements against their full mission set to determine if they
     provide a realistic indication of the unit’s readiness. It is critical that reporting commanders
     identify those areas that are rated less than desired in order to promote and justify corrective
     action (including funding, personnel and equipment allocations).
     1.1.4. A fundamental premise of SORTS reporting is integrity. Commanders must not allow
     masking of deficiencies to affect their ability to provide capability or other readiness related
     information. Effective management of unit resources requires accurate information at all
     levels.
     1.1.5. When deployed/employed in response to a crisis or operations order (OPORD),
     SORTS provides both an assessment of a unit’s status based on ability to execute the
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                        7


   mission(s) for which it was organized or designed and, when appropriate, the mission against
   which it is assigned and employed. The ability of the unit to support the mission(s) will be
   reported via the PCTEF field, reference Paragraph 2.6.
   1.1.6. In the event of conflict between this AFI and MAJCOM Supplements and/or FAM
   Guidance, AFI guidance will take precedence. Concerned parties will contact AF/A3O-IR
   for resolution.
1.2. Unit Registry and Reporting Requirements. All units with a United States Air Force
(USAF) PAS code will be registered in SORTS. Units with a Unit Descriptor Code (UDC) of
combat, combat support, or combat service support within the PAS code, are required to have a
SORTS DOC Statement, AF Form 723 or approved facsimile, and report in SORTS. These
units, for the purposes of this AFI, are considered measured units. Reference CJCSM 3150.02
Series for Joint UDC assignments. Measured unit SORTS reporting begins after a unit activates,
once the DOC Statement is distributed, and continues until the unit deactivates.
   1.2.1. Provisional and task organized combat, combat support and combat service support
   units are also designated as measured units. The Service component or Combatant
   Commander (CCDR) directing the establishment of a measured unit will determine the
   organizational reporting structure of the unit.
   1.2.2. DSUs are identified on measured unit DOC Statements with their unit resources
   measured and reported as part of another unit. DSUs will be registered in SORTS. The
   measured unit responsible for the mission will report on DSU resources. DSUs are required
   to submit SORTS-related information to the measured unit(s) to provide the status of the
   resources they support and manage for the measured unit(s). Once DOC Statements are
   created, the DSU will then be identified as a measured unit (i.e., maintenance units) and will
   begin SORTS reporting for themselves. Reference Paragraph 1.11.2 for further guidance on
   DSUs, with respect to the SORTS to DRRS transition.
   1.2.3. SORTS Measurement Baseline. SORTS measurements are based on the unit's full
   mission set for which it is organized or designed. Units are required to measure and report on
   all resources referenced on their DOC Statement; including any of the unit’s authorizations
   documents, such as the Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Allowance Standard (AS),
   and authorizations from AF approved Authoritative Data Sources (ADS). Units must report
   on these resources even if not yet delivered (e.g., equipment for a newly activated unit).
   Units must report solely on their own resources.
       1.2.3.1. Personnel Measurement Baseline.
          1.2.3.1.1. The baseline for measuring personnel is the UMD. Units will no longer use
          Unit Type Codes (UTCs) as the baseline for measuring personnel. If the UMD does
          not accurately reflect the unit’s requirement, action must be taken to correct the
          source UMD. Reduced readiness in the personnel measured area will signify the need
          for additional/critical personnel. See Chapter 3.
       1.2.3.2. Equipment and Supplies On-hand Measurement Baseline.
          1.2.3.2.1. The baseline for measuring equipment and supplies is the unit’s
          authorizations within the designated Authoritative Data Source (ADS) for any
          resource.    The ADS for equipment authorizations is Air Force Equipment
 8                                                                    AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


            Management System (AFEMS). Examples of other ADSs for authorizations,
            possession and/or condition include Standard Base Supply System (SBSS), Medical
            Readiness Decision Support System (MRDSS), Automated Civil Engineer System
            (ACES) and approved Maintenance Information Systems (MIS). Units will no longer
            use UTCs as the baseline for measuring resources in SORTS. If the AS or ADS does
            not accurately reflect the unit’s requirement, action must be taken to correct the
            source AS or ADS. Reduced readiness in this measured area will signify the need for
            additional equipment. A unit possessing equipment that is not mission ready will
            report the not-mission-ready status in the equipment condition measured area instead.
            See Chapter 4.
            1.2.3.2.2. Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield Explosive
            Defense Reports (CBDRT), used in SORTS, will base the equipment and supplies on-
            hand area on the unit's total requirement for the equipment items and condition of the
            items being measured. See Attachment 4.
        1.2.3.3. Equipment Condition Measurement Baseline.
            1.2.3.3.1. The Equipment Condition measured area measures the condition of
            possessed equipment and supplies. Units assess the condition of on-hand equipment
            by determining if it is mission ready or safe to use as originally designed. Examples
            of ADSs for equipment authorizations, possession and/or condition include AFEMS,
            SBSS, and approved MIS. See Chapter 5.
            1.2.3.3.2. CBDRT include equipment condition measurements in the equipment and
            supplies on-hand measured area. See Attachment 4.
        1.2.3.4. Training Measurement Baseline.
            1.2.3.4.1. The baseline for measuring training is training requirements for assigned
            personnel IAW operational Flying Operations AFI Volume (Vol) 1s, Ready Aircrew
            Program (RAP) tasking messages, and/or training databases such as Air Force
            Training Record (AFTR), Training Business Area (TBA), Medical Readiness
            Decision Support System (MRDSS), and Aviation Resource Management System
            (ARMS). See Chapter 6.
            1.2.3.4.2. CBDRTs used in SORTS measure training in the training measured area.
            Measured training is based on the unit's total requirement of personnel for the training
            event or category being measured. See Attachment 4.
     1.2.4. Due to the unique nature of AF medical capabilities and the established medical
     organizational and force presentation structure, AF medical units report in SORTS, DRRS
     and Aerospace Expeditionary Forces (AEF) Reporting Tool (ART) at the same level at which
     their UTCs are postured, as reflected in the Medical Resource Letter (MRL) and the
     Posturing and Sequencing guidance provided by the Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Medical
     FAM.
1.3. Frequency of SORTS Reporting. AF units will report SORTS monthly, no later than
(NLT) the 15th of each month. AF units will continuously monitor changes in the overall C-
level, overall reason code, measured area levels, measured area reason codes, PCTEF data, Get
Well Dates (GWD), and unit location. AF units will report changes to any of the aforementioned
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                         9


areas within 24 hours of the change. Units must verify that the report arrived in the database
within 24 hours of the event requiring the report.
   1.3.1. Measured units will verify and update data elements listed in this chapter every month
   or more frequently if specifically directed. Units will compare reports submitted against their
   database reviews (or equivalent products) within 96 hours of report transmittal and report
   discrepancies to the Subordinate Reporting Organization (SRO) for assistance. The SRO
   will contact the Command Reporting Organization (CRO) for assistance, if necessary. This
   requirement ensures that submitted reports are accurate. Units will also verify database
   accuracy by reviewing DRRS Current Unit Status (CUS) page easy reads within 96 hours of
   report submission.
   1.3.2. Composite/aggregate unit reports must be received within 96 hours of the oldest
   individual unit’s Report Date of Change of Category Information (RICDA).
   1.3.3. If unit status has not changed since the last report, a full report must be submitted to
   reflect an updated RICDA date; and, any remarks in the database will be updated with the
   current date.
   1.3.4. A unit is required to maintain its reporting frequency even if completely or partially
   deployed/employed, temporary duty (TDY), or undergoing exercises or inspections. Major
   equipment or aircrew relocations will be reported in the Major Equipment Location
   (MEQLOCN) data set upon relocation for deployments or TDYs.
   1.3.5. The Chairman, in coordination with the Service Chiefs and the affected CCDRs, as
   well as the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, may require units to report more frequently.
   CCDRs may require assigned units, or units over whom they exercise OPCON, to report
   more frequently. AF/A3/5 may require Air Force units to report more frequently. MAJCOM
   CRO leadership may require subordinate reporting units to report more frequently. In each
   case, consideration should be given to the impact on the unit of increased reporting.
1.4. SORTS Data Classification.
   1.4.1. The GSORTS database is classified SECRET.
   1.4.2. Unauthorized disclosure of AF SORTS data reasonably could be expected to cause
   serious damage to the national security, and will be given, at a minimum, the classification
   level SECRET. Table 1.2 provides minimum classification guidelines for AF resource data.
   1.4.3. Data extracted from the DRRS/GSORTS database will be classified by the reporting
   organization or IAW Table 1.2 or the CJCSM 3150.02 Series, whichever is higher.
   1.4.4. The procedures for classification and marking of classified documents are also
   specified in DoDM 5200.01V1, DoD Information Security Program: Overview,
   Classification, and Declassification, DoDM 5200.01 V2, DoD Information Security
   Program: Marking of Classified Information; and AFI 31-401, Information Security
   Program Management. If no classified source exists, use CJCSM 3150.02 as a classification
   authority. Use "Derived From: CJCSM 3150.02 Series, Global Status of Resources and
   Training System (GSORTS), Declassify On: (date)” to mark material when this reference is
   used as classification guidance.
   1.4.5. Measured area category levels, overall C-level, availability numbers used to compute
   percentages and the percentages themselves (when associated with SORTS), reason codes
 10                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   associated with their remarks, and/or limiting factors for a single unit, are, at a minimum,
   classified SECRET.
   1.4.6. Individuals classifying SORTS reports must consider other classification guidance
   including operation plans (OPLANS). Data showing association of the unit with its
   operations plan (OPLAN(s)) tasking is classified at the level of classification of the
   OPLAN(s). C-5 Authorization messages (giving that a unit is authorized to, not that they are
   reporting C-5) are UNCLASSIFIED provided notification does not contain the unit’s current
   C-level (C1-5) or specific information, e.g., limiting factors (LIMFACs), OPLANs, etc.
   1.4.7. Information that is not SORTS based and does not show a deficiency may still require
   classification through channels other than SORTS. Unit and Wing Security Managers should
   be consulted in these events.
   1.4.8. Derivative Classification. Derivative classification is the incorporating, paraphrasing,
   restating, or generating, in a new form, already classified information and marking newly
   developed material consistent with the classification that applies to the source information.
   Persons applying derivative classification markings must carry forward to any newly created
   document the classification markings from the original source. For example, SORTS
   Worksheets/Briefing Slides reflecting measured unit data will be given the same
   classification level as the material from which it was derived.
   1.4.9. Aggregate Classification. Aggregate SORTS data will be classified at the same or
   higher level as the highest classified component parts or segments of SORTS data. SORTS
   data converted to a new type of information must be evaluated for its impact on national
   security if released. Even if all sources (worksheets, e-mails, etc.), individually, are
   unclassified, careful consideration must be given to the aggregated/compiled data and
   evaluated for its impact on national security and classified as such. Once the data is
   associated with SORTS, it is classified. See Table 1.2 for further guidance.
   1.4.10. Declassification. Within AF capabilities-based readiness reporting, all individual
   units are linked to a capability. AF SORTS data shall be marked for declassification 10 years
   from the original classification date, unless the original classification authority otherwise
   determines that the sensitivity of the information requires that it be marked for
   declassification for up to 25 years from the date of the original classification.
   1.4.11. Downgrading Authority. Downgrading authority of classified AF SORTS data
   resides with Air Force, Director of Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5). Requests
   to downgrade or accelerate declassification of AF SORTS data will be determined on a case-
   by-case basis. Downgrade requests are submitted through the applicable MAJCOM CRO, to
   AF/A3O-IR, then staffed up to AF/A3/5.
1.5. Releasing SORTS Data to Outside Agencies. CJCSI 5714.01, Policy for the Release of
Joint Information, sets the policy for release of SORTS data to agencies not on original
distribution.
   1.5.1. Policy. All holders of SORTS data must take action to protect against unauthorized
   disclosure and to preserve the statutory relationship of the CJCS, as principal military
   adviser, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) as military advisors to the Secretary of Defense
   (SecDef). Authorized holders of AF SORTS data can release it only to military components,
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                        11


   or assigned or apportioned units, with a valid need-to-share and appropriate clearance.
   Exceptions to this policy must be coordinated through AF/A3O-IR.
   1.5.2. Specific Policies for Auditors, the Congress, and the General Public. Auditors and
   inspectors of the General Accounting Office (GAO) and the Office of the DoD Inspector
   General (IG) have legal authority under Public Laws 96-226 and 97-252 for access. Only the
   President and SecDef can deny final access. Refer denial proposals to AF/A3O-IR for
   submission to the Joint Staff.
      1.5.2.1. Release data to Congress and its committees, staff, and investigators according
      to DoD Directive (DoDD) 5400.4, Provision of Information to the Congress.
      1.5.2.2. Responses to requests for SORTS data from the public under provisions of the
      Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) must be coordinated with AF/A3O-IR, Joint Staff
      (JS), and the FOIA processing office.
   1.5.3. Preferred Methods for Release. Only the minimum amount of information will be
   released to satisfy a request. One-time release of a specific part of the database is preferred
   over any direct access to the database. Preferred methods in rank order are:
      1.5.3.1. Release of a specific part(s) of the database or minor subset.
      1.5.3.2. Release of a major subset of the entire database.
      1.5.3.3. Access to a specific part(s) of the database in a controlled environment.
      1.5.3.4. Access to a major subset or the entire database in a controlled environment.
1.6. Information Reported in SORTS.
   1.6.1. Basic Identity Data Element (BIDE) Set. The BIDE set applies to all registered units,
   includes the Country of Affiliation (COAFF), UDC, unit abbreviated name (ANAME), UTC,
   Unit Level Code (ULC), MAJCOM for BIDE under which the unit is organized, Registration
   Validity (REVAL), and unit Long Name (LNAME). Only CROs (MAJCOM SORTS office
   or equivalent) report this data.
   1.6.2. Reporting Organization (RPTNORG) Set. The RPTNORG set includes each unit’s
   Arrival Date (ARRDT), CRO UIC (RPTOR) and Subordinate Reporting UIC (SBRPT).
   Only CROs report this data. CROs transfer units to other CROs by changing the UIC in
   RPTOR.
   1.6.3. Organization Location (ORGLOCN) Set. ORGLOCN applies to all registered units,
   includes codes for COCOM/Service Command (CSERV), commands with Operational
   Control (OPCON) and Administrative Control (ADCON), unit’s Home Geographical
   Location (HOGEO) and Present Geographical Location (PRGEO), Activity Code (ACTIV),
   Defense Condition (DFCON), PCTEF, Parent Organization’s UIC (PUIC), Unit Organization
   Established (FLAG), and Nuclear Capability Indicator (NUCIN). Only CROs report this
   data, with the exception of PCTEF, which is reported by the measured unit, IAW paragraph
   6.4.
   1.6.4. Reserve Component Organization Status (RESERVES) Set. The RESERVES Set
   includes duty location, activity, mobilization or call-up date, and gaining command for units
   mobilized. HQ Air Force Reserve Command (HQ AFRC) and the National Guard Bureau
   (NGB) report this data according to CJCSM 3150.02.
 12                                                                AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   1.6.5. Personnel Strength Status (PERSTREN) Set. The Air Force reports authorized,
   assigned, possessed, deployable, and tasked deployable strengths. MAJCOM Manpower and
   Personnel Directorates (A1s) maintain UMDs and provide guidance via wing manpower
   offices to identify authorizations. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) reports assigned and
   available data. When CJCS directs an increased reporting frequency, measured units report
   personnel strength status as directed.
   1.6.6. Resources and Training Status (Type of Report (TREAD), OVERALL,
   PERSONNEL, Equipment Supplies On-hand (EQSUPPLY), Equipment Condition
   (EQCONDN), TRAINING, FORECAST, and Remarks) fields. These fields apply to all
   measured units that report. All unit SORTS data is available to all authorized SORTS
   customers. While there are exceptions, Combatant Commanders and the JS primarily look to
   joint data elements (Overall C-level and reason code, the four measured area levels and
   reason codes, and the associated remarks). AF FAMs look at detailed data; analyze
   information for trends, and direct appropriate actions in response to lowered C-levels.
   1.6.7. MEQLOCN Set. MEQLOCN is reported in unit SORTS reports for those units
   possessing major equipment (aircraft, missiles, etc.). This set includes major equipment
   (MEQPT) and crew status at a unit's home and deployed location. See Attachment 5 for
   further guidance.
1.7. SORTS DOC Statement. CJCS SORTS policy requires a unit’s Overall C-level to be
based on an assessment of those resources and training required to undertake a unit’s full-
spectrum mission(s). The purpose of an AF SORTS DOC Statement, AF Form 723 or approved
facsimile, is to summarize the unit’s mission(s) using the DRRS Core Mission Essential Task
List (METL) and to provide units with a convenient single document referencing all ADSs that
determine the pool of resources and training to measure and report in SORTS. The DOC
Statement, itself, is not a source document. The DOC Statement does not establish, organize,
design, equip, or task a unit. The DOC Statement is a centralization of references from several
ADSs that do establish, organize, man/equip, or task a unit. Each measured unit is required to
have a single, all-encompassing DOC Statement. The unit’s SORTS DOC Statement will be
completed via DRRS when available. Reference Attachment 2.
   1.7.1. The DOC Statement will only address a single set of resources and is limited to only
   resources authorized to that unit. Historically, aviation units reported aircraft. Maintenance
   units will now report inventory and status of the aircraft IAW AFI 21-103, Equipment
   Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting, and in SORTS, as shown in the AF Tables –
   Equipment On-hand and Equipment Condition Tables found on the DRRS homepage
   (SIPR),               under             the            references             tab           at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Aviation units report on the
   aircrews, their training, and any other reportable equipment identified in the equipment ADS.
   For medical units, reference Paragraph 1.2.4. No two units will report on the same
   resources.
   1.7.2. SORTS DOC Statements are managed, coordinated, and released/published/approved
   by the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Readiness Office. For gained-unit DOC Statements, approval
   authority resides within the owning MAJCOM; however, the gaining MAJCOM will be
   afforded the opportunity to coordinate to ensure the gained unit is reporting on the correct
   mission.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                        13


   1.7.3. All AF DOC Statements will be centrally located in DRRS when available. If not yet
   published in DRRS, CROs will publish DOCs to the site in conjunction with annual reviews.
   1.7.4. SORTS DOC Statements must be reviewed annually by the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
   CROs and the measured unit commander. Unit commanders must sign the unit DOC
   Statement upon assumption of command and after annual review has been completed.
   Signature does not acknowledge agreement/disagreement. Signature indicates the review has
   been accomplished and the commander or their designated alternates understand the SORTS
   reporting requirements in the DOC Statement. Current SORTS DOC Statements must be
   marked with the last review date and maintained for the duration of the initial DOC
   Statement (e.g., if current DOC Statements’ effective date is 1 Jan 2001, and you have a Staff
   Assistance Visit (SAV) in Mar 2003, records must show the initial review and one annual
   review in 2002, at a minimum). All unit commander documentation must be shown for the
   life of the DOC Statement. The MAJCOM/ANG/DRU/FOA readiness office is responsible
   for the tracking and initiation of annual reviews. When altered or outdated, the impacted
   SORTS DOC Statement must be replaced or rescinded, as applicable.
       1.7.4.1. Changes to unit DOC Statements must be accomplished within 60 days of
       changes in unit data, i.e., Unit & Mission Identification, measured resource areas
       (personnel, equipment, training), or any item that would affect unit reporting
       requirements.
       1.7.4.2. MAJCOM and/or FOA CROs may authorize pen and ink (no pencil) changes to
       DOC Statements. MAJCOM CRO will distribute the pen and ink changes to all agencies
       including the SRO and unit as necessary. Pen and in changes are annotated on the DOC
       Statement by the affected unit upon receipt. The OPR making pen and ink changes will
       sign his/her initials and date next to the change on the DOC Statement.
       1.7.4.3. For detailed instructions on preparing DOC Statements, see Attachment 2.
1.8. Measuring Unit Resources using Unit Response Time. AF units must be ready (manned,
equipped and trained) for deployment and/or employment within a specified time, referred to as
the unit’s response time. AF units use the forecast option, IAW CJCSM 3150.02 Series,
meaning AF units report on whether their resources can be mission ready and available within
their response time, from the time the report is submitted up to 72hrs. All DOC Statement
referenced reporting requirements must be reported regardless of whether the unit is currently
provided the resources or tasked for the capability. The ADS for AF unit response times is the
Unit Response Time Table, developed by FAMs, in coordination with CROs and AF/A3O-IR,
found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), in AF Tables under the references tab at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Most SORTS response times are
standardized for like-type units. This response time must not be confused with UTC-type
response times as specified in operation/contingency plans (this approach can result in assigning
a single unit multiple response times for multiple plans). The assumption for the SORTS
response time is that the unit is a stand-alone entity, tasked to support an operation/contingency
with all of its own resources, independent of any other like-type unit on the same base. This data
will be automatically populated with the DOC Statement management tool in DRRS.
   1.8.1. Deployed Resources Consideration. When projecting resource status for units fully or
   partially deployed, units with mobility-only or dual (mobility and in-place/in-garrison)
   missions will count all deployed resources as available, regardless of their current deployed
 14                                                                AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   location, as long as they are mission ready and available within the response time. Units with
   in-place/in-garrison only missions will count deployed resources as unavailable if the current
   deployed location prevents the resources from returning/re-deploying within the unit’s
   response time.       Other exceptions are units with non-returnable equipment upon
   redeployment; these units, once re-deployed, will no longer count that equipment on-hand
   because that equipment is removed from their supply account, see Paragraph 4.10. Units
   normally assigned to Geographic Combatant Commands; e.g., PACOM, having resources
   deployed outside their CCDR’s area of responsibility (AOR), may have concerns that those
   resources cannot accomplish their specified CCDR task(s) within the designated response
   time (only because they are too far away, and not because they require additional personnel,
   equipment, or training). DRRS is the means to highlight this type of concern; assess the
   specified CCDR Mission Essential Task (MET) and provide remarks in DRRS explaining the
   unit’s reduced capability due to assets deployed outside their CCDR’s AOR. This maintains
   SORTS as the resource-based system and DRRS as the capability-based system. Units will
   consider the following factors, as a minimum, when projecting unit resource status out to its
   response time:
      1.8.1.1. The unit can conduct emergency recall of personnel, curtail scheduled
      maintenance/routine training, and increase work shift length.
      1.8.1.2. The delivery schedules for ordering items from outside agencies will not change
      from current projections.
      1.8.1.3. Currently deployed/employed personnel can maintain their deployable status;
      i.e., report deployed personnel as available.
      1.8.1.4. Currently deployed/employed equipment can maintain its On-hand and Mission
      Ready status.
1.9. Category-Levels (C-levels) and Associated Remarks. C-levels reflect the degree to
which unit resources meet prescribed levels of personnel, equipment, and training.
   1.9.1. C-1. The unit possesses the required resources and is trained to undertake the full
   mission(s) for which it is organized or designed. The resource and training area status will
   neither limit flexibility and methods for mission accomplishment nor increase vulnerability
   of unit personnel and equipment. The unit does not require any compensation for any
   deficiencies.
   1.9.2. C-2. The unit possesses the required resources and is trained to undertake most of the
   mission(s) for which it is organized or designed. The resource and training area status may
   cause isolated decreases in flexibility in methods for mission accomplishment, but will not
   increase the unit's vulnerability under most envisioned operational scenarios. The unit would
   require little, if any, compensation for deficiencies.
   1.9.3. C-3. The unit possesses the required resources and is trained to undertake many, but
   not all, portions of the mission(s) for which it is organized or designed. The resource and
   training area status will result in significant decrease in flexibility for mission
   accomplishment and will increase vulnerability of the unit under many, but not all,
   envisioned operational scenarios. The unit would require significant compensation for
   deficiencies.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                       15


  1.9.4. C-4. The unit requires additional resources or training to undertake its mission(s), but
  it may be directed to undertake portions of its mission(s) with resources O/H.
  1.9.5. C-5. The unit is undergoing a Service-directed resource action and is not prepared, at
  this time, to undertake the mission set for which it is organized or designed. Within the
  CBDRT, units will use C-5 to indicate when they have no Chemical, Biological,
  Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) defense equipment or training
  requirements. See Attachment 4.
  1.9.6. P-/S-/R-/T-6. The unit is not required to measure assets in a specified area.
  1.9.7. Assigning the Overall C-level. Based on unit readiness, unit commanders or
  designated representatives, assign the Overall C-level each time it is reported. Normally, the
  lowest level of the four measured resource areas is reported as the Overall C-level provided it
  is a realistic indication of the unit’s readiness (based on the C-level definitions). The
  measured area data cannot be arbitrarily changed from calculated values (must be reported
  per the specified formulas and tables). If the lowest measured area level is not a realistic
  indication of the unit’s Overall C-level, commanders may only lower the overall C-level and
  must provide a complete and detailed explanation of why it is being lowered in the REASN
  remark. Commanders will not assess up. Higher echelons of command may add remarks to a
  unit’s SORTS report to further explain a situation or deficiency but may not change
  subordinate unit C-levels. At a minimum, commanders should consider the following factors
  when determining the overall unit C-level: any support provided directly to your unit by
  another measured unit (e.g., maintenance unit support provided to an aviation unit),
  inspection results, assistance team results, and program readiness reviews. Units attaining an
  Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI) or Nuclear Surety Inspection (NSI) Marginal or
  Unsatisfactory inspection result will consider lowering the Overall C-level and providing
  remarks outlining deficiencies and resource improvement timetables. The remarks should
  reflect training requirements and/or fix actions, as deemed necessary from the inspection
  report, with expected completion dates. The commander will provide rationale using the
  Overall Reason (REASN) remark label, when the unit is less than C-1. The following factors
  should also be considered:
     1.9.7.1. Personnel Subjective Factors for assessing downward:
         1.9.7.1.1. Availability of personnel who do not have the required Air Force Specialty
         Code (AFSC).
         1.9.7.1.2. Unusually low formal education level, morale, or unit cohesion.
         1.9.7.1.3. Personnel turnover rates that impact mission accomplishment.
         1.9.7.1.4. Availability of contractors to provide services in support of generation
         mission.
         1.9.7.1.5. Unusually high number of personnel with Deployment Availability (DAV)
         codes, DLCs or otherwise not available for deployment within the response time.
     1.9.7.2. Equipment and Supplies On-hand subjective factors:
         1.9.7.2.1. Item shortages having a larger effect than indicated by equipment fill rate.
16                                                                  AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


         1.9.7.2.2. Status of plans to move resources from temporary peacetime locations to
         wartime locations.
         1.9.7.2.3. Differences between standard fill rates and various assessment tools.
         1.9.7.2.4. Individual protective equipment items availability; e.g., mobility bags.
     1.9.7.3. Equipment Condition subjective factors:
         1.9.7.3.1. Depot programmed and unscheduled maintenance status probability.
         1.9.7.3.2. Status of modification programs and their impact on daily operations.
         1.9.7.3.3. Mission Ready rates.
     1.9.7.4. Training subjective factors:
         1.9.7.4.1. Unavailability of qualified training personnel (rated and non-rated), of
         equipment and/or facilities, and of areas, ranges, or flying hours.
         1.9.7.4.2. Major training event time lapses or a high turnover of key personnel.
         1.9.7.4.3. Lack of sufficient number of assigned personnel with the AFSC skill levels
         authorized by the UMD; e.g., unit has cross-trainees assigned that are 3-levels but the
         UMD authorizes 5-levels, or a UTC requires 5-levels or special certification with no
         substitutions.
         1.9.7.4.4. Lack of training funds projected for current fiscal year.
     1.9.7.5. Other subjective factors for assessing down:
         1.9.7.5.1. The unit’s inability to operate in a chemical, biological, radiological and
         nuclear environment, see CBRN.
         1.9.7.5.2. Another unit’s C-level or remarks when also required for a specific
         mission.
         1.9.7.5.3. Host or tenant mission requirements.
         1.9.7.5.4. Ability of contractors to provide contingency or wartime services.
         1.9.7.5.5. Ability of unit assigned foreign nationals to perform assigned tasks during
         contingencies or wartime.
  1.9.8. Assigning C-5 as the Overall C-level. A parent MAJCOM may authorize use of C-5
  for units undergoing a service-directed resource action and which are not prepared to
  undertake any portion of the mission set for which they are organized or designed. Units
  authorized to report C-5 will continue to compute and report measured area P-, S-, R-, T-
  levels at least monthly unless directed to do so more frequently by the parent MAJCOM. C-5
  status will not exceed 18 months for Active Duty units or three years for Guard/Reserve
  units. C-5 cannot be reported in any measured resource area. C-5 is only used when
  authorized by the parent MAJCOM and one of the following conditions exists:
     1.9.8.1. Unit Transition. Unit transitions include modernization/conversion of major
     equipment (i.e., F-15s to F-22s), modernization/upgrade of software in major equipment
     (i.e., extensive equipment testing/personnel user training), a change in a unit’s mission
     (which can be accomplished without changing the major equipment involved), and/or a
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                      17


      change in a unit’s home station location (higher headquarters approval may be required).
      When a unit is undergoing transition, C-5 may be authorized when the first measured
      area level would require an overall C-4. Note: If reporting Overall C-5, units will
      continue to report current measured area P-, S-, R-, T-levels. Units undergoing transition
      will report C-5 as the Overall C-level until the new DOC is approved and all measured
      areas (except areas authorized to report C-6) have improved to C-3, and considering
      timelines in Paragraph 1.9.8. The FAM must notify the CRO when a unit begins and
      completes a transition or major conversion so the readiness office can update the ACTIV
      field in GSORTS.
      1.9.8.2. Unit Activation or Re-activation. Activating units may be authorized to report
      C-5 as their Overall C-level until all measured areas have reached a maintainable C-3
      (except measured areas authorized to be reported as C-6) or the end of the designated
      activation period, whichever occurs first.
      1.9.8.3. Unit Inactivation. Inactivating units will continue to report SORTS measured
      areas based on their current DOC Statement. Units may be authorized to report C-5 after
      the first measured area requires an overall C-4. Units must continue to report SORTS
      until unit inactivation is authorized by the publication of a command order (G-Series) and
      the SORTS DOC Statement is rescinded. Once a unit has been inactivated, MAJCOM
      CROs will ensure all pertinent unit data is removed from the GSORTS/DRRS database.
      1.9.8.4. Units Not Manned or Equipped but Required in Wartime Force Structure.
      AF/A3O-IR will determine what data will be reported for any units of this type.
1.10. Air Force SORTS Agency Duties and Responsibilities.
   1.10.1. AF Readiness Integration Division (AF/A3O-IR):
      1.10.1.1. Provides oversight of AF records, current and historical, in the GSORTS/DRRS
      database maintained by the JOPES/Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) office.
      1.10.1.2. Acts as liaison between CROs and the JOPES/DISA office for resolving
      database inaccuracies (irresolvable at the unit or MAJCOM level) and user input tool
      issues.
      1.10.1.3. Processes and distributes data, current and/or historical, in usable form to
      requesting Air Staff offices.
      1.10.1.4. Develops and writes AFI 10-201 containing policies and procedures used to
      implement the Joint SORTS policy.
      1.10.1.5. Coordinates on MAJCOM supplements and waiver requests between Air Staff
      FAMs and the JS (as required).
      1.10.1.6. Acts as liaison with the JS, Office of the SecDef (OSD), Congress, and Air
      Staff FAMs for SORTS and related issues.
      1.10.1.7. Assists FAMs and MAJCOMs with preparation of SORTS DOC Statements, if
      requested.
      1.10.1.8. Serves as the leading authority for all AF SORTS policy and reporting
      procedures, and guides all subordinate MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, Numbered Air Force
      (NAF), Wing, and Unit SORTS offices in completion of specified duties.
18                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


         1.10.1.8.1. Maintains a current roster of all AF MAJCOM SORTS personnel by
         submitting the current roster quarterly for MAJCOM verification.
         1.10.1.8.2. Monitors and analyzes unit status reports, and, as a minimum, submits a
         monthly report to all MAJCOMS on the status of the GSORTS database.
         1.10.1.8.3. Ensures identified deficiencies are corrected, to include facilitation of
         non-compliance problems to the level necessary for corrective action.
         1.10.1.8.4. Conducts MAJCOM SAV and hosts HQ USAF SORTS Conferences,
         upon request. Additionally, AF/A3O-IR will, when invited by the hosting MAJCOM,
         send one or more SORTS representatives to each individual MAJCOM SORTS
         Conference provided funds are available and manning allows.
     1.10.1.9. Coordinates and approves MAJCOM DOC Identifier Code (DOCID) requests.
     1.10.1.10. Reviews the BIDE/PAS directory for currency.
     1.10.1.11. Provides the Quarterly Readiness Report to Congress (QRRC) to OSD and the
     Joint Forces Readiness Review (JFFR) to the JS on a quarterly basis.
     1.10.1.12. Provides assistance to AF FAMs for the accomplishment of their SORTS
     responsibilities and duties, if requested.
  1.10.2. Air Staff FAM will:
     1.10.2.1. Develop measured area criteria and their associated tables and conversion
     charts, as applicable. Ensure tables and conversion charts are current and accurately
     reflect the functional area’s mission.
     1.10.2.2. Monitor functional area SORTS information to identify problems, determine
     causes, and provide solutions, analyze data for developing trends, and direct appropriate
     actions in response to degraded C-levels.
     1.10.2.3. Coordinate changes affecting SORTS reporting through AF/A3O-IR.
     1.10.2.4. Coordinate any required interim SORTS guidance with AF/A3O-IR prior to
     release.
     1.10.2.5. Identify initial operational capability (IOC) dates for new unit missions.
     1.10.2.6. Periodically (minimum, semi-annually) review Table 1.1, HQ USAF
     Functional Offices, and AF Tables found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the
     references tab, at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, for
     accuracy. Make updates to tables via AF/A3O-IR.
  1.10.3. MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs. The following responsibilities apply to MAJCOMs
  (including ANG and AFRC), FOAs, and DRUs:
     1.10.3.1. MAJCOM Commanders will:
         1.10.3.1.1. Ensure units under their control are properly trained in SORTS data
         handling procedures.
         1.10.3.1.2. Identify a SORTS DOC Statement Approval Authority, establish an
         adequately manned readiness office, and assign functional area management
         responsibilities for each measured unit type reporting in SORTS.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                   19


     1.10.3.2. SORTS DOC Statement Approval Authority - MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Readiness
     Office:
        1.10.3.2.1. AFRC and ANG coordinate on MAJCOM gained AFRC and ANG DOC
        Statements.
        1.10.3.2.2. Respond to AFRC and ANG proposed SORTS DOC Statements within
        45 days of receipt (initial gaining command).
  1.10.4. CRO – MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Readiness Office. This agency is responsible for the
  timeliness and accuracy of subordinate units’ SORTS data in the GSORTS/DRRS database.
  Other responsibilities/functions include, but are not limited to, the following duties:
     1.10.4.1. Be responsive to AF/A3O-IR direction.
     1.10.4.2. Registering new units.
     1.10.4.3. Maintaining the accuracy of unit SORTS registries.
     1.10.4.4. Removing inactivated units from the database.
     1.10.4.5. Notifying gaining command of unit transfer to another command.
     1.10.4.6. Approving and notifying units to report C-5.         Provide a copy of the
     authorization to AF/A3O-IR, if requested.
     1.10.4.7. Establishing procedures to ensure unit reports are submitted monthly, NLT the
     15th of each month.
        1.10.4.7.1. Monitoring SORTS information by reviewing the AF/A3O-IR Classified
        Web Page (http://hafgccs06.af.pentagon.smil.mil/hqafsorts/index.html) and the
        DRRS Dashboard (https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb) for the
        Air Force.
        1.10.4.7.2. Sampling, reviewing, and assessing adequacy of unit remarks. Challenge
        and notify the SRO to have the unit correct those that are inadequate.
        1.10.4.7.3. Providing wing/unit technical assistance for correction of reporting
        problems. Irresolvable reporting problems will be forwarded to the AF/A3O-IR
        office and must be accompanied by enough information (i.e., applicable reports) so
        that the problem can be replicated by DRRS Implementation Office (DIO) and DISA
        to foster resolution.
     1.10.4.8. Develop reporting procedures for units geographically separated from home
     station without transfer of SRO responsibility. MAJCOMs may assign responsibilities for
     geographically separated units to a wing/base or to the measured unit itself.
     1.10.4.9. Ensure wing/base reporting units submit SORTS reports.
     1.10.4.10. Act as DOC Statement publication/release authority. Assist in the preparation
     and coordination of SORTS DOC Statements ensuring the accuracy and currency IAW
     referenced ADS, CJCS and DoD policy.
     1.10.4.11. Track SORTS DOC Statement annual review dates and notify FAMs when
     annual reviews are due.
20                                                               AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


     1.10.4.12. Ensure FAMs review DOC Statements annually and take appropriate action to
     correct inaccuracies.
     1.10.4.13. MAJCOMs will maintain current SORTS DOC Statements in DRRS,
     https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, when available.
     1.10.4.14. Supplement this Instruction as required (see AFI 33-360, Publications and
     Forms Management for guidance). Provide AF/A3O-IR a coordination copy prior to final
     drafting.
        1.10.4.14.1. Send AF/A3O-IR notification of newly published supplements within 30
        days of publication date.
        1.10.4.14.2. Send copies of all MAJCOM official SORTS policy letters to the HAF
        SORTS Office (AF/A3O-IR).
     1.10.4.15. To prevent conflicts with Joint or AF SORTS policy or guidance, coordinate
     MAJCOM FAM interim guidance with AF/A3O-IR.
     1.10.4.16. Develop a Command SORTS Training Program.
        1.10.4.16.1. Training programs will include a block of instruction for commanders.
        1.10.4.16.2. Ensure Wing SORTS managers conduct quarterly recurring training for
        subordinate unit SORTS monitors. Training must be documented and a record
        maintained at the wing/base level.
     1.10.4.17. Establish administrative policy for maintaining copies of unit SORTS reports.
     In no case should copies be maintained for more than one year.
     1.10.4.18. Conduct SAVs on Subordinate Wing/Unit SORTS programs, as appropriate.
  1.10.5. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU FAM: To ensure fidelity of SORTS reporting, FAMs will
  monitor functional area reporting. They also submit command level remarks via the
  MAJCOM/CRO, and coordinate with other staff agencies, as required. Additionally, FAM
  responsibilities include but are not limited to:
     1.10.5.1. Resolving unit requirements/authorization mismatches.
     1.10.5.2. Coordinating with the CRO, nominates units eligible for C-5 authorization to
     the SORTS DOC Statement Approval Authority.
     1.10.5.3. Identify training manuals listing training standards to be measured in SORTS.
     1.10.5.4. Develops new DOC Statements and keeps approved DOC Statements current.
     Refer to paragraphs 1.2., 1.7. and subparagraphs and Attachment 2.
     1.10.5.5. Ensures SORTS DOC Statements accurately reflect the unit full-spectrum
     mission(s) for which the unit is organized or designed, including the Air Reserve
     Component (ARC) gained unit DOC Statements to ensure active duty mission
     requirements are met.
     1.10.5.6. Coordinates interim SORTS guidance with MAJCOM SORTS office.
     1.10.5.7. Analyzes information for trends and directs appropriate actions in response to
     lowered C-levels.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                  21


     1.10.5.8. Ensures accuracy of SORTS DOC Statement.
     1.10.5.9. If MAJCOMs elect to note UTCs postured in the UTC-Availability (UTA) on
     the DOC Statement, works with FAMs and MAJCOM manpower office to resolve
     mismatches between the UTCs and the UMD (the baseline for SORTS personnel
     measurement, refer to Chapter 3) IAW AFI 38-205, Expeditionary Manpower
     Management and AFI 10-401. UTCs listed on DOC Statements will not be used for
     SORTS reporting purposes; however, they may be considered in DRRS METL and ART
     assessments.
     1.10.5.10. Coordinates PRGEO location change through the MAJCOM Readiness office
     when whole units deploy to a CCDR’s area of responsibility (AOR) in support of joint
     tasking.
  1.10.6. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Manpower Office:
     1.10.6.1. Provides unit manpower authorization data from available manpower systems.
     1.10.6.2. Assists FAMs in resolving manpower authorization issues and provides
     corrective action recommendations as well as expected get well dates.
     1.10.6.3. Provides CROs and FAMs, upon request, a manpower assessment of AFSC
     shortages to include validating authorizations and requirements.
  1.10.7. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Personnel Office:
     1.10.7.1. MAJCOM/A1RR, Personnel Readiness Branch, notifies MAJCOM/A1 and
     AF/A1PF within seven duty days when a unit’s P-level is P-3/4, T-3/4 or C-3/4 due to
     personnel shortages, via a secure medium.
     1.10.7.2. MAJCOM/A1 monitors the unit's P/T/C-level until the unit returns above P-2
     or C-2 and provides monthly updates to AF/A1PF including detailed explanation of
     personnel issue, courses of action taken or requested and a projected GWD, via a secure
     medium.
     1.10.7.3. MAJCOM/A1 provides CROs and FAMs, upon request, a personnel
     assessment of each AFSC personnel shortage to include validating manning levels
     (authorized, assigned, available), duty status codes, DAV Codes, as well as corrective
     actions to address the shortages and expected Get Well Dates (GWD).
     1.10.7.4. Assists FAMs in resolving manning/distribution shortfalls.
  1.10.8. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU/Plans Office (normally A5). Planners must ensure accuracy
  of SORTS DOC Statement contingency planning information, to include listed War
  Mobilization Plan (WMP)-3/5 planning factors.
  1.10.9. Intermediate Headquarters NAF. Normally, organizations between MAJCOM and
  wing/base don’t have a direct SORTS role unless acting as the AF component to a unified
  command or sub-unified command. However, MAJCOMs may assign SORTS
  responsibilities to NAFs. As a component headquarters during contingencies NAFs will:
     1.10.9.1. Ensure assigned units (those with OPCON) submit timely and accurate reports.
     1.10.9.2. When gaining deploying units, assist the CRO with identifying SRO for the
     deployed units.
22                                                                AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


  1.10.10. Wings/Bases (normally the SRO level):
     1.10.10.1. Wing/Base Commander:
         1.10.10.1.1. Review SORTS reports to ensure they are accurate, timely, valid, and
         complete. This includes ensuring that remarks explain actions, circumstances, and/or
         situations impacting the measured resource areas.
         1.10.10.1.2. Establish procedures to ensure the reports, that are required to reach the
         GSORTS/DRRS database within 24 hours, are not delayed. The 24 hour clock begins
         with the event that causes the resource or training status change and ends when the
         report is posted in the GSORTS/DRRS database.
         1.10.10.1.3. Ensure Wing/Base SRO SORTS office is adequately manned (normally,
         two or more 1C3X1 Command Post Journeymen, 5-level Senior Airmen, with at least
         one year retainability) and GSORTS/DRRS data handling training is maintained to
         ensure uninterrupted reporting during both peacetime and contingencies regardless of
         unit TDY and leave activities.
     1.10.10.2. Wing/Base SRO (normally Command Post):
         1.10.10.2.1. Handles SORTS problems at the lowest possible level and prevent
         circumvention of command authority levels, Wing/Base SORTS Offices will solicit
         all contact with AF/A3O-IR through their parent MAJCOM SORTS Office.
         1.10.10.2.2. Enters into SORTS, via the input tool, only that C-level data approved
         by the commander of the measured unit. This includes the RICDA date data field,
         which cannot be updated without a report, from the measured unit commander. The
         RICDA date reflects the report “as of”’ currency date.
         1.10.10.2.3. Maintains a current record of each subordinate unit’s GSORTS data.
         This data must include, as a minimum, UIC, Unit Name, UDC, DOCID, Unit
         Location, BIDE UTC (DEPID Code 9 UTC), MAJCOM, Overall C-Level, Overall
         Reason Code, Overall Reason Remarks, Measured Area C-Levels, Measured Area
         Reason Codes and Remarks, and date of report.
         1.10.10.2.4. Notifies units and staff agencies of reporting requirements using
         approved SORTS DOC Statement(s).
            1.10.10.2.4.1. Retains copies of signed current SORTS DOC Statements.
            1.10.10.2.4.2. Provides assistance in resolving SORTS DOC Statement
            discrepancies.
         1.10.10.2.5. Provides technical assistance to measured units.
         1.10.10.2.6. As a minimum, conducts and documents initial and quarterly recurring
         SORTS training for subordinate unit SORTS monitors. Documented training records
         must be maintained at the Wing/Base level.
         1.10.10.2.7. Conducts and documents commander initial and annual recurring
         SORTS training. (The Commander and appointed monitors will receive initial and
         annual training. Initial training will normally occur within 60 days of assignment or
         before submitting a SORTS report.)
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                    23


        1.10.10.2.8. Notifies the subordinate monitors immediately if discrepancies are found
        in unit reports. Ensures SORTS monitors submit correction reports within 24 hours.
        1.10.10.2.9. Notifies, in writing, all designated DSU commanders of their
        appointment and responsibilities as a SORTS DSU unit.
     1.10.10.3. Supporting Wing/Base Manpower Office:
        1.10.10.3.1. Produces automated data products to serviced units that show in-garrison
        requirements (e.g., in-garrison support plan), manpower authorization data from the
        Manpower Programming and Execution System (MPES), and requirements to
        authorizations comparison.
        1.10.10.3.2. Notifies measured units as changes to requirements and authorizations
        occur. If change negatively affects unit capability, works with MAJCOM FAM for
        fix action and get well date.
        1.10.10.3.3. Identifies requirement and/or authorization discrepancies (UMD/UTC
        comparison) with unit deployment manager and jointly resolve mismatch issues with
        MAJCOM FAM for resolution.
        1.10.10.3.4. Provides UMD requirement data and analysis information to unit
        SORTS monitors.
     1.10.10.4. Supporting Force Support Squadron (FSS) Installation Personnel Readiness
     (IPR) Office. Produces the SORTS Personnel Availability Roster, or similar document,
     listing assigned personnel, projected inbounds, current official duty status, current DAV
     codes, and provides personnel expertise regarding personnel deployment availability to
     measured and direct support units, as required. The roster will be provided on a monthly
     basis in sufficient time for commanders to use the product in finalizing their monthly
     SORTS report.
     1.10.10.5. Wing/Base Civilian Personnel Office: Provides civilian personnel rosters to
     the measured units, as required.
  1.10.11. Measured Unit:
     1.10.11.1. Measured Unit Commander:
        1.10.11.1.1. Designates, in writing, alternates who are capable of completing all
        SORTS reporting actions in absence of the commander (not contractors).
        1.10.11.1.2. Appoints SORTS monitors, normally two or more, and ensures they are
        adequately trained to perform SORTS duties, emphasizing the need for accuracy and
        attention-to-detail. (The Commander and appointed monitors will receive initial and
        annual training. Initial training will normally occur within 60 days of assignment or
        before submitting a SORTS report.) If one of the two monitors is deployed, an
        alternate should be appointed.
        1.10.11.1.3. Ensures report submissions meet established time lines and ensures
        uninterrupted reporting during both peacetime and contingencies regardless of unit
        TDY and leave activities. See Paragraph 1.10.4.7
24                                                               AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


        1.10.11.1.4. Ensures data reflected in the SORTS report adequately reflects the unit’s
        ability to undertake the full-spectrum missions for which the unit is organized or
        designed.
        1.10.11.1.5. Reviews remarks monthly for additions, changes, or deletions. Ensures
        remarks are updated, along with the as-of-date for each remark, each time a full report
        or a partial report containing remarks is submitted. Reviews data and remarks for
        quality and assigns an Overall C-level based on the measured data and subjective
        factors in Paragraphs 1.9.7.1 through 1.9.7.5.
           1.10.11.1.5.1. When reporting less than C-1, whether commander assessed down
           or not, the unit commander will describe in a REASN remark what mission(s) or
           portions of the mission(s) the unit is not performing, not capable of performing,
           and, if applicable, the reason for assessing down.
           1.10.11.1.5.2. Explains deficiencies in layman’s terms, addressing planned
           corrective actions and a get well date, if determinable.
        1.10.11.1.6. Each time a new report is processed, signify their review of their current
        database by signing an SRO provided SORTS product that reflects the current data in
        the GSORTS database.
        1.10.11.1.7. Recommends SORTS DOC Statement changes to the MAJCOM FAM
        and provides an information copy to the CRO.
        1.10.11.1.8. Reviews, signs, and dates SORTS DOC Statement NLT 30 days after
        assuming command, receiving a new statement, or upon a change to an existing
        statement, and annually thereafter.
           1.10.11.1.8.1. Signing and dating a DOC Statement signifies that the commander
           has reviewed and understands implications for SORTS reporting. It is not
           coordination for, nor does it signify agreement with, the DOC Statement.
           1.10.11.1.8.2. Describes ADS issues impacting SORTS in a remark. SORTS
           reporting must continue even when resolving ADS issues.
        1.10.11.1.9. Ensures personnel duty status (medical, leave, TDY, administrative
        action, etc.) is monitored daily by designated support staff and changes are reported
        IAW AFI 36-2134, Air Force Duty Status Program, as they occur.
        1.10.11.1.10. Ensures that a process is established for the availability tracking of
        DoD civilians reported in the unit's SORTS reports.
     1.10.11.2. Measured Unit SORTS Monitors:
        1.10.11.2.1. Be responsive to the direction of their Wing, MAJCOM readiness
        offices, and AF/A3O-IR. Unit SORTS monitors will have a valid classified
        (SIPRNET) email address. To handle SORTS problems at the lowest possible level
        and prevent circumvention of command authority levels, Unit SORTS Monitors will
        initiate all contact with AF/A3O-IR through their parent Wing SORTS Manager,
        MAJCOM FAM and MAJCOM SORTS Offices.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                   25


         1.10.11.2.2. Prepare unit SORTS report after collecting information, extracting data
         from existing records, calculating percentages and measured area levels, assigning
         reason codes, and preparing remarks.
         1.10.11.2.3. Advise the commander regarding SORTS DOC Statement discrepancies.
         1.10.11.2.4. Ensure reports are prepared and submitted monthly, NLT the 15th of
         each month.
            1.10.11.2.4.1. Validate unit data each time data is processed into the SORTS
            database. Use a SORTS product, provided by the SRO or downloaded from the
            AF/A3O-IR classified website that reflects the current readiness database status.
            Notify the SRO immediately if discrepancies are found.
            1.10.11.2.4.2. Track discrepancies in subsequent reports to ensure they have been
            corrected.
            1.10.11.2.4.3. Ensure remarks contain all appropriate details such as AFSCs, part
            numbers, get well dates, defined acronyms, etc. The reporting unit is responsible
            for deleting remarks that are no longer required or reporting those remarks to be
            deleted to their SRO.
            1.10.11.2.4.4. Verify personnel duty status accuracy with the FSS. Refer to AFI
            36-2134 for duty status reporting and program management guidance.
            1.10.11.2.4.5. Ensure the unit commander is thoroughly briefed prior to obtaining
            his/her signature on the unit SORTS report for release authority, advising of any
            discrepancies noted in previous reports and actions being taken to correct them.
            1.10.11.2.4.6. Ensure the commander approved reports are submitted through the
            Wing SORTS manager, or submitted through necessary electronic media and
            accurately processed by the GSORTS database, NLT than the 15th of each month.
            1.10.11.2.4.7. Ensure an error-free SORTS report is submitted when all unit
            coordination has been accomplished.
            1.10.11.2.4.8. Review and provide commander with the SORTS report(s) of any
            unit providing critical mission support (i.e. maintenance units supporting an
            aviation unit) to determine if a lower overall C-level should be assessed due to
            any degraded capability of the supporting unit.
  1.10.12. Direct Support Unit (DSU):
     1.10.12.1. DSU Commander:
         1.10.12.1.1. Designates, in writing, alternates who are capable of completing all
         SORTS reporting actions in absence of the commander.
         1.10.12.1.2. Appoints and trains two or more SORTS monitors to allow continuous
         SORTS coverage by a trained monitor while others are on leave, TDY, or deployed.
         1.10.12.1.3. Ensures timely and accurate resource data (personnel, etc.) is given to
         the measured units.
 26                                                                AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


          1.10.12.1.4. Allocates and maintains documentation on those resources that the DSU
          manages for measured units.
          1.10.12.1.5. Ensures personnel duty status (medical, leave, TDY, administrative
          action, etc.) is monitored daily by designated support staff. Duty status changes must
          be immediately updated in the Personnel Data System. Refer to AFI 36-2134 for duty
          status reporting and program management guidance.
          1.10.12.1.6. Ensures that a process is established for the availability tracking of DoD
          civilians reported in the unit's SORTS reports.
      1.10.12.2. DSU SORTS Monitor:
          1.10.12.2.1. Assists the measured unit SORTS monitors in preparing SORTS data.
          1.10.12.2.2. Provides the measured unit with status of allocated resources and
          ensures only those resources are counted.
          1.10.12.2.3. Validates unit data on a monthly basis using monthly SRO-provided
          SORTS products that reflect the current data in the readiness database. Notify the
          SRO immediately if any discrepancies are found. Track discrepancies in subsequent
          reports to ensure they have been corrected.
          1.10.12.2.4. Verifies personnel duty status is accurate with the designated support
          staff. Refer to AFI 36-2134, for duty status reporting and program management
          guidance.
          1.10.12.2.5. Thoroughly briefs the unit commander prior to obtaining his/her
          signature on the unit SORTS input to the measured unit for release authority, advising
          of any discrepancies noted in previous inputs and actions being taken to correct them.
   1.10.13. 334 Training Squadron (SORTS) Mobile Training Team (MTT): Provides SORTS
   Data Handlers Course to any base, as requested by MAJCOM on a fiscal year basis (ten
   student minimum).
      1.10.13.1. Units desiring the MTT to teach at their base should coordinate requests
      through their CRO.
      1.10.13.2. The SORTS Data Handlers Course is mandatory for all new SORTS monitors
      at the earliest opportunity and should be attended by all SORTS monitors anytime AFI
      10-201 has been completely revised.
1.11. SORTS to DRRS Transition. DRRS is a capabilities-based system that provides
subjective assessments on units’ abilities to accomplish METs. SORTS is embedded in DRRS to
eventually allow a single login, one-stop-shop, for readiness reporting. To ensure a smooth
transition to DRRS, the following guidance is provided:
   1.11.1. Wing/Base SRO. Wing/Base SRO, normally the Command Post, will maintain the
   SORTS readiness program during the transition to DRRS.
   1.11.2. Measured Units and Associated DSUs. All AF measured units are to report solely on
   their own resources. This means that, eventually, the term DSU will be eliminated from this
   AFI, and all former DSUs are to report the readiness of their own resources in SORTS, via
   their own DOC Statement. This is to ensure units are designed and organized properly, and
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                        27


  also to aid in better resource budget allocation decisions based on more precise, detailed and
  objective data. To help relieve the burden of DOC Statement generation, as well as SORTS
  and DRRS reporting, a tiered approach will be taken in requiring DSUs to report for
  themselves, starting with Maintenance units, followed by Munitions units, Support, Group,
  and then Wing staffs. To also help relieve the burden, efforts are underway to auto-populate
  DOC Statements via a DOC Management Tool within DRRS and link it with Authoritative
  Data Sources such as: Manpower Programming and Execution System (MPES) and the
  Military Personnel Data System (MilPDS) for automatic personnel calculations; Air Force
  Equipment Management System (AFEMS), Logistics Information Management System –
  Enterprise View (LIMS-EV) and Medical Readiness Decision Support System (MRDSS) for
  automatic equipment calculations; and ARMS, Advanced Distributive Learning System
  (ADLS), Training Business Area (TBA) for automatic training calculations.
  1.11.3. Special Considerations for Maintenance and Aviation Unit Reporting. IAW AFI 21-
  103 unit Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officers (AVDOs) are the primary POCs for aircraft
  inventory and status reporting. AVDOs reside within maintenance units that process
  inventory, status and utilization data using an approved maintenance information system.
  Even though aircraft are officially authorized to aviation units, the ADS for inventory and
  status of aircraft resides within the maintenance community; hence, maintenance units will
  report the readiness of aircraft in SORTS. The aviation unit will still consider the
  maintenance unit’s readiness status when making its own assessment (for example, reduced
  aircraft availability due to maintenance issues, may impact aircrew training). Once the
  maintenance unit has its own approved DOC Statement, it is required to report in SORTS for
  itself, and the aviation unit no longer reports on the status of the aircraft or the maintenance
  personnel. This is to ensure no dual reporting occurs in SORTS. If an aviation unit has a
  contractor supported weapon system, i.e. contracted maintenance and the contract doesn’t
  require the contractor to report SORTS, then the aviation unit will report the inventory and
  status of that weapon system.
 28                                                            AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013




Table 1.1. HQ USAF Functional Offices
 No.    Functional Area                                        Responsible Division
  1     Acquisition                                            SAF/AQXD
  2     Aerial Ports                                           AF/A4LM
  3     Aeromedical Aviation                                   AF/A5XW
  4     Aeromedical Evacuation                                 AF/A3O-AM
  5     AF Flight Inspection                                   AF/A5XW
  6     Air Force Forces (AFFOR)                               AF/A1XX
  7     Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE)                         AF/A3O-AT
  8     Air Defense Aviation                                   AF/A5XW
  9     Airspace Defense                                       AF/A3O-BR
   10   Air Mobility                                           AF/A3O-AC
 11     Air Refueling Aviation                                 AF/A5XW
 12     Air Support Operations Center (ASOC)                    AF/A3O-AY
 13     Airborne C2 Aviation                                    AF/A5XW
 14     Airfield Operations                                     AF/A3O-BA
 15     Airlift Operations Staff                                AF/A3O-AO
 16     Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR)          AF/A4LX
                                                               (HQ AFCEC/CXX)
 17     Battle Control System                                   AF/A3O-AC
 18     Battle Damage Repair                                    AF/A4LF
                                                               SAF/AQRE
 19     Bomber Aviation                                         AF/A5XW
 20     Chemical Biological Defense Equipment (requirements)   AF/A7CX
 21     Civil Engineer                                         AF/A7CX
 22     Civil Engineer (CE)                                    AF/A7CX
        RED HORSE,
        Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (Prime BEEF)
 23     Combat Camera                                          AFPAA/CL
 24     Combat Aviation Assessment                              AF/A3O-AS
 25     Cyberspace Support                                      A3CX/A6CX
 26     Comptroller                                             SAF/FMEX
 27     Contracting                                            SAF/AQCX
 28     Control and Reporting Center                            AF/A3O-AC
 29     Counter Intelligence & Special Investigations           AFOSI/WF
 30     Cyberspace                                             A3CX/A6CX
 31     Electronic Warfare Aviation                             AF/A5RE
 32     Electronic Warfare Support                              AF/A5RE
 33     Engineering and Installation (Comm)                     SAF/A6ONX
 34     Fighter Aviation                                        AF/A5XW
 35     Force Support                                          AF/A1XR
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                       29


No.   Functional Area                                  Responsible Division
36    Fuels                                            AF/A4LE
37    Helicopter Ops Supt Aviation                    AF/A5XW
38    Information Operations (Aggressor)               AF/A3OQI
39    Intelligence                                     AF/A2DF
40    Judge Advocate General (Legal)                  AF/JAX
41    Logistics Readiness Officer                      AF/A4LF
42    Logistics Support                                AF/A4LX
43    Maintenance                                      AF/A4LM
44    Materiel Management                              AF/A4LM
45    Medical                                          AF/SG3X
46    Military Deception                               AF/A3Z-CI
47    Missiles                                         AF/A3Z-ST
48    Munitions                                        AF/A4LW
49    National Airborne Operations Center (NAOC)       AF/A5XW
50    Nuclear Ops                                      AF/A10
51    Operational Support Aviation                     AF/A5XW
52    Operational Support Squadron                     AF/A3O-AI
53    OPS Reconnaissance                               ACC/A3YR
54    Personnel Recovery; SERE; Rescue Coordination    AF/A3O-AS
55    Readiness Spares Package (RSP)                  AF/A4LM
56    Reconnaissance Aviation                         AF/A5XW
57    Reconnaissance Headquarters                      ACC/A3YR
58    Safety                                           AF/SEI
59    Search and Rescue Aviation                       AF/A5XW
60    Security Forces                                  AF/A7SX
61    SOF Reconnaissance                               AF/A2C
62    Space                                            AF/A3Z-SO
63    Space Communications                            AF/A3Z-SO
64    Special Operations Aviation                      AF/A3O-AS
65    Special Tactics                                  AF/A3O-AS
66    Strategic Airlift Aviation                       AF/A5XW
67    Surveillance Aviation                            AF/A5XW
68    Tactical Air Control Party (TACP)                AF/A3O-AC
69    Tactical Airlift Aviation                        AF/A5XW
70    Theater Air Control System                       AF/A3O-AC
71    Traffic Management                               AF/A4LE
72    Vehicle Ops                                      AF/A4LE
73    Weather                                         AF/A3O-WP
74    WRM Maintenance                                  AF/A4LX
 30                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Table 1.2. Classification Guidance
       TYPE OF           SINGLE UNIT               SQUADRON                   TWO OR MORE
  INFORMATION                                                                  UNITS
 BIDE Set                     U                             U                   U
 RPTNORG Set                  U                             U                   U
 Lose/Gain and                U                             U                   U
 Transfer Set
 ORGLOCN Set                  U                         U                          U
 MEQLOCN Set                  U                         U                          U
 MEQPT Set                    U                         U                          U
 PERSTREN Set            U (See Note 2)            U (See Note 2)            U (See Note 2)
 Crew Data                    U                         U                          U
 PLANSTATUS              IAW OPLAN                 IAW OPLAN                 IAW OPLAN
 Service Unique          S* (See Note 3)           S* (See Note 3)           S (See Note 3)
 Overall                      S*                        S*                         S
 P-/S-/R-/T-/C-level          S                          S                         S
 Availability Number          S                          S                         S
 (Measured Area
 Numerator)
 Availability Percentage      S                             S                      S
 (Measured Area
 Percentage)
 Reason Code + Remark         S                             S                      S
 Limiting Factor              S                             S                      S


 NOTES:

 1. The above guidance applies if no other classification authority requires a higher classification.

 2. Unit identification information considered classified may require same classification for
 personnel data.
 3. Entries constitute Air Force classification guidance.
 *Higher classification than that listed in CJCSM 3150.02 Series.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                          31



                                            Chapter 2

           REPORTING CATEGORY LEVEL (C-LEVEL) DATA ELEMENTS

2.1. General Resource Relationship to Unit Combat Preparedness. C-levels are developed
by the JS and derived through quantitative criteria to define in qualitative terms, the degree to
which a measured unit is capable of performing the full-spectrum mission(s) for which it is
organized and/or designed. C-levels provide clarity of resource status to advise the SecDef,
CCDRs, and the Services on current force readiness. C-levels collectively represent, via a five
point scale, the degree to which a unit meets standards established within four measured resource
areas: personnel, equipment and supplies on-hand, equipment condition, and training.
2.2. Air Force Specific Requirements. While the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) require only the
Overall C-level and measured area P-/S-/R-/T-levels, the AF requires units to report actual raw
data percentages in each measured area. This gives a crisis decision-maker and resource or
training manager more detailed status than the C-levels alone indicate. For a complete list of Air
Force specific data elements, reference CJCSM 3150.02 Series.
2.3. General Policy for C-level Calculations.
   2.3.1. The following policy guidelines apply to all measured units required to report:
       2.3.1.1. Two units will not count the same resource(s) as available.
       2.3.1.2. A unit’s Overall C-level will be based only on the resources and training organic
       (assigned or allocated) to it.
       2.3.1.3. Units calculate and report area levels for all four measured resource areas (P, S,
       R, and T) unless exempted by Table 2.1 Use only published objective criteria for
       measurement. Do not subjectively raise or lower measured resource area levels.
       2.3.1.4. Only measured unit commanders, or their designated alternates, can assign the
       unit’s Overall C-level. Commanders report the lowest of the four measured levels as the
       Overall C-level, unless factors like those listed in Paragraph 1.9.7 warrant a downward
       change.
       2.3.1.5. Command echelons, above the measured unit, will not change any reported
       levels or delay the submission of a report. The command echelon may submit additional
       remarks, via the MAJCOM CRO, to comment on reported levels or describe assistance
       actions.
       2.3.1.6. Units not reporting a C-1 in all areas must clearly indicate the reason(s). Refer to
       Paragraph 2.10, for specific remark content requirements.
2.4. Forecasting Overall C-level Changes. Use this element whenever the Overall C-level is
not a “1”, is an assessed downward Overall C-level (C-2/3/4X), a C-level change is predicted, or
when the Forecast Date of Change (CADAT) expires. If concrete indications of an impending
change in the unit’s Overall C-level exist, forecast what C-level the unit will change to, and the
date the unit will change C-levels.
   2.4.1. When a unit forecasts a change in its C-level, the unit must report the forecasted level
   in the Forecast Change Rating (CARAT) field. Units must also report the forecasted date of
 32                                                                  AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   change in the CADAT field. When a unit reports degraded C-levels and it is unable to
   forecast a change date, the responsible MAJCOM FAM must provide the unit assistance to
   determine a best estimate forecast for insertion into the SORTS report. Forecasts are not
   required for units reporting C-1 that expect no change. The CARAT and CADAT fields must
   be updated every time a SORTS report is submitted.
   2.4.2. In addition to the CARAT and CADAT field information, unit commanders will, at a
   minimum, provide remarks that forecast expected C-levels at 3, 6, and 12 months from the
   time of the report under the CADAT remark label. Unit commanders may add remarks, in
   addition to the minimums listed above, forecasting C-levels beyond the 12 month look, as
   desired. Use the following example for Forecast Remarks:

Figure 2.1. Forecast Remark




2.5. Limiting Factor(s) (LIMFACs). A LIMFAC is a problem, deficiency, or condition that
decreases or prevents a unit from accomplishing its full-spectrum mission(s) for which it is
organized or designed, and which usually requires assistance from higher headquarters to
resolve. Within the scope of SORTS reporting, remarks must be created to address any
LIMFAC. Overall LIMFAC remarks will be reported under the Current Overall Category Level
(READY) label. More detailed LIMFAC remarks may be reported in the four measured resource
areas. Examples of LIMFACs include critical AFSC or equipment shortages, problems with
aircrew training, personnel experience levels, Mobility Readiness Spares Package (MRSP) and
In-garrison Readiness Spares Package (IRSP) pacing item shortages, etc.
2.6. Use of the Percent Effective (PCTEF) Field. PCTEF provides a subjective assessment of
the unit’s ability to execute its currently assigned mission(s), also known as its “A-Level”, where
“A” means “assigned”. Assigned missions can be a Named Operation, AEF deployment,
OPLAN execution, etc. PCTEF reporting is required for units that are preparing to deploy or
currently deployed and will be reported for full or partial unit deployments. However, units will
only report PCTEF if 5% or more of the unit is deploying or deployed (assigned personnel and/or
on-hand equipment). PCTEF reporting is required no later than 120 calendar days prior to the
deployment or upon receipt of an appropriate order. Generally, a unit commander receives
assigned missions through a higher headquarters order or directive (e.g., Execute Order
(EXORD), Prepare to Deploy Order (PTDO), Deployment Order (DEPORD), or notification
from Installation Deployment Officer, etc.). PCTEF reporting continues until redeployment or
release from the orders for the assigned mission. While an assigned mission normally requires a
unit to deploy away from its home station, PCTEF reporting requirements can also apply to
assigned missions which can be executed by a unit from its home station location (e.g.,
Operation NOBLE EAGLE). PCTEF reporting is not required for training exercises. When
reporting PCTEF, a commander will only assess resources organic to the unit, and the
assessment will only consider those assets directly supporting the assigned mission. For example,
a unit might have 24 aircraft and 36 crews, but only 6 aircraft and 9 crews are supporting an
assigned mission. The commander’s PCTEF assessment would be for the 6 aircraft and 9 crews,
and their ability to execute the assigned mission. If a unit uses loaned equipment, aircraft and/or
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                         33


personnel to complete an assigned mission, then the unit is meeting its assigned mission
requirement. However, any impacts to the unit’s ability to meet its full-spectrum mission(s) (i.e.,
the situation that created the need for loaned resources) should be addressed via the C-Level.
   2.6.1. While reporting PCTEF, units will continue reporting overall C-Level. PCTEF, or
   “A-Level”, will not necessarily correlate with a unit’s overall C-Level. For example, if the
   unit has an assigned mission, PCTEF will capture the commander’s assessment against the
   current assigned mission, while the overall C-Level will continue to assess the unit’s ability
   to execute its full-spectrum mission(s) for which it is organized or designed.
   2.6.2. For units with multiple assigned missions, the value (1-4) in the PCTEF field will
   reflect the lowest A-level rating for the assigned missions (e.g., multiple assigned missions
   means a unit with an Operation New Dawn and an Operation Enduring Freedom tasking).
   However, the unit commander will include a PCTEF remark for each assigned mission. If a
   unit has resources preparing for an assigned mission, in addition to other resources already
   deployed for an assigned mission, that unit will use the PCTEF field to assess its already
   deployed assets, accompanied by commander’s remarks to show an assessment(s) of the
   other resources preparing to deploy.
   2.6.3. Use the following definitions to report the commander’s subjective estimate of unit’s
   ability to undertake assigned mission(s):
       2.6.3.1. Report a PCTEF A-level of 1 ('1' in PCTEF field) if the unit possesses the
       required resources and is trained to undertake the assigned mission(s).
       2.6.3.2. Report a PCTEF A-level of 2 ('2' in PCTEF field) if the unit possesses the
       required resources and is trained to undertake most of the assigned mission(s).
       2.6.3.3. Report a PCTEF A-level of 3 ('3' in PCTEF field) if the unit possesses the
       required resources and is trained to undertake many, but not all, portions of the assigned
       mission(s).
       2.6.3.4. Report a PCTEF A-level of 4 ('4' in PCTEF field) if the unit requires additional
       resources or training to undertake the assigned mission(s); however, the unit may be
       directed to undertake portions of the mission(s) with the resources on-hand.
       2.6.3.5. When no other requirement exists to report data in this field, select the blank
       space from the drop-down menu.
   2.6.4. Commander’s remarks are mandatory when reporting in the PCTEF field. Using plain
   text under the PCTEF label, identify the assigned mission (e.g., Operation New Dawn,
   Operation Enduring Freedom), current status (deployed or preparing to deploy), percent of
   resources (personnel and equipment) tasked to deploy or deployed, the deployment dates, a
   description of any reduced readiness condition(s) for the assigned mission, and any action(s)
   underway or planned to remedy the reduced readiness condition(s) to include a GWD, if
   determinable. Format the PCTEF remark according to the example below:
“PCTEF 3, Operation Enduring Freedom, deployed (50% percent of resources), 01JUN11 –
30NOV11; status reflects reduced effectiveness due to a shortage of spare engines at our
deployed location; spare engines enroute; GWD is based on estimated arrival of engines,
expecting A-2 by 01AUG11.”
 34                                                                      AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   2.6.5. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU CROs, in coordination with plans shops, and AFPC/DPW will,
   upon request from AF/A3O-IR, provide deployment data to include units/UTCs that are
   deployed and those that are preparing to deploy. AF/A3O-IR will specify the data required
   and date ranges for the data.
2.7. Deployed Resources Availability. In SORTS, units with mobility-only or dual (mobility
and in-place/in-garrison) missions will count deployed assets (personnel and equipment) as
available, regardless of current deployed location. Units with in-place/in-garrison only missions
will count deployed assets as unavailable when the current deployed location prevents assets
return/re-deploy within the unit response time. Reference Table 2.4 for expanded reason codes
for partially deployed units. Other exceptions are units with non-returnable equipment upon
redeployment; these units, once re-deployed, will no longer count that equipment as on-hand
because that equipment is removed from their supply account, see Paragraph 4.10. AF/A3O-
IR, in coordination with the JS, will decide, on a case-by-case basis, the extent of reporting for
units deployed to operate in a stand-alone capacity, as a temporary or provisional unit, and units
which transfer, loan, or supplement personnel or supplies (e.g., resources turned in to personnel
or supply system) from several units to form a temporary or provisional unit. For considerations
regarding unit response times, reference paragraph 1.8
2.8. What Is Needed to Prepare C-level Data. Effective calculation of C-level data in SORTS
must be calculated and validated by commander appointed managers/monitors and be promoted
through the use of the following information:
   2.8.1. Record of current C-level data in SORTS.
   2.8.2. SORTS DOC Statement.
   2.8.3. UMD.
   2.8.4. Minimum Essential Manning List (MEML) if the unit with a SORTS DOC Statement
   says to use MEML (Section IIIA).
   2.8.5. Air Force Personnel Desire List (AFPDL), including Program Element Code (PEC)
   positions, or similar document from the supporting personnel function.
   2.8.6. AS information, from the appropriate logistics office.
   2.8.7. Aircraft Sustainability Model (ASM) or Weapon System Management Information
   System – Sustainability Assessment Model (WSMIS-SAM) data products, if the SORTS
   DOC Statement says to use ASM or WSMIS-SAM.
   2.8.8. MRSP listing if the unit measures MRSP without ASM or WSMIS-SAM.
   2.8.9. IRSP listing if the unit measures IRSP without ASM or WSMIS-SAM.
   2.8.10. Air Force Instructions listed in Table 2.2, as applicable.
   2.8.11. Full system list or basic systems list if an aircraft unit.
   2.8.12. War Ready Materials (WRM) Stock Status Report and MRL for medical units.
   2.8.13. Master Vehicle List, Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL), or
   some other MAJCOM Vehicle Authorization List (VAL) for Aerial Port, LRS, or RED
   HORSE units.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                       35


   2.8.14. Equipment and Supplies Listing (ESL) used by CE units.
   2.8.15. Current Duty Status listing/data of all assigned personnel from designated support
   staff.
   2.8.16. Current listing of all DoD Civilians assigned to the measured unit from the
   supporting Civilian Personnel Office, if applicable.
2.9. ADS Information. ADS information will also be used for testing and training purposes,
during the SORTS to DRRS transition. Units should become familiar with the applicable ADSs,
their corresponding coordination offices, and the information available for their unit. In cases
where the data is inaccurate within the ADS, units are encouraged to lead-turn correction efforts
prior to DRRS becoming the system of record. Personnel ADSs include PAS, MPES, MilPDS,
DCPDS, and PIMR. Equipment ADSs include LIMS-EV (weapons systems, engines, pods, and
vehicles), AFEMS, SBSS, MRDSS (medical units), and ACES (civil engineering units).
Training ADSs include TBA, AFTR, AAMS (MAF aviation units), PEX (CAF aviation units),
ARMS (all aviation units), MRDSS (medical units), and ACES (civil engineering units). If units’
resources aren’t tracked in an ADS system, then the AF Tables become their ADS, found on the
DRRS          homepage         (SIPR),      under        the       references       tab        at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
2.10. Preparing Narrative Remarks. Remarks are a critical component of SORTS and are
required whenever a measured resource subarea percentage drives a measured area level less
than 1. See Table 2.4, Remarks Guidance Matrix. Remarks will highlight problem areas for
each individual label regardless of whether the reported percentage is the actual driver of the
overall C-level. Remarks will be written IAW with the following guidance:
   2.10.1. Use remarks to give supplemental information concerning unit Overall C-level, or
   measured area level, and SORTS LIMFACs. Remarks must be checked and verified for
   accuracy each time any portion of a report is submitted. Revise content and remark date as
   necessary to maintain validity. Remove remarks that no longer apply. If the same remarks
   from the previous report remain valid, resubmit the remarks and update the remark date.
   2.10.2. As previously described, progressively report on each label requiring a remark.
   SORTS customers often selectively retrieve specific pieces of data from the database and
   need to know the location of the remark that explains the data they retrieve. Write remarks in
   plain English. Acronyms must be spelled out in each remark area in which it is used.
   Additional uses of a defined acronym in the same remark field may reflect only the acronym.
   As SORTS is dynamic and remarks may change from report to report, do not refer to
   previous message numbers. Do not submit remarks referencing other remarks (e.g. See
   REASN remark), each remark must stand on its own content or it will defeat the specific data
   retrieval programs. In general, list resource types with their problems. State numbers
   required, assigned, and available, explain the cause of the problem, if known, identify
   previously requested assistance and remedial actions in progress, highlight further actions
   required, and supply a GWD, if determinable, for when a unit will be at least C-2, able to
   accomplish most of its full-spectrum mission(s). See 2.10.2 for GWD specifics.
       2.10.2.1. Provide a realistic GWD for each shortfall or problem in each remark. Use the
       day, month and year (DDMMMYY) date format, i.e. 01JUL11. If GWD is unknown,
       contact the applicable MAJCOM FAM for assistance in establishing a GWD. Determine
36                                                                AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


     the GWD as to when the unit will reach at least a Level-2 in the measured area(s)
     affected. Explain unit and wing actions taken to resolve shortcomings. State if, and what
     kind of, higher headquarters action is needed. If GWD is still unknown, after MAJCOM
     FAM and/or higher headquarter coordination, then it can be considered undeterminable.
  2.10.3. Remarks should be clear and concise, but not at the expense of the details needed.
  Remarks are limited to5000 characters. All remarks remain in the database until changed or
  deleted.
  2.10.4. For the Personnel area, explain the following areas:
     2.10.4.1. Write a remark using the PRRES label (Primary Reason Measured Resource
     Subarea Level for Personnel not C-1) to discuss the personnel area when less then P-1.
     2.10.4.2. Remarks should specify the main driver(s) of why the unit is less than P-1, i.e.
     AFSC shortages, skill-level shortages, civilian shortages by Office Specialty Code
     (OSC), critical shortages by AFSC, skill-level and/or OSC, and/or availability issues like
     duty status or DAV codes.
     2.10.4.3. Regardless of P-level, if personnel shortages exist, identify them in a remark
     using the PERTP remark label by listing each involved; AFSC, number of personnel
     authorized or required, assigned, available, in upgrade training (UGT), the identifying
     personnel reason code (PRC), corrective actions, and a GWD for each;
     “AFSC/AUTH/ASGN/AVAIL/UGT/PRC/CORRECTIVE ACTIONS/GWD.” Include a
     discussion of action(s) taken to resolve the problem. Use Chapter 3, Table 3.4, to
     indicate applicable PRCs.
     2.10.4.4. If critical personnel shortages exist, they will be identified in the PERTC
     remark label: AFSC/AUTH/ASGN/AVAIL/UGT/PRC/CORECTIVE ACTIONS/GWD.
     If units packet, the aforementioned format will be used for each packet.
  2.10.5. For the Equipment and Supplies On-hand area, explain the following:
     2.10.5.1. Write a remark using the ESRES label (Primary Reason Measured Resource
     Subarea Level for Equipment and Supplies not C-1) when equipment and supplies On-
     hand is less than S-1. Ensure each subarea field, reflecting a percentage of “less than
     90%” is described in the associated remark label; e.g., ESSA1-9. Ensure remarks
     accurately reflect the specified reason code (Table 4.3.) and contain all pertinent details
     such as readiness driver national stock number (NSN), item data, get well date, kit serial
     number (as applicable), on-hand versus authorized quantities, POC, etc. Remarks for
     each allowance standard equipment shortage resulting in a LIMFAC must contain the
     NSN, quantity short, allowance source code, equipment account number, and an account
     custodian POC.
         2.10.5.1.1. If Electronic Countermeasure (ECM) pods On-hand and mission ready
         are less than 90%, provide a remark on ECM pod status using the applicable ESSA
         label.
         2.10.5.1.2. The status of medical WRM project codes not reported in subareas are
         provided using the ESRES label. Include only the assemblage ID or allowance
         standard number and total availability percentage.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                      37


         2.10.5.1.3. For units that centrally store equipment or supplies for multiple units and
         are responsible for reporting inventory and status of the equipment or supplies, then
         those units will note that they centrally manage the equipment and will also list the
         stock-level percentage, by regulation, it is required to maintain, within the remarks.
      2.10.5.2. Write a remark using the Major Equipment Possessed (MEPSD) label to
      account for an aircraft maintenance unit’s aircraft assigned but not possessed. Report the
      total number of assigned backup aircraft inventory (BAI), the tail number and location of
      aircraft in programmed depot maintenance (PDM) aircraft, on loan to or from another
      unit, and estimated return date(s). In the aircraft summary, Remotely Piloted Aircraft
      (RPA) units will report the number of systems authorized, assigned and possessed.
      2.10.5.3. Using the RICDA label, all SORTS reporting units will include a written
      remark supplying the full rank and name of their primary and alternate SORTS monitors.
      Minimum entry will include contact telephone number(s) and e-mail address(s). Also in
      the RICDA remark field, the following measured units will report on non-CBRNE
      mobility bags (Personal Protective Equipment A-bags and B-bags):
         2.10.5.3.1. Units that maintain their own mobility bags use the following format:

Figure 2.2. RICDA Remark for Units Maintaining Own Mobility Bags




         2.10.5.3.2. Units that centrally manage mobility bags for other units, use the
         following format:

Figure 2.3. RICDA Remark for Units Centrally Managing Mobility Bags.




         2.10.5.3.3. Units that rely on another unit to centrally manage their mobility bags are
         not required to report on these bags; use the following format:

Figure 2.4. RICDA Remark for Units Whose Mobility Bags are Managed by Another Unit
 38                                                                AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   2.10.6. For units providing rationale for the Equipment Condition area, write a remark using
   the ERRES label (Primary Reason Measured Resource Area Level for Equipment Condition
   not C-1) when equipment and supplies condition is less than R-1. Ensure each subarea field
   reflecting a percentage “less than 90%” status is described in the associated remark label;
   e.g., ERSA1-9.
   2.10.7. Use the following guidance when providing rationale for the Training area:
      2.10.7.1. Write a remark using the TRRES label (Primary Reason Measured Resource
      Subarea Level for Training not C-1) when the training condition is less than T-1. Write
      remarks for each subarea reported as less than 85%; e.g., TRSA1-9 for units using
      Method C.
      2.10.7.2. Regardless of training method, when multiple subareas are less than T-1,
      summarize problems in a remark using the TRRES label. Ensure each subarea field
      reflecting “less than T-1” status is described in an individual label remark, regardless of
      method used.
      2.10.7.3. When current or forecast Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
      formal training school allocation deficiencies exist, write a remark using the TRRAT
      label. Begin the narrative remark with “AETC:” followed by the deficiency short title,
      and continue with a detailed summary of current or future deficiency, the current status or
      action taken to resolve the deficiency, additional actions required, and the impact on the
      unit’s ability to undertake its wartime mission. Format the AETC formal training school
      allocation deficiency narrative according to the example below:

Figure 2.5. TRRAT Remark for AETC Formal Training School Allocation Deficiencies




   2.10.8. Overall C-level data must be explained in a REASN label remark (Overall Reason
   Unit Subarea is not C-1). The remark should summarize problems in sufficient detail to
   ascertain unit readiness and prompt review of specific measured area remarks. The following
   situational examples would require a remark:
      2.10.8.1. Which mission(s) the unit cannot fully support or undertake when it’s Overall
      C-level is less than C-1.
      2.10.8.2. The commander’s rationale, supporting a subjectively assessed downward C-
      level and area(s) where the commander disagrees with the measured area C-level.
      2.10.8.3. The programmed or estimated date the unit will again be able to undertake its
      full spectrum mission(s), if less than C-1 or after undergoing a major equipment
      conversion or transition.
      2.10.8.4. The deactivation date planned for the unit. If within one year of deactivation,
      do not list personnel shortages unless specifically instructed to do so by the MAJCOM.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                      39


      2.10.8.5. When a unit fails an ORI or NSI, consider a commander assessed downgrade to
      the unit’s Overall C-level until the deficiency causing the unsatisfactory rating is
      resolved. Units may assume successful re-inspection; when it is required and the
      inspection team provides applicable dates. Provide remarks to explain the condition in the
      REASN label.
   2.10.9. Using the RICDA label, all SORTS reporting units will include a written remark
   supplying the full rank and name of their primary and alternate SORTS monitors. Minimum
   entry will include contact telephone number(s) and e-mail address(s). Current DOC
   Statement date will be included as the final line of text. EXAMPLE: (date) SORTS
   MONITORS FOR THE 123XFW ARE PRIMARY TSGT JOHN DOE. ALTERNATES
   SSGT JANE DOE AND A1C JAMES SMITH. DSN 999-8888/ 7777. E-MAIL
   123XFW@EXAMPLE.AF.MIL. Current DOC Statement date: DDMMMYY.
2.11. Overall Reason Codes.
   2.11.1. Assigning a PRC. Units must report a reason code against the Overall C-level using
   the reason codes in Table 2.5, unless reporting C-1. When partially deployed, use D/E/F/G.
   See Table 2.7 for additional clarification on use of PRCs.
   2.11.2. Reporting a PRC. The PRC will be entered in the REASN field.
      2.11.2.1. When the Overall C-Level is less than C-1, pick that resource area most
      affecting the lowered C-Level. Use P for personnel, S for equipment and supplies O/H, R
      for equipment condition, and T for training.
      2.11.2.2. If the Overall C-Level is changed to a lower level by the commander’s
      assessment, the X reason code will be used. See paragraph 2.13 for reason codes.
      2.11.2.3. If the Overall C-level is based solely on measured area calculations (REASN
      not X and not C-1) and the unit is partially deployed, P, S, R, or T will be placed in
      REASN and the D/E/F/G as described below will be placed in the SECRN field. For
      PCTEF guidance, reference Paragraph 2.6.
      2.11.2.4. If the Overall C-Level is C-1, there is no partial deployment reflected (no
      DEFG needed), and one or more of the resource areas are not measured (reported as code
      6), the 6 reason code will be used. No remarks are required for a 6 reason code.
      2.11.2.5. If the Overall C-Level is capped by AF FAMs, (i.e., due to resource allocation)
      below C-1, enter the maximum level possible in the Category Level Limitation (LIM)
      label for primary missions Enter a P, S, R, or T in the Reason for Category Level
      Limitation (RLIM) label for the area most affected by the resource allocation.
2.12. Assigning a Secondary or Tertiary Reason Code. If the Overall C-Level is changed to a
lower level by the commander, enter X in REASN field and assign a secondary code to explain
the primary reason for the decision to change the C-level (See Table 2.7 for additional
clarification on use of secondary and tertiary reason codes).
   2.12.1. When downgrading, use the applicable reason codes in Chapter 3, Chapter 4,
   Chapter 5, and Chapter 6.
 40                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   2.12.2. SECRN and TERRN are mandatory if REASN equals X, Overall is less than 1 and
   assets are deployed. D, E, F, or G is used in SECRN field, and proper reason code in
   TERRN.
2.13. SPECAP Data. SPECAP are tasks, equipment, and missions listed in Table 2.3 SPECAP
reference codes are also in the WMP-3 Part 1, Appendix C. Generally, they add flexibility to
mission accomplishment and require specialized equipment or training. The SORTS DOC
Statement will reference which special mission capabilities to include in C-Level calculations. It
will also reference the WMP on up to four specific capabilities. For each special mission
capability:
   2.13.1. Determine the Special Mission Capability Code (SMCC) by using Table 2.3 Enter
   the code under the SMCC 1 through 4 fields, as applicable.
   2.13.2. For maintenance units reporting aircraft/missiles, determine the number of
   aircraft/missiles required to have the capability. Enter the number under Special Mission
   Required Aircraft (SMRA) 1 through 4 fields, as applicable. Count the number of aircraft
   mission ready and available with the special capability. Count only those aircraft mission
   ready and available and have the required specialized equipment mission ready and available
   according to paragraph 5.7 Enter the number under the Special Mission Aircraft Available
   (SMAA) 1 through 4 fields, as applicable.
   2.13.3. For aviation units, determine the number of crews required to have the specialized
   training. Use the SORTS DOC Statement to determine the number required and enter the
   number under the Special Mission Required Crews (SMRC) 1 through 4 fields, as applicable.
   Count the number of mission ready and available crews with specialized training. Count only
   those crews with specialized training which are mission ready and available according to
   paragraph 6.2.3 Enter the number under the Special Mission Available Crews (SMAC) 1
   thorough 4 fields, as applicable.
2.14. CBDRT. To report the status of unit required/authorized CBRNE equipment and training,
see Attachment 4. All measured units will complete a CBDRT concurrent with the unit’s
primary SORTS report.
Chapter 2 Reference Tables (see top of next page). Also see the Critical Personnel Table in
AF Tables under the references tab at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                             41




Table 2.1. Air Force Instruction References For C-level Data
 AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program
 AFI 10-209, RED HORSE Program AS 429, and AS 012
 AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations
 AFI 10-2912, Aeromedical Evacuation Readiness Program
 AFMAN 24-204(I), Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments
 AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
 AFI 32-3001, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Program
 AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management
 AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors (aircraft)
 AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual
 NOTE: This list is not all-inclusive.
 42                                                            AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013




Table 2.2. Mandatory Remarks Guidance Matrix
       Label
          AFI Reference/Requirement Definitions
          2.5 - when reporting LIMFACS
      READY
          1.9.7 - when the commander changes the overall C-level
      REASN
          1.10.11.1.5.1 - less than C-1, regardless of assessment
          2.10.11 - remark explanations
          2.10.8.5 - inspection failures
          2.11.2.3 - partial deployments with overall less than C-1
  CADAT 2.4.1 - anytime a unit forecasts a C-level change
          2.4.2 - 3, 6, and 12-month forecast (specific format)
          2.4.2 - additional free text forecasting remarks.
  PCTEF 2.6.2 - mandatory remark when PCTEF is reported
  PRRES 2.10.4.1 - when P-level is less than P-1
          2.10.4.2 - when including civilian personnel and services provided
  PERTP 2.10.4.3 - regardless of C-level, list AFSC shortages
  PERTC 2.10.4.4 – list of AFSC shortages
  ESRES 2.10.5.1 - when equipment and supplies On-hand S-level is less than S-1.
          2.10.5.1.2 - WRM not reported in subareas (Medical Units ONLY)
 ESSA 1-9 2.10.5.1 - subarea remarks requirement
          2.10.5.1 - subareas below S-1 status
          2.10.5.1.1 - ECM pods less than 90 percent (ESSA4 only)
  MEPSD 2.10.5.2 - to account for a flying Unit’s Aircraft Assigned but not possessed and
          RPA reporting
  RICDA 2.10.5.3 - A and B mobility bags
          2.10.9 - unit SORTS monitor/DOC currency identification (specific format)
  ERRES 2.10.6 - when equipment condition R-level is less than R-1, multiple
          subarea summation, and aircraft (75%) reporting
 ERSA1 – 2.10.6 - subarea remarks requirement
  ERSA9 2.10.6 - subareas below R-1 status
          2.10.6 - account for subareas less than 75 percent, not R-1 (support units only)
  TRRES 2.10.7.1 - when less than T-1 in Training
          2.10.7.1 - multiple subareas limiting the T-level
 TRSA1 – 2.10.7.2 - subarea remarks requirement
  TRSA3 2.10.7.2 - subareas below T-1 status
  TRRAT 2.10.7.3 - AETC formal training school allocation deficiencies.
          6.5.6 - training range limitation
NOTES:

1. This list is not all-inclusive.

2. Abbreviations should not be used in remarks.

3. Illegal characters not to be used in remarks as follows:
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                      43



 ! = Exclamation point $ = dollar sign ; = semicolon
 & = and sign “ = quotation or ditto marks * = asterisk
 @ = at sign + = plus sign # = number or pound sign
 = = equal sign % = percent sign.

 4. Do not use symbols.

 5. Acronyms must be spelled out once in each remark.



Table 2.3. Standard Reason Codes for Air Force Units
 Rule                     A                                                       B
           If the Overall C-Level is                                           then the REASN
                                                                                 code is
   1       less than C-1 and the area most affecting the C-Level is personnel,    P
   2       less than C-1 and the area most affecting the C-Level is equipment     S
           and supplies O/H,
   3       less than C-1 and the area most affecting the C-Level is               R
           equipment condition,
   4       less than C-1 and the area most affecting the C-Level is training,     T
   5       subjectively assessed downward by the commander                        X
   6       C-5 and a resource area is C-4 for service-directed resource action    N
   7       C-1 and one or more of the resource areas are not measured              6

Table 2.4. Expanded Reason Codes for Partially Deployed Units
 Rule                         A                                          B
           If the Commander’s Assessment of        then the REASN code reflecting potential
             the Unit Deployable Capability          risk if resources are not released to re-
                 deployed is in the range                            deploy is
  1                    less than 5%                               not applicable
  2                       5 to 15%                                      D
  3                      16 to 25%                                       E
  4                      26 to 35%                                       F
  5                      36 to 75%                                      G
  6                     76 to 100%                                not applicable
 44                                                           AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013




Table 2.5. Use of Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Reason Codes
 Rule When Overall     and Primary Reason         Then report         and report Tertiary
      C-level (READY) Code (REASN) is          Secondary Reason          Reason Code
               is                              Code (SECRN) as           (TERRN) as
  1           C-1                                not used
  2           C-1          D, E, F, G for       optional                     not used
                            deployment
                            assessment
  3           C-1                 6                             optional
  4      less than C-1      P, S, R, or T         D, E, F, G when      applicable reason code
                                             assets are deployed
                                                   optional when              optional
                                              assets are not deployed
  5       less than C-1           X               D, E, F, G when      applicable reason code
                                                assets are deployed
                                                 applicable reason            optional
                                               code when assets are
                                                   not deployed
  6           C-5                 N                             not used
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                       45



                                          Chapter 3

                         PERSONNEL MEASURED AREA DATA

3.1. Personnel. Units compute the personnel P-level based on the percentages of total and
critical personnel authorized, assigned and available to accomplish the unit’s full spectrum
mission(s). Personnel measurements are based on a unit’s authorized and funded positions in its
UMD. The following documents are used as sources for the personnel measured area: MEML,
UMD, unit personnel manning roster (UPMR), and SORTS Personnel Availability Roster.
Personnel measurement is limited to US military and DoD civilian personnel. Foreign national
military, foreign national civilian, and contractor personnel are not counted in the measured
personnel area, but may be considered in the DRRS mission assessments. Active duty units will
not count ANG and Reserve personnel unless gained by the unit as a result of mobilization.
   3.1.1. Total Personnel.
       3.1.1.1. TPAUTH (total personnel authorized) for all units is based on the UMD.
       3.1.1.2. TPASG (total personnel assigned) is determined by counting all personnel in a
       unit from the time they arrive at the unit until they depart on a PCS, permanent change of
       assignment (PCA), or separate from the Air Force. All personnel are counted for TPASG
       regardless of AFSC, skill level, or grade and may exceed the TPAUTH number. Units
       will use an UPMR or similar product provided by their designated support staff to
       determine total assigned personnel. Before preparing the SORTS report, the unit SORTS
       monitor should coordinate with the unit designated support staff to ensure records in the
       Personnel System are updated and reflect the true status of unit personnel.
       3.1.1.3. TPAVL (total personnel available) is determined by calculating the number of
       TPASG that are available to the unit within the DOC response time. See paragraph 3.2
       for specific availability guidance. TPAVL are counted regardless of current
       deployed/employed location, AFSC, skill level, or grade and may exceed the TPAUTH
       number.
       3.1.1.4. DoD civilians are included in calculations in the SORTS personnel area.
          3.1.1.4.1. Do not count civilian personnel in SORTS if they have Reserve or Guard
          commitments during crisis or wartime that can make them subject to recall.
          3.1.1.4.2. The SORTS DOC Statement will indicate that DoD civilians are counted.
       3.1.1.5. The positions filled by Foreign Local Nationals will be counted in SORTS as
       authorizations, if part of the unit’s UMD. The Commander may choose to count the
       Foreign Local Nationals as available or not, depending on the mission(s) they support.
   3.1.2. Critical Personnel.
       3.1.2.1. The reporting of critical personnel is based on the AFSCs identified by the HAF
       FAM as detailed in the AF Tables - Critical Personnel Table found on the DRRS
       homepage           (SIPR),         under         the        references       tab       at
       https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Critical personnel are those
       identified as essential to the launch, recovery, or turnaround of a unit’s weapon system,
46                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


     or the direct accomplishment of the unit’s full-spectrum mission. They are critical
     because their absence would materially affect the mission. Personnel with particular
     AFSCs are considered “critical” if they meet the following criteria:
         3.1.2.1.1. Personnel with AFSC(s) essential to fulfilling the unit’s mission tasks.
         3.1.2.1.2. Absence of personnel possessing AFSC(s) that would render the unit
         severely deficient or totally unable to execute its mission.
         3.1.2.1.3. AFSC is part of a critically manned career field subject to special
         monitoring.
     3.1.2.2. Officers who have a critical AFSC as their duty AFSC, or enlisted who have a
     critical AFSC as their control AFSC are considered critical.
     3.1.2.3. Enlisted members who are cross training and hold a 3-level control AFSC in
     their new career field present a special circumstance. Those personnel can be counted
     against critical requirements in their former career field so long as they hold the correct
     control AFSC and skill level, their grade meets or exceeds the UMD requirement, and
     their commander determines they are qualified to perform the job. Civilians can be
     counted as critical by listing their OSC in the AF Tables - Critical Personnel Table
     found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
     https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
     3.1.2.4. CPAUR is determined by counting the number of TPAUTH positions that also
     match the AFSC/skill levels listed in the AF Tables - Critical Personnel Table found on
     the     DRRS       homepage       (SIPR),     under      the     references   tab     at
     https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
     3.1.2.5. Critical Personnel Assigned (CPASG) is determined by counting the number of
     critical personnel assigned to authorized positions on the UMD with the correct AFSC.
     An officer must have the correct duty AFSC and enlisted personnel must have the correct
     control AFSC compared to the critical position requirement on the UMD. IAW CJCSM
     3150.02a, critical personnel substitutions must have the required AFSC and meet or
     exceed the skill level required.
     3.1.2.6. CPAVL is determined by calculating the number of CPASG that are available to
     the unit within the unit’s mission response time (see paragraph 3.2 for specific
     availability guidance).
     3.1.2.7. Critical personnel overages will not be reported in the CPASG and CPAVL data
     fields but may be reported using a remark under the applicable label (CPASG or
     CPAVL).
  3.1.3. Special Provisions for Personnel Counting.
     3.1.3.1. The SORTS DOC Statement must indicate whether DSU personnel must be
     included in the count.
     3.1.3.2. Personnel TDY or temporarily attached to a measured unit will not be included
     in the gaining unit’s assigned and available numbers.
     3.1.3.3. Units with a joint mission that have multiple service personnel assigned,
     attached or a combination of active duty and reserve component personnel will use their
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                       47


       respective service or component UMD to determine total personnel requirements ( e.g., a
       total force wing requires support from the Army, Navy, and Air National Guard; the
       Army operating location (OL) has a UMD of 20 personnel, the Navy OL 20 personnel,
       the ANG unit 100 personnel and the Active Duty Air Force unit 150 personnel, resulting
       in a total requirement of 290. Critical personnel will be assessed using the same
       guidelines based on specific AFSC requirements listed in the UMD.
       3.1.3.4. AFRC and ANG (i.e., ARC) personnel attached to an active duty (AD) unit, for
       training purposes, will not be included in AD personnel numbers. Likewise, AD
       personnel attached to ARC units will not be included in the ARC personnel numbers.
3.2. Determining Personnel Availability. Unit personnel may be considered available if they
are assigned to the unit and meet one of the following requirements:
   3.2.1. Can be utilized within the prescribed unit response time, regardless of current
   deployed/employed location. Reference paragraph 1.8.1 for availability guidance regarding
   deployed personnel.
   3.2.2. Not restricted from deploying or employing with the unit. Personnel with a DAV
   code or Duty Limiting Condition (DLC) may be restricted from deploying; however, they
   may still be counted as available if used to support the in-garrison/in-placed mission. A
   person on leave could be recalled; a person close to retirement could be stop-lossed.
   3.2.3. Their duty status/DAV code(s) on a SORTS Personnel Availability Roster and the
   Duty Status Roster match those from AFI 10-403, Attachment 2, and the commander
   determines them available where appropriate.
       3.2.3.1. Commanders should consider individual medical readiness (IMR) when
       determining personnel availability. Personnel having a duty status/availability code
       restricting them from deployment (IAW AFI 10-403) may be considered available for in-
       garrison mission tasks, as determined by the commander.
       3.2.3.2. When a unit temporarily transfers (lends) personnel to another unit, the
       supplying measured unit will continue to measure and report the personnel in its SORTS
       unless otherwise directed by the MAJCOM(s) involved. Likewise a unit receiving
       personnel from another unit will not measure or count those personnel unless otherwise
       directed. All MAJCOMs involved must ensure no two units report on the same resources.
3.3. Total and Critical Personnel Percentage Calculation. The lower P-level from total or
critical personnel is used to determine the personnel resource area P-level, reference Tables 3.2
and 3.3
   3.3.1. Total Personnel Percentage. If 10 or more people are calculated, divide total
   personnel available by the total number of personnel authorized, multiply by 100 and round
   off to a whole number. If nine or less people are calculated, use Table 3.1 to derive the
   percentage. The calculated percentage is entered in the PERTP field.
   3.3.2. Critical Personnel Percentage. If 10 or more personnel are calculated, divide the
   number of critical personnel available by the number of critical personnel authorized (UMD).
   Multiply the result by 100 and round off to a whole number. Availability of personnel is
   determined using paragraph 3.2 If the number in the denominator of the percentage
           48                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


                equation is nine or less personnel, use Table 3.1 to derive percentage. The calculated
                percentage is entered in the PERTC data field.
         3.4. Personnel Reason Codes.
                3.4.1. Select the most specific reason code from Table 3.4, when P-level is less than P-1.
         3.4.2. If the reason code has changed from the last reported, enter the new reason code in the
         PRRES data field.

         Chapter 3 Reference Tables. See top of next page and the AF Tables - Critical Personnel Table
         found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
         https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.

         Table 3.1. Personnel Available Percentage Matrix for Nine or Less People
           Rule        A                     B       C    D      E     F      G      H      I              J
                   Find # available        find column with number authorized or required
                                             9       8    7      6     5      4      3      2              1
            1           9                  100
            2           8                  90      100
            3           7                  86      90   100
            4           6                  80      86   86     100
            5           5                  76      80   80     86    100
            6           4                  70      76   76     80    80     100
            7           3                  44      70   70     70    70     80     100
            8           2                  33      45   55     59    60     70     80     100
            9           1                  22      27   33     37    40     50     60     70              100
           10           0                  0       0    0      0     0      0      0      0               0

         Table 3.2. Changing Total Personnel Percent into a P-Level
            Rule           A                                               B
If the total personnel percentage is in the range of             then the total personnel P-level is
              1                    90 to 100                                         P-1
              2                     80 to 89                                         P-2
              3                     70 to 79                                         P-3
              4                      0 to 69                                         P-4

         Table 3.3. Changing Critical Personnel into a P-Level
            Rule           A                                               B
If critical personnel percentage is in the range of              then the critical personnel P-level is
             1                    85 to 100                                            P-1
             2                     75 to 84                                            P-2
             3                     65 to 74                                            P-3
             4                      0 to 64                                            P-4
              AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                               49


              Table 3.4. Reporting Personnel Reason Codes
                R                   A                                             B
                U
If the personnel measured resource area is not P-1 and the primary reason is   then in the field PRRES
                L                                                                       report
                E
                 1 casualties                                                           P01
                 2 organization activating                                              P05
                 3 organization deactivating                                            P06
                  4 organization recently activated/reorganized                         P08
                 5 personnel shortage                                                   P11
                 6 personnel shortage deployable personnel                              P17
                 7 personnel shortage enlisted                                          P19
                 8 personnel shortage maintenance                                       P26
                 9 personnel shortage navigator/observer                                P27
                10 personnel shortage officer                                           P32
                11 personnel shortage pilot                                             P36
                12 subordinate organization detached                                    P40
                13 personnel shortage vehicle maintenance                               P42
                14 personnel shortage aircraft systems maintenance                      P43
                15 personnel shortage avionics systems maintenance                      P44
                16 personnel shortage comm/electronics maintenance                      P45
                17 skill shortage weapon system conversion                              P48
                18 personnel shortage aerial port                                       P49
                19 personnel shortage fire fighters                                     P50
                20 personnel shortage civil engineer                                    P51
                21 personnel shortage medical                                           P52
                22 personnel shortage civilian                                          P53
                23 personnel shortage enlisted aircrew                                  P54
                24 personnel shortage weapon system officer                             P55
                25 personnel shortage electronic warfare officer                        P56
                26 personnel shortage loadmaster                                        P57
                27 personnel shortage controllers                                       P58
                28 personnel shortage missile maintenance                               P59
                29 personnel shortage aircraft maintenance                              P60
                30 personnel shortage computer operator                                 P61
                31 personnel shortage munitions support                                 P62
                32 personnel shortage fuels support                                     P63
                33 personnel shortage supply support                                    P79
                34 personnel shortage supply and fuels support                          P80
                35 personnel shortage forwarded to FSS for action                       P82
                36 personnel shortage forwarded to MAJCOM for action                    P83
                37 personnel shortage forwarded to AFPC service                         P84
                     center for action
               50                                                              AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


                R                A                                                  B
                U
If the personnel measured resource area is not P-1 and the primary reason is     then in the field PRRES
                L                                                                         report
                E
                38 personnel shortage security forces                                     P85
                39 personnel shortage no action required                                  P86
                40 area not measured by parent service direction                         PNM
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                      51



                                          Chapter 4

          EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES ON-HAND MEASURED AREA DATA

4.1. Equipment and Supplies On-hand Reporting. Equipment and supplies On-hand
measurement is used to indicate the equipment and supplies the unit possesses, on hand, to
support its full spectrum mission(s), as designed and organized. Equipment and supplies On-
hand reporting is based on a unit’s authorizations, through an AF approved ADS (i.e. AFEMS,
ACES and SBSS) listing all authorized and funded equipment and supplies. Resources measured
in this area are reported in the EQSUPPLY set. The formula for equipment and supplies On-
hand computations is the number of equipment and supplies possessed divided by the number of
equipment and supplies authorized multiplied by 100.
4.2. Equipment and Supplies Subareas (ESSAs). This measured area allows measurement of
up to nine subareas. Consider the following:
   4.2.1. Item Possession. To determine the number of items a unit will possess within its
   response time, the unit must have actual responsibility for the items according to applicable
   supply regulations. The following items are not considered possessed:
       4.2.1.1. Additional or BAI in excess of the number authorized or required. Include
       backup aircraft if MEASG does not exceed MEARD.
       4.2.1.2. Items in PDM or Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO) depot
       modification.
       4.2.1.3. Items temporarily in the hands of another unit due to long term maintenance
       (lasting more than seven days or for crash or battle damage repair) are not considered
       possessed by the receiving unit.
       4.2.1.4. Items loaned to another unit to augment their resources will be considered
       possessed by the owning unit. Receiving unit will not use these resources for SORTS
       reporting. Items will not be double-counted.
   4.2.2. MRSP and IRSP:
       4.2.2.1. Include XD-coded repairable items, but not XB/XF-coded expendable items.
       Large numbers of XB may mask problems with higher value XD items (BEAR base
       squadrons excluded). Include only items serviceable/repairable within the response time.
       4.2.2.2. Include the possessed primary operating stock (POS).
       4.2.2.3. Add the items On-hand for each measured subarea to obtain a subarea total.
   4.2.3. Electronic Attack (EA) Pods. If Pods are On-hand and mission ready, but are less
   than 90 percent mission capable, provide a remark on EA Pod status using the ESSA4 label.
4.3. Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR) General Policy. BEAR units report
SORTS data against stated SORTS DOC Statement mission. Each unit must determine and
report their status on the basis of critical BEAR equipment and supplies (support) assigned.
Report using only the assets the unit is authorized. Specific equipment allowances are included
in AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures, Chap 7
“Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources,” and in AS 157, 158 and 159.
 52                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   4.3.1. The following measured units report on the designated BEAR systems:
       4.3.1.1. 49th Materiel Maintenance Group (MMG) Holloman Air Force Base (AFB),
       NM for assigned Air Combat Command (ACC) BEAR assets.
       4.3.1.2. United States Air Forces Central, Director of Logistics (USAFCENT/A4) Shaw
       AFB, SC for assigned USAFCENT BEAR.
       4.3.1.3. 607th Materiel Maintenance Squadron (MMA) Daegu Air Base (AB), Korea,
       and 36th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Andersen AFB, Guam, for assigned Pacific Air
       Forces (PACAF) BEAR assets.
       4.3.1.4. 86th MMS Ramstein, Germany for assigned United States Air Forces Europe
       (USAFE) BEAR assets.
4.4. MRSP and IRSP Authorizations. New MRSP/IRSP authorizations loaded into a unit’s
SBSS account and requisitioned 90 days prior to authorization/activation date are assessed
beginning on the authorization date, the unit’s specific tasking date for its wartime requirement.
   4.4.1. Revised MRSP or IRSP authorizations are provided a minimum of 30 days and a
   maximum of 60 days grace period for reporting S-levels. This includes annual RSP reviews
   and major RSP configuration changes.
   4.4.2. Report new authorizations starting 30/60 days after they are loaded into the SBSS or
   as soon as the sorties/aircraft (for ASM or WSMIS-SAM assessed units) or the RSP percent
   filled (where ASM or WSMIS-SAM are not assessed) of revised authorizations equal or
   exceed that of outdated authorizations, whichever occurs first. Continue to report the
   assessment of the outdated authorizations until the conditions are met for the new
   authorizations, but comment on the status of the new authorizations in the remarks, e.g. new
   MRSP authorization loaded (date).
   4.4.3. Assets available in POS to fill MRSP shortages are counted as On-hand in MRSP
   when computing fill percentages in SORTS.
       4.4.3.1. The MRSP percent fill is based on total authorized units, excluding
       Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Code (ERRC) XB and XF items. The MRSP
       fill percent is computed as follows: On-hand (XD) MRSP divided by (XD) MRSP
       authorization multiplied by 100 = (XD) MRSP percent fill rate.
       4.4.3.2. Assets due in from maintenance (DIFM) within DOC response time and not
       awaiting parts (AWP) are also counted as O/H. The On-hand MRSP quantity is computed
       as follows: serviceable MRSP + applicable POS + Forward Supply Points (FSP) +
       (DIFM not AWP) = On-hand MRSP.
   4.4.4. Units with an in-garrison mission have specific IRSP guidance. Each unit is provided
   a total wartime requirement.
       4.4.4.1. The total wartime requirement is computed as follows: IRSP + POS O&STQ
       (Order & Ship Time Quantities).
       4.4.4.2. The On-hand IRSP quantity is computed as follows: serviceable IRSP +
       serviceable POS + O/ H repairable assets not coded AWP = authorized units, excluding
       ERRC XB and XF items.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                       53


      4.4.4.3. The IRSP fill percent is computed as follows: On-hand IRSP quantity divided by
      total wartime requirement multiplied by 100.
4.5. Subarea Percentage Calculations.
   4.5.1. Calculate the Subarea Percentages. If ten or more items are authorized or required,
   divide the number of items possessed within the unit response time by the number of items
   authorized. The number of items counted as possessed is not to exceed the number of items
   authorized. Multiply the result by 100 to derive a percentage and round off to the nearest
   whole number. This whole number is the subarea percentage.
   4.5.2. If nine or less items are authorized or required select appropriate percentage from
   Table 4.1 unless otherwise directed by the AF Equipment On-hand Tables – Measured
   Equipment On-hand Table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab
   at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Note the derived percentages.
   If a percentage has changed since the last report, enter the new percentage under the
   appropriate subarea label from the Measured Equipment On-hand Table listed above.
4.6. Combat Essential and Support Equipment On-hand Percentage Calculations.
   4.6.1. Determine unit combat essential versus support specification using the AF Equipment
   On-hand Tables – EQSEE and EQSSE ReportingTable found on the DRRS homepage
   (SIPR),             under            the            references             tab          at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, Columns A (unit type), B
   (combat essential equipment) and C (support equipment).
   4.6.2. To calculate the combat essential and support equipment percentage for each area use
   the following rules:
      4.6.2.1. If the entry lists subareas, use the lowest percentage among subareas.
      4.6.2.2. If the entry lists equipment or another document, calculate percentage with the
      same procedure used for the subarea calculations.
   4.6.3. Note the derived percentage. If the percentage has changed since the last report, enter
   the new percentage in the EQSEE label for combat essential equipment and the EQSSE label
   for support equipment.
   4.6.4. Note the derived combat essential/supporting item counts. For aircraft units, if the
   item counts have changed since the last report, enter them in the following labels:
      4.6.4.1. The number authorized in the label MEARD.
      4.6.4.2. The number assigned in the label MEASG.
      4.6.4.3. The number possessed in the label MEPOS.
      4.6.4.4. If MRSP fill rate was used in spares assessment, enter it in the RSP field and
      enter an X in the Spares Assessment Driver (ARUSD) field.
4.7. Equipment and Supplies On-hand S-Level Calculations. To convert area percentages
into an S-level use the following rules:
   4.7.1. AMXS units:
 54                                                               AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


       4.7.1.1. Convert EQSEE field to an S-level by using AF Equipment On-hand Tables –
       AMXS Unit Calculating EQSEE S-Levels Table found on the DRRS homepage
       (SIPR),            under           the          references        tab          at
       https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
       4.7.1.2. Convert EQSSE field to an S-level by using AF Equipment On-hand Tables –
       AMXS Unit Calculating EQSSE S-Levels Table found on the DRRS homepage
       (SIPR),            under           the          references        tab          at
       https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
       4.7.1.3. Select the lower of EQSEE and EQSSE S-levels.
   4.7.2. Non-AMXS units:
       4.7.2.1. Select the lowest percentage value from EQSEE and EQSSE percentages.
       4.7.2.2. Convert percentage into an equipment and supplies S-level using Table 4.2
   4.7.3. Note the derived equipment and supplies On-hand S-level. If the S-level has changed
   since the last report, enter it in the ESRAT label.
   4.7.4. If AF Equipment On-hand Tables - EQSEE and EQSSE ReportingTable found on
   the      DRRS       homepage       (SIPR),  under    the      references    tab   at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb lists nothing to report for the
   combat essential and support equipment On-hand percentages, report S-6 in ESRAT and
   SNM in ESRES.
4.8. Equipment and Supplies On-hand Reason Codes. Select the most specific reason code
from Table 4.3 when the equipment and supplies On-hand S-level is less than S-1. Note the
selected reason code. If the reason code has changed since the last report, enter the new code.
4.9. ASM and WSMIS-SAM. When the SORTS DOC Statement references ASM or WSMIS-
SAM, units must use the AF Equipment On-hand Tables-AMXS Unit Calculating Spares
Table found in on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb to find the spares subarea percentage.
MAJCOMs may waive this requirement if there is a major problem with the ASM assessments.
When there is a validated problem with ASM, MAJCOMs may direct the use of WSMIS-SAM
as a secondary or tertiary means of providing an assessment of capability attributed to spare
parts. The following rules apply for ASM and WSMIS-SAM:
   4.9.1. No ASM or WSMIS-SAM available. If ASM or WSMIS-SAM is not available, and
   when authorized by MAJCOM, use the RSP (XD2 only) fill rate to report, using AF
   Equipment On-hand Tables – AMXS Unit Calculating Spares Table found on the DRRS
   homepage           (SIPR),        under       the        references      tab        at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, rules 1-4. Report percentages in
   the RSP and ESSA1 fields. Enter an X in the ARUSD field.
   4.9.2. For units with strategic airlift aircraft (C-17, C-5), use percent SORTIES achieved
   over 30 days (reference AF Equipment On-hand Tables – AMXS Unit Calculating Spares
   Table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb).
       4.9.2.1. Enter Y in the ARUSD field.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                       55


       4.9.2.2. Report spares assessment percentage in ESSA1 field (reference AF Equipment
       On-hand Tables – AMXS Unit Calculating Spares Table found on the DRRS
       homepage           (SIPR),       under        the     references        tab      at
       https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb).
       4.9.2.3. Use fill rates to determine MRSP/IRSP and report in the RSP field.
   4.9.3. All other aircraft units (non-strategic airlift) use the aircraft availability spares
   assessment method (reference AF Equipment On-hand Tables – AMXS Unit Calculating
   Spares Table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb).
       4.9.3.1. Enter Z in the ARUSD field.
       4.9.3.2. Report spares assessment percentage in ESSA1 field (reference AF Equipment
       On-hand Tables – AMXS Unit Calculating Spares Table found on the DRRS
       homepage           (SIPR),       under        the     references        tab      at
       https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb).
       4.9.3.3. Use fill rates to determine MRSP/IRSP and report in the RSP field.
   4.9.4. Guidance for specific aircraft availability (ACFTA) options to be used for each
   aircraft type is included in the notes to AF Equipment On-hand Tables – AMXS Unit
   Calculating Spares Table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Units will contact their
   MAJCOM office with any questions as to which ACFTA Option is appropriate.
   4.9.5. MAJCOMs will promptly notify HQ AFMC Logistics (HQ AFMC/A4) of specific
   modeling disconnects with ASM. Notifications should be made within 48 hours of discovery,
   but not later than 72 hours.
   4.9.6. When ASM is used, spare engine assessments will be made using AF Equipment On-
   hand Tables – AMXS Unit Calculating WRE S-Levels Table found on the DRRS
   homepage           (SIPR),        under       the        references      tab       at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb and the percentage put in the
   ESSA2 field. The ASM assessment does not include spare engines.
4.10. Non-Returnable Deployed Equipment. Occasionally, a unit may own equipment that is
required to be left in the contingency AOR, after the unit redeploys to its home station.. When
deployed, the owning unit will contact the Supply Chain Operation Squadron and deployed
SBSS account representative to obtain an R26 for the transferred items and calculate these assets
as available, if they can be redeployed within the DOC response time, IAW AFMAN 23-110.
Once re-deployed, the unit will no longer count that equipment as on-hand because that
equipment has been removed from their supply account. Once the unit reaches home station and
the equipment has been added back to their supply account and re-supplied, the unit will once
again count the equipment as on-hand.
4.11. Aircraft Engine Computations. These procedures are outlined in AFI 20-115,
Propulsion Management for Aerospace Vehicles, and must be used to determine required war
readiness engines. Authorized additives, justified on the basis of wartime requirement, must be
included in computations. All aircraft with engine holes will have serviceable engines allocated.
The number of net serviceable spare engines will then be compared to the WRE requirement and
 56                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


the reported percentage is the factor to be entered on the S-level checklist. Engines installed in or
obligated to BAI, cannibalized (CANN), and unserviceable assigned aircraft, that are available
within response time, may be considered available by the unit commander. This can include
engines projected available through the pipeline, jet engine intermediate maintenance, or
logistics support center provided that serviceability and Ready For Issue (RFI) requirements are
met.
Chapter 4 Reference Tables. See top of next page and those listed in the AF Equipment On-hand
Tables – Equipment On-hand Tables found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references
tab at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb..

Table 4.1. Percentage On-hand Matrix for Nine or Less Items
 R        A                      B      C     D     E     F      G      H      I                J
 U Find row with number         Find column with number authorized or required
 L of items available            9      8     7     6     5      4       3     2                1
 E
  1       9                     100
  2       8                      90     100
  3       7                      86      90    100
  4       6                      80      86     86     100
  5       5                      76      80     80      86     100
  6       4                      70      76     76      80      80     100
  7       3                      44      70     70      70      70      80     100
  8       2                      33      45     55      59      60      70      80    100
  9       1                      22      27     33      37      40      50      60     70     100
 10       0                      0       0      0       0       0       0       0      0       0

Table 4.2. Non-AMXS Units-Changing On-hand Percentage into an S-Level
 R               A                                             B
 U      If the lower of the combat essential         then for the equipment and supplies On-
 L      equipment and support equipment               hand S-level in the label ESRAT report
 E      On-hand percentages is in the range
                        from
  1                      90 to 100                                           S-1
  2                       80 to 89                                           S-2
  3                       65 to 79                                           S-3
  4                        0 to 64                                           S-4
             AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                57




             Table 4.3. Reporting Equipment and Supplies On-hand Reason Codes
              Rule                      A                                               B
equipment and supplies On-hand measured area is not S-1 and the primary reason is   then in the field
                                                                                    ESRES report
               1     aircraft in storage                                                    S03
               2     aircraft not fully equipped                                            S04
               3     aircraft on loan                                                       S05
               4     aircraft operational loss                                              S06
               5     allowed equipment away for repairs                                     S07
               6     allowed equipment away on loan                                         S08
               7     allowed equipment never received                                       S09
               8     awaiting critical modification                                         S11
               9     equipment removed                                                      S14
              10     missiles inoperative                                                   S15
              11     obsolete equipment                                                     S16
              12     organization decommissioning/deactivating                              S17
              13     organization recently activated/reorganized                            S18
              14     radar equipment unavailable                                            S19
              15     subordinate organization detached                                      S21
              16     shortage ammunition                                                    S22
              17     shortage attached element                                              S24
              18     shortage communications equipment                                      S25
              19     shortage major end item                                                S27
              20     shortage engineering equipment                                         S28
              21     shortage repair parts, spares (allowance list items)                   S31
              22     shortage repair parts, spares (not allowance list items)               S32
              23     shortage special supply equipment                                      S36
              24     shortage stock supply                                                  S37
              25     shortage supporting equipment                                          S40
              26     shortage test equipment                                                S41
              27     shortage authorized equipment                                          S42
              28     shortage vehicle(s)                                                    S43
              58                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


              Rule                       A                                                     B
equipment and supplies On-hand measured area is not S-1 and the primary reason is          then in the field
                                                                                           ESRES report
              29     shortage war readiness spares kit                                             S44
              30     shortage off-loaded aircraft                                                  S45
              31     shortage off-loaded anti-submarine warfare weapons                            S49
              32     shortage off-loaded fuel                                                      S50
              33     shortage off-loaded missile (SAM)                                             S51
              34     aircraft combat loss                                                          S54
              35     missiles unserviceable                                                        S55
              36     insufficient fuel                                                             S56
              37     shortage support equipment                                                    S57
              38     shortage spare engines                                                        S58
              39     insufficient funds                                                            S66
              40     aircraft deployed separate tasking                                            S67
              41     shortage individual tool kit                                                  S68
              42     shortage mobility bag                                                         S69
              43     shortage fire fighter protective clothing                                     S70
              44     shortage 463L material handling equipment                                     S71
              45     shortage material handling equipment, other                                   S72
              46     shortage mobility gear (except material handling equipment)                   S73
              47     shortage A/E kits                                                             S74
              48     shortage shelters                                                             S75
              49     shortage operating room equipment                                             S76
              50     shortage generators                                                           S77
              51     shortage laboratory equipment                                                 S78
              52     shortage hospital beds                                                        S79
              53     shortage weapons                                                              S80
              54     shortage protective equipment                                                 S81
              55     shortage intrusion protection equipment                                       S82
              56     shortage equipment on loan                                                    S83
              57     equipment deployed (mission support)                                          S84
              58     major equipment in depot modification                                         S85
              59     major equipment in local modification                                         S86
             AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                59


              Rule                   A                                                  B
equipment and supplies On-hand measured area is not S-1 and the primary reason is   then in the field
                                                                                    ESRES report
              60     shortage base-level self-sufficiency spares                            S87
              61     major equipment in programmed depot maintenance                        S88
              62     shortage refueling vehicles                                            S96
              63     shortage refueling dispensing equipment                                S97
              64     shortage cryogenic production equipment                                S98
              65     area not measured by parent Service direction                          SNM
              *******The following Reason Codes are for CBRNE reporting only*******
              67     area not measured by parent service direction                          SNM
              68     shortage Category 1 individual protective equipment (IPE)              SRA
              69     shortage Category 2 detection equipment (DET)                          SRB
              70     shortage Category 3 decontamination equipment (DEC)                    SRC
              71     shortage Category 4 IPE                                                SRD
              72     shortage Category 5 radiac equipment (RAD)                             SRE
              73     shortage Category 6 (MED)                                              SRF
              74     unserviceable/expired Category 1 equipment (mask)                      SRG
              75     unserviceable/expired Category 2 DET                                   SRH
              76     unserviceable/expired Category 3 DEC                                   SRI
              77     unserviceable/expired Category 4 IPE                                   SRJ
              78     unserviceable/expired Category 5 MED                                   SRK
              79     unserviceable/expired Category 6 CPS                                   SRL
              80     equipment/supplies awaiting critical modification                      SRM
              81     shortage of support equipment (DECON site support material)            SRN
              82     shortage of general supply equipment                                   SRO
              83     shortage of repair parts                                               SRP
              84     NBC equipment incomplete or obsolete                                   SRQ
              85     non-mission capable during recent NBC exercise/evaluation              SRS
 60                                                                  AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013



                                           Chapter 5

                  EQUIPMENT CONDITION MEASURED AREA DATA

5.1. Equipment Condition Reporting. The equipment condition measured area is used to
measure the combat essential and support equipment that can be made ready within the unit’s
response time to undertake the unit’s full mission set. This measure is also used to indicate
maintenance and equipment reliability, serviceability and operational status of assets. Units
compute the equipment condition R-level for combat essential and support equipment based on
the availability of wartime required equipment. Equipment items are considered available if they
are possessed by the unit and are, or can be, made mission ready within the prescribed unit
response time. The formula for equipment condition computation is: the number of equipment
items mission ready and available divided by the number possessed (not to exceed the wartime
requirement number) multiplied by 100.
5.2. Equipment Condition Subareas (ERSAs). The equipment condition measured area
allows units to measure up to nine subareas. Consider the following for all missions:
   5.2.1. Use ASs, equipment/supply lists from ADSs, and Air Staff-level functional area
   guidance to determine reportable equipment/supplies, and then measure the number on-hand.
   5.2.2. Add number of items on-hand for each subarea to obtain a subarea total.
5.3. Subarea Percentage Calculations. Determine the number of items mission ready and
available for each subarea. Accomplish the following:
   5.3.1. Add number of items Mission Ready and Available (MRA) for each subarea to obtain
   a subarea total.
   5.3.2. Forecast the number of items that could be MRA by response time.
   5.3.3. Calculate the subarea percentages:
       5.3.3.1. If there are ten or more items possessed accomplish the following:
           5.3.3.1.1. Divide the number of items MRA by the number of items possessed.
           5.3.3.1.2. The number of items counted as possessed is not to exceed the number of
           items authorized.
           5.3.3.1.3. Multiply the result by 100 to derive a percentage.
           5.3.3.1.4. Round percentage to nearest whole number (this is the subarea
           percentage.).
       5.3.3.2. If there are nine or less items possessed select the appropriate percentage from
       Table 5.1, unless otherwise directed by the AF Equipment Condition Tables – Measured
       Equipment Condition Table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the
       references tab at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Note the
       derived percentages. If a percentage has changed since the last report, enter the new
       percentage in the appropriate subarea label from Measured Equipment Condition
       Table listed above.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                          61


5.4. Combat Essential and Support Equipment Condition Percentage Calculations.
   5.4.1. Find the unit type in the AF Equipment Condition Tables – EQREE and EQRED
   Reporting Table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, Column A. Use Column B for
   combat essential equipment and Column C for support equipment.
   5.4.2. To calculate the combat essential and support equipment condition percentage for
   each area accomplish the following:
      5.4.2.1. If the entry lists subarea labels, select the lowest percentage for those subareas.
      5.4.2.2. If the entry lists equipment or another document, calculate the percentage with
      the same procedure used for subarea calculations.
   5.4.3. Note the derived percentage. If the percentage has changed, enter the new percentage
   in the EQREE label for combat essential equipment or EQRED label for support equipment.
   5.4.4. Note the derived number of combat essential items. For aircraft units, determine the
   number of aircraft that are mission ready and available.
      5.4.4.1. If the number of aircraft that are mission ready and available has changed since
      the last report enter the new number in the label MEMRA.
      5.4.4.2. The number of aircraft reported in the labels MEASG, MEPOS, and MEMRA
      fields will not be greater than the number reported in the label MEARD.
      5.4.4.3. The actual number of aircraft authorized, possessed, and mission-ready and
      available is reported in the MEQLOCN set.
5.5. Equipment Condition R-Level Calculations.
   5.5.1. To convert area percentages into an R-level use the following rules:
      5.5.1.1. Select the lowest percentage value from the combat essential and support
      equipment condition area percentages.
      5.5.1.2. Units reporting aircraft use AF Equipment Condition Tables – AMXS Unit
      Calculating EQREE R-Levels Table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the
      references tab at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb to convert the
      combat essential equipment condition percentage into an R-level.
      5.5.1.3. Other units, not reporting aircraft, use Table 5.2 to convert the equipment
      condition area percentage into an R-level.
   5.5.2. Note the derived equipment condition R-level. If the R-level has changed since the
   last report, enter the new R-level in the ERRAT label.
   5.5.3. When an AF directed resource change depletes mission ready and available
   equipment, reference paragraph 1.10.9
   5.5.4. If AF Equipment Conditions Tables – EQREE and EQRED Reporting Table found
   on     the     DRRS     homepage      (SIPR),   under    the    references    tab     at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb lists nothing to report for the
   combat essential equipment condition and support equipment condition percentages, report
   R-6 in ERRAT and RNM in ERRES (see paragraph 4.7.4).
 62                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


5.6. Equipment Condition Reason Codes.
   5.6.1. Select the most specific reason code from Table 5.3 when the equipment condition R-
   level is less than R-1.
   5.6.2. Note the selected reason code. If the reason code has changed since the last report,
   enter the new reason code in the ERRES label.
5.7. Equipment Considered MRA. Most equipment is considered mission ready if the
equipment is safe to use and in the condition to perform the functions for which it was designed.
   5.7.1. Aircraft, missiles, and major weapons systems must comply with the following:
       5.7.1.1. Have a full or basic system list of items for the stated working mission
       (MAJCOMs are the authority on which system to use).
       5.7.1.2. Be configured with suspension equipment (i.e., dash 21 items and alternate
       mission equipment) that is required by the MAJCOM.
       5.7.1.3. Have all peacetime inspections or time compliance technical order actions
       completed or waived for wartime use.
   5.7.2. Equipment items loaned to another unit to augment their resources will be considered
   possessed by the owning unit. Items will not be double counted. Receiving unit will not use
   these resources for SORTS reporting.
   5.7.3. For deployed resources considerations, reference Paragraph 2.7
5.8. BEAR Equipment Condition Measured Area. Equipment condition R-levels are based
on fully mission capable critical equipment authorized for items identified in the BEAR Critical
Item listing produced by ACC, BEAR Global Management. Follow the instructions contained in
the BEAR SORTS Reporting Guidance, also produced by HQ ACC/BEAR Global Management,
to calculate this area.
5.9. Required Remarks for Maintenance Units. If referencing aircraft grounded for mission
capable (MICAP) parts, provide the NSN, part nomenclature, and the name of the system which
needs the part. If the aircraft is unavailable due to scheduled or unscheduled maintenance,
provide the Estimated Time in Commission (ETIC). Also provide the estimated delivery dates
for aircraft undergoing programmed depot maintenance. Labels for the remarks will be provided
via MAJCOM supplement.
Chapter 5 Reference Tables. See top of next page and those listed in the AF Tables –
Equipment Condition Tables found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                      63




Table 5.1. Percentage Mission Ready and Available Matrix for Nine or Less Items
 R         A                        B     C     D     E      F     G         H     I     J
 U     Find row with number        find column with number possessed
 L     of items mission ready
 E                                  9     8     7      6     5     4         3     2     1
            and available
 1         9                       100
 2         8                        90   100
 3         7                        86    90   100
 4         6                        80    86    86   100
 5         5                        76    80    80    86   100
 6         4                        70    76    76    80     80   100
 7         3                        44    70    70    70     70    80    100
 8         2                        33    45    55    59     60    70        80   100
 9         1                        22    27    33    37     40    50        60   70    100
 10        0                        0     0     0      0     0     0         0     0     0

Table 5.2. Changing Equipment Condition Area Percentage into an R Level
 R             A                                           B
 U     If the lowest of the combat essential and then for the equipment condition R-level
 L    support equipment condition percentage is in label ERRAT report
 E    in the range from

 1                     90 to 100                                       R-1
 2                     70 to 89                                        R-2
 3                     60 to 69                                        R-3
 4                      0 to 59                                        R-4
 64                                                              AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013




Table 5.3. Reporting Equipment Condition Reason Codes
 R                  A                                                       B
U       If the equipment condition measured area is not R-1 and the     then in the field
L                           primary reason is                           ERRES report
E
 1    equipment condition degradation fuel shortage                            R00
 2    aircraft grounded flight safety                                          R01
 3    aircraft do not meet mobilization requirement                            R02
 4    not mission capable depot rapid area maintenance                         R04
 5    not mission capable depot programmed depot maintenance                   R05
 6    conversion                                                               R07
 7    damage battle/combat                                                     R09
 8    damaged/inoperative aircraft                                             R11
 9    damaged/inoperative countermeasures (electrical/mechanical)              R17
10    damaged/inoperative electronic countermeasures                           R18
11    damaged/inoperative electrical power, auxiliary                          R19
12    damaged/inoperative electrical power, primary                            R20
13    damaged/inoperative equipment                                            R21
14    damaged/inoperative equipment, communications                            R22
15    damaged/inoperative equipment, electrical power or generators            R23
16    damaged/inoperative equipment, engineering                               R24
17    damaged/inoperative equipment, fire control                              R25
18    damaged/inoperative radar                                                R31
19    damaged/inoperative system, navigation                                   R40
20    damaged/inoperative vehicle(s)                                           R45
21    damaged/inoperative weapon(s)                                            R46
22    damaged/inoperative RPA ground control system                            R47
23    equipment, inspection or checkout                                        R48
24    equipment, obsolete                                                      R51
25    equipment removal                                                        R52
26    unit re-equipping                                                        R53
27    equipment shortage                                                       R54
28    inspect and repair as necessary aircraft                                 R55
29    inspection, failed                                                       R56
30    damaged/inoperative RPA long-haul SATCOM                                 R57
31    insufficient funding                                                     R58
32    maintenance scheduled                                                    R62
33    maintenance unscheduled                                                  R63
34    modification aircraft                                                    R64
35    organization decommissioning/deactivation                                R80
36    organization in rotational deployment                                    R81
37    repair electrical power generating equipment                             R88
38    repair lack of tools                                                     R92
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                  65


 R                 A                                                     B
U      If the equipment condition measured area is not R-1 and the   then in the field
L                          primary reason is                         ERRES report
E
39   repair weapons                                                        R94
40   NBC equipment incomplete or obsolete                                  R95
41   inspect and repair as necessary missile                               R96
42   modification missile                                                  R97
43   not mission capable supply missile                                    R98
44   overhaul missile                                                      R99
45   not mission capable maintenance or supply unscheduled                 RAA
46   not mission capable maintenance or supply scheduled                   RAB
47   not mission capable maintenance, unscheduled                          RAC
48   not mission capable maintenance, scheduled                            RAD
49   not mission capable supply                                            RAE
50   partial mission capable maintenance or supply                         RAF
51   partial mission capable maintenance                                   RAG
52   partial mission capable supply                                        RAH
53   shortage suspension equipment                                         RAL
54   shortage aircraft loaned/bailed                                       RAN
55   aircraft in storage                                                   RAP
56   aircraft operational loss                                             RAQ
57   aircraft combat loss                                                  RAR
58   aircraft unable to meet required turnarounds                          RAS
59   not mission capable depot major modifications required                RAT
60   shortage aircraft deployed                                            RAU
61   shortage aircraft possessed versa authorized use                      RAV
62   operating below designed specifications                               RAW
63   shortage spare engines                                                RAX
64   aircraft deployed separate Tasking                                    RAY
65   maintenance in progress, ETIC less than 24 hours                      RBA
66   maintenance in progress, ETIC more than 24 hours                      RBB
67   awaiting parts ETIC less than 48 hours                                RBC
68   awaiting parts ETIC more than 48 hours                                RBD
69   area not measured by parent Service direction                         RNM
 66                                                                AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013



                                          Chapter 6

                          TRAINING MEASURED AREA DATA

6.1. Training. Training requirements for assigned personnel, not to exceed UMD-
authorizations, will be measured. Measured units calculate training measured area T-levels using
either Training Method B (Non-CAF Aircrew/Team Training), Training Method C, Option
1(Unit Training), or Method C, Option 2 (CAF Aviation Training). To identify which unit types
use which training method, reference the Training Method Reporting Table found in the AF
Training Tables on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. For all reportable training by unit
type, reference the Measured Training Table found at the same link above. ARC units will not
count newly assigned personnel toward training calculations until they have completed either
technical school (for AFRC units), or Basic Military Training (BMT) plus 12 weeks of federal
military service (for ANG units).
   6.1.1. Method B is used by non-CAF units to provide a macro view of aircrew/team training.
   (During the DRRS transition, this method will also be known as Method B.)
   6.1.2. Method C, Option 1, is used to provide a macro view of the unit’s training. (During
   the DRRS transition, this method will be known as Method A.)
   6.1.3. Method C, Option 2, is used by CAF aviation units, control and reporting centers, air
   defense sectors/regions, and those assigned to a wing (89AA UTC - active duty only) with
   Aircrew Position Indicator (API) codes 1 (pilot), 2 (navigator, observer or air battle
   manager), and A (career enlisted advisor (CEA)) plus 6, or B for CEA, (attached flyer at
   wing level and below) and 8, or D for CEA, (attached flyer above wing level) used to achieve
   WMP-5 sortie rates (e.g. Wing Safety, Tactics, STANEVAL, IG, etc.). (During the DRRS
   transition, this method will be known as Method C.)
       6.1.3.1. Wing crews with API 6 and 8 attached to a squadron for training and wartime
       service are normally measured in the organization of assignment when tasked against that
       unit’s requirements. Personnel resources cannot be counted against requirements in more
       than one unit.
       6.1.3.2. Weapons load crews (AFSC 2W1X1) are unique among maintenance personnel,
       in that they perform their duties as formed and certified crews with specialized
       certification requirements for each crew position. T-levels for 2W1X1 personnel,
       assigned to a weapons load crew, may be determined using Training Method B if and
       when it is allowed by current reporting structure and guidance.
6.2. Method B: Non-CAF Aircrew/Team Training (DRRS Transition: Method B)
   6.2.1. Find the number of crews authorized. The UMD should provide a current reference to
   the number of crews authorized, based on PMAI multiplied by the approved crew ratio. For
   cross-reference purposes, find the applicable crew ratio in AFI 65-503, Cost and Planning
   Factors, and multiply by PMAI. AFRC units will not count 1-levels (officers and enlisted)
   toward training calculations. Those AFRC members will not be counted towards training
   calculations until they have completed technical school. Those enlisted members will not be
   counted until they have been awarded their 3-level. Aeromedical Evacuation unit crew
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                            67


   authorizations are determined by adding together the number of crew UTCs tasked to the
   unit.
   6.2.2. Find the number of crews assigned.
      6.2.2.1. For aircraft units, use AFI 65-503 for crew composition unless modified by the
      MAJCOM because of unique mission requirements.
      6.2.2.2. All other units use the Training Method Reporting Table found in the AF
      Training Tables on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
      https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb for crew composition.
      6.2.2.3. Weapons load crew composition is determined IAW AFI 21-101.
      6.2.2.4. To count a crew as assigned, each position must have an assigned crewmember.
      Do not limit this to by-name formed crews such as those required by AFI 65-503. Count
      crewmembers as assigned from when they sign in on a permanent change of station until
      they sign out.
          6.2.2.4.1. Count weapons load crew members as assigned once they are designated to
          a position and have entered initial weapons load crew training.
   6.2.3. Count the number of crews mission ready and available.
      6.2.3.1. Count a crew MRA when they meet the mission ready criteria in the training
      directive listed in the SORTS DOC Statement.
          6.2.3.1.1. Determine      crewmember       availability   case-by-case      according    to
          paragraph 3.2
          6.2.3.1.2. Do not count overhead crewmembers (e.g., wing training officers, etc.).
      6.2.3.2. Enter the total of crews MRA under the TCRAV label.
      6.2.3.3. Count weapons load crews as mission ready and available when all positions are
      filled with position-certified weapons loaders IAW AFI 21-101 and the Unit Committed
      Munitions List.
   6.2.4. Calculate the training percentage.
      6.2.4.1. If ten or more crews are assigned, divide crews MRA by crews assigned.
      Multiply the result by 100 and round off to the nearest whole number.
      6.2.4.2. Table 6 2. will be used to determine the overall T-level. If nine or less crews are
      assigned, use Table 6.1
      6.2.4.3. Enter the percentage under the TRUTC label.
6.3. Method C, Option 1: Unit Training (DRRS Transition: Method A).
   6.3.1. Some units may have more personnel assigned than are authorized by the UMD. The
   number established as assigned personnel with training requirements must not exceed UMD-
   authorized.
      6.3.1.1. If a single type of training is listed, determine if everyone is required to have it.
          6.3.1.1.1. If everyone is required to have the training, use the number of total
          personnel assigned as the number required to be trained.
 68                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


          6.3.1.1.2. If everyone is not required to have the training, use the number of total
          personnel assigned that require the training, (e.g. 25K/60K aerial port training).
      6.3.1.2. If there is more than one type of training listed, determine if everyone is required
      to have the training.
          6.3.1.2.1. If everyone is required to have the training, use the total personnel assigned
          as the number required to be trained.
          6.3.1.2.2. If less than all assigned personnel are required to have each type of
          training, add the number required for each type of training. For each type of training,
          this number would be the denominator within each sub-area. This sum of these
          denominators could be more than the number of personnel assigned and authorized,
          since one person could have multiple training requirements.
   6.3.2. Count the personnel who have the training specified in each subarea.
      6.3.2.1. Personnel are counted as trained if they have completed, or are expected to
      complete, the required training within the response time.
      6.3.2.2. If everyone is required to have all training, count only those personnel who have
      all the training.
      6.3.2.3. If personnel are required to have each type of training, count those personnel
      who have received each type of training. In this method, you can count the same
      individual more than once. To determine the T-level, continue with Paragraph 6.5
   6.3.3. Table 6.3. will be used to determine the overall T-level.
6.4. Method C, Option 2: CAF Aviation Training (DRRS Transition: Method C).
   6.4.1. Calculations by type of training and crew composition will be compared against the
   percentage conversion in the Basic Mission Capable (BMC), Combat Mission Ready
   (CMR) and SPECAP Training Percentage T-Level Tables found in the AF Training
   Tables on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
   https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb to derive the percentages reported
   in the specific TRSAs. The lowest of the resulting TRSAs will drive the T-level reported in
   the TRRAT label in the OVERALL set.
   6.4.2. The following three TRSAs will be measured.
      6.4.2.1. TRSA1 - BMC.
      6.4.2.2. TRSA2 - CMR.
      6.4.2.3. TRSA3 - SPECAP.
   6.4.3. To count a crew as assigned, each position must have an assigned crewmember.
   However, don't limit this to by-name formed crews such as those required by appropriate
   training directives for the weapon system. Count crewmembers as assigned from when they
   sign in on a permanent change of station or become attached on temporary duty until they
   sign out.
   6.4.4. Multi-Position Crews.
      6.4.4.1. Assess crews for training subareas the unit is required to report.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                     69


         6.4.4.1.1. Units with multi-position crews will perform calculations similar to single
         position crews except against each crew position individually. This is required before
         TRSA, TRUTC, and T-level percentages can be determined.
         6.4.4.1.2. Determine the number of required BMC designated crewmembers,
         assigned or attached to the unit, in each duty position, based on the non-CMR flying
         positions within the wing and its subordinate units. BMC changes are detailed in a
         TRSA1 remark.
         6.4.4.1.3. Determine the number of required CMR/Mission-Ready designated
         crewmembers, assigned and attached to the unit, in each duty position, based on the
         PMAI.
            6.4.4.1.3.1. Multiply the PMAI by the crew ratio by the crew complement.
            6.4.4.1.3.2. Add the Squadron Commander and Director of Operations
            (ANG/AFRC only).
            6.4.4.1.3.3. If the CMR changes, detail the changes in a TRSA2 remark.
         6.4.4.1.4. Determine the number of required SPECAP designated crewmembers,
         assigned and attached to the unit, in each duty position, based on all positions
         identified in the UMD, applicable training directives, and tasking messages that
         specify special capability-trained aircrews. Calculations will be made only on those
         SPECAP requirements that match those listed in Table 2.3 MAJCOMs may add to
         this table when approved by AF/A3O-AT. Commanders may assess other SPECAP
         shortfalls when they affect the unit’s ability to undertake its mission. SPECAP
         changes are documented in the TRSA3 remark.
  6.4.5. Single Position Crews:
     6.4.5.1. Assess crews for training subareas the unit is required to report.
         6.4.5.1.1. Determine the number of required BMC/Mission Capable (MC) designated
         crewmembers, assigned and attached to the unit, and the minimum crew required
         based on non-CMR flying positions within the wing and its subordinate units. BMC
         changes are documented in the TRSA1 remark.
         6.4.5.1.2. Determine the number of required CMR designated crew members,
         assigned and attached to the unit, and the minimum crew required based on the
         PMAI. Pilots that have been put on probation will be considered non-CMR. Do not
         include probationary pilots as available when calculating percentages for CMR.
            6.4.5.1.2.1. Multiply the PMAI by the crew ratio.
            6.4.5.1.2.2. Add the Squadron Commander and Director of Operations
            (ANG/AFRC only).
            6.4.5.1.2.3. If the CMR changes, detail the changes in a TRSA2 remark.
         6.4.5.1.3. Determine the number of required SPECAP designated crew members,
         assigned and attached to the unit, and the minimum crew required based on all
         positions identified in the SORTS DOC Statement, applicable training directives, and
         ready aircrew program tasking messages that specify special capability-trained
 70                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


          aircrews. Calculations will be made only on those SPECAP requirements that match
          those listed in Table 2.3 MAJCOMs may add to this table when approved by
          AF/A3O-AT. Commanders may assess other SPECAP shortfalls when they affect the
          ability to undertake the DOC mission. SPECAP changes are documented in the
          TRSA3 remark.
6.5. Calculating and Explaining the Training T-Level.
   6.5.1. Unit Training, determine T-level using the following:
      6.5.1.1. Calculate the subarea percentage using applicable tables, as required. Otherwise:
          6.5.1.1.1. If ten or more personnel are required to have the training, divide the
          number of trained personnel by the number of assigned personnel required to have the
          training (not to exceed UMD authorizations).
          6.5.1.1.2. Multiply the result by 100 to derive a percentage.
          6.5.1.1.3. Round the percent to the nearest whole number.
          6.5.1.1.4. If nine or less personnel are required to have the training, use Table 6.1 to
          determine the percentage.
      6.5.1.2. Calculate the training percentage. Determine the unit type in column A in the
      Measured Training Table found in the AF Training Tables on the DRRS homepage
      (SIPR),            under            the           references            tab         at
      https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Determine whether column B
      lists one or more TRSAs. If Column B lists multiple TRSAs, choose the lowest TRSA
      percentage as the overall TRUTC percentage.
      6.5.1.3. Use the TRUTC percentage in conjunction with Table 6.2 to determine the T-
      level to be reported in the TRRAT field.
   6.5.2. Multi-position crews, use the following to determine the T-level:
      6.5.2.1. Calculate the percentage trained for each subarea required to be reported.
          6.5.2.1.1. For nine or less crews assigned, use Table 6.1 to derive percentage trained.
          6.5.2.1.2. For ten or more crews assigned, divide number trained by number assigned
          not to exceed UMD authorizations.
      6.5.2.2. For CAF aviation units, apply each resulting percentage against column A of the
      corresponding BMC, CMR and SPECAP Training Percentage T-Level Table found
      in the AF Training Tables on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
      https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
      6.5.2.3. Convert the corresponding percentage in column B.
      6.5.2.4. Enter the percentage in the related TRSA label: BMC in TRSA1; CMR in
      TRSA2; and SPECAP in TRSA3. If TRSA 4 and 5 are used, enter as in paragraph 6.5.1
      6.5.2.5. Choose the lowest TRSA reported and enter the percentage in the TRUTC label.
      6.5.2.6. Use the TRUTC percentage in conjunction with corresponding tables in
      paragraph 6.5.2.2 to determine the T-level to be reported in the TRRAT label. Use
      TRRAF for Secondary or Tertiary Missions.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                          71


   6.5.3. Single Position Crews, use the following to determine the T-level:
       6.5.3.1. Calculate the percentage trained for each subarea required to be reported.
           6.5.3.1.1. For nine or less crews assigned, use Table 6.1 to derive percentage trained.
           6.5.3.1.2. For ten or more crews assigned, divide number trained by number assigned
           not to exceed UMD authorizations.
       6.5.3.2. Apply each resulting percentage against column A of the corresponding BMC,
       CMR and SPECAP Training Percentage T-Level Table found in the AF Training
       Tables on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
       https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
       6.5.3.3. Convert the column A percentage into the column B reported percentage.
       6.5.3.4. Enter percentage in the related TRSA label: BMC in TRSA1; CMR in TRSA2;
       and SPECAP in TRSA3. If TRSA 4 and 5 are used, enter as in paragraph 6.5.1
       6.5.3.5. Choose the lowest TRSA reported and enter the percentage in the TRUTC label.
       6.5.3.6. Use the TRUTC percentage in conjunction with corresponding tables to
       determine the T-level to be reported in the TRRAT label.
   6.5.4. Regardless of method used, assign training reason codes when the training T-level is
   less than T-1. Select the most specific reason code from Table 6.5. to explain it. If changed,
   enter it in label TRRES.
   6.5.5. For units that conduct required training and must use alternate workaround facilities or
   methods due to environmental restrictions on normal exercise or major training range areas,
   commanders should note this limitation through a TRRAT or TRSA remark and indicate an
   appropriate reason code from Table 6.3
6.6. JIT Training. JIT training such as CBRNE training, Group B airmen weapons training
IAW AFI 31-207, and Self Aid Buddy Care (SABC), will not be measured in SORTS T-levels.
The reasons are as follows: This type of training is usually not scheduled until the unit is either
in its AEF window or tasked to deploy. It also typically takes longer than a unit’s response time
to train the entire unit, which results in a cyclic false negative trend in T-levels. JIT cannot be
maintained as typical currency items. Air Force has accepted that risk by implementing waiver
guidance within the training AFI(s). CBRNE training will still be measured in the CBDRT IAW
Attachment 4.
Chapter 6 Reference Tables (see top of next page). Also see the AF Training Tables under the
references tab on the DRRS website at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
            72                                                             AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013




           Table 6.1. Percent Trained Matrix for Nine or Less People or Crews
            R         A                      B      C     D     E     F        G     H     I         J
            U    Find row with number       find column with number assigned
            L     of mission ready and
            E                                9      8     7     6     5        4     3     2         1
                  available or trained
             1        9                     100
             2        8                      90   100
             3        7                      86     90   100
             4        6                      80     86   86    100
             5        5                      76     80   80    86    100
             6        4                      70     76   76    80    80     100
             7        3                      44     70   70    70    70        80   100
             8        2                      33     45   55    59    60        70   80    100
             9        1                      22     27   33    37    40        50   60     70       100
            10        0                      0      0     0     0     0        0     0     0         0

           Table 6.2. Training Percentage T-level
             RU                A                                                  B
             L Epercentage is in the range from
If the training                                                      then the training T-level is
              1              85 to 100                                           T-1
              2              70 to 84                                            T-2
              3              55 to 69                                            T-3
              4               0 to 54                                            T-4
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                    73




Table 6.3. Reporting Training Reason Codes
 Rule                   A                                                   B
        If the primary reason that the training measured resource area then in the field
        is not T-1 is                                                  TRRES report
  1     inadequate - school quotas                                               T05
  2     inadequate - training ammunition                                         T07
  3     inadequate - training areas                                              T08
  4     incomplete - exercise/inspections                                        T09
  5     Incomplete - firing/proficiency tests                                    T10
  6     insufficient - crews not category 1                                      T11
  7     insufficient - funding                                                   T15
  8     insufficient - pilots not category 1                                     T17
  9     insufficient - type training time                                        T18
 10     inspection - failed initial certification                                T19
 11     inspection - failed re-certification                                     T20
 12     operational commitments                                                  T23
 13     organization activating                                                  T24
 14     organization decommissioning/deactivating                                T25
 15     organization in rotational deployment                                    T26
 16     personnel turnover excessive                                             T28
 17     shortage - equipment                                                     T31
 18     shortage - instructor                                                    T32
 19     shortage - instructor pilot/aircrew                                      T33
 20     shortage - personnel                                                     T37
 21     tests - unsatisfactory C-level                                           T40
 22     training incomplete                                                      T41
 23     training incomplete - mobility                                           T50
 24     training incomplete - teams                                              T56
 25     training incomplete - fuel shortage                                      T57
 26     insufficient - flight hours                                              T68
 27     crews deployed separate tasking                                          T69
 28     training incomplete - lack of aerial combat tactics                      T70
 29     insufficient crews not category 1: enlisted aircrew members,             T71
        loadmasters, flight engineers
74                                                                     AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Rule                   A                                                        B
       If the primary reason that the training measured resource area then in the field
       is not T-1 is                                                  TRRES report
30     degraded on-the-job training progression                                 T72
31     training incomplete - hazardous cargo certifiers                         T73
32     training incomplete - materiel handling equipment operators              T74
33     shortage - forward air controllers on aircrew duty                           T75
34     shortage - terminal attack controllers on tactical air control party         T76
35     duty
       shortage - weapons controllers                                               T77
36     shortage - weapons technicians                                               T78
37     training degraded - inadequate special use airspace, warning areas           T79
38     training degraded - inadequate special use airspace, restricted areas        T80
39     training degraded - inadequate military training routes                      T81
40     training degraded - inadequate special use airspace, military                T82
       operations
41     areas
       training degraded - inadequate supersonic airspace              T83
42 area not measured by parent Service direction                      TNM
*******The following Reason Codes are for CBRNE reporting only*******
44 insufficient individual protective/survival measures training      TNA
45 insufficient unit mission oriented task training                   TNB
46     insufficient NBC team training                                               TNC
47     insufficient NBC officer/specialist training                                 TND
48     insufficient MOPP condition training                                         TNE
49     insufficient personnel completing the mask confidence exercise               TNF
50     shortage of training devices/assets                                          TNG
51     shortage of trained NBC team members                                         TNH
52     personnel shortage - NBC defense officer                                     TNI
53     personnel shortage - NBC defense specialist                                  TNJ
54     non-mission capable during recent NBC exercise/evaluation                    TNK
55     environmental restrictions on training                                       TNL
56     area not measured by parent service direction                                TNM
57     high temperature training restrictions                                       TNN
58     inadequate training ammunition - CS capsules/grenades                        TNO
59     inadequate school quotas                                                     TNP
60     new equipment - training not received                                        TNQ
61     CBRNE defense training not received                                          TNR
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                   75


Rule                 A                                                      B
       If the primary reason that the training measured resource area then in the field
       is not T-1 is                                                  TRRES report
62     CBRNE Defense task qualification training (TQT) not received            TNS




                                          BURTON M. FIELD, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
 76                                                               AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
EO 13526, Classified National Security Information, 29 December 2009
DoDM 5200.01 V1, DoD Information Security Program: Overview, Classification, and
Declassification, 24 February 2012
DoDM 5200.01 V2, DoD Information Security Program: Marking of Classified Information, 24
February 2012
DoDI 5400.04, Provision of Information to Congress, 17 March 2009
CJCSI 3401.02B, Force Readiness Reporting, 31 May 2011
CJCSM 3150.02B, Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS), 25 March 2011
CJCSI 5714.01D, Policy for the Release of Joint Information, 18 April 2012
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012
AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives, 12 February 2003
AFI 10-209, RED HORSE Program, 8 May 2012
AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program, 6 September 2012
AFI 10-214, Air Force Prime RIBS Program, 27 February 2006
AFI 10-2912, Aeromedical Evacuation Readiness Program, 10 January 2012
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
January 2007
AFI 13-1AOC Volume 3, Operational Procedures – Air Operations Center (AOC), 2 November
2011
AFI 13-1, AD Volume 3, Air Defense Command and Control Operations, 12 June 2009
AFI 13-1, CRC Volume 3, Operational Procedures – Control and Reporting Center (CRC), 21
January 2010
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting, 26 January 2012
AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, 7 March 2012
AFI 23-226, Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment (CWDE) Consolidated Mobility Bag
Management, 1 May 1997
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures, 2 May 2005
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                 77


AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 32-3001, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Program, 2 June 2011
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS), 24 May 2006
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 2 April 2008
AFI 36-2134, Air Force Duty Status Program, 8 October 2004
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
AFI 38-205, Expeditionary Manpower Management, 24 May 2012
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management, 1 July 2011
AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 February 1994
AFMAN 10-2503, Operations in a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield
Explosive (CBRNE) Environment, 7 July 2011
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 25 November 2011
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 8 November 2011
Prescribed Forms
AF IMT 723, SORTS DOC Statement

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACFTA—aircraft availability
ACM—advisory compliance message
ACTIV—activity code
ADCON—administrative control
ADP—advanced data processor
ADR—air defense region and armament delivery recording
ADS—air data system and air defense sector, or authoritative data source
AE—Aeromedical Evacuation
AEF—Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AET C—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFCAT—Air Force Catalog
 78                                                AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System
AFF—Air Force Form
AFFOR—Air Force forces
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AF—IT —Air Force Input Tool
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPDL—Air Force Personnel Desire List
AFSC—Air Force specialty code
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFTR—Air Force Training Record
AGE—aerospace ground equipment
ALC—air logistics center
ALCE—airlift control element
ALCF—air launch control facility
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMOS—air mobility operations squadron
AMS—air mobility squadron
ANAME—abbreviated name
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—air & space operations center
AOR—area of responsibility
API—aircrew position identifier
ARMS—aviation resource management system
ARUSD—spares assessment driver
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                      79


AS—allowance standard
ASM—aircraft sustainability model
ASOC—air support operations center
ASUS—air support squadron
ATARS—theater airborne reconnaissance system
ATC—air traffic control
ATO—air tasking order
AUTODIN—Automatic Digital Network
AWADS—adverse weather aerial delivery system
AWP—awaiting parts
BAI—backup aircraft inventory
BAM—basic access module
BEAR—basic expeditionary airfield resources
BIDE—Basic Identity Data Element
BII—Base Information Infrastructure
BMC—basic mission capable
BW/CW—biological and chemical warfare
C-1X—assessed overall C-level
C2—command and control
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization and Custody Receipt Listing
CADAF—Forecast Subarea Date of Change
CADAT—Forecast Date of Change
CADS—Containerized Ammunition Distribution System
CAF—Combat Air Force
CALCM—conventional air launched cruise missile
CAM—chemical agent monitor
CANN—cannibalized
CARAF—Forecast Subarea Change Rating
CARAT—Forecast Change Rating
CATLIM—category limit
CBDRT—chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosive defense report
CBRNE—chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosive
 80                                                           AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


CCT—combat crew training
CE—civil engineer
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CI—counter intelligence
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
C-Level—category level
CMR—crew mission ready and combat mission ready
COAF—country of international affiliation
COMM—communications
COMSEC—communications security
CONPLAN—concept plan
CONUS—continental United States
CPASG—critical personnel assigned
CPAUR—critical personnel required/authorized
CPAVL—critical personnel available
CPR—cardiopulmonary resuscitation
CPU—central processing unit
CR—contingency response
CRC—control and reporting center
CRO—command reporting organization or combat rescue officer
CRTCD—country code
CRYPTO—cryptographic
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
CSAR—combat search and rescue
CSERV—combatant commander/service command
CUS—Current Unit Status
CWD—chemical warfare defense
CWDE—chemical warfare defense equipment
DAV—Deployment Availability
DCAPES—deliberate and crisis action planning and execution segment
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                      81


DCN—deployment control number
DCNDY—deployment control number (USAF)
DDMMMYY—day, month and year
DECON—decontamination
DEFCON—Defense Readiness Condition
DEFG—D, E, F, & G (deployed) reason codes
DEPID—deployment indicator
DEPORD—deployment order
DET—detachment
DHCP—dynamic host control protocol
DIFM—due-in from maintenance
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DMLSS—defense medical logistics standard support
DMS—defense message system
DNS—domain name service
DO—director operations
DOC—designed operational capability
DOCID—designed operational capability statement identifier
DOCNR—designed operational capability statement number
DoD—Department of Defense
DP—deep penetration
DRU—direct reporting unit
DRRS—Defense Readiness Reporting System
DSO—direct support objective
DSU—direct support unit
EA—electronic attack
EAP—emergency action plan
ECM—electronic countermeasure
ECU—environmental control unit
EDD—electronic data display
EDMX—expeditionary depot maintenance
EJB—enhanced jukebox
 82                                                           AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


EO—executive order
EOD—explosive ordnance disposal
EQCONDN—equipment condition
EQRED—equipment condition support equipment percentage
EQREE—equipment condition combat essential equipment percentage
EQRET—equipment return date
EQSEE—equipment and supplies On-hand resource area for combat essential equipment
percentage
EQSSE—equipment and supplies On-hand resource area for support equipment percentage
EQSUPPLY—equipment and supplies On-hand
ERRAF—equipment condition resource area category subarea level
ERRAT—equipment condition resource area category level
ERRC—expendability, recoverability, reparability code
ERREF—primary reason equipment condition category subarea not C-1
ERRES—primary reason equipment condition category level not C-1
ERSA—equipment condition subarea
ESL—equipment and supplies listing
ES—electronic support
ESRAF—equipment and supplies On-hand resource area subarea category level
ESRAT—equipment and supplies On-hand resource area category level
ESREF—primary reason equipment and supplies On-hand subarea notC-1
ESRES—primary reason equipment and supplies On-hand not C-1
ESSA—equipment and supplies subarea
ETIC—estimated time in commission
EW—electronic warfare
EXDAC—expected availability category
EXORD—execute order
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FARP—forward area refueling point
FM—frequency modulation
FOA—field operating agency
FSP—forward supply points
FSV—frequency selective voltmeter
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                   83


GAM—global aided munition
GAO—General Accounting Office
GBU—guided bomb unit
GCCS—global command and control system
GEODSS—ground based electro-optical surveillance system
GEOFILE—geographical location file code
GEOGR—geographical location of equipment
GEOLOC—geographical location code
GEONA—geographic name
GMF—ground mobile forces
GMFP—global military force policy
GPS—global positioning system
G-Series—command order
GSORTS—Global Status of Resources and Training System
GTACS—ground theater air control system
GWD—get-well date
HALO—high altitude low opening
HARM—high-speed anti-radiation missile
HE—high explosive
HF—high frequency
HOGEO—home geographical location
HTA—high threat area
HVAC—heating ventilation and air conditioning
IADS—integrated air defense system
IAW—in accordance with
ICAM—improved chemical agent monitor
ICBM—intercontinental ballistic missile
ICR—information collections and reporting reports
IDP—Integrated Defense Plan
IG—Inspector General
IIR—imaging infrared
IMA—individual mobilization augmentee
 84                                                            AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


INMARSAT—international maritime satellite
IP—internet protocol
IPE—individual protective equipment
IPR—installation personnel readiness
IPS—information processing system
IRSP—in-garrison readiness spares package
ISSL—initial spares support list
ITN—information transfer nodes
IWB—inquire war reserve material balance
JAAT—joint air attack team
JAG—Judge Advocate General
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
JDAM—joint direct attack munition
JIT—just in time
JMO—joint maritime operation
JOPES—joint operational planning and execution system
JQRR—joint quarterly readiness report
JS—Joint Staff
LANA—low altitude navigation
LANTIRN—low altitude navigation and targeting infrared for night
LAPES—low altitude parachute extraction system
LIM—category level limitation
LIMF—category level limitation
LIMFAC—limiting factor
LIMS—EV – Logistics Information Management System – Enterprise View
LMR—land mobile radio
LNAME—long name
LNO—liaison officer
LOGDET—logistics details
LOGFOR—logistics force packaging system
LORAN—long range aid to navigation
LRS—logistics readiness squadron
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                 85


LS/HD—low supply high demand
LTA—low threat area
MAJCOM—major command
MANFOR—manpower force packaging system
MAP—material availability percentage
MARC—mobile ALCE reaction communications
MASS—multiple access sequential selection
MC—mission capable
MCCC—mobile consolidated command center
MDS—mission-design-series
MDT—message display terminal
MEARD—major equipment authorized/required
MEASG—major equipment assigned
MEDLOG—medical logistics
MEL—minimum equipment list
MEML—minimum essential manning list
MEMRA—major equipment mission ready and available
MEPOS—major equipment possessed
MEPSD—major equipment possessed
MEQLOCN—major equipment location and crew information
MEQPT—major equipment
MESEN—designated item serial number
MET—Mission Essential Task
METL—Mission Essential Task List
MHE—materials handling equipment
MICAP—mission capable
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MILSTAR—military strategic and tactical relay system
MIS—maintenance information system
MISCAP—mission capability
MJCOM—major command (database identifier)
MMG—military maintenance group
 86                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


MMHE—munitions material handling equipment
MMS—military maintenance squadron
MPES—manpower programming and execution system
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MR—mission ready
MRA—mission ready and available
MRDSS—medical readiness decision support system
MRL—medical resource letter
MRSP—mobility readiness spares package
MS—mobile surgical
MSAS—mobility support advisory squadron
MSL—medical stock list
MTA—medium threat area
MTF—medical treatment facility
MTOE—modified table of organization and equipment
MTT—mobile training team
MWD—military working dog
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NAVAIDS—navigational aids
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NMCC—National Military Command Center
NMC—not mission capable
NOSC—Network Operations and Security Center
NSI—Nuclear Surety Inspection
NSN—National Stock Number
NVD—night vision goggle
O/H—on hand
O&STQ—Order & Ship Time Quantities
OCONUS—outside the continental United States
OL—operating location
OPCON—operational control
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                   87


OPLAN—operation plan
OPORD—operation order
OPR—office of primary responsibility
OPSEC—operations security
ORGLOCN—general status organization and location
ORI—operational readiness inspection
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OSS—operations support squadron
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PAS—personnel accounting symbol
PBAS—Portable Biological Aerosol Sample Kit
PC—personnel computer
PCA—permanent change of assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PCTEF—Percent Effective
PDM—programmed depot maintenance
PEC—program element code
PEQS—primary equipment operational status
PERSTREN—personnel strength status
PERTP—total personnel percentage
P-level——personnel category level
PERTC—critical personnel percentage
PJ—pararescue specialist
PMAI—Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory
PMC—Partially Mission Capable
PNAF—primary nuclear airlift
POS—primary operating stock
PRC—primary reason code or personnel reason code
PRGEO—present geographical location
PRIME BEEF—Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
PRP—personnel reliability program
PRRAT—primary reason measured resource area level for personnel not C-1
 88                                                           AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


PRREF—primary reason measured resource subarea level for personnel not C-1
PRRES—primary reason measured resource area level for personnel not C-1
PTDO—prepare to deploy order
PUIC—parent unit identification code
QRRC—quarterly readiness report to congress
RADIAC—radiation, detection, indication and computation
RAM—random access memory
RAP—ready aircrew program
RAS—readiness assessment system
RAS—IT —readiness assessment system-input tool
READY—current overall category level
REASF—overall reason unit subarea is not C-1
REASN—overall reason organization is not C-1
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
RFI—ready for issue
RICDA—date of change of category information
RICDF—date of change of subarea category information
R-level——equipment condition level
RLIM—reason for category level limitation
RLIMF—reason for category level subarea limitation
RPA—remotely piloted aircraft
RPI—rated position identifier
RPTDUIC—reported unit identification code
RPTNORG—reporting organization
RPTOR—reporting organization unit identification code
RSP—readiness spares package
SABC—Self Aid Buddy Care
SAM—surface-to-air missile
SAR—search and rescue
SART—strategic aircraft reconstitution team
SATCOM—satellite communication
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                  89


SBRPT—subordinate reporting organization
SBSS—standard base supply system
SCAMP—single channel anti-jam man-portable
SCPS—survivable collective protection system
SEAD—suppression of enemy air defense
SecDef——Secretary of Defense
SECRN—secondary reason organization not C-1
SEDY—support equipment status
SEI—system engineering and integration
SEQFR—support equipment forecast ready date
SF—security forces
SHF—super high frequency
SHORAD—short range air defense
SIPRNET—SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network
SLAR—side looking airborne radar
S-level——equipment and supplies On-hand category level
SMAA—special mission aircraft available
SMAC—special mission crews available
SMCC—special mission capability code
SMRA—special mission required aircraft
SMRC—special mission required crews
SOF—special operations forces
SOLL—special operations low-level
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SORTS—LIMFAC —SORTS limiting factor
SPEAR—Special Emitter Array
SPECAP—Special Mission Capability
SRO—subordinate reporting organization
SSB—single side band
STT—Special Tactics Team
STAMP—Standard Air Munitions Package
STANEVAL—Standardization and Evaluation
 90                                                           AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


STE—secure telephone equipment
STU—Secure Terminal Unit
SUBOVRAL—Subordinate Overall C-level
TACAN—tactical air navigation
TACP—tactical air control party
TACS—tactical air control system
TARRP—Tactical Air Rapid Response Package
TASDAC—tactical secure data communications
TBA—Training Business Area
TBMCS—theater battle management core system
TCARQ—trained personnel authorized or required
TCP/IPC—transmission control protocol information processing code
TCRAS—trained personnel assigned
TCRAV—trained personnel available
TCTO—time compliance technical order
TDY—temporary duty
TEAFR—team status satisfactory forecast date
TEDY—assigned team status
TERREC—tactical electronic reconnaissance
TERRF—tertiary reason unit is not C-1
TERRN—tertiary reason organization not C-1
TFA—technology forecasting and assessment
TIBS—tactical Information broadcast service
T-level——training category level
TMTHD—training method
TPASG—Total Personnel Assigned
TPAUTH—Total Personnel Required/Authorized
TPAVL—Total Personnel Available
TPFDD—Time Phased Force and Deployment Data
TQT—task qualification training
TRANSFER—transfer status
TREAD—type of report (SORTS vs. CBDRT)
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                     91


TROPO—tropospheric scatter
TRRAF—training measured resource subarea
TRRAT—training measured resource area
TRREF—Primary Reason Training Resources subarea not C-1
TRRES—Primary Reason Training Resource Area not C-1
TRSA—Training Subarea
TRUTC—Training Measured Area Percentage
TSART—tanker strategic aircraft reconstitution team
TSSR—tropospheric scatter (TROPO) satellite support radio
UDC—Unit Descriptor Code
UGT—Upgrade Training
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
UIC—Unit Identification Code
ULC—Unit Level Code
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
UPMR—Unit Personnel Manning Roster
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFCENT—United States Air Forces Central
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USCENTAF—United States Central Command Air Forces
USERID—user identification
UTA—UTC availability
UTC—unit type code
UTCFR—unit type code forecast ready date
UTE—user terminal element
VAL—vehicle authorization list
VHF—very high frequency
VI—visual information
WMD—weapons of mass destruction
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan
WPAAR—War Plans Additive Requirements Report
 92                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


WRE—war readiness engine
WRM—war reserve material
WSMIS—Weapon System Management Information System
WSMIS—SAM —Weapon System Management Information System Sustainability Assessment
Module

Terms
Administrative Control (ADCON)—Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or
other organizations in respect to administrative matters such as personnel management, supply,
services, and other matters not included in operational missions of the subordinate or other
organizations.
Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS)— system used to manage equipment
across the Air Force
Alert Mission—The mission wherein trained operational crews maintain a combat-ready
mission or weapon system in readiness to perform the unit’s mission(s) within designated
reaction time in conjunction with planned application of other forces.
Allocation—The process to identify the applicable resources a direct support unit provides to
one or more measured units.
Allowance Standard (AS)—An equipment allowance document that prescribes basic
allowances for organizational equipment, and provides the control to develop, revise, or change
equipment authorization inventory data.
Apportion (Planning)—The resource made available to the commander of a unified command
for deliberate planning. Apportioned resources are used in the development of operations plans
and may be more or less than those allocated for execution planning or actual execution.
Apportionment (Air)—The determination and assignment of the total expected effort by
percentage and/ or by priority that should be devoted to the various air operations and/or
geographic areas for a given period of time.
Assigned Aircraft—Aircraft allocated to a unit by serial number on an assignment order
according to aerospace vehicle distribution directives.
Assigned Crews—The number of personnel who have signed into the measured unit and who
are or who will become part of a primary duty crew. The squadron commander and operations
officer can be counted as assigned for C-level reporting but not for crews formed as reported in
the MEQLOCN set.
Assigned Personnel—All US military and Emergency Essential DOD civilian personnel are
considered available to a unit regardless of AFSC, skill level or grade as long as they are not in
excess to the requirements of AFSC, skill level, grade, or authorized personnel restrictions.
Authorized Personnel—Those personnel authorized to a measured unit based on the UMD.
Available Equipment—Equipment availability depends on unit mission according to the
following:
1. Units with a generation mission may count possessed equipment on temporary deployment
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                         93


as available if the equipment can be returned to the measured unit and prepared for
employment within the unit's response time.
2. Units with a mobility mission may count possessed equipment as available regardless of
location if it can be configured and packaged for deployment within the unit's response time.
Authoritative Data Source (ADS)—ADSs are databases that provide unit resource (personnel,
equipment) authorizations, personnel assignment and duty status data, equipment possession and
condition data, and training data for the unit.
Available Personnel—Personnel who can be physically present and ready to accomplish the
mission(s) within the unit response time. For units with mobility or dual missions, personnel are
counted as available, regardless of current deployed location, in SORTS. For units with in-
garrison-only missions, personnel are counted as unavailable if deployed outside the assigned
COMBATANT COMMAND’s AOR. Additionally, the unit commander determines availability,
if DAV codes apply, reference AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning.
Backup Aircraft Inventory (BAI)—Aircraft over and above the primary mission aircraft
inventory (PMAI) to permit scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, modifications, and
inspections and repair without reduction of aircraft available for the operational mission.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of a crew who has satisfactorily completed Initial
Qualification Training (IQT) prescribed to be fully qualified to perform the basic unit operational
missions but does not maintain CMR status.
Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR)—Equipment and supplies necessary for
establishing base for a variety of missions.
Category Levels (C—Levels) —A five-point scale showing the degree to which a unit meets
standards within the four measured areas.
Combat Air Forces (CAF)—Air Force units designed to and usually tasked to employ
ordinance on targets. These units include: Fighter, Bomber, and Missile (ICBM), and Special
Operations. Commands that are members of the CAF are ACC, AETC, AFRC, AFSOC, AFSPC,
ANG, PACAF, and USAFE.
Combat Essential Equipment—Combat essential equipment is one of two major categories of
equipment in SORTS. It includes the primary weapon systems or service-designated items of
equipment assigned to a unit to undertake its specified wartime mission.
Combat Forces—Those forces whose primary mission(s) are to participate in combat.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of a crewmember who has satisfactorily
completed MQT prescribed to be fully qualified to perform the basic unit operational missions
and maintains qualification and proficiency in these missions.
Combat Service Support Elements—Forces whose primary mission is to provide essential
capabilities, functions, activities, and tasks necessary to sustain all elements of combat and
combat support forces at all levels of war. Includes, but not limited to, Mission Support, Force
Support, Contracting, Wing Staff Agencies, Comptroller, and select FOAs providing reach back
support (e.g., AF Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA), AF Operations Group (AFOG), AF
Intelligence, and Surveillance & Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA)).
 94                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Combat Support Units—Forces whose primary mission is to provide combat support to combat
forces and is a part or prepared to become a part, of a theater, command, or task force formed for
combat operations (e.g., munitions, maintenance, intelligence, weather, medical,
communications, etc.). Includes, but not limited to, Airlift, Refueling, Aircraft Maintenance,
Munitions, Security Forces, Rescue (Aviation), Numbered AF, Air Operations, Air Control,
Weather,        Space        (Operations,      Communications,         Reconnaissance,       etc),
Communications, Logistics Readiness, Aerial Port, Aerospace Evacuation, RED HORSE, Prime
BEEF (includes engineer, fire emergency services (FES), EOD, and CE emergency management
personnel), Intelligence, Medical, and any FOA that has consolidated all of their resources and
deploys them into theater (e.g., AF Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI))
Combat Units—Forces expected to fire weapons, conduct reconnaissance, or engage in other
activities directly related to combat operations. Includes, but not limited to, all Fighter, Bomber,
Reconnaissance, Special Tactics, Rescue (Guardian Angel), Special Ops, Missile, and Airborne
Command and Control squadrons regardless of MAJCOM.
Commander’s Assessment—Unit commander’s evaluation of data (obtained through SORT S
measurement and/or information available to the commander outside the measurement system
that impacts the unit's ability to undertake the designed mission) and judgment on which C-level
best represents the actual readiness of the unit's ability to undertake the mission for which it was
organized or designed; commanders are only authorized to assess down.
Command Reporting Organization (CRO)—The MAJCOM agency that has direct
responsibility for SORTS.
Command, Control, Communications, Computer and Intelligence Systems (C4I)—
Integrated systems of doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment,
facilities, and communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and
control, through all phases of the operational continuum.
Composite Reports—SORTS reports constructed from data collected and reported by
subordinate units in their individual unit SORTS reports. While not allowed for units when
reporting at an Overall C-level (double counting), secondary and tertiary mission SORTS reports
(suboverall C-levels) may be composite reports using data reported on at least an Overall C-level
by subordinate units.
Control Air Force Specialty Code (CAFSC)—This code is used as a management tool to make
airman assignments, to assist in determining training requirements, and to consider individuals
for promotion.
Critical Air Force Specialty Code—An AFSC identified as essential to the launch, recovery, or
turn around of a unit's weapon system, or the direct accomplishment of the unit's specified
wartime mission.
Critical Personnel—Officers who have a critical Air Force specialty code (AFSC) as their duty
or primary AFSC and airmen who have a critical AFSC as their control or primary AFSC.
Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segment (DCAPES)—The Air Force
standard automated data processing subsystem of the Joint Operation Planning and Execution
System (JOPES), which is used by operations, logistics, and manpower/personnel planners at all
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                         95


command levels, to develop and maintain force packages and task requirements for operation
plan Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data.
Deployable—Resources sourced to an OPLAN, CONPLAN, OPERATIONS PLAN 8010-FY,
or WMP in a SORTS DOC Statement.
Deploy/Deployment— To relocate a unit, or an element thereof, to a desired area of operations
or to a staging area. Deployment will be accomplished with all required personnel and
equipment. Deployment begins when the first aircraft, personnel, or item of equipment leaves the
home base. The force is deployed when the last component of the unit has arrived.
Deployed (for SORTS Assessment)—These resources are not currently at home station by
reason of execution of a properly authorized movement order or Joint deployment order.
Additionally, not recallable by a commander ’s Leave and TDY recall message. Normally,
deployment in support of training exercises or Joint exercises would not preclude recall or
release of forces by the exercising commander.
Designed Operational Capability (DOC)—A summary of a units mission and resources for
which it has been organized, designed, and equipped.
Desire List—An inquiry product run by the Military Personnel Flight (MPF) to reflect a listing
of levies tasked to a unit, and the unit personnel currently eligible to fill the requirements. The
Desire List is a flexible product in that various personnel aspects can be queried.
Direct Support Objective (DSO)—The supply support parameter used in both the Dyna-
METRIC and Aircraft Sustainability Models to indicate the minimum number of mission capable
aircraft necessary to generate a unit's required wartime sorties. The DSO is used in the
computation and assessment of Readiness Spares Packages.
Direct Support Unit (DSU)—Military organization whose resources are measured in SORTS
but are reported under the unit identification code (UIC) of another unit (e.g., aircraft
maintenance, pararescue, etc.). They are also called resource units.
Detachment—1) A part of a unit separated from its main organization for duty elsewhere and 2)
A temporary military unit formed from other units or parts of units.
Dyna—METRIC Microcomputer Analysis System (DMAS)—DMAS is a PC based spares
capability assessment program similar to WSMIS-SAM. On-hand spare parts data is gathered at
the unit level and the assessment process is done locally vice central processing provided by
WSMIS-SAM.
Element—The nomenclature used to account for manpower authorizations and to identify Air
Force personnel on duty with agencies outside the Air Force. Although not a unit for
organizational purposes, an element may function as a unit if so designated and a commissioned
officer eligible to command either assumes command or is appointed on orders as commander.
Employment—Employment involves the tactical use of aircraft in a desired area of operation. In
airlift operations it is the movement of forces into or within a combat zone or objective area,
usually in the assault phase. Also, it is the strategic, operational, or tactical use of forces and
materiel in an area or theater of operations.
Equipment—In logistics, all non-expendable items needed to outfit or equip an individual or
organization.
 96                                                                  AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Equipment and Supplies On—hand—Equipment that is possessed by the unit. When
equipment is measured in the equipment and supplies on-hand measured resource area and
equipment condition is not measured for that asset, it must be operationally ready to
deploy/employ for the unit assigned mission.
Equipment Condition—The status of an item of equipment in the possession of an operating
unit that indicates it is capable of fulfilling its intended mission and in a system configuration
that offers a high assurance of an effective, reliable, and safe performance.
Extended Active Duty (EAD)—A tour of active duty (normally more than 90 days) by a
member of the Air Reserve Components (ARC). Strength accountability for persons on EAD
changes from ARC to the active forces. Members do not receive credit for active duty training
and active duty in a service academy or armed forces preparatory school.
Force Protection—the process of detecting threats and hazards to the Air Force and its mission,
and applying measures to deter, preempt, negate or mitigate them based on an acceptable level of
risk. FP is a fundamental principle of all military operations as a way to ensure the survivability
of a commander’s forces. The Air Force takes an integrated approach to FP in order to conserve
the force’s fighting potential.
Full Mission Capable—Material condition of an aircraft or training device indicating that it can
perform all of its missions.
Full Spectrum Mission—A unit’s home-station tasks combined, simultaneously, with
mobility/deployed tasks from assigned missions.
Functional Area Manager (FAM)—The FAM is the individual responsible for the
management and planning of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to
support wartime and peacetime contingencies.
Generation Mission—Wartime mission for which the measured unit will normally generate and
employ from its peacetime home station. Does not include the OPERATIONS PLAN 8010-FY
mission.
Get Well Date— date by which measured resource area or overall C-level reaches a “2” and/or
“1”. In most Joint forums, a category level of “1” and/or “2” is considered “ready”.
GSORTS—Global Status of Resources and Training System is the Joint version of the SORTS
system. For most Air Force purposes, it is synonymous with SORTS. GSORTS is also used to
refer to the Global Command and Control System tools for manipulation and retrieval of SORTS
data in the database.
In—garrison Generation—Performing all mission functions (employment) from the Home
location, including aircraft generation and launch, and security forces units. Does not include the
OPERATIONS PLAN 8010-FY mission.
In—garrison Readiness Spares Package (IRSP)—Spares and repair parts intended for use as
base support for units that plan to operate in-garrison during wartime considering the available
maintenance capability. IRSP represents the difference between the primary operating stock
levels expected to be available to the unit in wartime and its total wartime requirement.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                         97


Just—In-Time Training (JIT Training)—A training frequency created to identify highly
perishable, deployment-centric tasks warranting review and refresher training immediately prior
to deployment.
Logistics Detail (LOGDET)—The standard passenger and equipment movement requirements
for each UTC.
Logistic Force Packaging Subsystem (LOGFOR)—A MEFPAK subsystem that provides
equipment and materiel requirements and summarized transportation characteristics through its
Logistics Detail component.
Major Equipment—Combat essential equipment that is key to a unit's capabilities as defined in
its authorization documents and central to its ability to undertake its mission (e.g. an F-16 to an
F-16 squadron or transportable communications equipment to a combat communications
squadron).
Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging System (MEFPAK)—A data system designed to
support contingency and general war planning with predefined standardized manpower and
equipment force packages. MEFPAK, which operates in the command and control environment,
is composed of two subsystems: the Manpower Force Packaging System (MANFOR) and the
Logistics Force Packaging System (LOGFOR).
Manpower Force Packaging System (MANFOR)—The MEFPAK component which provides:
The title of the unit or force element and its unique Joint Chiefs of Staff unit type code. The
capability statement containing the definition of unit capability. The manpower detail by
function, grade (officers only) and Air Force specialty code required to meet the defined
capability.
Measured Units—Air Force active duty, Reserve, and Air National Guard units that are
registered in SORTS with a unit descriptor code (UDC) which identifies the unit as combat,
combat support, or combat service support.
Measured Units (Reporting Units)—All planned and actual JTF HQs, combat, combat support
and combat service support units of the operating forces, including Active duty, AF Reserve, and
Air National Guard, and provisional units apportioned to or deployed in support of a CJCS or
combatant command-directed OPLAN, CONPLAN, Service war planning document or assigned
in the “Forces For Combatant Commands” document are designated as measured units (units that
report SORTS).
Mission Capability Statement (MISCAP)—A short paragraph associated with each UTC that
describes significant employment information. The MISCAP briefly explains mission capability,
and states the types of bases to which a unit can be deployed (i.e., BEAR base, standby
deployment base, or limited operating base).
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training required to achieve a basic level of
competence in a unit’s primary tasked mission; a prerequisite for CMR and BMC status.
Mission Ready and Available (MRA) Aircraft—MRA aircraft have operational full system list
(FSL) or basic system list (BSL) items for the stated mission and are available within the
response time. The aircraft are configured with required suspension equipment, weapons are
uploaded, servicing is completed, and pre-flights are done. The major command determines
which list will be used, which items are required, and the aircraft configuration.
 98                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Mission Ready and Available Crews—Primary duty crews who are mission ready and
available to undertake the unit's specified wartime tasking. The measured unit commander
determines crew availability.
Mission Ready and Available Equipment—Equipment that is available and in condition to
perform the functions for which designed within the response time.
Mission Set—Any grouping of missions (EXAMPLE: All missions for which an organization is
organized or designed; chemical biological defense; conventional, nuclear; engagement, peace-
keeping/ peace-making; etc.).
Mobility Mission—A wartime mission for which the measured unit will normally mobilize and
deploy to another area of operation prior to employment.
Mobility Readiness Spares Package (MRSP)—An air transportable package of war reserve
materiel spares, repair parts, and related maintenance supplies required to support planned
wartime or contingency operations of a weapon or support system for a specified period of time
pending re-supply. MRSP may support aircraft, vehicles, communications systems, and other
systems as appropriate.
Notional Task—The condition of being prepared to execute a mission set against a planned
requirement that is in fact not tasked, but representative of a probable task in contingency or
deliberate planning actions. Units sourced to the Air Force War and Mobilization Plan against
apportioned requirements that are not currently tasked to any OPLAN, CONPLAN, or
OPERATIONS PLAN 8010-FY are notionally tasked to be able to deliver their Designed
Operational Capability within their response time if allocated to a crisis or sourced to a TPFDD.
Operational Control (OPCON)—Transferable command authority that may be exercised by
commanders at any echelon at or below the level of combatant command. Operational control is
inherent in Combatant Command (command authority) and is the authority to perform those
functions of command over subordinate forces involving organizing and employing commands
and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary
to accomplish the mission.
Operating Location (OL)—Part of a unit that is geographically separated from its parent unit. It
is used to account for personnel by location. Personnel remain assigned to the parent unit so the
command supervision or other features provided by a detachment are not needed. An OL has
none of the administrative attributes of a unit.
Operation Plan—A plan for a single or series of connected operations to be carried out
simultaneously or in succession. It is usually based upon stated assumptions and is in the form of
directive employed by higher authority to permit subordinate commanders to prepare supporting
plans and orders. The designation “plan” is usually used instead of “order” in preparing for
operations well in advance. An operation plan may be put into effect at a prescribed time, or on
signal, and then becomes and operation order (CJCSM 3150.02, Global Status of Resources and
Training System (GSORTS)). Plans are prepared by Combatant Commanders in response to
requirements established by the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff and by commanders of
subordinate commands in response to requirements tasked by the establishing unified
commander. Operation plans (OPLANs) are prepared in either complete format of an OPLAN,
or as a concept plan (CONPLAN).
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                        99


Organic Equipment—Equipment authorized, required, and under the direct control of the unit.
Other— Any organization not designated as Combat, Combat Support, or Combat Service
Support.
Overhead Crew—A person or a group of people assigned or attached to the organization in a
status other than that of primary duty crew (e.g., wing training officers, safety officers,
maintenance officers, missile squadron commanders, etc.) who maintain mission ready status.
Overhead crewmembers WILL NOT be counted in the personnel or training C-level calculations.
Overall C—level—Commanders of measured units and operations officers who maintain
mission ready status may be counted in the personnel and training C-level calculations.
Pacing Item—An individual line item whose shortage more closely reflects support capability
rather than overall fill rates.
Possessed Aircraft—Aircraft for which actual responsibility has been given to a measured unit
for operational use. Aircraft temporarily absent but remaining under the operational control
(OPCON) of the measured unit are considered possessed aircraft. This includes aircraft
possessed by a unit’s supporting maintenance facilities until the aircraft are lost from the unit
according to AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting.
Possessed Equipment—Equipment for which the measured unit has been given actual
responsibility according to applicable supply regulations for operational use.
Primary Air Force Specialty Code—The awarded AFSC in which an airman is most highly
qualified to perform duty.
Primary Aircraft Authorization Aircraft—Authorized to a unit for performance of its
operational mission. The primary authorization forms the basis for the allocation of operating
resources to include manpower, support equipment, and flying hour funds (CJCSM 3150.02,
Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Primary Duty Crewmember—A person assigned or attached to a measured unit for the explicit
purposes of operating that unit’s primary mission weapon system.
Primary Mission—The wartime mission that is most resource demanding. The only exception is
when a unit has a less resource demanding mission of higher priority, such as that from a specific
OPLAN.
Registered Units—Units that have the potential to support, by deployment or otherwise, a CJCS
or combatant command-directed contingency plan, Single Integrated Operations Plan , or
contingency operation. These units (which do not report SORTS) are registered in GSORTS
through the BIDE and ORGLOCN sets.
Reporting Units—Units with a Unit Descriptor Code (UDC) of combat, combat support, or
combat service support and are required to report in SORTS.
RICDA—The “as of date” of the unit GSORTS report.
SORTSREPAF—A unit GSORTS report submitted by Air Force units.
Special Mission Capability—An enhancement to mission accomplishment. It provides
opportunities for accomplishment in various situational scenarios, adds tactical flexibility to
mission accomplishment, and normally requires additional training and or specialized equipment.
 100                                                               AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)—A JCS controlled, automated data
system primarily created to provide authoritative identification, location, and resource
information. It is used throughout the chain of command to measure the daily resource status of
operating forces.
Subarea—A class of equipment or supply within a SORTS major category of equipment. The
major categories are combat essential equipment and support equipment and supplies.
Subordinate Mission—Those missions, which stand by themselves as directed sub-elements
within the primary mission. Subordinate missions are not secondary missions but integral
elements of the primary mission.
Subordinate Reporting Organization (SRO)—The wing or base-level agency that is
designated to enter data into SORTS for the combat, combat support, and combat services
support units at that location. Often it is the reports cell of the unit command post.
Supplies—In logistics, all material and items used in the equipment, support and maintenance of
military forces (CJCSM 3150.02, Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Support Equipment—All equipment required to perform the support function except that which
is an integral part of the mission equipment. Does not include any equipment required to perform
mission operation functions (AFDD 1.2, Air Force Glossary).
Suspension Equipment—All aircraft devices such as racks, adapters, missile launchers, and
pylons used for carriage, employment and jettison of aircraft stores. (CJCSM 3150.02, Global
Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Tasked—Assignment to perform a specific mission or task allotted by higher component.
Total Personnel—The total number of personnel authorized or required by the measured unit.
Unit Descriptor Code (UDC)—A one character, alphanumeric code indicating the component,
general status, and primary mission for which the organization was established; stored in the
Joint SORTS database as a 3 character code.
Unit Identification Code (UIC)—A six-character, alpha-numeric code that uniquely identifies
each Active, Reserve, and National Guard unit of the Armed Forces (CJCSM 3150.02,Global
Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Unit in Cadre Status—A unit is in cadre status when it deploys assets to support a task force or
rotational unit, and the assets of the original unit are depleted to the extent that it cannot
undertake its wartime mission.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—A five-character, alpha-numeric code that uniquely identifies each
type of unit in the Armed Forces (CJCSM 3150.02, ) Global Status of Resources and Training
System (GSORTS)).
War and Mobilization Plan (WMP)—The Air Force supporting plan to the Joint Strategic
Capabilities Plan. The six volumes of the WMP extends through the Six Year Defense Program
to provide continuity in short and mid-range war and mobilization planning. It provides current
planning cycle policies and planning factors for the conduct and support of wartime operations.
It establishes requirements for development of mobilization and production-planning programs
to support sustained contingency operations of the programmed forces. The WMP encompasses
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                           101


all functions necessary to match facilities, manpower, and material with planned wartime activity
(AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary).
War Reserve Material (WRM)—Material required, in addition to mobility equipment, RSP,
and primary operating stocks needed to support wartime activities reflected in the US Air Force
War and Mobilization Plan until the industrial base has generated sufficient deliveries to equal
planned wartime consumption (AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary).
Wartime Mission—A task or group of tasks assigned to a unit in an approved operations plan
and expected to be executed during some level of armed conflict whether incident, limited war,
or general war.
Wartime Resources—Personnel, equipment, and organic supply assets required to accomplish a
unit’s wartime mission.
Weapon System Management Information System— Sustainability Assessment Module
(WSMIS-SAM)—AFMC/LGI managed module of WSMIS that provides aircraft spare parts
capability assessments using the USAF War and Mobilization Plan Volume 5 (WMP-5) as the
source for standard operational scenarios. WSMIS-SAM combines On-hand and authorized
spare parts data, applies a given flying scenario, then determines aircraft availability and or sortie
generation capability for a given unit(s).
 102                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


                                          Attachment 2
  DESIGNED OPERATIONAL CAPABILITY (DOC) STATEMENT DEVELOPMENT

A2.1. Designed Operational Capability Statement. The DOC Statement is a reference sheet
used to assist in SORTS reporting. It is neither an authoritative data source nor a tasking source;
it only references the authoritative data sources from which resource measurements are based.
   A2.1.1. DOC Statements are to be auto-populated, developed and maintained via DRRS
   when available.
   A2.1.2. The DOC Statement is divided into six sections: Unit Identification, Mission
   Identification, measured resources areas, Amplifying Notes, Gaining Command list, and
   Coordination/Review.
       A2.1.2.1. Section I, Unit Identification, includes the measured unit ANAME, DOC
       Mission Title, HOGEO, a representative the Deployment Indicator (DEPID) Code 9 UTC
       of the unit type named on the DOC, the six-character UIC, and Geographic Location
       Code (GEOLOC).
       A2.1.2.2. Section II, Mission Identification, includes the Core METL and mission
       specifics (i.e., response time and source, aircraft and missile mission-design-series
       (MDS), direct support units’ UICs until those units report for themselves, and ANAME.
       For weapon systems included in the WMP-5, Appendix J charts, use the worldwide
       average sortie rate and associated duration of the curve(s) shown (surge or sustained) as
       the worst case requirement.
       A2.1.2.3. Section III will include the required measured resource areas.
           A2.1.2.3.1. Section IIIA, personnel is determined using the UMD.
           A2.1.2.3.2. Section IIIB, equipment and supplies on-hand is determined by the ADS
           and/or equipment table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references
           tab at https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
           A2.1.2.3.3. Section IIIC, equipment condition is determined by the ADS and/or
           equipment table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
           https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
           A2.1.2.3.4. Section IIID, Training is determined by the ADS and/or training table
           found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
           https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
       A2.1.2.4. Section IV of the SORTS DOC Statement provides space for amplifying notes.
       Amplifying notes further guide unit SORTS monitors and commanders in understanding
       the scope of the desired SORTS report and additional details required accomplishing the
       report.
       A2.1.2.5. Section V, Gaining Commands. Lists initial AF gaining commands if the unit
       is to be under OPCON of another command after mobilization.
       A2.1.2.6. Section VI, Coordination and Review. Coordination blocks will be used for
       initial SORTS DOC Statement issue to capture interested parties’ concurrence and the
       review blocks for annual review.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                          103


A2.2. Units Required to have a SORTS DOC Statement. All AF units with a Unit Descriptor
Code (UDC) of combat, combat support, or combat service support are required to have a single,
full-spectrum DOC Statement and report the status of those resources referenced on the DOC
Statement, in SORTS.
   A2.2.1. Permanently, geographically separated detachments from their parent unit will act as
   measured units and report their own C-level data. These units will have an independent PAS
   code. OLs A, B, etc. will be included in the SORTS DOC Statement and SORTS report of
   their parent unit, when appropriate.
   A2.2.2. DOC Statements must be provided to units as soon as possible after the unit is
   activated by the publication of G-series orders. Units must start reporting in conjunction with
   the effective date of the DOC Statement. The DOC Statement remains in force until the unit
   is inactivated by the publication of a G-Series order.
   A2.2.3. Total Force Integration (TFI) units (host and associate) will independently report
   their readiness in SORTS. There will be a DOC Statement for the host and a separate DOC
   Statement for the associate. Certain elements will be the same on the host and associate
   DOC Statement. Both the host and associate MAJCOM will coordinate on TFI DOC
   Statements to ensure consistency. DOC Statement entries common to the host and associate
   are: Unit UTC, and Core Mission Essential Task List. The overall status of TFI units can be
   depicted by reviewing the SORTS reports from both units and confirming this assessment
   through communication with the associated unit commanders.
A2.3. Source References for SORTS DOC Statement. The following are examples of
references, information, data, and source documents for SORTS DOC Statements:
   A2.3.1. SORTS Files are record files for units and contain the following information:
       A2.3.1.1. The Unit BIDE. Several fields in the SORTS BIDE set contain information
       which must be used to update the unit SORTS DOC Statement. If the unit data in the
       SORTS BIDE is incorrect, MAJCOM SORTS offices are responsible for immediate
       correction.
       A2.3.1.2. The Unit’s UIC identifies the unit with a six-character code. It is created by
       adding the letter F to the front and a number or letter to the end of the last four characters
       of a unit’s PAS code, as determined by the PAS record. Provisional units may be
       registered and their UIC is created by replacing the second F with an H.
       A2.3.1.3. The UTC in Section I of the SORTS DOC Statement is the five-character code
       from the unit’s registration BIDE. This UTC is the unit’s DEPID Code 9 non-deployable
       UTC, from the JOPES/DCAPES TUCHA/MEFPAK file. This UTC is used to match the
       unit to a functional community, for data queries. For example, all contracting units are
       given a contracting BIDE UTC. Readiness data for all contracting units can then be
       easily pulled, via the Business Intelligence (BI) tool within DRRS, filtered by the
       contracting BIDE UTC. A list of BIDE/DEPID9 UTCs can be found in AF Tables on the
       DRRS         homepage         (SIPR),    under       the     references      tab      at
       https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
       A2.3.1.4. The Unit ANAME is the standardized unit abbreviation from AFPD 38-5, Unit
       Designations, plus a unit designation (number).
 104                                                            AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   A2.3.2. Air Staff and MAJCOM FAM Tasking Documents may be used to obtain specific
   information on tasks and resource references.
   A2.3.3. USAF WMP-3 is divided into three parts: WMP-3, Part 1, identifies AF General
   Purpose Combat Deployable Forces, Part 2 identifies Combat Support Deployable Forces
   (LRS, medical, chaplain, comm., etc.), and Part 3 is the Readiness Spares Packages
   authorized.
   A2.3.4. USAF WMP-5 describes basic planning factors and data used for aircraft sortie and
   flying hour data.
   A2.3.5. MPES and MilPDS are the ADSs for manpower authorizations and assigned
   personnel.
   A2.3.6. AFEMS/ECSS, SBSS and MRDSS are examples of ADSs for equipment O/H.
   A2.3.7. REMIS is an example of an ADS for equipment condition.
   A2.3.8. TBA, AFTR, ARMS, PEX, RAP Tasking Messages are ADS for training.
   A2.3.9. JOPES/DCAPES data-feeds to DRRS include the current MEFPAK/TUCHA file for
   DEPID 9 UTCs, the UTA (approved list of UTCs tasked to support) and OPLAN IDs for
   assigned units.
   A2.3.10. Refer to Table A2.2 for AFI references for SORTS DOC Statements.
   A2.3.11. USAF WMP I, Annex F, lists medical unit response times.
A2.4. SORTS DOC Statement Preparation.
   A2.4.1. AF/A3O-IR Office will:
       A2.4.1.1. Maintain AF Tables used to auto-populate DOC Statements on the DRRS web.
   A2.4.2. MAJCOMs, ANG, and FOA/DRU will:
       A2.4.2.1. Develop, coordinate, and approve unit SORTS DOC Statements. All
       MAJCOMs, ANG, and FOA/DRU will develop, coordinate, and approve unit SORTS
       DOC Statements using DRRS when available, or the Space S2 web-based tool, or a
       prepared system software, Microsoft Word Template, JetFlow, or MS Access.
          A2.4.2.1.1. AFRC and ANG must coordinate proposed SORTS DOC Statements
          with the initial gaining command (e.g., ACC, AMC, PACAF, etc.).
          A2.4.2.1.2. AFRC and ANG will suspense gaining MAJCOM DOs/XOs with a date
          45 days after gaining MAJCOM receipt of the draft SORTS DOC Statement. If no
          response is received by the suspense date, then AFRC or ANG will assume
          MAJCOM concurrence on the SORTS DOC Statement as written.
       A2.4.2.2. Provide AF/A3O-IR with copies of all DOC Statements, upon request.
       MAJCOMs, who provide DOCs via web pages, must send an electronic mail (e-mail) to
       AF/A3O-IR informing of new or updated DOCs. MAJCOMs that do not provide access
       to DOC Statements via DRRS or web page must send an e-mail with the current DOC
       Statements attached.
       A2.4.2.3. The CRO will send the approved DOC Statement to the SRO.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                      105


       A2.4.2.4. Maintain a copy of all unit SORTS DOC Statements under their command, if
       not already saved within DRRS when available.
   A2.4.3. Measured units and subordinate reporting organizations will:
       A2.4.3.1. Maintain a copy of each unit’s SORTS DOC Statement, if not already saved
       within DRRS when available.
       A2.4.3.2. Make sure the unit commander reviews the SORTS DOC Statement as
       required per paragraph 1.10.11.1.8
A2.5. SORTS DOC Statement Annual Review. MAJCOM FAMs will review their respective
SORTS DOC Statements on an annual basis and prior to the statement anniversary date. If there
are any changes, FAMs must submit a new SORTS DOC Statement to the local readiness office
for processing. Each MAJCOM, ANG, FOA and DRU will ensure HQ SORTS, all interested
MAJCOMs, and reporting units receive a SORTS DOC Statement annual review document that
lists the unit UIC, ANAME, location. Discrepancies should be addressed to the SORTS office
that initiated the review. All SORTS DOC Statements, other than initial statements, must have a
current review date (less than one year old). Each MAJCOM, ANG, FOA and DRU SORTS
office will be responsible for tracking annual reviews and notifying FAMs when an annual
review is due.
A2.6. SORTS DOC Statement Unit Tasking Changes. As a norm, SORTS DOC Statements
must be revised at least 30 days prior to any significant expected change(s) in unit tasking to
include, but not be limited to, changes in types of major equipment, unit mission, or unit
response time. Unexpected changes that may require DOC revision must be made no later than
60 days after changes are known.
   A2.6.1. MAJCOMs, ANG, FOA, and DRU develop and coordinate changes to unit SORTS
   DOC Statements. AFRC and ANG must coordinate proposed changes to SORTS DOC
   Statements with initial gaining command (e.g., ACC, AMC, PACAF, etc.).
   A2.6.2. Submit one copy of each unit’s changed SORTS DOC Statement to AF/A3O-IR as
   an attachment to e-mail or DMS message. Coordinate with AF/A3O-IR for points of contact
   and addresses (if e-mail is not possible, coordinate for an alternate means to submit a unit’s
   changed SORTS DOC Statement).
A2.7. SORTS DOC Statement Instructions. Reference Figure A2.1 through Figure A2.8 for
samples of SORTS DOC Statements. SORTS DOC Statements will normally be classified
according to derivative classification guidance.
   A2.7.1. Part I, Unit Identification.
       A2.7.1.1. Measured Unit. Use the abbreviated name from SORTS BIDE set, ANAME
       field, which is paired to the UIC entry.
       A2.7.1.2. Home Location. Use the home geographic name and country or state code
       from the GEONA (geographic name) and CRTCD (country code) fields in the GEOFILE
       (geographic location file).
       A2.7.1.3. To establish a UTC, use DEPID Code 9 UTC from the UTC label in SORTS.
       This is a non-deployable UTC, assigned by HQ USAF and used by the JCS for
       categorization of the unit type.
106                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


      A2.7.1.4. UIC. Use the code from SORTS BIDE set, UIC field.
      A2.7.1.5. DOC Mission Title. Select a long mission title from Table A2.2 that best
      describes the unit mission. If a long mission title that adequately describes the unit is not
      available, recommend a new one to AF/A3O-IR.
      A2.7.1.6. GEOLOC. Use the code from SORTS in the label HOGEO.
  A2.7.2. Part II, Mission Identification.
      A2.7.2.1. A. Core Mission Essential Tasks List (METL), from the AF Universal Task
      List (AFUTL) when populated in DRRS. This is a summary of the mission capabilities
      the unit brings to the tasks for which it is designed. List major tasks and their purposes
      (e.g., provide rapid intra-theater mobility for all military forces) for each mission
      (JCS/AF) and any special mission capabilities the unit is organized or designed to
      provide. Special mission capabilities are included when they are essential for mission
      success. The most resource demanding OPLAN mission capabilities should be referenced
      if it is used as the basis for unit reporting.
      A2.7.2.2. B. Mission Specifics.
         A2.7.2.2.1. SORTS Response Time. Enter the time required for the entire unit
         (meaning all of its resources; not just a UTC package or fraction of the unit) to be
         ready-to-deploy/employ, but not greater than 72hrs. Most SORTS response times are
         standardized for like-type units. This response time must not be confused with UTC-
         type response times as specified in operation/contingency plans (this approach can
         result in assigning a single unit multiple response times for multiple plans). These
         UTC-type response times are given consideration during specific OPLAN MET
         assessments in DRRS. The assumption for the SORTS response time is that the unit
         is a stand-alone entity, tasked to support an operation/contingency with all of its own
         resources, independent of any other like-type unit on the same base. The SORTS
         response times can be found in AF Tables-Unit Response Time Table on the DRRS
         homepage          (SIPR),         under        the       references       tab         at
         https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb.
             A2.7.2.2.1.1. Active duty and specifically identified Guard Security Forces (SF)
             units must be able to deploy within 24 hours after notification per WMP 1, Annex
             T.
             A2.7.2.2.1.2. Ensure response times for Reserve and Guard units include 24
             hours for mobilization or call-up plus time allocated for preparation once
             mobilized. SF units will comply with Attachment 2, paragraphs A2.7.2.2.1.3
             and A2.7.2.2.1.4
             A2.7.2.2.1.3. When response times exceed 72 hours or a source reference does
             not exist, use the default time of 72 hours IAW JCS policy. Do not use this default
             time for other than SORTS reporting.
         A2.7.2.2.2. MDS – Aircraft Maintenance Units or Missile Maintenance Units. Use
         the WMP-3, Part 1 or USAF Program Document, Force Structure Worksheet , to
         enter the number and type of major equipment and PMAI. Do not include BAI. List
         the MDS for missiles (e.g., ICBMs).
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                       107


         A2.7.2.2.3. Sorties/Flying Hours (aircraft units only). Use the highest sortie rate and
         associated duration of the curve(s) shown (surge or sustained) in the WMP-5
         Appendix J Charts as the worst case requirement the unit is required to perform for its
         wartime mission(s).
  A2.7.3. Part III, Measured Resource Area.
     A2.7.3.1. Personnel Measured Area. Check the applicable box(s).
         A2.7.3.1.1. Critical. Place an X in this box if the unit has critical AFSCs or packets
         listed in the AF Tables - Critical Personnel Table found on the DRRS homepage
         (SIPR),            under              the          references            tab           at
         https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Critical personnel are
         those identified as essential to the launch, recovery, or turn around of a unit’s weapon
         system, or the direct accomplishment of the unit’s specified wartime mission. They
         are critical because their absence would materially affect the mission.
         A2.7.3.1.2. Civilians. Place an X in this box when the unit has DoD civilian positions
         on the UMD. This directs units to include DoD civilian personnel requirements in C-
         level reporting but not personnel hired by host nation or contractors. Host nation or
         contractor personnel resources should be considered in commander assessment when
         relevant.
         A2.7.3.1.3. Additional Notes. Use this area to amplify other personnel measured area
         entries.
     A2.7.3.2. Equipment and Supplies On-hand Measured Area. This area of the SORTS
     DOC Statement lists general types of combat essential (major) equipment and general
     categories of support equipment and supplies to be measured. For each subarea in a
     category, list equipment followed by the subarea label (e.g., vehicles (ESSA4). If no
     subareas are used, use the EQSEE label for combat essential equipment and EQSSE for
     support equipment. Source document names can replace long lists. Add additional notes
     as needed.
         A2.7.3.2.1. Combat Essential Equipment. Enter all equipment subareas from the AF
         Equipment On-hand Tables – EQSEE and EQSSE Reporting Table found on the
         DRRS        homepage        (SIPR),    under     the      references      tab   at
         https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, Column B and subarea
         equipment types from the AF Tables – Measured Equipment On-hand Table found
         on the same DRRS homepage (SIPR), for which the unit has equipment
         authorizations. Aerial port, LRS, and mission support units will also use APU and
         LRS Equipment Tables found on the same DRRS homepage (SIPR).
         A2.7.3.2.2. Support Equipment and Supplies. Enter all equipment subareas in from
         the AF Equipment On-hand Tables – EQSEE and EQSSE Reporting Table found
         on the DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab at
         https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, Column C and subarea
         equipment types in the AF Tables – Measured Equipment On-hand Table found on
         the same DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references tab for which the unit has
         equipment and supplies authorizations. Aerial port units will also use APU
108                                                              AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


         Equipment Table found on the same DRRS homepage (SIPR), under the references
         tab.
            A2.7.3.2.2.1. Spare engines and MRSP/IRSP for Strategic airlift units will be
            reported by MAJCOM in their fleet report and will not be reported at the unit
            level. Units report nothing in fields ESSA1 and ESSA2.
            A2.7.3.2.2.2. Units will ensure engine requirements in their DOC reflect the most
            recent WRE requirements.
         A2.7.3.2.3. Additional Notes. Use this area to explain equipment and supplies On-
         hand area entries to include:
            A2.7.3.2.3.1. Spares assessment driver for aircraft units. Indicate ASM, WSMIS-
            SAM, or RSP fill rates. Continue to use ASM unless your MAJCOM has
            authorized use of the WSMIS-SAM as an interim measure for reporting the spares
            subarea percentage. ASM is the primary means of determining the spares subarea
            percentage followed by the WSMIS-SAM (if approved by MAJCOM and HQ
            USAF/XOOA), then RSP fill rate when directed by parent MAJCOM.
            A2.7.3.2.3.2. All units with aircraft using ASM derived percentages for spare
            assessment will report IAW the AF Equipment On-hand Tables – AMXS Unit
            Calculating EQSEE S-Levels Table found on the DRRS homepage (SIPR),
            under               the               references               tab               at
            https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb. Use the ASM as a
            commander’s tool to assess the unit’s overall C-level (if appropriate), then report
            the ASM sortie percentage, ASM problem parts, and parts status in the ESSA1
            remark.
      A2.7.3.3. Equipment Condition Measured Area. This area of the SORTS DOC Statement
      lists general types of combat essential (major) equipment and general categories of
      support equipment to be measured. Add additional notes as needed.
         A2.7.3.3.1. Combat Essential Equipment. Enter all equipment subareas from the AF
         Equipment Condition Tables – EQREE and EQRED Reporting Table found on the
         DRRS        homepage       (SIPR),     under     the     references     tab     at
         https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, Column B and subarea
         equipment types from the AF Tables – Measured Equipment Condition Table
         found on the same DRRS homepage (SIPR), for which the unit has equipment and
         supplies authorizations. Aerial port, LRS, and mission support units will also use
         APU and LRS Equipment Tables found on the same DRRS homepage (SIPR).
         A2.7.3.3.2. Support Equipment. Enter all equipment subareas from the AF
         Equipment Condition Tables – EQREE and EQRED Reporting Table found on the
         DRRS        homepage       (SIPR),        under       the   references   tab    at
         https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb, Column C and subarea
         equipment types from the AF Tables – Measured Equipment Condition Table
         found on the same DRRS homepage (SIPR), for which the unit has equipment and
         supplies authorizations. Aerial port units will also use APU Equipment Table found
         on the same DRRS homepage (SIPR).
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                    109


        A2.7.3.3.3. Additional Notes. Use this area to explain equipment condition area
        entries to include long-term non-reportable items (e.g., excluded subsystems), sources
        for numbers required, and directions for special mission capabilities equipment if part
        of the unit’s full wartime requirement.
     A2.7.3.4. Training Measured Resource Area.
        A2.7.3.4.1. Training Method Used. Place an X in the appropriate Training Method
        block. (Unit training, Non-CAF aircrew/team training, or CAF aircrew training).
        A2.7.3.4.2. List the source document(s) for the training standard. If standards are not
        listed in a single document, list the most significant source in the area provided, and
        the other source documents in the additional notes area.
        A2.7.3.4.3. Additional Notes. Include additional training directives used, directions
        for special mission capability, equipment, and the types of training for each subarea
        from the AF Training Tables – Measured Training Table found on the DRRS
        homepage            (SIPR),       under      the       references         tab      at
        https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb followed by the subarea
        label. If there are no subareas, use TRUTC. Source document names can replace long
        lists.
  A2.7.4. Part IV, Amplifying Notes. Use this part of the SORTS DOC Statement to include
  the following:
     A2.7.4.1. Units list special capabilities reference codes as identified in WMP-3 Part 1.
     Descriptions of the codes are found in Appendix C, WMP-3 Part 1.
     A2.7.4.2. Any requirement for special capabilities reported in the TRSA3 field and the
     AFSPECAP set.
     A2.7.4.3. Overflow from additional note entries or descriptions of assumptions used for
     units with overlapping tasks between two or more OPLANS.
     A2.7.4.4. Any requirement for subordinate mission reporting in SUBOVRAL
     transactions.
  A2.7.5. Part V, Gaining Commands. As a minimum, list the unified command or sub-unified
  command and AF components of the COCOM for which the unit has a current OPLAN
  tasking.
  A2.7.6. Part VI, Coordination/Review. Use this section of the SORTS DOC Statement as
  required to coordinate initial statements and annual review(s) of SORTS DOC Statements.
  Attachment 2 Reference Tables (see top of next page). Also see AF Training Tables under
  the        references         tab       on        the       DRRS        website      at
  https://drrs.ffc.navy.smil.mil/DrrsEnhancedPortalWeb
 110                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013




Table A2.1. Unit Descriptor Codes Definitions
     A                    B                            C                         D
 UDC                  Definition                       UDC                   Definition
 Code                                                  Code
 Regular Component
 A (AAC)  Active--Combat                               U       Planned--Combat Service
                                                               Support
 B          Planned--Combat                            V       Inactive--Combat Service
                                                               Support
 C          Inactive--Combat                           W (AAW) Active--Combat, Combat
 D (AAS)    Active--Combat Support                             Service, or
                                                                Combat Service Support
                                                                Resource unit
 E          Planned--Combat Support                     X (AAX) Active--Other
 F          Inactive--Combat Support                   Y        Planned--Other
 T (AAV)    Active--Combat Service Support             Z        Inactive--Other
 Reserve (Component on Extended Active Duty)
 1          Active--Combat                             7             Active--Combat, Combat
 3          Active--Combat Support                                   Service, or Combat Service
                                                                     Support Resource unit
 5          Active--Combat Service Support             9             Active--Other
 National Guard (Component on Extended Active Duty)
 2          Active--Combat                             8             Active--Combat, Combat
 4          Active--Combat Support                                   Service, or
                                                                     Combat Service Support
                                                                     Resource unit
 6           Active--Combat Service Support             0            Active--Other
 Reserve or National Guard (Component Not on Extended Active Duty)
 G (GDC)     Active--Combat                               P (GDW)
                                                                Active--Combat, Combat
 H           Planned--Combat                                    Service, or Combat Service
                                                                Support Resource unit
 L (GDS)  Active--Combat Support                        Q (GDX) Active--Other
 N        Planned--Combat Support                      R        Planned--Other
 J (GDV)  Active--Combat Service Support               S        Inactive--All Categories
 K        Planned--Combat Service Support
 NOTE: 3-digit code in parenthesis is the RAS-IT/AF-IT unit descriptor code
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                   111


Figure A2.1. Sample SORTS DOC Statement
112                                       AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Figure A2.2. Sample SORTS DOC Statement
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                   113


Figure A2.3. Sample SORTS DOC Statement
114                                       AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Figure A2.4. Sample SORTS DOC Statement
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                              115


Figure A2.5. Sample SORTS DOC Statement. (THIS IS ONLY AN EXAMPLE)
116                                       AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Figure A2.6. Sample SORTS DOC Statement
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                   117


Figure A2.7. Sample SORTS DOC Statement
118                                       AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Figure A2.8. Sample SORTS DOC Statement
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                    119


Figure A2.9. Sample Memorandum, Request for New DOCID and Mission Titles
 120                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


                                          Attachment 3
                BASIC IDENTITY DATA ELEMENT (BIDE) REPORTING

A3.1. BIDE Purpose. Data entered through the BIDE set into the SORTS database provides
users with authoritative unit identity information. The BIDE set data enables SORTS to fill its
role as the central registry for all DoD military units. All AF units with a PAS will be registered
in SORTS.
   A3.1.1. Units with a PAS record will be registered. The PAS record contains an eight-
   character PAS code and the last four characters are unique to each unit (no two units should
   ever have the same last four characters of the PAS code). The UIC is then created within the
   PAS record by adding and “F” to the front of the four-characters for AF units, and a “0”
   through “9” or “A” through “Z” to the end of the characters, for a sum total six-character
   UIC. When a brand new unit activates, it usually gets a “0” at the end. If it deactivates and
   then reactivates, it usually gets a “1” at the end; and the old UIC ending in “0” goes into an
   archived state (not re-used for a long period of time to avoid confusion between ADSs.
   There are other rules that might change the last character of a UIC, e.g. an Air Force base
   converts to a Joint Base; and these rules are part of the AF/A1 PAS process. When
   registering units, the PAS record must be reviewed to ensure the most recent UIC is entered.
   A3.1.2. Provisional units will be registered. The Provisional Unit will register with its UIC
   first two digits of FH (FHXXXX). Provisional units formed from active units (FFXXXX)
   will use the third through fifth character of the parent UIC, an H in the second, and a sixth
   character that best indicates the provisional unit’s relationship to the parent. Examples: 41
   FW (FFABC0) to 41 FW Provisional [just the headquarters element] (FHABCA) or 66 AS
   (FFSSS0) to 66 AS Provisional [whole unit deployed] (FHSSS0). Provisional units with a
   unique PAS code will be registered using the last four of that PAS for the second through
   fifth characters of the UIC. When the unit is registered, the ORGLOCN sets must be entered
   in addition to BIDE set.
A3.2. BIDE Set Usage. The BIDE set is used in the following four specific instances for
SORTS message processing:
   A3.2.1. Used by the RPTOR to initially register an organization in SORTS.
   A3.2.2. Used to change previously reported data.
   A3.2.3. Used to delete data on a unit that inactivates/deactivates or was registered in error.
   A3.2.4. Used to validate unit registration.
A3.3. Command Reporting Organizations (RPTOR) Responsibilities. All CROs prepare
and submit BIDE reports (including RPTNORG and ORGLOCN sets) on all Active, AF
Reserve, and Air National Guard units, including DETs assigned a PAS code.
   A3.3.1. RPTORs will register their units when they are listed in the PAS directory or G-
   Series orders, unless permission is granted by HQ USAF/XOOA to register them before they
   are listed. RPTORs must ensure unit registration data is kept current and available in the joint
   database. This includes adding or deleting missing or outdated information. Periodic
   comparisons will be undertaken to align PAS and BIDE records.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                     121


   A3.3.2. Individual measured units and SROs will not be responsible for BIDE reporting.
A3.4. Unit Registration.
   A3.4.1. Establishing Unit Identity. Identity is established in SORTS using the BIDE set. To
   initially register a unit, report all mandatory fields in the BIDE, RPTNORG, and ORGLOCN
   sets (according to Table A3.1, Table A3.2, and Table A3.3) using the ADD transaction
   code.
   A3.4.2. Changing Unit Registration Data. Using the CHANGE transaction code, report all
   mandatory and conditional fields that have changed since the unit’s initial registration.
      A3.4.2.1. After an initial BIDE report has been submitted use the TRANSFER set to
      change the RPTOR.
      A3.4.2.2. To delete existing data on a unit or when a unit has been registered in error,
      submit the BIDE report using the DELETE transaction code.
 122                                                                   AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013




Table A3.1. BIDE Field
 No.
       Field Name               Explanation                                 Use   Format
 1     SECUR                    Classification of BIDE set                   M      1A
 2     --                       Transaction code of BIDE set                 M      1A
 3     COAFF                    Country or International Affiliation         M      2A
 4     UDC                      Unit Descriptor Code                         M     1 AN
 5     ANAME                    Abbreviated unit name                        M    1-30 ANS
 6     UTC                      Unit Type Code DEPID 9                       M     5 AN
 7     ULC                      Unit Level Code         See Note 1           M     1-3 A
 8     MJCOM                    Major Command UIC                            M     6 AN
 9     MONOR                    Monitoring Organization                      C      6AN
 10    MAJOR                    Major Unit Indicator    See Note 2           M      1A
 11    REVAL                    Select the appropriate Registration      M          1A
                                Validation Code. The proper code will be
                                derived from this selection.
 12    LNAME                    Organization Name                            M    1-55ANS
 13    SCLAS                                                                 M      1A
 NOTES:

1. If the unit is a DET or an OL with a PAS code, you must enter the DET or OL short
name. DET names must be numeric and four characters in length. OL names are
alphanumeric and must also be four characters in length.

2. This indicates if the unit is SORTS reporting or not (Y or N).
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                     123


Table A3.2. RPTNORG Field
No.                                                                      Use
      Field Name               Explanation                                       Format
1     SECUR                    Classification of RPTNORG set             M           1A
2     --                       Transaction code of RPTNORG set           M           1A
3     ARRDT                    Activation date (YYMMDD) See              C           8A
4     RPTOR                    Note
                               Reporting Organization UIC                C          6 AN
5     SBRPT                    (MAJCOM)
                               Subordinate Reporting Organization UIC    C          6 AN
6     INTR1                    Interested Command UIC                    C          6 AN
7     INTR2                    Interested Command UIC                    C          6 AN
8     INTR3                    Interested Command UIC                    C          6 AN
9  INTR4                     Interested Command UIC                      C 6 AN
NOTE: The destination arrival date is normally the activation date of new units.

Table A3.3. ORGLOCN Field
                                                                           Use
No.    Field Name               Explanation                                        Format
1      SECUR                    Classification of RPTNORG set              M         1A
2      --                       Transaction code of RPTNORG set            M         1A
3      CSERV                    CBTCOM or Service Command Code             M        1 AN
4      OPCON                    UIC of organization exercising             M        6 AN
                                Operational Control
5      ADCON                    UIC of organization exercising             M        6 AN
                                Administrative Control
6   HOGEO                       Permanent home location code               M       4 AN
7   PRGEO                       Present location code                      M       4 AN
8   EMBRK                       Used by US Navy                            C       6 AN
9   ACTIV                       Current Status and Activity Code           M      2-10 AN
10  DFCON                       Defense Condition Status See Note 2        C       1 AN
11  PCTEF                       Percent Effective See Note 1               C       1-3 N
12  PUIC                        Parent Organization UIC                    M       6 AN
13  FLAG                        Organic Unit Established                   M        1 AS
14  CBCOM                       Combined Command Code                      C        1 AS
15  NUCIN                       Nuclear Capability Indicator               C        1 AS
NOTES:

1. PCTEF is a subjective evaluation of unit capability by the unit commander.

2. If the current Defense Readiness Condition is not 5, checklists and reports may not be
classified as Unclassified. Use classification guidance contained in CC and MAJCOM
Emergency Action Procedures (EAP).
 124                                                                 AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


                                         Attachment 4
    CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL, RADIOLOGICAL, NUCLEAR AND HIGH-YIELD
                 EXPLOSIVE DEFENSE REPORT (CBDRT)

A4.1. CBDRT C-Level. An inherent part of every unit’s mission is the ability to survive and
operate in a CBRNE environment. IAW CJCSM 3150.02b, Global Status of Resource and
Training Systems (GSORTS), all SORTS measured units are required to provide a separate
readiness assessment in a CBRNE based on the unit’s ability to perform its mission for up to 96
hours IAW AFMAN 10-2503, Operations in a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and
High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Environment. This assessment is based on measurements of
MRA CBRNE defense or response equipment and the status of associated individual and unit
level training.
   A4.1.1. Units in a CBRNE Medium Threat Area (MTA), High Threat Area (HTA), or LRS
   units in a Low Threat Area (LTA). For geographic locations of each type of threat area,
   reference AFI10-2501. The separate CBDRT will be submitted concurrent with the unit’s
   primary SORTS report. The CBRNE includes an overall C-level rating, measured area level
   ratings for equipment/supplies and training, and accompanying remarks to report a unit’s
   capability to perform its mission in CBRNE conditions. These measured area ratings are
   specific to the unit’s CBRNE defense or response requirements and are to be reported in the
   CBDRT. The CBDRT may be a factor in the commander’s assessment of the unit’s primary
   overall SORTS C-level; however, CBRN-specified calculation/measurements will not be
   reported in the regular SORTS reports. Units shall use RAS-IT/AF-IT to create the CBRNE
   SORTS report.
   A4.1.2. Units in a CBRNE LTA whose IPE is centrally stored at an LRS unit, and other
   units with no CBRNE defense or response equipment or training requirements. These units
   will report an overall C-5, with an S-6 in the equipment and a T-6 in the training areas, with a
   REASON code of “N” IAW Table A4.6 Remarks will include the name of the unit’s
   supporting LRS. Also see paragraphs A4.2.2 and A4.3.1 This paragraph does not apply to
   the LRS units, centrally storing the IPE. For LRS units in a CBRNE LTA, refer to
   paragraph A4.2.1.3 All medical units will report overall C-5, with and S-6 in the equipment
   area and a T-6 in the training area.
A4.2. CBRNE Defense Equipment and Supplies On-hand Rating (ESRAT). The ESRAT is
based on the percentage of CBRNE defense or response equipment that is MRA divided by the
quantity of equipment required. The Equipment and Supplies area of the CBDRTis broken down
into six categories of equipment as shown in Table A4.2 Report the ESRAT IAW Table A4.4
and enter the appropriate rating (S-level), based on the lowest calculated equipment category that
applies to the unit. For a CBRNE S-level below S-1, state the reasons in the ESRES remark field
of the CBRN. Include the applicable supply reason code (Table 4.3). If a unit does not have a
requirement for a specific category of CBRNE defense equipment, then enter a “0” in that
CBRNE equipment category. Table A4.2 can be used by MAJCOM FAMs to determine what
categories their units should measure and report. The FAMs should identify which categories
units are to measure and report within the remark section of the unit’s DOC Statement. The
specific equipment items to measure in each category are listed in Table A4.3 Requirements
vary based on unit mission and location. The six equipment categories and applicable
clarifications follow.
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                     125


  A4.2.1. Category 1 Individual Protective Equipment (IPE). Count the number of C-1 and D-
  1 bags that are MRA, divided by the number required. AFI 10-2501, Table 5.4 lists the
  required contents of C-1 bags. AFI 11-301V1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program,
  lists the required contents of D-1 bags. IAW AFMAN 23-110 Vol 1 Chapter 26, C-1 bags in
  LTAs are maintained at 60% on-hand. To be MRA, a bag must contain 100 percent of
  required items, each item must be serviceable IAW the applicable technical guidance, and the
  bag must be easily accessible by the individual to whom it’s assigned. This 100 percent
  availability criteria is only for SORTS reporting. Unit commanders should follow guidance
  in AFI 10-403 and other MAJCOM guidance in determining risk of issuing or deploying
  individuals with partial IPE. Paragraphs A4.2.1.1 through A4.2.1.3 and A4.2.1.3.2 through
  A4.2.1.3.4 identify unit IPE requirements by location.
     A4.2.1.1. Units in MTAs:
         A4.2.1.1.1. A unit has a requirement of a C-1 bag equivalent for specially coded
         military and emergency essential civilian member assigned to the unit IAW AFI 10-
         2501.
         A4.2.1.1.2. As directed by the MAJCOM, flying units require one D-bag equivalent
         for each assigned aircrew member IAW AFI 11-301, Vol 1.
     A4.2.1.2. Units in HTAs:
         A4.2.1.2.1. Units have a requirement of a C-1 bag equivalent for each military and
         emergency essential civilian member assigned to the unit IAW AFI 10-2501.
         A4.2.1.2.2. As directed by the MAJCOM, flying units require one D-bag equivalent
         for each assigned aircrew member IAW AFI 11-301, Vol 1.
     A4.2.1.3. LRS units in LTAs reporting on centrally stored bags:
         A4.2.1.3.1. To provide consistency in reporting, the LRS unit will calculate a base
         wide IPE availability percentage for centrally managed bags. This is calculated by
         dividing total MRA bags and bag equivalents by the total required. The LRS must
         count the number of MRA tariff and individually sized bags that are or could be built
         up with resources O/H. Remarks will include a list of all supported units, who rely on
         that LRS’s IPE supply. LTA quantities are contained in AFMAN 23-110, Chapter 26.
         A4.2.1.3.2. One bag or bag equivalent can be used to satisfy no more than one
         requirement. The total number of centrally stored bags reported available for all units
         cannot exceed the number of complete bags (or bag equivalents) that are available in
         central storage plus the number of bags that have been issued to currently deployed
         personnel.
         A4.2.1.3.3. Count bags issued for real world deployments as available.
         A4.2.1.3.4. MAJCOMs can provide additional procedures in cases where C-1 bag
         allocation is applied to priority units on a base.
  A4.2.2. Category 2 Detection Equipment. Count the detection and monitoring equipment
  listed in Table A4.3, Column B, as well as for in-garrison base support in MTAs and HTAs
  (do not include C-1 bag detection items (i.e., M8 and M9 paper) in this category). To count
  as MRA, category 2 equipment must have enough serviceable batteries and support
 126                                                              AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


   equipment on-hand to support operations for up to 96 hours IAW AFMAN 10-2503. Divide
   MRA equipment by total number required for each detection group in this category. Report
   the category status based on the detection group with the lowest percent available.
       A4.2.2.1. MAJCOMs must specify in-garrison base support requirements for units in
       MTAs and HTAs.
       A4.2.2.2. See paragraph A4.2.1 on reporting percentage information.
       A4.2.2.3. Category 3 Decontamination Equipment. Count decontamination equipment
       listed in Table A4.3, column B, as well as for in-garrison base support in MTAs and
       HTAs (do not include C-1 mobility bag detection items, i.e., reactive skin
       decontamination lotion and M295 decontamination kits in this category). Divide MRA
       equipment by total number required.
          A4.2.2.3.1. MAJCOMs must specify in-garrison base support decontamination
          equipment requirements for units in MTAs and HTAs.
          A4.2.2.3.2. See paragraph A4.2.1 on reporting percentage information.
       A4.2.2.4. Category 4 Radiation, Detection, Indication, and Computation (RADIAC)
       equipment. Count RADIAC equipment listed in Table A4.3, column B, as well as for in-
       garrison base support in MTAs and HTAs. Divide MRA by total number required. To
       count as available, Category 4 equipment must have the required serviceable batteries
       and support equipment on-hand.
          A4.2.2.4.1. MAJCOMs must specify in-garrison             base   support   equipment
          requirements for units in MTAs and HTAs.
          A4.2.2.4.2. See paragraph A4.2.1 on reporting percentage information.
       A4.2.2.5. Category 5 Medical Countermeasures. MTFs in MTAs and HTAs will report
       BW/CW and Anti-malaria/cholera items maintained to support the base population.
       A4.2.2.6. Category 6 Collective Protection. Count the number of transportable collective
       protection systems, in Table A4.3, column B, that are MRA. Divide by total number
       required. To count as MRA, a collective protection system must have 100 percent of the
       critical components (those that are needed to make the system fully operational). All
       critical components must be serviceable in accordance with technical data on the report
       date. See paragraph A4.2.1 on reporting percentage information.
A4.3. Individual and Unit CBRNE Defense Training Rating (TRRAT). The training portion
of the CBDRT has one category: individual or collective CBRNE defense training. TQT training
will no longer be a requirement for any unit to report in CBRN. Determine the percent of
personnel (or crews) current in CBRNE defense training. Based on the percent available, units
report CBRNE defense training status IAW Table A4.5 and enter the appropriate T-level rating
(TRRAT). TRRAT is calculated IAW applicable training methods of Chapter 6 and CJCSI 3401
series, Enclosure C, Table 5. For a CBRNE T-level below T-1, insert the applicable training
reason code (from Table 6.3) in the TRRES field and explain the reasons in TRRES remarks.
   A4.3.1. Units Authorized Code 6. Use Table A4.1 to determine which unit types are
   authorized to report Category Level 6 in a measured area. For Units in LTAs, CBRNE
   defense training is only required for personnel tasked to deploy and is therefore not
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                       127


   reportable. In this case, the unit should report a “6” representing a non-measured training
   subarea in the CBDRT report and TNM in TREAS.
   A4.3.2. Individual Training. Count the number of military and civilian personnel who are
   current in individual training, divided by the total number of personnel assigned who are
   required to accomplish the training IAW AFI 36-2201 and AFI 10-2501. Airmen who must
   maintain mission ready status for an MCO/OPLAN must be current in this training.
A4.4. Special CBRNE Defense Equipment and Supplies Reporting Requirements. To
provide visibility to installation-wide requirements and capabilities, CE units have an additional
special CBRNE reporting requirement. MAJCOMs will specify this special reporting
requirement in Section IV of a unit’s SORTS DOC Statement.
   A4.4.1. OCONUS CE Units in CBRNE MTAs and HTAs. Once each quarter (in January,
   April, July, and October), report the status of in-garrison collective protection assets.
       A4.4.1.1. For an in-garrison mission in MTAs and HTAs, list the number of collective
       protection spaces that are required and the number that are MRA. To count as MRA, the
       shelter must be fully operational (see AFMAN 10-2503). If it is not, none of the spaces in
       that shelter can count as MRA.
       A4.4.1.2. MAJCOMs must specify in-garrison requirements. If theater or MAJCOM
       guidance is not provided, units should report MRA, rest and relief collective spaces for
       30 percent (assumes each space will support two people over a 24-hour period) of the in-
       garrison and deployed AF personnel plus the number of collective protection spaces used
       in medical, command and control, and other function-specific facilities. MAJCOMs will
       provide guidance as to how many additional spaces to include for the protection of
       transient aircrew and passengers into the collective protection calculation. Use any
       combination of Class I-IV transportable, fixed facility, or expedient collective protection
       systems to satisfy the total requirement. (See AFMAN 10-2503.)
       A4.4.1.3. In an ESRES remark, provide both the required and the MRA number of
       collective protection spaces. If reporting in-garrison requirements, this remark and the
       report must be classified SECRET. The following is an UNCLASSIFIED example of the
       RAS-IT/AF-IT CBRNE formatted remark:
LABEL/U/A/LABEL:ESRES//
GENTEXT/RMK/DDMMMYY INPLACE COLLECTIVE PROTECTION SPACES / REQ
1300/ MRA 120//
A4.5. Overall CBRNE C-level. Unit Commanders will assign an overall CBRNE C-level
based on the lowest of the ESRAT and TRRAT. CBRNE overall C-level is assigned based on
definitions in paragraph 1.12,relevant to the unit’s ability to operate in CBRNE conditions. An
overall C-level will be entered in the READY field under TREAD = CBRNE report. If
applicable, a primary reason (in plain text) should be stated under the CBRNE TREAD REASN
remark label, while using an applicable reason code from Table 4.3 and Table 6.3 for the area
ratings. CBDRTs will be submitted in conjunction with the unit’s primary SORTS report.
Commander CBRNE assessments are not applicable to CBDRTs, however the CBRNE overall
rating can be factored into commander assessments of overall unit readiness in the primary unit
SORTS reports. An example RAS-IT/AF-IT CBRNE overall set is shown below:
 128                                                              AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


OVERALL/U/A/RICDA:YYMMDD/TREAD:CBRN/READY:3/REASN:S/-/-// EQSUPPLY/
ESRAT:3/ESRES:SRA//TRAINING/TRRAT:2/TRRES:TNB//
A4.6. CBRNE Data Requirements. Table 4.3. and Table 6.3. list applicable reason codes for
use with CBRNE. No FORECAST Set data is required. Only applicable Equipment and Training
reason codes listed in Table 4.3. and Table 6.3. will be used for CBRNE overall and subarea
level ratings (S-level, and T-level). Use the REASN code from Table A4.6. for the CBRNE
overall rating.
Attachment 4 Reference Tables (see top of next page). Also see AF Tables under the references
tab on the DRRS website at

Table A4.1. Units authorized to report Category Level 6 in CBDRT Measured Areas

 Rule           A                                B                                  C
        If the unit is a(n)             and the unit situation is that it         then it will
                                                                                  report T-6
                                                                                   in fields
        Unit in LTA                     Only required when tasked                  TRRAT
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                               129



Table A4.2. Equipment Categories Units Should Measure and Report Against [Note 1]
                         A                        B           C              D            E
 R U                                           then report equipment and supplies in these
                                                                   Table
 LE
        If the unit is a(n)                        A4.2. categories if the unit mission is
                                              In-garrison Mobility In-garrison In-garrison
                                             (generation) in all        (generation) (generation)
                                               Only in a threat           in a MTA in a HTA
                                                 LTA        areas          [Note 1]    [Note 1]
   7    air logistics center (ALC)               N/A           1                  N/A
        engineer element
  16    BEAR base unit                           N/A           1               1               N/A

 20     CE unit (Prime BEEF)                     N/A      1, 2, 3, 4, 6   1, 2, 3, 4,        1, 2, 3, 4

 21     CE unit (RED HORSE)                      N/A       1, 2, 3, 4     1, 2, 3, 4         1, 2, 3, 4

 30     fixed communications unit (base          N/A          N/A              1                 1
        information infrastructure)
  44 medical unit (non-aeromedical)              5                            1, 5             1, 5
  45 missile unit (ICBM)                                             none
 6, 56- space unit                               N/A           1                       N/A
 58
 All    All other units                          N/A
 others                                                        1               1                 1
 NOTES:

 1. To support in-garrison requirement; MAJCOMs may specify additional categories for
 selected units.

 2. The 820 Security Forces Group will report on categories 1, 2, 3, and 4.
 130                                                     AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Table A4.3. CBRNE Equipment Categories/Measured Items
                      A                                            B
                   Category                  Items to Include in Measurement
                                             C-1 bags IAW AFI 10-2501
1 - Individual Protective Equipment (IPE)
                                             D/D-1 aircrew bags IAW AFI 11-301
                                             DETECTION GROUP A
                                             M-272 Water Testing Kit, Chemical Agent
                                             M-42 Chemical Agent Alarm unit and Joint
                                             Chemical Agent Detector (JCAD)


2 - Detection Equipment                      DETECTION GROUP B
                                             M-8 Chemical Detection Paper [Note 1] M-9
                                             Chemical Detection Paper [Note 1] M-256A1
                                             Chemical Agent Detection Kit
                                             DETECTION GROUP C
                                             DoD Biological Sampling Kit Portal Shield
                                             Portable Biological Aerosol Sampler (PBAS)
                                             Kit
                                             DECON GROUP A M295 Decontamination Kit
                                             [Note 3]
                                             DECON GROUP B M17 Lightweight
3 - Decontamination Equipment                Decontamination Apparatus
                                             DECON GROUP C Reserved – do not report

                                             DECON GROUP D Reserved – do not report

                                             RADIAC Set ADM-300 Kit A RADIAC Set
                                             ADM-300 Kit B RADIAC Set ADM-300 Kit C
4 - RADIAC Equipment                         RADIAC Set ADM-300 Kit E

                                             MTAs and HtAs will report BW/CW and Anti-
5 - Medical Countermeasures
                                             malaria/cholera items and pharmaceutical
                                             countermeasures
                                             Transportable collective protection systems
6 - Collective Protection Systems
                                             [Note 3]
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                     131


                         A                                                    B
                     Category                         Items to Include in Measurement
 NOTES:

 1. Do not include the M8 and M9 paper in C-1 bags or bag equivalents in this measurement. Those
 items are included in the Category 1 measurement.

 2. Do not include the M295 Decontamination Kits in C-1 bags or bag equivalents in this measurement.
 3. This is the generic use of the term to include all mobile, portable, or transportable collective
 protection systems. This does not include non-deployable systems like the Survivable Collective
 Protection System (SCPS) and the Shelter Modification Kits, which can be relocated but are not in the
 transportable family.
Table A4.4. Changing CBDRT ESRAT Percentage into a CBDRT S-Level
 R                       A                                      B
 U    if the lower of the CBD equipment then the equipment and supplies On-hand S-
 L on-hand percentages is in the range from level ESRAT label will be
 E
 1                  90 to 100                                  S-1
 2                   80 to 89                                  S-2
 3                   65 to 79                                  S-3
 4                    0 to 64                                  S-4

Table A4.5. Training Percentage T-Level (Method B, paragraph 6.2. or Method C,
paragraph 6.3)
 R                        A                                             B
 U   If the training percentage is in the range    then the training T-level is:
 L                      from
 E
 1                    85 to 100                                        T-1
 2                     70 to 84                                        T-2
 3                     55 to 69                                        T-3
 4                      0 to 54                                        T-4
 132                                                             AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


Table A4.6. REASN codes for CBRN
R                         A                                          B
U If the overall CBRNE C level is                   Then the REASN code is
L
E
1 Less than C-1 and the reason most effecting                         S
          C level is CBRNE equipment
2 Less than C-1 and the reason most effecting                        T
       C level is CBRNE individual or unit
                      training
3  C-5 and  a resource  area is reported as P-/S-                    N
                      /R-/T-6
4           Not Reported by the Unit                                 N
AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013                                                                        133


                                         Attachment 5
   MAJOR EQUIPMENT LOCATION AND CREW INFORMATION (MEQLOCN)

A5.1. MEQLOCN Description.
   A5.1.1. MEQLOCN is a major equipment location set reported in SORTS for those units
   authorized or possessing major equipment (aircraft, missiles, etc.). The Authoritative Data
   Source (ADS) for the inventory, location and status of the aircraft resides within the
   maintenance community; therefore, maintenance units, instead of aviation units, are to report
   the location and status of the aircraft. Aviation units are to report on the location and status
   of the crews.
   A5.1.2. For units reporting the location and status of major equipment items, MEQLOCN
   includes MEQPT at a unit’s present and deployed locations. Referencing Table A5.1,
   maintenance units will only report in data fields 1-10, 18 and 19.
      A5.1.2.1. Equipment that will be off station for less than 72 hours (with response time
      not a key factor) is not considered deployed and does not need to be reported in a
      separate MEQLOCN set.
      A5.1.2.2. Major equipment in PDM is not reported in a separate MEQLOCN set;
      account for major equipment in PDM in a remark using the “MEPSD” Label.
      A5.1.2.3. Total numbers at various locations must equal total possessed, formed, and
      mission ready.
   A5.1.3. For aviation units reporting the location and status of aircrews, MEQLOCN includes
   crew status at a unit’s present and deployed locations. Referencing Table A5.1, aviation
   units will only report in data fields 1-2, 11-17, and 19.
      A5.1.3.1. Crews that will be off station for less than 72 hours (with response time not a
      key factor) are not considered deployed and do not need to be reported in a separate
      MEQLOCN set.
      A5.1.3.2. Total numbers of crews at various locations must equal total assigned and
      mission ready.
A5.2. Reporting Information.
   A5.2.1. MEQLOCN sets report on the type of equipment, the number of crews at a given
   location, and the location of deployed equipment and/or crews.
   A5.2.2. The sum of resources in the MEQLOCN set must equal total assigned and mission
   ready.
   A5.2.3. MEQLOCN sets are reported as a standalone set of a unit’s SORTS report. A unit
   will develop and maintain their MEQLOCN set(s) using the current RAS-IT/AF-IT version.
      A5.2.3.1. Submit the MEQLOCN set on a unit authorized or possessing major
      equipment items. Submit the set for each combination of major equipment, type, and
      location to show status at all locations being occupied by the unit. There is no limit to the
      number of MEQLOCN sets a unit may report.
 134                                                             AFI10-201 19 APRIL 2013


       A5.2.3.2. When submitting MEQLOCN sets, units should ensure the numbers of
       deployed crews or equipment do not exceed the total number possessed, and change
       accordingly. SORTS reporting personnel must know what is in the database for the UIC
       being reported.
       A5.2.3.3. When a unit deletes the number of previously reported equipment at deployed
       locations, the system will return equipment numbers back to the home or unit location.

Table A5.1. MEQLOCN Data Field Definitions
No.        Data Field                                      Definitions
1      UNIT                  Home Location
2      TEGEO                 Temporary Location
3      MEPSA                 Major Equipment Authorized
4      METAL                 Major Equipment Allocated
5      MEPSD                 Major Equipment Possessed
6      MEORD                 Major Equipment Operationally Ready – Dual
7      MEORN                 Major Equipment Operationally Ready – Nuclear
8      MEORC                 Major Equipment Operationally Ready – Conventional
9      MEORO                 Major Equipment Operationally Ready – Other
10 MEREC                     Major Equipment Operationally Ready – Reconnaissance Capability
11     CREWA                 Primary Duty Crew Authorized
12 CREAL                     Primary Duty Crew Allocated
13 CREWF                     Primary Duty Crews - Formed
14 CRMRD                     Primary Duty Crews Mission Ready - Dual
15 CRMRN                     Primary Duty Crews Mission Ready – Nuclear
16 CRMRC                     Primary Duty Crews Mission Ready
17 CRMRO                     Primary Duty Crews Mission Ready - Other
18 FORDV                     Equipment Foreign Origin
19 NEWLOC                    New Location
