BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2F-15E,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 1

                                                                                 5 JULY 2012
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 8 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                   F-15E UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                               Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                (Brig Gen Mark W. Westergren)
                                                                                       Pages: 41


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in F-15E units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting F-15E operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                                            AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                  4
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   4
       1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................    4
       1.3.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
       1.4.   Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................                7
       1.5.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            7
       1.6.   Intelligence F-15E Familiarization Program. .........................................................                          7
       1.7.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     8
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     9
       3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
       3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                              9

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                             17
       4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   17
       4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           17
       4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                18
Table 4.1.    F-15E Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements. .........................                                         18
       4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     19
       4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       19

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                              20
       5.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................           20
       5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        20
Table 5.1.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................                                   21
       5.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................                          22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              24
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                      3


Attachment 2—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                          32

Attachment 3—F-15E MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADE SHEET
             ELEMENTS                                           33

Attachment 4—F-15E SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS    40

Attachment 5—F-15E MQT, ST, AND RIP REQUIREMENTS                41
 4                                                              AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012



                                            Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
     1.1.1. Scope. This volume outlines the basic policy and guidance for training F-15E unit
     intelligence personnel. With the complementary references cited, this volume prescribes
     procedures to attain and maintain the qualifications and currencies to support F-15E unit
     operations. These training requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented by
     additional unit-level written guidance. Unit-level written guidance may expand upon these
     basic procedures, but in no case will it be less restrictive.
     1.1.2. References. The primary references for F-15E unit intelligence training are AFI 14-
     2F-15E, Volume 2, F-15E Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 3,
     F-15E Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
     (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-
     1.F-15E, Tactical Employment—F-15E; AFTTP 3-3.F-15E, Combat Aircraft
     Fundamentals—F-15E and this instruction. Training will be current with the latest editions.
     These references can be supplemented with other classified and unclassified authoritative
     publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center products, Tactics Bulletins,
     Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc. as long as the source is appropriately
     referenced.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2 is the waiver authority for specific intelligence procedural
requirements outlined in this instruction. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy Air Combat
Command (ACC)/A2 regarding all waiver requests and responses. ACC/A2 will notify
AF/A2DF of any significant trends in waiver correspondence if such correspondence indicates
the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.3. Responsibilities.
     1.3.1. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202, Volume 1,
     ACC/A2 will:
        1.3.1.1. Coordinate with user MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
        requirements for F-15E intelligence personnel training.
        1.3.1.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
        training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
        (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST).
            1.3.1.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop/maintain and provide a
            training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for F-15E intelligence IQT through
            formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
            1.3.1.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
            baseline threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral forces,
            electronic warfare (EW), aircraft; air-to-air missiles (AAM), surface-to-air missiles
            (SAM), air defense artillery/anti-aircraft artillery (ADA/AAA), ground forces and
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                     5


         associated equipment, naval and asymmetric threat capabilities to include limitations
         and employment techniques.
         1.3.1.2.3. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
         softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer-generated graphics, and digital
         audiovisual visual recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide adversary,
         neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of battle as well
         as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and camouflage,
         concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
     1.3.1.3. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIO) and user
     MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
     Provide feedback on lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability
     of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes
     in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level
     'best practices' exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
     1.3.1.4. Assist ACC subordinate units in developing training programs.
     1.3.1.5. Assist user MAJCOMs with F-15E units in providing support to unit training
     programs.
  1.3.2. All user MAJCOMs with F-15E units will:
     1.3.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
     requirements for intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials.
     1.3.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs based
     on this AFI and applicable MAJCOM supplements.
     1.3.2.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
  1.3.3. The unit SIO will:
     1.3.3.1. Develop and execute programs to meet minimum training requirements for
     intelligence personnel. Provide guidance to flying squadron intelligence sections
     regarding execution of training. (T-2)
     1.3.3.2. Appoint in writing an intelligence personnel training program manager (IPTPM)
     to oversee and document orientation training, MQT, CT, ST and other required training
     by unit personnel. Where assigned, the USAF Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course
     graduate will provide input into the training programs. (T-2)
     1.3.3.3. Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train. All
     intelligence personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.
     Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with
     a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions. (T-3)
     1.3.3.4. Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
     1.3.3.5. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all intelligence personnel.
     Assigned Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) will be trained and equipped
     according to established standards for their respective active duty counterpart. (T-3)
6                                                              AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


       1.3.3.6. Ensure personnel accomplish ancillary training IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force
       Training Program. Consult with the local unit training manager and unit deployment
       manager for ancillary training requirements specific to the unit and base. (T-2)
       1.3.3.7. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and
       current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or
       perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current. (T-2)
       1.3.3.8. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
       the MAJCOM/A2 (courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable). See
       attachment 2 for an example report. (T-2)
       1.3.3.9. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
       lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training
       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
       opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level 'best practices' exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
    1.3.4. Unit IPTPM will:
       1.3.4.1. Develop intelligence personnel training programs with written guidance
       detailing how programs will be conducted. Design training programs to achieve the
       highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and resource availability.
       Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, unit mission and
       capabilities. (T-2)
       1.3.4.2. Use lead MAJCOM-developed training materials to assist in the development
       and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training
       materials to meet unit needs. (T-3)
       1.3.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include
       delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
       1.3.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports as required by local procedures for
       tracking overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.3.4.5. Provide individuals a digital copy of their qualification training and evaluation
       records when they change station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing
       current qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
    1.3.5. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.3.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
       1.3.5.2. Assist the IPTPM in developing and executing unit intelligence qualification
       training and other required training programs. (T-3)
       1.3.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel
       and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                         7


       achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this instruction have been met.
       (T-3)
   1.3.6. Intelligence personnel will:
       1.3.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       instruction and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.3.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
       1.3.6.3. Hand-carry or electronically deliver a digital copy of qualification training and
       evaluation records when changing station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in
       assessing qualifications and training requirements. (T-2)
1.4. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is a venue intended to
facilitate achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. While the SIO
is ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training; professional
development, including intelligence-specific and mission-specific training, is the responsibility
of the trainee and supervisor. Training received during internal training may be achieved via
skills practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics or as otherwise
devised by the IPTPM. The internal intelligence training plan will include all identified training
requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
1.5. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks
and achieve CMR status. CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST
qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be
conducted in conjunction with skill-level upgrade training. For a detailed explanation of IQT,
MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202, Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this AFI.
1.6. Intelligence F-15E Familiarization Program. The SIO, in conjunction with the
Operations Group Commander, will develop an Intelligence F-15E Familiarization Program.
The Familiarization Program will be designed to provide intelligence personnel training on all
phases of mission planning and F-15E airframe capabilities and limitations. When feasible,
flight simulators will be used to enhance the intelligence F-15E familiarization program.
   1.6.1. The Intelligence F-15E Familiarization Program is a training program, not an
   orientation or incentive program. Intelligence personnel who participate in the program
   should complete specific desired learning objectives (DLO) during each event.
   1.6.2. The SIO will develop Intelligence F-15E Familiarization Program written guidance
   outlining procedures to manage the program as well as DLOs to be achieved during program
   events.
1.7. Documentation. All intelligence training must be documented. Units will document
qualification training on the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, and in coordination with
AF/A2 approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                                 AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


                                              Chapter 2

                            INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. This chapter outlines IQT for F-15E unit intelligence personnel. IQT for
intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training (i.e., the Air Force Specialty Code
awarding courses) and concludes with successful completion of the Intelligence Initial
Qualification Course (IIQC). The F-15E IIQC is designed to meet the IQT requirements for
personnel assigned to support the F-15E weapon system. Personnel successfully completing the
F-15E IIQC and subsequent evaluations as described in AFI 14-202, Volume 1 are to be
considered Basic Qualified (BQ).
     2.1.1. In-Unit IQT Training. When individuals are unable to attend the IIQC to receive IQT,
     it may be accomplished at the unit when authorized via waiver IAW this instruction. If
     authorized, in-unit IQT will be conducted using the F-15E IIQC syllabus and training
     courseware provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2) Waiver requests for in-
     unit IQT will include:
        2.1.1.1. Justification for the in-unit training in lieu of formal course training.
        2.1.1.2. Summary of individual’s intelligence career field experience.
        2.1.1.3. Date training will begin and expected completion date.
        2.1.1.4. Requested exceptions to formal course syllabus, with rationale.
2.2. IQT Requirements.
     2.2.1. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the F-15E IIQC syllabus. Failure
     to complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2
     with person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated completion date.
     (T-2)
     2.2.2. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the F-15E IIQC training standard. In-
     unit IQT, when authorized will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on
     the individual’s proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-2)
     2.2.3. Personnel completing in-unit IQT will be evaluated according to the same criteria as
     individuals completing the F-15E IIQC. The unit IPTPM will oversee and document in-unit
     IQT. The IIQC-providing unit will provide the qualification (QUAL) criteria to the
     requesting unit intelligence standardization/evaluation function. Evaluation and certification
     will be annotated in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online
     documentation. (T-2)
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                        9


                                            Chapter 3

                          MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting F-15E missions/operations. Guidance in this chapter is
provided to assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program. MQT execution will
take into account the assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience and training,
currency, documented performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. MQT
can be accomplished through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or
other training opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Applicable portions of MQT
will be used to create a requalification program for personnel who are non-CMR or BMC status.
(T-2)
   3.1.1. Prior to completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR, member must have already
   completed IQT and attained BQ status. (T-3)
   3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)) of the
   individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the completion of IQT.
   Timelines for completion of MQT for each MAJCOM and reporting requirements are
   specified in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
       3.1.2.1. For active duty units, MQT will be completed within 120 days.                Notify
       MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
       3.1.2.2. For AFRC units and IMAs, MQT will be completed within 120 days with
       seasoning days. If no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 365
       calendar days, or the execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and
       Annual Training, whichever is earlier. Notify AFRC/A2F, NAF/A2 and gaining
       MAJCOM if training exceeds these timelines. For IMAs, notify MAJCOM Intelligence
       IMA Program Manager, ACC/A2 and AFRC/A2 if training exceeds 365 calendar days.
       (T-2)
   3.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
   timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis.
   3.1.4. The AF Form 4381 will be used to document the trainee’s progression through each
   individual training item. Specific F-15E MQT intelligence grade sheet elements are located
   in attachment 3. (T-2)
   3.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT, a successful Initial
   Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2; AFI 14-2F-15E,
   Volume 2; and SIO endorsement. Refer to AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2 for a more detailed
   explanation of evaluations.
3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-
developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
MQT program for F-15E intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
 10                                                            AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position (Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs). (T-2)
   3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to unit
   missions for all areas listed below except research, analysis, and dissemination (RAD) and
   VR by successfully completing a test from the unit master question file (MQF) (85 percent
   minimum to pass). To demonstrate VR knowledge requirements, trainees must successfully
   complete a VR test via a visual presentation system (85 percent minimum to pass). (T-2)
       3.2.1.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination and Intelligence Preparation of the
       Operational Environment (IPOE).
          3.2.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
          intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and Operations Plan (OPLAN)/
          Concept of Operations Plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
          knowledge of unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Demonstrate
          knowledge of the strengths and weaknesses of specific types of intelligence in the
          context of the F-15E weapons system and the unit mission. Demonstrate knowledge
          of Intelligence Community analysis centers and intelligence producers useful for
          intelligence applications at the unit level. Demonstrate ability to use combat
          intelligence information systems and software to request intelligence from outside
          sources when unit intelligence holdings are insufficient. Demonstrate ability to use
          message traffic in US Message Text Format (USMTF) or OPLAN/CONPLAN-
          specified formats, to request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence
          holdings are insufficient and combat intelligence information systems are unavailable.
          3.2.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
          intelligence applies to the unit mission, (i.e., what is useful to unit aircrew, mission
          planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not useful). Specific
          tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of intelligence needed by F-15E aircrew and mission
          planners for combat operations. Demonstrate knowledge of general intelligence
          requirements of the wing commander, operations group commander and other
          functional areas supported by wing intelligence. Be able to describe the intelligence
          requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s OPLAN/CONPLAN
          tasking.
          3.2.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Show knowledge of unit-level
          resources, points of dissemination and methods of dissemination to aircrew, mission
          planners, operations group and wing leadership and other end-users of intelligence as
          determined by the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks:
          Demonstrate knowledge of unit computers, web-based audiovisual and manual
          information displays and dissemination.              Demonstrate knowledge of
          professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure video
          teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination systems
          used by the unit. Demonstrate knowledge of aircrew, mission planner and squadron
          and wing leadership information resources and ways to securely integrate updated
          intelligence into the information flow. Demonstrate knowledge of record message
          traffic reporting as required for unit operations by OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, as
          applicable. Demonstrate knowledge of methods to identify currency and expiration
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                      11


        of intelligence provided to end users. Demonstrate knowledge of the fundamentals of
        information security classification marking and controls and knowledge of sources of
        authoritative guidance. Demonstrate knowledge of rules, procedures and restrictions
        for secure transfer of intelligence from various levels of classified intelligence and
        information networks.
        3.2.1.1.4. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE).
        Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and concepts and understand the
        analytical methodology employed in IPOE. Specific tasks: Be able to describe the
        IPOE process (define the operational environment) as it pertains to the unit mission
        and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.             Describe the impact of the operational
        environment, evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action.
        Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE products and producers based on unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the ability to identify/extract relevant intelligence
        for F-15E operations.
     3.2.1.2. F-15E Weapons Systems Academics. Objective: Demonstrate an understanding
     of the unit’s specific F-15E weapons systems and operations. Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate an understanding of the unit’s specific F-15E weapons systems to include:
     F-15E missions, capabilities and limitations; tactical electronic warfare suite, air intercept
     radar; unit targeting pod; air-to-ground and air-to-air weapons and delivery profiles.
     Show knowledge of how Air Force and joint doctrine drive the unit’s missions and
     employment.
     3.2.1.3. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable area of
     responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge
     of aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA/AAA, EW, directed energy weapons (DEW), ground
     forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric threat capabilities,
     limitations and employment techniques of threat forces that may be encountered in the
     operational environment based on unit mission, F-15E capabilities and limitations, and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.4. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate knowledge of EW, aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA/AAA, DEW, ground
     forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric capabilities, limitations
     and employment techniques of friendly and neutral forces that may be encountered in the
     operational environment based on unit mission, F-15E capabilities and limitations, and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.5. Visual Recognition. Objective: When shown a video or still image of sufficient
     quality, be able to identify enemy/adversary, friendly, or neutral weapon systems that
     may be encountered in the operational environment based on unit mission and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to visually identify
     enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral aircraft (both rotary and fixed-wing), ground
     equipment, and naval vessels by appropriate name or numerical designator and determine
     whether the object is a threat or non-threat. Training will include: all aspects/angles,
     theater-specific paint schemes, national markings, various configurations, employment
     characteristics, muzzle flashes, smoke plumes, and burst patterns as applicable.
12                                                           AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


     3.2.1.6. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role
     intelligence personnel play in preparing aircrew for the possibility of survival, evasion,
     resistance, escape (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     knowledge of theater-specific isolated personnel report (ISOPREP) and evasion plan of
     action (EPA) requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     Demonstrate knowledge of environmental, operations and combat search and rescue
     information contained in the special instructions (SPINS) that will drive intelligence
     requirements during PR operations.
     3.2.1.7. Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate understanding of
     principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks: Summarize
     irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and other hot spot
     areas. Give examples of hostile forces tactics and weapons employment. Identify
     intelligence force protection (FP) resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and force
     protection conditions. Understand unit FP considerations. State facts about base-specific
     and regional threats.
     3.2.1.8. Alternate Mission Fundamentals. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     alternate mission terms and concepts and how the F-15E weapons system is integrated.
     Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of how the F-15E prosecutes targets and
     conducts integrated operations outside the traditional targeting cycle to include Close Air
     Support, Army Support Request, Armed Reconnaissance, Time Sensitive Targeting,
     Destruction of Enemy Air Defenses, Strike, Control and Reconnaissance and Non-
     Traditional Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance.
  3.2.2. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
  IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in researching specific
     threat systems and tailoring the information to the F-15E airframe and countertactics.
     Specific Tasks: Successfully research, compile and develop an accurate, concise briefing
     with focus on the threat relevant to the F-15E mission and capabilities. Present a threat
     briefing for the selected weapons system.
     3.2.2.2. Situation displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing, posting,
     updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without automated
     intelligence system support IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Select the proper medium to
     use for constructing a situation display. Identify the proper components to be included on
     a situation display IAW AFI 14-2(MDS), Volume 3. Research, analyze and plot situation
     display elements using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting
     Symbology and US Army Field Manual /US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-
     02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics).
         3.2.2.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
         updating and maintaining OB on situation displays without automated intelligence
         system support IAW OB standards established by the SIO and based on unit mission
         and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Research, analyze and plot OB
         using correct symbology. Extract military grid reference system (MGRS) and
         geographic coordinates. Identify critical elements of the table of organization and
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                      13


        equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Demonstrate understanding of OB
        production sources for the AOR.
        3.2.2.2.2. Automated OB.       Objective:   Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing
        intelligence support systems to download, update, purge and control quality of
        automated OB used on situation displays. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to
        verify accuracy of computer generated symbology. Identify critical elements of the
        table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations.
        Demonstrate understanding of OB production sources for the AOR. Exploit
        intelligence software applications to post and maintain OB and convert MGRS
        coordinates and geographic coordinates.
     3.2.2.3. Initial Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing to the commander and
     staff. Specific tasks: Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Identify and present
     significant events leading to the crisis; adversary, neutral, friendly and/or US political
     decisions or diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the
     mission of the deploying unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber
     and irregular force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary course of action (COA); relevant FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism,
     sabotage, subversion threats), unless briefed by security forces (SF) or Air Force Office
     of Special Investigations (AFOSI); relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of
     likely answers to the gaps. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver initial situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.4. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis.
     Identify and present changes in the operational environment since the last update.
     Present any enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or
     diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the
     deployed unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular
     force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA for
     the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours (i.e., next shift, next day and through the Air Tasking
     Order (ATO) cycle); relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to
     the gaps; and relevant FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats),
     unless briefed by SF or AFOSI. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver the situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.5. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Organize, prioritize and present key
     information at shift changeover IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate proficiency in
     preparing and conducting a changeover briefing. Provide incoming personnel with a
     summary of events to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing immediate
     attention, situation update, a review of threat levels/conditions, briefing schedules, work
14                                                              AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


     and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team directives, mission report (MISREP)
     status, and other pertinent items. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit.
     3.2.2.6. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing.                  Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate understanding of unit tasking (e.g., warning order (WARNORD), execution
     order (EXORD)) and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) tasking, as
     applicable. Research, and focus intelligence to the unit’s tasked mission, roles and
     combat profiles. Include: synopsis of political-military situation generating the
     deployment; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force
     disposition and activity along deployment route; relevant FPI for the local area (e.g.,
     terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats), unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; relevant
     intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps; most dangerous and
     most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment; possible en route
     hazards to flight, bailout or alternate landing sites (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas);
     reporting instructions and essential elements of information (EEI); and additional items
     as dictated by the local situation. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-
     based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied
     by the unit. Deliver deployment briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the deploying
     commander.
     3.2.2.7. ATO/Airspace Control Order(ACO)/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents.
     Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in obtaining, identifying, and breaking out the
     applicable elements of the ATO/ACO/SPINS, as well as a WARNORD, Alert Order,
     EXORD, Operations Order and Deployment Order IAW unit procedures. Specific tasks:
     Locate and obtain correct ATO/ACO/SPINS. Identify and extract unit tasking, airspace
     control, PR information, and intelligence related information from tasking
     orders/messages. Demonstrate breakout of ATO/ACO/SPINS with both manual and
     automated techniques and tools IAW prescribed local timelines and format requirements.
     As applicable, identify other types of tasking requests the unit may face in particular
     theaters.
     3.2.2.8. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
     in support to mission planning with appropriate intelligence tasks. Specific tasks:
     Review the tactical problem/scenario. Analyze the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout, unit
     IPOE, target acquisition, target significance, threat considerations (e.g., integrated air
     defense system, air, SAMs, ADA/AAA), tactics, terrain, and weather, target imagery, as
     appropriate. Recommend mission route, combat air patrol (CAP) location, initial points,
     and way points as applicable, based on threat and terrain analysis, and target and aim
     point analysis. Identify and plot unit tasking. Cross check fixed targets with theater no
     strike target list, if available. Derive specified and implied intelligence requirements
     from tasking documents; research applicable intelligence; define gaps; submit collection
     requirements and/or request for information (RFI) as appropriate. Demonstrate
     proficiency in preparing and presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                     15


     briefing for mission planners; Deliver briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format
     and content requirements.
     3.2.2.9. Weaponeering. Objectives: Demonstrate proficiency in local procedures for
     validating weaponeering solutions for tasked targets. Specific tasks: State basics of unit
     procedures in accessing target databases and developing targeting specific RFIs.
     Demonstrate where to locate and conduct basic unit specific research of targeting
     reference sources, to include the Joint Munitions Effectiveness Manual (JMEM),
     imagery, and other target materials.
     3.2.2.10. Mission Package Construction. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in the
     intelligence role in mission package construction and in basic targeting skills.
     Understand the roles and responsibilities of each echelon in the target development
     process. Specific tasks: Identify and obtain required imagery and geospatial information
     and services (GI&S) products to build mission materials. Demonstrate proficiency in
     utilizing mission planning software to construct mission packages and conduct
     appropriate research and analysis in unit-level target development. Demonstrate
     proficiency in obtaining target materials, coordinating mission materials with mission
     planners, acquiring Digitized Point Positioning Database (DPPDB), targeting application
     systems (e.g., Common Geo-positioning System Target Application Workstation) and
     aiding in quality control of mission packages.
     3.2.2.11. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a mission briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis (as
     required to fill intelligence gaps). Identify and present changes in the operational/tactical
     environment since the last update. Present any enemy/adversary air, ground, naval,
     space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity; relevant FPI for the local area
     (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats), unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; target
     information and tactical situation in the target area. Present en route and target area
     threats (e.g., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW, and DEW threats), PR information,
     EEIs, in-flight report (INFLTREP) requirements, debrief location, and other factors
     essential to mission success. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver mission briefing IAW standards established by the SIO and commander’s
     requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.12. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     an intelligence step briefing. Specific tasks: Construct and deliver a briefing that
     provides aircrew with critical last-minute changes in the threat that affect their missions.
     Brief any new threats (e.g., air, air defense, ground), new tactics, PR data changes, latest
     threat update code (TUC), and any other changes impacting the mission. Demonstrate
     proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver step briefing IAW
     standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.13. Mission Tracking. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in local procedures for
     monitoring mission execution and in communicating with other agencies and
     coordination centers. Specific tasks: Effectively monitor and use communication
16                                                           AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


     systems including collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of ongoing
     missions. React as necessary to support the mission. Log all communications in locally
     developed mission tracking log. Ensure all missions are debriefed and reported upon.
     Make provisions for diverted missions.
     3.2.2.14. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing. Specific tasks: Prepare appropriate sections of the
     debrief form/checklist. Extract relevant mission intelligence from aircrew. Identify time-
     sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently per local/theater
     guidance.     Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements.
     Demonstrate ability to identify key points and develop intelligence by asking amplifying
     questions relevant to the mission. Consult appropriate post flight products. Demonstrate
     ability to control the flow and pace of the debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and
     accurate information collection without wasting time. Demonstrate awareness and
     control of environmental factors that may distract aircrew or impede the debriefing
     process. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual information display and debriefing tools as applied by the unit. The following
     additional tasks apply, dependent upon the debriefing method(s) used by the unit.
        3.2.2.14.1. For plane-side debriefing (i.e., “plugged in” to the jet), also demonstrate
        appropriate use of communications equipment, control of classified debriefing
        materials and appropriate application of communications methods used to pass
        debriefed information to unit intelligence work centers.
        3.2.2.14.2. For flight-line debriefing (i.e., in a vehicle or other venue on the flight
        line), also demonstrate control of classified debriefing materials and appropriate
        application of communications methods used to pass debriefed information to unit
        intelligence work centers.
        3.2.2.14.3. For in-flight debriefing (i.e., via secure or non-secure radio with the
        aircrew en route to base), demonstrate appropriate use of radio communications,
        brevity and security awareness IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit
        mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the supported
        commander.
     3.2.2.15. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting accurate MISREPs and other applicable intelligence reports (e.g.,
     Intelligence Summary (INTSUM), Intelligence Report (INTREP)) as required by local
     directives. Specific tasks: Analyze and extract information from INFLTREPs and other
     aircrew-submitted formats. Generate intelligence reports using computer and/or manual
     information systems applied by the unit. Validate accuracy and completeness IAW
     standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and applicable reporting
     directives. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual intelligence dissemination tools and techniques as applied by the unit.
     Demonstrate proficiency in drafting, validating and transmitting appropriate USMTF
     intelligence messages when applicable reporting directives do not exist.
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                      17


                                           Chapter 4

                               CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence
knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure familiarization with F-
15E capabilities, threat systems, and unit intelligence functions. The second aspect of CT is the
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which consists of specific mission-related training required to
accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This guidance is
intended to provide a baseline and may be supplemented by the SIO based on unit requirements.
IPTPMs will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and other resources as needed to
provide the most effective and efficient training. Continuation training must reinforce MQT
tasks and facilitate RIP requirements. Basic knowledge examinations will be compiled from the
unit MQF. Completion of CT tasks will be annotated in coordination with AF/A2 approved
processes regarding online training documentation. At a minimum, the following topics will be
covered during CT: (T-2)
   4.2.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.2. F-15E Weapons systems and Operations – to include capabilities and limitations,
   employment and defensive tactics/maneuvers, mission profiles, armament and on-board
   systems.
   4.2.3. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA/AAA, naval and ground threat system capabilities and limitations
   with respect to F-15E operations.
   4.2.4. VR – to include identification features and employment characteristics of
   enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral weapon systems.
   4.2.5. Automated Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence
   systems, software applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit
   mission.
   4.2.6. PR – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater ISOPREP/EPA
   requirements and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
   4.2.7. FPI – to include intelligence support to FP principles; irregular/guerrilla/terrorist
   forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist threat levels and unit force
   protection considerations.
   4.2.8. Order of Battle – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating and
   maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.2.9. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operation required briefings.
 18                                                             AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


   4.2.10. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning – to include tasking order/SPINS breakout,
   mission planning software applications and route/CAP analysis, GI&S familiarization to
   determine product requirements (e.g., quantity, chart type, appropriate scale), acquisition,
   receipt, storage and maintenance for mission package construction.
   4.2.11. Debriefing – to include preparing for and techniques for conducting a debriefing,
   handling time-sensitive information, and proper debriefing tools/products.
   4.2.12. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to
accomplish the unit’s tasked missions. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, RIP tasks
will be conducted in conjunction with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. (T-
2)
   4.3.1. The standard task requirements listed in Table 4.1, F-15E Ready Intelligence Program
   and Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirements for CMR and
   BMC. Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC
   status and additional training will be required as determined by the SIO. (T-2)
   4.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks and successfully
   accomplish periodic mission qualification evaluations (MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2
   and AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2 to maintain currency and qualification. If an intelligence
   specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform that task
   unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for documenting RIP
   task completion. (T-2)

Table 4.1. F-15E Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements.
                             Minimum Frequency to               Minimum Frequency to
Subject                      Maintain CMR Status                Maintain BMC Status
                             Ops           Tgts                 Ops           Tgts
Situation Displays           Semi-annually Semi-annually        Annually      Annually
Manual OB                    Semi-annually Semi-annually        Annually      Annually
Automated OB                 Semi-annually Semi-annually        Annually      Annually
Initial Situation Briefing   Annually      ----                 Annually      ----
Situation Briefing           Annually      ----                 Annually      ----
Changeover Briefing          Annually      Annually             Annually      Annually
Deployment Briefing          Annually      ----                 Annually      ----
ATO/ACO/SPINS and
                             Semi-annually Semi-annually Annually                Annually
Other Tasking Documents
Intelligence Support to
                             Semi-annually Semi-annually Annually                Annually
Mission Planning
Weaponeering                 ----              Quarterly        ----             Semi-annually
Mission Package
                             Semi-annually Semi-annually Annually                Annually
Construction
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                     19


Mission Briefing            Quarterly       ----             Annually         ----
Step Briefing               Quarterly       ----             Annually         ----
Mission Tracking            Semi-annually Semi-annually Annually              Annually
Debriefing                  Quarterly       ----             Annually         ----
Intelligence Reports        Quarterly       ----             Annually         ----
Note: Quarterly is once every 3 months, semi-annually is once every six months, and annually
is once every 12 months.
4.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to non-combat mission ready (N-CMR)/non-basic mission capable (N-
BMC), as applicable. The SIO will direct the member who fails to demonstrate proficiency in a
given task to be regressed. Regression and the steps taken to correct the situation will be
documented in a memorandum for record in the individual's training record. CMR/BMC
intelligence personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved
recertification program to return them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during
the re-certification program will be credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-
3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
 20                                                            AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


                                            Chapter 5

                                 SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST. These ST programs are intended to provide SIOs the minimum specialized
training programs for individuals without previous qualifications and may be tailored for
intelligence personnel with current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented
performance or formal training. Unless governed by a formal syllabus, these programs will
consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios. The IPTPM will ensure ST is recorded on
AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for AF Form 4381 elements) and in coordination with AF/A2
approved processes regarding online documentation. Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. All intelligence
personnel assigned or attached to a flying squadron must be qualified trainers. (T-2)
   5.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected for EIT trainer must:
       5.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
       listed below.
   5.2.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Profiles:
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
       instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks:
       Demonstrate ability to modify training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of
       delivering training using visual, auditory and physical application. Demonstrate one-on-
       one, small group and large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify
       trainee achievement.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 - Threats and Countermeasures. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing threat training requirements for air, SAM, ADA/AAA, EW, and DEW
       threats (to include minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 3). Specific
       tasks: Prepare and deliver an instructional session for threats based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.3. EIT 3 - C&R. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in establishing C&R training
       requirements. Specific tasks: Be familiar with the requirements and security concerns
       regarding intelligence-generated reports. Develop training that enhances unit ability to
       use aircrew-originated reports (INFLTREP or other formats) and intelligence-generated
       reports (INTREP, MISREP, INTSUM). Prepare and deliver an instructional session on
       C&R based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                      21


       5.2.2.4. EIT 4 - VR. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in establishing VR training
       requirements. Specific tasks: Successfully complete a VR test (85 percent minimum to
       pass). Develop and deliver an instructional session on VR based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.5. EIT 5 - PR. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing instructional
       material in coordination with tactics, aircrew flight equipment, and SERE personnel.
       Specific tasks: Provide academic instruction on intelligence PR operational support
       processes as required. Where possible, PR EIT trainers should be graduates of SV-80A
       Survival Training. Units with an assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1) may omit this block.
       5.2.2.6. EIT 6 - FPI. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in establishing FP threat
       training requirements (to include minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume
       3). Specific tasks: Prepare and deliver an instructional session for FP threats based on
       unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   5.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT trainers upon
   successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer evaluation (INIT EIT) and
   endorsement from the SIO.
   5.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 5.1, External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and
   Currencies, defines the currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
   maintain EIT trainer status. EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT
   trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2. If an EIT trainer loses currency in a
   particular area, the individual will not conduct EIT unsupervised until currency is regained.
   Trainers who are non-current must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by
   another current and qualified EIT trainer in the same training event.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
Event                Specialized Training                     Currency Requirement
Threat Training      Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific        Instruct one threat training
                     tasks.                                   event per three-month period
                     Pass MQF test (threat specific).         (Quarterly).
                     Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
C&R Training         Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 specific        Instruct one C&R training
                     tasks.                                   event per 12-month period
                     Pass MQF test (C&R specific).            (Annually).
                     Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
VR Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 specific        Instruct one VR training event
                     tasks.                                   per six-month period (Semi-
                     Pass VR test.                            annually).
                     Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
PR Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 specific        Instruct one PR training event
                     tasks.                                   per 12-month period
                     Pass MQF test (PR specific).             (Annually).
                     Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
FPI Training         Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 specific        Instruct one FPI training event
 22                                                             AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


                       tasks.                                   per 12-month period
                       Pass MQF test (FPI specific).            (Annually).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
5.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to IE within the unit. Only
qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to grade standardization
and evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel identified by the SIO for progression to IE must:
       5.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.3.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-
       2F-15E, Volume 2.
       5.3.1.3. Meet task certifier requirements as outlined by AFI 36-2201.
       5.3.1.4. Be designated by the SIO.
   5.3.2. IE training consist of two steps; observation and performance demonstration.
   Intelligence evaluator trainees must complete one or more of the observation profiles and the
   proficiency profile listed below. (T-2)
       5.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Observe a mission evaluation. Specific
       tasks:    Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
       preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
       evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       5.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Observation. Objective: Observe an EIT trainer evaluation.
       Specific tasks: Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
       preparation for an INIT EIT Trainer or EIT Trainer evaluation. Identify scenarios for
       intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       5.3.2.3. IE 3 - IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in successfully
       conducting an evaluation. Perform the evaluation with the trainer as the examinee in a
       simulated evaluation. Specific tasks: Under observation, conduct an evaluation and
       provide a thorough debrief and critique. Demonstrate knowledge of evaluation criteria,
       grading procedures and proficiency in evaluation form preparation.
   5.3.3. IE Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
   14-2F-15E, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized training is
   completed. The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after completing
   training, successful completion of the initial IE evaluation (INIT IE) and endorsement from
   the SIO. (T-2)
   5.3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding
   evaluation annually to remain current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE
   evaluations IAW AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2. (T-2)
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                       23


                             Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
                             Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance
                             and Reconnaissance
 24                                                          AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2, F-15E Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria, 5 July 2012
AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 3, F-15E Unit Intelligence Procedures, 5 July 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.F-15E, Tactical Employment—F-15E, 1 September 2010 (S)
AFTTP 3-3.F-15E, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals—F-15E, 4 November 2011 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 2 July 2010 (S)
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Forces
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                           25


AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BQ—Basic Qualification
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Courses of Action
CONPLAN—Concept Plan
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
DLO—Desired Learning Objectives
DPPDB—Digitized Point Positioning Database
EEI—Elements of Essential Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EW—Electronic Warfare
EXORD—Exercise Order
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
 26                                                          AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT IE—Initial IE Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IPTPM—Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
JMEM—Joint Munitions Effectiveness Manual
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MR—Mission Ready
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPORD—Operations Order
PR—Personnel Recovery
QUAL—Qualification Evaluation
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RQ—Requalification Evaluation
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                     27


SF—Security Forces
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TUC—Threat Update Code
USMTF—US Message Text Format
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
VR—Visual Recognition
WARNORD—Warning Order

Terms
Automated OB—Order of battle maintained using intelligence support systems.
Basic Mission Capable—The status of unit intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain MR/CMR status.
Basic Qualification—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily completed
IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not perform mission duties unsupervised.
BQ is a prerequisite for all personnel to enter MQT. The member must perform at a minimum
level as established in this volume. BQ is not a long term qualification status.
Certification—Procedure used to document competency in a particular task.                     Not
interchangeable with “qualification,” which requires Form 4350 documentation.
Changeover Briefing—A briefing to provide incoming personnel a synopsis of events and
issues to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing immediate attention, pending tasks,
personnel and equipment problems, work center status and briefing times.
Combat Mission Ready—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT and maintain CMR qualification and currency in the appropriate mission
qualification tasks and knowledge outlined in this instruction and other applicable instructions.
Continuation Training—CT provides the volume, frequency, and mix of training necessary for
intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency, currency and qualification. The RIP outlines the
minimum CT requirements. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to
accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. CT is separate from skill level upgrade training,
although CT may fulfill some skill level upgrade training requirements.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a
given event.
Debriefing—The process to convert mission information into intelligence for dissemination to
affected parties. The intelligence specialist will extract relevant mission intelligence from
 28                                                               AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


aircrew, ask amplifying questions relevant to the mission, identify time-sensitive information and
disseminate appropriately and expediently.
Deployment Briefing—A briefing to provide intelligence information to aircrew, key staff, and
deploying personnel prior to deployment. Intelligence information is tailored to the unit’s
specific mission, roles and combat profiles in accordance with the unit OPLAN/OPORD tasking.
It includes a synopsis of the military and political situation generating the deployment,
enemy/adversary activity and force disposition (air, ground and naval, as applicable) in the AOR
and along deployment route, enemy tactics and employment strategies, potential and or
anticipated enemy reactions to the deployment, possible en-route hazards to flight, bailout or
alternate landing issues (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas), known threats (terrorist or
regular military forces) in vicinity of bed down location, reporting instructions and EEI and
additional items as dictated by the local situation.
External Intelligence Training—Intelligence training given by intelligence personnel to
aircrew or other non-intelligence AFSC personnel.
External Intelligence Training Trainer—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence
personnel who have completed the EIT specialized training and maintain currency as an EIT
trainer. Only qualified and current trainers may conduct unsupervised intelligence training for
aircrew or other non-intelligence Air Force Specialty Code personnel.
External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and
maintains EIT trainer qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify
and requalify an intelligence member as an EIT trainer as directed in AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 1.
The designator for the EIT trainer evaluation is “EIT” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF
Form 4350.
Initial Qualification Training—Initial training necessary to qualify F-15E intelligence
personnel in a basic F-15E intelligence position without regard to a unit’s specific mission. IQT
for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training is completed and consists of the
IIQC.
Initial Situation Briefing—The briefing conducted at the outset of a crisis that outlines the
initial situation to the commander and staff. It includes the current situation, including major
events leading to the crisis, any national decisions, enemy force disposition, current situation at
deployment location, local area situation (e.g., terrorist activity, subversion threats), anticipated
enemy reactions, and possible en route flight hazards for previously scheduled and transient
flights.
Intelligence Evaluator—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence personnel who have
completed the IE specialized training. IEs conduct intelligence qualification (mission or
specialized) evaluations (initial or periodic) and support unit Intelligence Stan/Eval functions.
Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the IE
qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an
intelligence member as an IE (e.g., INIT IE and RQ IE) as directed in this volume. The
designator for the intelligence evaluator evaluation is “IE” as used with the AF Form 4349 and
AF Form 4350.
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                       29


Intelligence Initial Qualification Course—The F-15E IIQC is designed to meet the IQT
requirements for personnel assigned to support the F-15E weapon system. Personnel
successfully completing the F-15E IIQC and subsequent evaluations as described in AFI 14-202,
Volume 1 are to be considered BQ.
Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager—The IPTPM is appointed by the SIO to
oversee the execution of the Intelligence Personnel Training Program.
Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment—An analytical methodology
employed to reduce uncertainties concerning the enemy, environment, and terrain for all types of
operations. Intelligence preparation of the operational environment builds and extensive data
base for each potential area in which a unit may be required to operate. The database is then
analyzed in detail to determine the impact of the enemy, environment, and terrain on operations
and presents it in graphic form. Intelligence preparation of the operational environment is a
continuing process.
Intelligence Reports—Reports generated by intelligence personnel to provide information to
higher headquarters (e.g., MISREPs and Intelligence Reports).
Internal Training Program—The internal intelligence training program is a unit-developed and
maintained program. It is intended to facilitate all personnel in maintaining their qualifications
and currencies. This volume provides a basic starting point for F-15E intelligence units and may
be supplemented by the SIO based on the unit’s requirements.
Manual OB—Order of battle maintained using maps and charts without automated intelligence
system support.
Mission Briefing—A briefing to provide unit operators with the latest intelligence affecting the
mission. Accurate and timely intelligence information should be provided on the general
situation since the last briefing, mission information, general situation in the CAP/objective area,
en route and mission area threats (e.g., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, DEW threats,), and other
factors essential to mission success.
Mission Package Construction—The mission package provides the operator with the
intelligence materials necessary to accomplish the mission. The mission package includes route
maps, threat information and other local mission package requirements.
Mission Planning—The planning accomplished by intelligence personnel to support the
operational mission. Mission planning provides operators with the intelligence materials
necessary to accomplish the mission and may include route maps, imagery, and other local
mission folder requirements. Aircrew should receive the latest intelligence and most accurate
information available on routes, CAP area, targets of strikers being supported, threats, evasion
and recovery and other factors essential to planning the mission.
Mission Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the qualification
(CMR or BMC) of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an
intelligence member (e.g., INIT MSN and RQ MSN). The mission qualification evaluation is
administered to ensure the individual’s ability to support full mission planning and employment
in accomplishing the unit’s operational mission. The designator for the mission qualification
evaluation is “MSN” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
 30                                                             AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


Mission Qualification Training—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel to perform
their specific unit mission in an assigned position. This training is a prerequisite for CMR or
BMC status.
Mission Tracking—Maintaining situational awareness of ongoing missions by monitoring
mission execution and communicating with other mission related agencies and coordination
centers.
Personnel Recovery—The aggregation of military, civil, and political efforts to obtain the
release or recovery of personnel from uncertain or hostile environments and denied areas
whether they are captured, missing, or isolated.
Qualification Evaluation—The qualification evaluation is administered to ensure BQ of the
examinee in support of the F-15E and duty position of the intelligence professional. The
designator for the qualification evaluation is “QUAL” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF
Form 4350.
Ready Intelligence Program—Task requirements that apply to CMR and BMC intelligence
personnel. The RIP outlines minimum CT requirements and is designed to focus training on
capabilities needed to accomplish the F-15E unit’s core tasked missions. The RIP establishes the
minimum number of task requirements per training cycle for BMC and CMR qualified
personnel. All intelligence personnel filling duty positions that are designated CMR or BMC
will accomplish these requirements.
Research, Analysis, Dissemination—The ability to brief and report intelligence concerning
major potential threat adversaries, to include military, political and geographic by researching,
analyzing and disseminating tailored intelligence to aircrew, commanders, and base support
agencies.
Senior Intelligence Officer—The SIO is the highest-ranking Air Force officer holding the 14N3
or 14N4 AFSC or Series 0132 Civilian serving in an Air Force intelligence position. The SIO's
authority extends to all directly subordinate units. Installations with intelligence activities in
different chains of command will have separate SIOs. In this capacity, the SIO provides senior
guidance on all policy development, interpretations, and applications
Situation Briefing—The briefing which provides the latest intelligence to assist commanders,
staff and aircrew in their decision making. It incorporates significant military and or political
events, enemy force disposition (e.g., ground, air and air defense, naval), indications of
impending enemy attack, enemy tactics and or employment strategies, potential course of enemy
action, local area situation (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats).
Specialized Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies a trainee in a specialized
area. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an intelligence member for a
particular skill or duty position. Specific types of specialized qualification evaluations are
identified in this volume.
Specialized Training—Training in any skill necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions
that is not required for every F-15E intelligence specialist. Specialized training is accomplished
after MQT and after the member has attained CMR or BMC status, and is in addition to CMR or
BMC requirements.
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                    31


Step Briefing—A briefing given to aircrew immediately prior to departure for tasked mission.
The step briefing provides the aircrew with last minute intelligence affecting their mission and
highlights changes in the intelligence situation since the mission briefing.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
Weaponeering—The process of determining the quantity of a specific type of lethal or nonlethal
weapons required to achieve a specific level of damage to a given target, considering target
vulnerability, weapons effect, munitions delivery accuracy, damage criteria, probability of kill,
and weapon reliability.
 32                                                       AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


                                      Attachment 2
                          TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2

FROM: [UNIT]

SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls

1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a major
impact on training.
EVENT PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL AFFECTED

          SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

          CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

          LIMFACS
2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).



SIGNATURE BLOCK


CC: NAF/A2
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                   33


                                         Attachment 3
     F-15E MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS

A3.1. F-15E MQT Performance Task Grade Sheet Elements. The MQT performance task
grade sheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381.
Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress
through MQT. The MQT grade sheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training record.
Intelligence Evaluators will use the MQT grade sheets to assist in the completion of the AF Form
4350, Certification of Intelligence Qualification, IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-
15E, Volume 2. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of
evaluations.

Table A3.1. F-15E Threat Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
2. General knowledge
2.1. Primary threat countries
2.2. Capabilities and limitations
2.3. Employment characteristics
2.4. Countertactics
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. F-15E Situation Displays Gradesheet Elements.
1. Understanding of current situation and creating situation displays
2.1. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
2.2. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
2.3. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Geographic coordinates
3.2. MGRS and UTM
3.3. Coordinate conversion
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained situation displays
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines
 34                                                               AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


Table A3.3. F-15E Manual OB Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Understanding of OB production sources
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Geographic coordinates
3.2. MGRS and UTM
3.3. Coordinate conversion
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained OB displays
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. F-15E Automated OB Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Ability to use automated intelligence systems for OB
1.1. Construct OB display
1.2. Update and Maintain OB display
1.3. Perform coordinate conversion
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Verify accuracy of computer-generated symbology
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. F-15E Initial Situation Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
2.4. Potential enemy COAs
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
or AFOSI
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                          35


5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.6. F-15E Situation Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Changes to IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
or AFOSI
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. F-15E Changeover Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. Presented situation update briefing
3. Addressed relevant areas
3.1. Issues requiring immediate attention
3.2. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
3.3. Reviewed briefing, work, and flying schedules
3.4. Reviewed situation displays
3.5. Reviewed CAT directives
3.6. Review incoming/outgoing messages
3.7. Reviewed MISREP status
4. Delivery
4.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
4.2. Effective use of visual aids
4.3. Appropriate level of detail
4.4. Applicability to audience
5. Adherence to unit standards
6. Followed security guidelines
 36                                                            AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


Table A3.8. F-15E Deployment Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Unit tasking (e.g., WARNORD, EXORD, AEF tasking)
2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
and activity
2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion
threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
2.7. Personnel recovery
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. F-15E ATO/ACO/SPINS/Other Tasking Documents Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Access correct ATO/ACO/SPINS or other tasking document
2. Identify and extract unit specific information using manual and automated processes
2.1. Mission tasking information
2.2. Applicable SPINS information
2.3. Correct ACO information
3. Adherence to unit standards
4. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. F-15E Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Organization/preparation
1.1. Analysis of ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout
1.2. Review of tactical scenario understanding
1.3. Defined intelligence gaps and submit RFIs
2. Presented mission planning situation briefing
3. Identified and plotted unit tasking
3.1. Route/track recommendations
3.2. Considered threats/terrain/weather
3.2.1. Ingress
3.2.2. Target/mission area
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                                  37


3.2.3. Egress
4. Identified target/objective significance
5. Cross checked fixed targets with theater no strike target list
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.11. F-15E Weaponeering Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Validating weaponeering solutions for tasked targets
1.1. Access target databases
1.2. Developed targeting specific RFIs
1.3. Research of targeting reference documents
1.3.1. Effective use of JMEM
1.3.2. Analysis of imagery and other target materials
2. Use of automated applications
3. Time management
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. F-15E Mission Package Construction Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Conducted appropriate research and analysis
2. Use of automated applications
3. Identify/obtain applicable mission materials
4.1. Imagery
4.2. GI&S
4.3. DPPDB
5. Coordinated mission materials with mission planners
6. Time management
7. Adherence to unit standards
8. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.13. F-15E Mission Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
2.2. Enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
activity
2.3. Target information and tactical situation in the target area
2.4. En route and target area threats (e.g., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW, and DEW
threats)
2.5. FPI (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
 38                                                                AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


2.6. PR information
2.7. EEIs
2.8. INFLTREP requirements
2.9. Debrief location
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.14. F-15E Step Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Changes in threat that affects the mission
2.2. New threats and/or threat tactics
2.3. PR data changes
2.4. Latest TUC
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. F-15E Mission Tracking Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Performed mission tracking
1.1. Monitored and used communication systems
1.2. Maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions
1.3. Reacted as necessary to support the mission
1.4. Logged all communications
1.5. Ensured all missions were debriefed and reported upon
1.6. Made provisions for diverted missions
2. Adherence to unit standards
3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.16. F-15E Debriefing Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Debriefing preparation
1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                          39


1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General performance
2.1. Extracted relevant mission intelligence from aircrew
2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
3. Plane-side debriefing additional items
3.1. Effective use of communications equipment to conduct debrief
3.2. Control of classified debriefing materials
3.3. Communications methods used to pass debriefed information
4. Flight-line debriefing additional items
4.1. Control of classified debriefing materials
4.2. Communications methods used to pass debriefed information
5. In-flight debriefing additional items
5.1. Use of radio communications
5.2. Brevity and security awareness
6. Time management
7. Adherence to unit standards
8. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.17. F-15E Intelligence Reporting Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Report preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. Generate reports
2.1. Proficient using computer systems to draft and transmit intelligence reports
2.2. Proficient in drafting and transmitting USMTF intelligence reports
3. Time management
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines
 40                                                             AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012


                                          Attachment 4
               F-15E SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS

A4.1. F-15E Specialized Training Grade Sheet Elements. The ST grade sheet tables in this
attachment are elements to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence
qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST.
The ST grade sheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training record. Intelligence Evaluators
will use the ST grade sheets to assist in the completion of the AF Form 4350 IAW AFI 14-202,
Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2F-15E, Volume 2 for a more
detailed explanation of evaluations.

Table A4.1. F-15E External Intelligence Training Trainer Grade Sheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Follow security guidelines

Table A4.2. F-15E Intelligence Evaluator Grade Sheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Follow security guidelines
AFI14-2F-15EV1 5 JULY 2012                                                               41


                                      Attachment 5
                     F-15E MQT, ST, AND RIP REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Table A5 1 consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be used
by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. F-15E MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements.
Requirement                                       MQT             ST      RIP
                                                  Ops     Tgts            Ops     Tgts
RAD and IPOE                                      X       X       ----    ----    ----
F-15E Weapons Systems Academics                   X       X       ----    ----    ----
Threat Knowledge                                  X       ----    ----    ----    ----
Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems              X       X       ----    ----    ----
Visual Recognition                                X       X       ----    ----    ----
Personnel Recovery                                X       X       ----    ----    ----
Force Protection Intelligence                     X       ----    ----    ----    ----
Alternate Mission Fundamentals                    X       X       ----    ----    ----
Threat Briefings                                  X       ----    ----    ----    ----
Situation Displays                                X       X       ----    X       X
Manual OB                                         X       X       ----    X       X
Automated OB                                      X       X       ----    X       X
Initial Situation Briefing                        X       ----    ----    X       ----
Situation Briefing                                X       ----    ----    X       ----
Changeover Briefing                               X       X       ----    X       X
Deployment Briefing                               X       ----    ----    X       ----
ATO/ACO/SPINS/Other Tasking Documents             X       X       ----    X       X
Intelligence Support to Mission Planning          X       ----    ----    X       ----
Weaponeering                                      ----    X       ----    ----    X
Mission Package Construction                      X       X       ----    X       X
Mission Briefing                                  X       ----    ----    X       ----
Step Briefing                                     X       ----    ----    X       ----
Mission Tracking                                  X       ----    ----    X       ----
Debriefing                                        X       ----    ----    X       ----
Intelligence Reports                              X       ----    ----    X       ----
EIT 1 - Concepts and Methods                      ----    ----    X       ----    ----
EIT 2 - Threats and Countermeasures               ----    ----    X       ----    ----
EIT 3 - C&R Training                              ----    ----    X       ----    ----
EIT 4 - VR Training                               ----    ----    X       ----    ----
EIT 5 - PR Training                               ----    ----    X       ----    ----
EIT 6 - FPI Training                              ----    ----    X       ----    ----
IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                         ----    ----    X       ----    ----
IE 2 - IE EIT Observation                         ----    ----    X       ----    ----
IE 3 - IE Proficiency                             ----    ----    X       ----    ----
