BY ORDER OF THE                                                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2F-15C,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                         VOLUME 1

                                                                                                         20 JULY 2012
                                                                               Incorporating Change 1, 7 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                                                                 Intelligence

                                                                          F-15C UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                                               Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                                                (Brig Gen Mark W. Westergren)
Supersedes:   AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 1,                                                                                 Pages: 40
              22 September 2008


This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This version updated and reorganized paragraphs concerning responsibilities of all MAJCOMs,
Senior Intelligence Officers, training managers, etc. Data that was duplicative to AFI 14-202,
Volume 1 was removed. The paragraph on the Intelligence F-15C Familiarization Program was
added. The information on Internal Intelligence Training Program was updated and moved to
Chapter 1. Information on references, waivers, supplements and changes was added.

Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                  3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................    3
       1.3.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       3
       1.4.   Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................               6
       1.5.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................           6
       1.6.   Intelligence F-15C Familiarization Program. ........................................................                          6
 2                                                                                         AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


      1.7.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................         6

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                   7
      2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   7
      2.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................           7

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                   8
      3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   8
      3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                              9

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                            16
      4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   16
      4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           16
      4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                17
Table 4.1.   F-15C Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements. .........................                                         17
      4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     18
      4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       18

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                             19
      5.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................           19
      5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        19
Table 5.1.   External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................                                   20
      5.3.   Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) Specialist. ...........................................................                         20
      5.4.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................                          21

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             23

Attachment 2—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                                                                                                     31

Attachment 3—F-15C MQT GRADESHEETS                                                                                                         32

Attachment 4—F-15C SPECIALIZED TRAINING (ST) GRADESHEETS                                                                                   39

Attachment 5—F-15C MQT, ST, AND RIP REQUIREMENTS                                                                                           40
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                     3



                                           Chapter 1

                                   GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
   1.1.1. Scope. This volume provides basic policy and guidance for training F-15C unit
   intelligence personnel. Together with cited references, it establishes training procedures
   necessary to provide skilled and qualified intelligence support to F-15C unit operations. The
   requirements described in this AFI may be expanded by supplemental unit-level written
   training materials; these unit materials will not be less restrictive than the procedures
   described here.
   1.1.2. Office of Primary Responsibility. The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for
   Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) has delegated OPR for this
   instruction to Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Intelligence (ACC/A2).
   1.1.3. References. The primary references for F-15C unit intelligence training are AFI 14-
   2F-15C, Volume 2, F-15C Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 3,
   F-15C Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP)
   3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.F-15C,
   Tactical Employment - F15C; AFTTP 3-3.F-15C, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals – F-15C;
   and this instruction. Ensure training reflects current edition of these publications. As
   appropriate, these references may be supplemented with other classified and unclassified
   authoritative publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center products,
   Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc. as long as the source is
   appropriately referenced in the training.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2 is the waiver authority for specific intelligence procedural
requirements outlined in this instruction. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in
waiver correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy
and guidance.
1.3. Responsibilities.
   1.3.1. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202, Volume 1,
   ACC/A2 will:
       1.3.1.1. Coordinate with user MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
       requirements for F-15C intelligence personnel training.
       1.3.1.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
       training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
       (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST).
           1.3.1.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop/maintain and provide a
           training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for F-15C intelligence IQT through
           formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
           1.3.1.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
           baseline Threat Capabilities Briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral
4                                                              AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


           forces electronic warfare (EW), aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAM), surface-to-air
           missiles (SAM), air defense artillery/anti-aircraft artillery (ADA/AAA), ground
           forces and associated equipment, naval and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations
           and employment techniques.
           1.3.1.2.3. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
           softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer-generated graphics, and digital
           audiovisual visual recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide adversary,
           neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of battle as well
           as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and camouflage,
           concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
       1.3.1.3. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIO) and user
       MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
       Provide feedback on lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability
       of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes
       in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level
       'best practices' exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
       1.3.1.4. Assist ACC subordinate units in developing training programs.
       1.3.1.5. Assist user MAJCOMs with F-15C units in providing support to unit training
       programs.
    1.3.2. All user MAJCOMs with F-15C units will:
       1.3.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
       requirements for intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials.
       1.3.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs based
       on this AFI and applicable MAJCOM supplements.
       1.3.2.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
    1.3.3. The Unit SIO will:
       1.3.3.1. Develop and execute programs to meet minimum training requirements for
       intelligence personnel. Provide guidance to flying squadron intelligence sections
       regarding execution of training. (T-2)
       1.3.3.2. Appoint in writing an Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
       (IPTPM) to oversee accomplishment and documentation of unit orientation training,
       MQT, CT, ST and other required intelligence training. Where assigned, the USAF
       Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course graduate will provide input into the training
       programs. (T-2)
       1.3.3.3. Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train. All
       intelligence personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.
       Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with
       a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions. (T-3)
       1.3.3.4. Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                   5


     1.3.3.5. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all intelligence personnel.
     Assigned Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) will be trained and equipped
     according to established standards for their respective Active Duty counterpart. (T-3)
     1.3.3.6. Ensure personnel accomplish ancillary training IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force
     Training Program. Consult with the local unit training manager and Unit Deployment
     Manager for ancillary training requirements specific to the unit and base. (T-2)
     1.3.3.7. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and
     current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or
     perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current. (T-2)
     1.3.3.8. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
     MAJCOM/A2 and courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable. See
     Attachment 2 for an example report. (T-2)
     1.3.3.9. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
     organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
     lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training
     tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
     opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level 'best practices' exchanges for
     intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
  1.3.4. Unit IPTPM will:
     1.3.4.1. Develop intelligence personnel training programs with written guidance
     detailing how programs will be conducted. Design training programs to achieve the
     highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and resource availability.
     Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, unit mission and
     capabilities. (T-2)
     1.3.4.2. Use lead MAJCOM-developed training materials to assist in the development
     and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training
     materials to meet unit needs. (T-3)
     1.3.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and
     notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include
     delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
     1.3.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
     SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports as required by local procedures for
     tracking overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
     1.3.4.5. Provide individuals a digital copy of their qualification training and evaluation
     records when they change station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing
     current qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
  1.3.5. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
     1.3.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
     status as determined by the SIO. (T-2)
     1.3.5.2. Assist the IPTPM in developing and executing unit intelligence qualification
     training and other required training programs. (T-3)
 6                                                               AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


        1.3.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel
        and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
        achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this instruction have been met.
        (T-3)
     1.3.6. Intelligence personnel will:
        1.3.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements IAW this instruction and
        applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
        1.3.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or
        the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
        1.3.6.3. When changing station or assignment, hand-carry or electronically send
        qualification training and evaluation records to assist the gaining unit in assessing the
        member’s qualifications and training needs. (T-2)
1.4. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is intended to facilitate
achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. While the SIO is
ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training, professional
development (including intelligence-specific and mission-specific training) is the responsibility
of the trainee and supervisor. Internal training may be accomplished through skills practice and
demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics, or as otherwise devised by
the IPTPM. The internal intelligence training plan will include all identified training
requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
1.5. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks
and achieve CMR status. CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST
qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be
conducted in conjunction with skill level upgrade training. For a detailed explanation of IQT,
MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202, Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this AFI.
1.6. Intelligence F-15C Familiarization Program. The SIO, in conjunction with the
Operations Group Commander, will develop an Intelligence F-15C Familiarization Program.
The Familiarization Program will be designed to provide intelligence personnel training on all
phases of mission planning and F-15C airframe capabilities and limitations. When feasible,
flight simulators will be used to enhance the intelligence F-15C familiarization program.
     1.6.1. The Intelligence F-15C Familiarization Program is a training program, not an
     orientation or incentive program. Intelligence personnel who participate in the program
     should complete specific desired learning objectives (DLO) during each event.
     1.6.2. The SIO will develop Intelligence F-15C Familiarization Program written guidance
     outlining procedures to manage the program as well as DLOs to be achieved during program
     events.
1.7. Documentation. All intelligence training must be documented. Units will document
qualification training on the AF Form 4381 and in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes
regarding online documentation. (T-2)
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                  7


                                             Chapter 2

                           INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. This chapter outlines IQT for F-15C unit intelligence personnel. IQT for
intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training (i.e., the Air Force Specialty Code
awarding courses) and concludes with successful completion of the Intelligence Initial
Qualification Course (IIQC) conducted at the F-15C Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU).
   2.1.1. IIQC. The F-15C IIQC is designed to meet the IQT requirements for personnel
   assigned to support the F-15C weapon system. Personnel successfully completing the F-15C
   IIQC and its subsequent evaluation as described in AFI 14-202, Volume 1 are to be
   considered Basic Qualified (BQ).
   2.1.2. In-Unit IQT Training. If an individual is unable to attend the IFTU, the unit may
   conduct the training with an appropriate waiver (See paragraph 1.2). If authorized, in-unit
   IQT will be conducted using the F-15C IIQC syllabus and training courseware provided by
   ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2) Waiver requests for in-unit IQT will include:
       2.1.2.1. Justification for the in-unit training in lieu of formal course training.
       2.1.2.2. Summary of individual’s intelligence career field experience.
       2.1.2.3. Date training will begin and expected completion date.
       2.1.2.4. Requested exceptions, to formal course syllabus, with rationale.
2.2. IQT Requirements.
   2.2.1. IQT should be completed within the time specified by the F-15C IIQC syllabus.
   Failure to complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to
   MAJCOM/A2 with person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated
   completion date. (T-2)
   2.2.2. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the F-15C IIQC training standard. In-
   unit IQT, when authorized will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on
   the individual’s proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-2)
   2.2.3. Personnel completing in-unit IQT will be evaluated according to the same criteria as
   individuals completing the F-15C IIQC at the IFTU. The unit IPTPM will oversee and
   document in-unit IQT. The F-15C IFTU will provide the qualification (QUAL) criteria to
   the requesting unit intelligence standardization/evaluation function.      Evaluation and
   certification will be annotated in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding
   online documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                             AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


                                            Chapter 3

                          MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting F-15C missions/operations. Guidance in this chapter is
provided to assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program. MQT execution will
take into account the assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience and training,
currency, documented performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. MQT
can be accomplished through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or
other training opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Applicable portions of MQT
will be used to create a requalification program for personnel who are non-CMR or BMC status.
(T-2)
     3.1.1. Prior to completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR, member must have already
     completed IQT and attained BQ status. (T-3)
     3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
     ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the
     completion of IQT, if IQT was conducted in-unit. (T-2)
        3.1.2.1. For Active Duty units, MQT will be completed within 120 days.               Notify
        MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
        3.1.2.2. For AFRC units and IMAs, MQT will be completed within 120 days with
        seasoning days. If no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 365
        calendar days, or the execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and
        Annual Training, whichever is earlier. Notify AFRC/A2F, NAF/A2 and gaining
        MAJCOM if training exceeds these timelines. For IMAs, notify MAJCOM Intelligence
        IMA Program Manager, ACC/A2 and AFRC/A2 if training exceeds 365 calendar days.
        (T-2)
        3.1.2.3. For ANG units, MQT will be completed within 120 days with seasoning days. If
        no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 180 calendar days, or the
        execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and Annual Training,
        whichever is earlier. Notify the National Guard Bureau/A2 and gaining MAJCOM/A2 if
        training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
     3.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
     timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis.
     3.1.4. The AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, will be used to document the trainee’s
     progression through each individual training item. Specific F-15C MQT intelligence
     gradesheet elements are located in Attachment 3. (T-2)
     3.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT, a successful Initial
     Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2; AFI 14-2F-15C
     Volume 2; and SIO endorsement. Refer to AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2, for a more detailed
     explanation of evaluations.
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                    9


3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-
developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
MQT program for F-15C intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position (Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs). (T-2)
   3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to unit
   missions for all areas listed below except research, analysis, and dissemination, and visual
   recognition (VR), by successfully completing a closed book test from the unit master
   question file (MQF) (85 percent minimum to pass). To demonstrate the VR knowledge
   requirements, trainees must successfully complete a timed VR test via a visual presentation
   system (85 percent minimum to pass). (T-2)
       3.2.1.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination (RAD) and Intelligence Preparation of
       the Operational Environment (IPOE).
          3.2.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
          intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and operations plan (OPLAN)/concept
          of operation plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of
          unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Demonstrate knowledge of the
          strengths and weaknesses of specific types of intelligence in the context of the F-15C
          weapons system and the unit mission. Demonstrate knowledge of Intelligence
          Community analysis centers and intelligence producers useful for intelligence
          applications at the unit level. Demonstrate ability to use combat intelligence
          information systems and software to request intelligence from outside sources when
          unit intelligence holdings are insufficient. Demonstrate ability to use message traffic
          in US Message Text Format (USMTF) or OPLAN/CONPLAN-specified formats, to
          request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence holdings are
          insufficient and combat intelligence information systems are unavailable.
          3.2.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
          intelligence applies to the unit mission, (i.e., what is useful to unit pilots, mission
          planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not useful). Specific
          tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of intelligence needed by F-15C pilots and mission
          planners for combat operations. Demonstrate knowledge of general intelligence
          requirements of the wing commander, operations group commander and other
          functional areas supported by wing intelligence. Be able to describe the intelligence
          requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s OPLAN/CONPLAN
          tasking.
          3.2.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of unit-
          level resources, points of dissemination and methods of dissemination to pilots,
          mission planners, operations group and wing leadership and other end-users of
          intelligence as determined by the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
          Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of unit computers, web-based audiovisual
          and manual information displays and dissemination. Demonstrate knowledge of
          professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure video
10                                                          AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


        teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination systems
        used by the unit. Demonstrate knowledge of pilot, mission planner and squadron and
        wing leadership information resources and ways to securely integrate updated
        intelligence into the information flow. Demonstrate knowledge of record message
        traffic reporting as required for unit operations by OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, as
        applicable. Demonstrate knowledge of methods to identify currency and expiration
        of intelligence provided to end users. Demonstrate knowledge of the fundamentals of
        information security classification marking and controls and knowledge of sources of
        authoritative guidance. Demonstrate knowledge of rules, procedures and restrictions
        for secure transfer of intelligence from various levels of classified intelligence and
        information networks.
        3.2.1.1.4. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment. Objective:
        Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and concepts and understand the analytical
        methodology employed in IPOE. Specific tasks: Be able to describe the IPOE
        process (define the operational environment) as it pertains to the unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Describe the impact of the operational environment,
        evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action. Demonstrate
        knowledge of IPOE products and producers based on unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the ability to identify/extract relevant intelligence
        for F-15C operations.
     3.2.1.2. F-15C Weapons Systems Academics. Objective: Demonstrate an understanding
     of the unit’s specific F-15C weapons systems and operations. Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate knowledge of F-15C employment in offensive counter air and defensive
     counter air missions. Show knowledge of F-15C capabilities and limitations; tactical
     electronic warfare suite (TEWS), defensive/passive sensors; air intercept radar; air-to-air
     weapons and gun. Demonstrate knowledge of how Air Force and joint doctrine drive the
     unit’s missions and employment.
     3.2.1.3. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable area of
     responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge
     of EW, aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA/AAA, directed energy weapons (DEW), ground
     forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric threat capabilities,
     limitations and employment techniques of threat forces that may be encountered in the
     operational environment based on unit mission, F-15C capabilities and limitations, and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.4. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate knowledge of EW, aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA/AAA, DEW, ground
     forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric capabilities, limitations
     and employment techniques of friendly and neutral forces that may be encountered in the
     operational environment based on unit mission, F-15C capabilities and limitations, and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.5. Visual Recognition (VR). Objective: When shown a video or still image of
     sufficient quality, demonstrate ability to identify enemy/adversary, friendly or neutral
     weapon systems that may be encountered in the operational environment based on unit
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                   11


     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to visually
     identify enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral aircraft (both rotary and fixed-wing),
     ground equipment, and naval vessels by appropriate, name or numerical designator and
     determine whether the object is a threat or non-threat. Training will include: all
     aspects/angles, theater-specific paint schemes, national markings, various configurations,
     employment characteristics, muzzle flashes, smoke plumes, and burst patterns as
     applicable.
     3.2.1.6. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role
     intelligence personnel play in preparing pilots for the possibility of survival, evasion,
     resistance, escape (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     knowledge of theater specific Isolated Personnel Report (ISOPREP) and evasion plan of
     action (EPA) requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     Demonstrate knowledge of environmental, operations and combat search and rescue
     (CSAR) information contained in the special instructions (SPINS) that will drive
     intelligence requirements during PR operations.
     3.2.1.7. Force Protection (FP) Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate understanding
     of principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks:
     Summarize irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and
     other hot spot areas. Give examples of hostile forces tactics and weapons employment.
     Identify intelligence FP resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and force protection
     conditions. Understand unit FP considerations. State facts about base-specific and
     regional threats.
  3.2.2. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
  IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Threat Briefings (Technical Intelligence Briefings and Threat of the Day
     Briefings). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in researching specific threat systems
     and tailoring the information to the F-15C airframe and countertactics. Specific Tasks:
     Successfully research, compile and develop an accurate, concise briefing with focus on
     the threat relevant to the F-15C mission and capabilities. Present a threat briefing for the
     selected weapons system.
     3.2.2.2. Situation displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing, posting,
     updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without automated
     intelligence system support IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Select the proper medium to
     use for constructing a situation display. Identify the proper components to be included on
     a situation display IAW AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 3. Research, analyze and plot situation
     display elements using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting
     Symbology and US Army Field Manual /US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-
     02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics).
         3.2.2.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
         updating and maintaining OB on situation displays without automated intelligence
         system support IAW OB standards established by the SIO and based on unit mission
         and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Research, analyze and plot OB
         using correct symbology. Extract military grid reference system (MGRS) and
12                                                           AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


        geographic coordinates. Identify critical elements of the table of organization and
        equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Demonstrate understanding of OB
        production sources for the AOR.
        3.2.2.2.2. Automated OB.       Objective:   Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing
        intelligence support systems to download, update, purge and control quality of
        automated OB used on situation displays. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to
        verify accuracy of computer generated symbology. Identify critical elements of the
        table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations.
        Demonstrate understanding of OB production sources for the AOR. Exploit
        intelligence software applications to post and maintain OB and convert MGRS
        coordinates and geographic coordinates.
     3.2.2.3. Initial Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing to the commander and
     staff. Specific tasks: Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Identify and present
     significant events leading to the crisis; adversary, neutral, friendly and/or US political
     decisions or diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the
     mission of the deploying unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber
     and irregular force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary course of action (COA); relevant FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism,
     sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by security forces (SF) or Air Force Office
     of Special Investigations (AFOSI); relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of
     likely answers to the gaps. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver initial situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.4. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis.
     Identify and present changes in the operational environment since the last update.
     Present any enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or
     diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the
     deployed unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular
     force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA for
     the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours (e.g., next shift, next day and through the Air Tasking
     Order (ATO) cycle); relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to
     the gaps; and relevant FPI for local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats);
     unless briefed by SF or AFOSI. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver the situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.5. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in organizing,
     prioritizing and presenting key information at shift changeover. Specific tasks: Provide
     incoming personnel with a summary of events to prepare them for their shift. Include
     issues needing immediate attention, situation update, a review of threat levels/conditions,
     briefing schedules, work and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team directives,
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                       13


     mission report (MISREP) status, and other pertinent items. Demonstrate proficiency in
     using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     conducting a changeover briefing IAW standards established by the SIO and based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.6. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing.                  Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate understanding of unit tasking (e.g., warning order (WARNORD), execution
     order (EXORD)) and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) tasking, as
     applicable. Research, and focus intelligence to the unit’s tasked mission, roles and
     combat profiles. Include: synopsis of political-military situation generating the
     deployment; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force
     disposition and activity along deployment route; relevant FPI for the local area (e.g.,
     terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; relevant
     intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps; most dangerous and
     most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment; possible en route
     hazards to flight, bailout or alternate landing sites (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas);
     reporting instructions and essential elements of information (EEI); and additional items
     as dictated by the local situation. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-
     based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied
     by the unit. Deliver deployment briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the deploying
     commander.
     3.2.2.7. ATO/Airspace Control Order/SPINS (ATO/ACO/SPINS) and Other Tasking
     Documents. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in obtaining, identifying, and breaking
     out the applicable elements of the ATO/ACO/SPINS, as well as a WARNORD, Alert
     Order, EXORD, Operations Order and Deployment Order IAW unit procedures. Specific
     tasks: Locate and obtain correct ATO/ACO/SPINS. Identify and extract unit tasking,
     airspace control, PR information and intelligence related information from tasking
     orders/messages. Demonstrate breakout of ATO/ACO/SPINS with both manual and
     automated techniques and tools IAW prescribed local timelines and format requirements.
     As applicable, identify other types of tasking requests the unit may face in particular
     theaters.
     3.2.2.8. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
     in support to mission planning by accomplishing appropriate intelligence tasks. Specific
     tasks: Review the tactical problem/scenario. Analyze the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout,
     unit IPOE, striker targets, target significance, threat considerations (e.g., integrated air
     defense system, air, SAMs, ADA/AAA), tactics, terrain, and weather, route/avenue(s) of
     approach/combat air patrol (CAP) recommendation(s), as appropriate. Identify and plot
     unit tasking. Derive specified and implied intelligence requirements from tasking
     documents; research applicable intelligence; define gaps; submit collection requirements
     and/or requests for information (RFI) as appropriate. Demonstrate proficiency in
     preparing and presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing for
     mission planners. Deliver briefing IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content
     requirements.
14                                                           AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


     3.2.2.9. Mission Package Construction. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in the
     intelligence role in mission package construction. Specific tasks: Identify and obtain
     geospatial information and services (GI&S) products to build mission materials and
     coordinate mission materials with mission planners. Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing
     mission planning software to construct mission packages and conduct appropriate
     research and analysis. Build intelligence-specific contents of the mission package IAW
     prescribed local timelines, format and content requirements.
     3.2.2.10. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a mission briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis (as
     required to fill intelligence gaps). Identify and present changes in the operational/tactical
     environment since the last update. Present any enemy/adversary air, ground, naval,
     space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity; relevant FPI for the local area
     (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; target
     information and tactical situation in the target area. Present en route and target area
     threats (e.g., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW, and DEW threats), PR information,
     EEIs, in-flight report (INFLTREP) requirements, debrief location, and other factors
     essential to mission success. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver mission briefing IAW standards established by the SIO and commander’s
     requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.11. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     an intelligence step briefing. Specific tasks: Construct and deliver a briefing that
     provides pilots with critical last-minute changes in the threat that affect their missions.
     Brief any new threats (air, air defense, ground, etc.), new tactics, PR data changes, latest
     threat update code (TUC), and any other changes impacting the mission. Demonstrate
     proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver step briefing IAW
     standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.12. Mission Tracking. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in local procedures for
     monitoring mission execution and in communicating with other agencies and
     coordination centers. Specific tasks: Effectively monitor and use communication
     systems including collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of ongoing
     missions. React as necessary to support the mission. Log all communications in locally
     developed mission tracking log. Ensure all missions are debriefed and reported upon.
     Make provisions for diverted missions.
     3.2.2.13. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing. Specific tasks: Prepare appropriate sections of the
     debrief form/checklist. Extract relevant mission intelligence from pilots. Identify time-
     sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently per local/theater
     guidance.     Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements.
     Demonstrate ability to identify key points and develop intelligence by asking amplifying
     questions relevant to the mission. Consult appropriate post flight products. Demonstrate
     ability to control the flow and pace of the debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and
     accurate information collection without wasting time. Demonstrate awareness and
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                   15


     control of environmental factors that may distract pilots or impede the debriefing process.
     Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
     information display and debriefing tools as applied by the unit. The following additional
     tasks apply, dependent upon the debriefing method(s) used by the unit.
        3.2.2.13.1. For plane-side debriefing (i.e., “plugged in” to the jet), also demonstrate
        appropriate use of communications equipment, control of classified debriefing
        materials and appropriate application of communications methods used to pass
        debriefed information to unit intelligence work centers.
        3.2.2.13.2. For flight-line debriefing (i.e., in a vehicle or other venue on the flight
        line), also demonstrate control of classified debriefing materials and appropriate
        application of communications methods used to pass debriefed information to unit
        intelligence work centers.
        3.2.2.13.3. For in-flight debriefing (i.e., via secure or non-secure radio with the pilot
        en route to base), demonstrate appropriate use of radio communications, brevity and
        security awareness IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit mission,
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the supported commander.
     3.2.2.14. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting accurate MISREPs and other applicable intelligence reports (Intelligence
     Summary (INTSUM), Intelligence Report (INTREP)), etc., as required by local
     directives. Specific tasks: Analyze and extract information from INFLTREPs and other
     pilot-submitted formats. Generate intelligence reports using computer and/or manual
     information systems applied by the unit. Validate accuracy and completeness IAW
     standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and applicable reporting
     directives. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual intelligence dissemination tools and techniques as applied by the unit.
     Demonstrate proficiency in drafting, validating and transmitting appropriate USMTF
     intelligence messages when applicable reporting directives do not exist.
 16                                                            AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


                                           Chapter 4

                               CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence
knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure familiarization with F-
15C capabilities, threat systems, and unit intelligence functions. The second aspect of CT is the
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which consists of specific mission-related training required to
accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This guidance is
intended to provide a baseline and may be supplemented by the SIO based on unit requirements.
IPTPMs will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and other resources as needed to
provide the most effective and efficient training. Continuation training must reinforce MQT
tasks and facilitate RIP requirements. Basic knowledge examinations will be compiled from the
unit MQF. Completion of CT tasks will be annotated in coordination with AF/A2 approved
processes regarding online documentation. At a minimum, the following topics will be covered
during CT: (T-2)
   4.2.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.2. F-15C Weapons systems and Operations – to include capabilities and limitations,
   employment and defensive tactics/maneuvers, mission profiles, armament and on-board
   systems.
   4.2.3. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA/AAA, naval and ground threat system capabilities and limitations
   with respect to F-15C operations.
   4.2.4. Visual Recognition – to include identification features and employment characteristics
   of enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral weapon systems.
   4.2.5. Automated Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence
   systems, software applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit
   mission.
   4.2.6. PR – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater ISOPREP/EPA
   requirements and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
   4.2.7. FPI – to include intelligence support to FP principles; irregular/guerrilla/terrorist
   forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist threat levels and unit force
   protection considerations.
   4.2.8. Situation Displays – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating
   and maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.2.9. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operation required briefings.
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                     17


   4.2.10. Support to Mission Planning – to include tasking order/SPINS breakout, mission
   planning software applications and route/CAP analysis, GI&S familiarization to determine
   product requirements (quantity, chart type, appropriate scale), acquisition, receipt, storage
   and maintenance for mission package construction.
   4.2.11. Debriefing – to include preparing for and techniques for conducting a debriefing,
   handling time-sensitive information, and proper debriefing tools/products.
   4.2.12. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to
accomplish the unit’s tasked missions. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, RIP tasks
will be conducted in conjunction with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. (T-
2)
   4.3.1. The standard task requirements listed in Table 4.1, F-15C Ready Intelligence Program
   and Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirements for CMR and
   BMC. Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC
   status and additional training will be required as determined by the SIO. (T-2)
   4.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks and successfully
   accomplish periodic mission qualification evaluations (MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
   and AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2 to maintain currency and qualification. If an intelligence
   specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform that task
   unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for documenting RIP
   task completion. (T-2)

Table 4.1. F-15C Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements.
                                       Minimum Frequency to          Minimum Frequency to
Subject
                                       Maintain CMR Status           Maintain BMC Status
Situation Displays                          Semi-annually                    Annually
Manual OB                                   Semi-annually                    Annually
Automated OB                                Semi-annually                    Annually
Initial Situation Briefing                     Annually                      Annually
Situation Briefing                             Annually                      Annually
Changeover Briefing                            Annually                      Annually
Deployment Briefing                            Annually                      Annually
ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other                     Semi-annually                    Annually
Tasking Documents
Intelligence Support to Mission              Semi-annually                    Annually
Planning
Mission Package Construction                 Semi-annually                    Annually
Mission Briefing                               Quarterly                      Annually
Step Briefing                                  Quarterly                      Annually
Mission Tracking                             Semi-annually                    Annually
 18                                                         AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


Debriefing                                    Quarterly                   Annually
Intelligence Reports                          Quarterly                   Annually
Note: Quarterly is once every 3 months, semi-annually is once every 6 months, and annually
is once every 12 months.
4.4. Regression. If personnel fail to maintain currency requirements throughout the training
cycle, they will be regressed to non-combat mission ready/non-basic mission capable (N-
CMR/N-BMC) status, as applicable. The SIO will direct the member who fails to demonstrate
proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Regression and the steps taken to correct the
situation will be documented in a memorandum for record in the individual's qualification
training and evaluation record. CMR/BMC intelligence personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC
must complete a SIO-approved recertification program to return them to CMR/BMC standards.
The tasks accomplished during the re-certification program will be credited toward task
requirements for the training cycle. (T-3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                  19


                                            Chapter 5

                                 SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST. These ST programs are intended to provide SIOs the minimum specialized
training programs for individuals without previous qualifications and may be tailored for
intelligence personnel with current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented
performance or formal training. Unless governed by a formal syllabus, these programs will
consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios. The IPTPM will ensure ST is recorded on
AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for AF Form 4381 task elements) and IAW AF/A2 guidance
and approved processes regarding online documentation. Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. All intelligence
personnel assigned or attached to a flying squadron must be qualified EIT trainers. (T-2)
   5.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected for EIT trainer must:
       5.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
       listed below.
   5.2.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Profiles:
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
       instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks:
       Demonstrate ability to modify training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of
       delivering training using visual, auditory and physical application. Demonstrate one-on-
       one, small group and large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify
       trainee achievement.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 - Threats and Countermeasures. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing threat training requirements for air, SAM, ADA/AAA, EW, and DEW
       threats (to include minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2(MDS), Volume 3). Specific
       tasks: Prepare and deliver an instructional session for threats based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.3. EIT 3 - Collection and Reporting. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing C&R training requirements. Specific tasks: Be familiar with the
       requirements and security concerns regarding intelligence-generated reports. Develop
       training that enhances unit ability to use aircrew-originated reports (INFLTREP or other
       formats) and intelligence-generated reports (INTREP, MISREP, INTSUM, etc.). Prepare
       and deliver an instructional session on C&R based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
 20                                                            AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


       5.2.2.4. EIT 4 - Visual Recognition. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in establishing
       VR training requirements. Specific tasks: Successfully complete a VR test (85 percent
       minimum to pass). Develop and deliver an instructional session on VR based on unit
       mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.5. EIT 5 - Personnel Recovery. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing
       instructional material in coordination with tactics, aircrew flight equipment, and SERE
       personnel. Specific tasks: Provide academic instruction on intelligence PR operational
       support processes as required. Where possible, PR EIT trainers should be graduates of
       SV-80A Survival Training. Units with an assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1) may omit
       this block.
       5.2.2.6. EIT 6 - Force Protection Intelligence. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing FP threat training requirements (to include minimum standards cited in AFI
       14-2F-15E, Volume 3). Specific tasks: Prepare and deliver an instructional session for
       FP threats based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
Event                 Specialized Training                       Currency Requirement
Threat Training       Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific          Instruct one threat training
                      tasks.                                     event quarterly.
                      Pass MQF test (threat specific).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
C&R Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 specific          Instruct one C&R training
                      tasks.                                     event annually.
                      Pass MQF test (C&R specific).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
VR Training           Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 specific          Instruct one VR training event
                      tasks.                                     semi-annually.
                      Pass VR test.
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
PR Training           Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 specific          Instruct one PR training event
                      tasks.                                     annually.
                      Pass MQF test (PR specific).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
FPI Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 specific          Instruct one FPI training event
                      tasks.                                     annually.
                      Pass MQF test (FPI specific).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every three months;
semi-annually is defined as once every six months and annually is defined as once every 12
months.
5.3. Aerospace Control Alert (ACA) Specialist. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an ACA Specialist
within the unit. Only qualified ACA Specialist may conduct unsupervised ACA duties. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected as ACA specialist must:
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                     21


       5.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.3.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.3.1.3. Complete the requirements for the ACA profile listed below.
   5.3.2. ACA Profile - ACA Mission Planning and Intelligence Execution.               Objective:
   Demonstrate an understanding of ACA command and control procedures, the primary
   communication systems and intelligence tasks to support the ACA mission. Specific tasks:
   Describe sectors appropriate to the ACA mission; define specific alert levels and postures;
   describe unit OPLAN tasking to support ACA; retrieve ACA ATO and breakout unit tasking;
   conduct mission planning; identify key areas to defend in area/sector as well as potential
   targets; describe procedures for significant activity; prepare mission materials (smart packs,
   etc.) IAW unit ACA procedures/checklists; conduct ACA debriefing; prepare and submit
   MISREP IAW higher headquarters (HHQ) reporting guidance; operate remote access secure
   program system; describe local chain of command and contact procedures as well as lateral
   and HHQ communications requirements.
   5.3.3. Aerospace Control Alert Evaluation. ACA evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI
   14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as ACA
   specialists upon successful completion of required tasks, an initial ACA evaluation (INIT
   ACA) and endorsement from the SIO. (T-2)
   5.3.4. Aerospace Control Alert Currency. ACA Specialists must participate in one ACA
   mission planning and intelligence execution event per 12-month period (annually) to remain
   current. ACA Specialists must also successfully complete periodic ACA evaluations IAW
   AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2. (T-2)
5.4. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to IE within the unit. Only
qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to grade standardization
and evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   5.4.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel identified by the SIO for progression to IE must:
       5.4.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.4.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-
       2F-15C, Volume 2.
       5.4.1.3. Meet task certifier requirements as outlined by AFI 36-2201.
       5.4.1.4. Be designated by the SIO.
   5.4.2. IE training consist of two steps; observation and performance demonstration.
   Intelligence evaluator trainees must complete one or more of the observation profiles and the
   proficiency profile listed below. (T-2)
       5.4.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Observe a mission evaluation. Specific
       tasks:    Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
       preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
       evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
22                                                        AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


     5.4.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Observation. Objective: Observe an EIT trainer evaluation.
     Specific tasks: Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
     preparation for an INIT EIT Trainer or EIT Trainer evaluation. Identify scenarios for
     intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.4.2.3. IE 3 - IE ACA Observation. Objective: Observe an ACA evaluation. Specific
     tasks:    Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
     preparation for an INIT ACA or ACA evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
     evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.4.2.4. IE 4 - IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in successfully
     conducting an evaluation. Perform the evaluation with the trainer as the examinee in a
     simulated evaluation. Specific tasks: Under observation, conduct an evaluation and
     provide a thorough debrief and critique. Demonstrate knowledge of evaluation criteria,
     grading procedures and proficiency in evaluation form preparation.
  5.4.3. IE Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
  14-2F-15C, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized training is
  completed. The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after completing
  training, successful completion of the initial IE evaluation (INIT IE) and endorsement from
  the SIO. (T-2)
  5.4.4. Intelligence Evaluator Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding
  evaluation annually to remain current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE
  evaluations IAW AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2. (T-2)




                                          Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                          Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                            23


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2, F-15C Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria, 20 July 2012
AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 3, F-15C Unit Intelligence Procedures, 20 July 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.F-15, Tactical Employment F-15, 1 November 2007 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
AFTTP 3-3.F-15, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 18 May 2012 (S)
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACA—Aerospace Control Alert
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AF—Air Force
 24                                                  AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOB—Air Order of Battle
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
BQ—Basic Qualification
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Courses of Action
CONPLAN—Concept Plan
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
DLO—Desired Learning Objectives
DMOB—Defensive Missile Order of Battle
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EOB—Electronic Order of Battle
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EW—Electronic Warfare
EXORD—Exercise Order
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                               25


GOB—Ground Order of Battle
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT ACA—Initial Aerospace Control Alert Evaluation
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT IE—Initial Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IPTPM—Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NOB—Naval Order of Battle
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
QUAL—Qualification Evaluation
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
 26                                                          AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RQ—Requalification Evaluation
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SF—Security Forces
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TEWS—Tactical Electronic Warfare Suite
TUC—Threat Update Code
USMTF—US Message Text Format
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
VR—Visual Recognition
WARNORD—Warning Order

Terms
Aerospace Control Alert—The integrated tasks of surveillance and control, the execution of
which enforces a nation's authority over its territorial airspace. ACA refers to the specialized
training tailored to address specific intelligence requirements to support the ACA mission.
ATO/ACO/SPINS Breakout—Identifying and breaking out the elements of the air tasking
order, airspace control order and special instructions.
Automated OB—Order of battle maintained using intelligence support systems.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of F-15C unit intelligence personnel who have
satisfactorily completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain MR/CMR
status.
Basic Qualification (BQ)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not perform mission duties
unsupervised. BQ is a prerequisite for all personnel to enter MQT. The member must perform
at a minimum level as established in this volume. BQ is not a long term qualification status.
Certification—Procedure used to document competency in a particular task. Not
interchangeable with “qualification,” which requires Form 4350 documentation.
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                        27


Changeover Briefing—A briefing to provide incoming personnel a synopsis of events and
issues to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing immediate attention, pending tasks,
personnel and equipment problems, work center status and briefing times.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT and maintain CMR qualification and currency in the appropriate mission
qualification tasks and knowledge outlined in this instruction and other applicable instructions.
Continuation Training (CT)—CT provides the volume, frequency, and mix of training
necessary for intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency, currency and qualification. The
RIP outlines the minimum CT requirements. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities
needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. CT is separate from skill level upgrade
training, although CT may fulfill some skill level upgrade training requirements.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a
given event.
Debriefing—The process to convert mission information into intelligence for dissemination to
affected parties. The intelligence specialist will extract relevant mission intelligence from
aircrew, ask amplifying questions relevant to the mission, identify time-sensitive information and
disseminate appropriately and expediently.
Deployment Briefing—A briefing to provide intelligence information to aircrew, key staff, and
deploying personnel prior to deployment. Intelligence information is tailored to the unit’s
specific mission, roles and combat profiles IAW the unit OPLAN/OPORD tasking. It includes a
synopsis of the military and political situation generating the deployment, enemy/adversary
activity and force disposition (air, ground and naval, as applicable) in the AOR and along
deployment route, enemy tactics and employment strategies, potential and or anticipated enemy
reactions to the deployment, possible en-route hazards to flight, bailout or alternate landing
issues (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas), known threats (terrorist or regular military forces)
in vicinity of bed down location, reporting instructions and EEI and additional items as dictated
by the local situation.
External Intelligence Training (EIT)—Intelligence training given by intelligence personnel to
pilots or other with a non-intelligence Air Force Specialty Code.
External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC)
intelligence personnel who have completed the EIT specialized training and maintain currency as
an EIT trainer. Only qualified and current trainers may conduct unsupervised intelligence
training for pilots or other with a non-intelligence Air Force Specialty Code.
External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and
maintains EIT trainer qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify
and requalify an intelligence member as an EIT trainer as directed in AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 1.
The designator for the EIT trainer evaluation is “EIT” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF
Form 4350.
Initial Qualification Training (IQT)—Initial training necessary to qualify F-15C intelligence
personnel in a basic F-15C intelligence position without regard to a unit’s specific mission. IQT
 28                                                             AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training is completed and consists of the IIQC
conducted by the F-15C IFTU.
Initial Situation Briefing—The briefing conducted at the outset of a crisis that outlines the
initial situation to the commander and staff. It includes the current situation, including major
events leading to the crisis, any national decisions, enemy force disposition, current situation at
deployment location, local area situation (e.g., terrorist activity, subversion threats, etc.),
anticipated enemy reactions, possible en-route flight hazards for previously scheduled and
transient flights.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence personnel who
have completed the IE specialized training. IEs conduct intelligence qualification (mission or
specialized) evaluations (initial or periodic) and support unit Intelligence Stan/Eval functions.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the IE
qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an
intelligence member as an IE (i.e., INIT IE and RQ IE) as directed in this volume. The
designator for the intelligence evaluator evaluation is “IE” as used with the AF Form 4349 and
AF Form 4350.
Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager—The IPTPM is appointed by the SIO to
oversee the execution of the Intelligence Personnel Training Program.
Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE)—An analytical
methodology employed to reduce uncertainties concerning the enemy, environment, and terrain
for all types of operations. Intelligence preparation of the operational environment builds and
extensive data base for each potential area in which a unit may be required to operate. The
database is then analyzed in detail to determine the impact of the enemy, environment, and
terrain on operations and presents it in graphic form. Intelligence preparation of the operational
environment is a continuing process.
Intelligence Reports—Reports generated by intelligence personnel to provide information to
higher headquarters (e.g., MISREPs and Intelligence Reports).
Internal Training Program—The internal intelligence training program is a unit-developed and
maintained program. It is intended to facilitate all personnel in maintaining their qualifications
and currencies. This volume provides a basic starting point for F-15C intelligence units and may
be supplemented by the SIO based on the unit’s requirements.
Manual OB—Order of battle maintained using maps and charts without automated intelligence
system support.
Mission Briefing—A briefing to provide unit operators with the latest intelligence affecting the
mission. Accurate and timely intelligence information should be provided on the general
situation since the last briefing, mission information, general situation in the CAP/objective area,
en route and mission area threats (SAMs/AAA/air/naval/laser and spectral interference
threats/etc.), and other factors essential to mission success.
Mission Package Construction—The mission package provides the operator with the
intelligence materials necessary to accomplish the mission. The mission package includes route
maps, threat information and other local mission package requirements.
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                    29


Mission Planning—The planning accomplished by intelligence personnel to support the
operational mission. Mission planning provides operators with the intelligence materials
necessary to accomplish the mission and may include route maps, imagery, and other local
mission folder requirements. Aircrew should receive the latest intelligence and most accurate
information available on routes, CAP area, targets of strikers being supported, threats, evasion
and recovery and other factors essential to planning the mission.
Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN)—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
qualification (CMR or BMC) of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member (i.e., INIT MSN, RQ MSN). The mission qualification
evaluation is administered to ensure the individual’s ability to support full mission planning and
employment in accomplishing the unit’s operational mission. The designator for the mission
qualification evaluation is “MSN” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel to
perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. This training is a prerequisite for
CMR or BMC status.
Mission Tracking—Maintaining situational awareness of ongoing missions by monitoring
mission execution and communicating with other mission related agencies and coordination
centers.
Personnel Recovery (PR)—The aggregation of military, civil, and political efforts to obtain the
release or recovery of personnel from uncertain or hostile environments and denied areas
whether they are captured, missing, or isolated.
Qualification Evaluation (QUAL)—The qualification evaluation is administered to ensure
basic qualification (BQ) of the examinee in support of the F-15C and duty position of the
intelligence professional. The designator for the qualification evaluation is “QUAL” as used
with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP)—Task requirements that apply to CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. The RIP outlines minimum CT requirements and is designed to focus
training on capabilities needed to accomplish the F-15C unit’s core tasked missions. The RIP
establishes the minimum number of task requirements per training cycle for BMC and CMR
qualified personnel. All intelligence personnel filling duty positions that are designated CMR or
BMC will accomplish these requirements.
Research, Analysis, Dissemination (RAD)—The ability to brief and report intelligence
concerning major potential threat adversaries, to include military, political and geographic by
researching, analyzing and disseminating tailored intelligence to aircrew, commanders, and base
support agencies.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)—The SIO is the highest-ranking Air Force officer holding
the 14N3 or 14N4 AFSC or Series 0132 Civilian serving in an Air Force intelligence position.
The SIO's authority extends to all directly subordinate units. Installations with intelligence
activities in different chains of command will have separate SIOs. In this capacity, the SIO
provides senior guidance on all policy development, interpretations, and applications
Situation Briefing—The briefing which provides the latest intelligence to assist commanders,
staff and aircrew in their decision making. It incorporates significant military and or political
 30                                                            AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


events, enemy force disposition (ground, air and air defense, naval, as applicable), indications of
impending enemy attack, enemy tactics and or employment strategies, potential course of enemy
action, local area situation (terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.).
Specialized Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies a trainee in a specialized
area. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an intelligence member for a
particular skill or duty position. Specific types of specialized qualification evaluations are
identified in this volume.
Specialized Training—Training in any skill necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions
that is not required for every F-15C intelligence specialist. Specialized training is accomplished
after MQT and after the member has attained CMR or BMC status, and is in addition to CMR or
BMC requirements.
Step Briefing—A briefing given to aircrew immediately prior to departure for tasked mission.
The step briefing provides the aircrew with last minute intelligence affecting their mission and
highlights changes in the intelligence situation since the mission briefing.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                             31


                                      Attachment 2
                          TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2

FROM: [UNIT]

SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls

1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a major
impact on training.
 EVENT                                 PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE
                                       PERSONNEL AFFECTED

                                            SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

                                            CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

                                       LIMFACS
2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).




                                            SIGNATURE BLOCK


CC: NAF/A2
 32                                                           AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


                                         Attachment 3
                                F-15C MQT GRADESHEETS

A3.1. F-15C MQT Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT performance task
gradesheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381.
Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress
through MQT. The MQT Gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training record.
Intelligence Evaluators will use the MQT gradesheets to assist in the completion of the AF Form
4350, Certification of Intelligence Qualification, IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-
15C, Volume 2. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of
evaluations.

Table A3.1. F-15C Threat Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
2. General knowledge
2.1. Primary threat countries
2.2. Capabilities and limitations
2.3. Employment characteristics
2.4. Countertactics
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. F-15C Situation Displays Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Understanding of current situation and creating situation displays
2.1. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
2.2. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
2.3. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Geographic coordinates
3.2. MGRS and UTM
3.3. Coordinate conversion
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained situation displays
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                            33


Table A3.3. F-15C Manual OB Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Understanding of OB production sources
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Geographic coordinates
3.2. MGRS and UTM
3.3. Coordinate conversion
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained OB on the situation display
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. F-15C Automated OB Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Ability to use automated intelligence systems for OB
1.1. Updated and Maintained OB on the situation display
1.2. Performed coordinate conversion
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. F-15C Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition (i.e., air, air defense, ground, naval, etc.)
2.4. Potential enemy COAs
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area (i.e., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.); unless briefed by
SF or AFOSI
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines
 34                                                               AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


Table A3.6. F-15C Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Changes to IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition (i.e., air, air defense, ground, naval, etc.)
2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area (i.e., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.); unless briefed by
SF or AFOSI
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. F-15C Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. Presented situation update briefing
3. Addressed relevant areas
3.1. Issues requiring immediate attention
3.2. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
3.3. Reviewed briefing, work, and flying schedules
3.4. Reviewed OB displays
3.5. Reviewed CAT directives
3.6. Reviewed incoming/outgoing messages
3.7. Reviewed MISREP status
4. Delivery
4.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
4.2. Effective use of visual aids
4.3. Appropriate level of detail
4.4. Applicability to audience
5. Adherence to unit standards
6. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                      35


Table A3.8. F-15C Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Unit tasking (i.e., WARNORD, EXORD and/or AEF Tasking
2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
and activity
2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location (i.e., terrorism, sabotage, subversion
threats, etc.); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. F-15C ATO/ACO/SPINS/Other Tasking Documents Gradesheet Elements.
1. Access correct ATO/ACO/SPINS or other tasking document
2. Identify and extract unit specific information using manual and automated processes
2.1. Mission tasking information
2.2. Applicable SPINS information
2.3. Correct ACO information
3. Adherence to unit standards
4. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. F-15C Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
1. Organization/preparation
1.1. ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout
1.2. Tactical scenario understanding
1.3. Mission materials required
1.4. Defined gaps intelligence gaps and submit RFI/intelligence products
2. Mission planning situation briefing
2.1 Identified and plotted unit tasking
2.2. Striker target locations
2.3. Threats/terrain/weather analysis and considerations
3. CAP/sweep area/escort route/striker route
3.1. Ingress
 36                                                            AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


3.2. Mission area
3.3. Egress
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.11. F-15C Mission Package Construction Gradesheet Elements.
1. Conducted appropriate research and analysis
2. Use of automated applications
3. Identify/obtain applicable mission materials
4.1. Imagery
4.2. GI&S
5. Coordinated mission materials with mission planners
6. Time management
7. Adherence to unit standards
8. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. F-15C Mission Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
2.2. Enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
activity
2.3. Striker target information and tactical situation in the mission area
2.4. En route and mission area threats (i.e., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW, and DEW
threats, etc.)
2.5. FPI (i.e., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
2.6. PR information
2.7. EEIs
2.8. INFLTREP requirements
2.9. Debrief location
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.13. F-15C Step Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                       37


1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Changes in threat that affects the mission
2.2. New threats and/or threat tactics
2.3. PR data changes
2.4. Latest TUC
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.14. F-15C Mission Tracking Gradesheet Elements.
1. Performed mission tracking
1.1. Monitored and used communication systems
1.2. Maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions
1.3. Reacted as necessary to support the mission
1.4. Logged all communications
1.5. Ensured all missions were debriefed and reported upon
1.6. Made provisions for diverted missions
2. Adherence to unit standards
3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. F-15C Debriefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Debriefing preparation
1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General performance
2.1. Extracted relevant mission intelligence from aircrew
2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
3. Plane-side debriefing additional items
3.1. Effective use of communications equipment to conduct debrief
3.2. Control of classified debriefing materials
3.3. Communications methods used to pass debriefed information
4. Flight-line debriefing additional items
4.1. Control of classified debriefing materials
 38                                                           AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


4.2. Communications methods used to pass debriefed information
5. In-flight debriefing additional items
5.1. Use of radio communications
5.2. Brevity and security awareness
6. Time management
7. Adherence to unit standards
8. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.16. F-15C Intelligence Reporting Gradesheet Elements.
1. Report preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Pre-filled report information when available
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. Generate reports
2.1. Proficient using computer systems to draft and transmit intelligence reports
2.2. Proficient in drafting and transmitting USMTF intelligence reports
3. Time management
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012                                                                     39


                                          Attachment 4
                   F-15C SPECIALIZED TRAINING (ST) GRADESHEETS

A4.1. F-15C ST Gradesheets. The ST gradesheet tables in this attachment are elements to be
used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF
Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST. The ST Gradesheets will be filed in the
trainee’s on-line training record. Intelligence Evaluators will use the ST gradesheets to assist in
the completion of the AF Form 4350 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume
3. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2F-15C, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of evaluations.

Table A4.1. F-15C External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Follow security guidelines

Table A4.2. F-15C ACA Mission Planning and Intelligence Execution Gradesheet
Elements.
1.   ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout
2.   Mission planning
3.   Mission materials
4.   Mission briefing
5.   Mission debriefing
6.   Mission reporting

Table A4.3. F-15C Intelligence Evaluator Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Follow security guidelines
 40                                                           AFI14-2F-15CV1 20 JULY 2012


                                        Attachment 5
                      F-15C MQT, ST, AND RIP REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Table A5 1. Consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be
used by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. F-15C MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements.
 Requirement                                           MQT          ST            RIP
 RAD and IPOE                                          X            ----          ----
 F-15C Weapons Systems Academics                       X            ----          ----
 Threat Knowledge                                      X            ----          ----
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                  X            ----          ----
 VR                                                    X            ----          ----
 PR                                                    X            ----          ----
 FPI                                                   X            ----          ----
 Threat Briefing                                       X            ----          ----
 Situation Display                                     X            ----          X
 Manual OB                                             X            ----          X
 Automated OB                                          X            ----          X
 Initial Situation Briefing                            X            ----          X
 Situation Briefing                                    X            ----          X
 Changeover Briefing                                   X            ----          X
 Deployment Briefing                                   X            ----          X
 ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents             X            ----          X
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning              X            ----          X
 Mission Package Construction                          X            ----          X
 Mission Briefing                                      X            ----          X
 Step Briefing                                         X            ----          X
 Mission Tracking                                      X            ----          X
 Debriefing                                            X            ----          X
 Intelligence Reports                                  X            ----          X
 EIT 1 - Concepts and Methods                          ---          X             ---
 EIT 2 - Threat Training                               ---          X             ---
 EIT 3 - C&R Training                                  ---          X             ---
 EIT 4 - VR Training                                   ---          X             ---
 EIT 5 - PR Training                                   ---          X             ---
 EIT 6 - FPI Training                                  ---          X             ---
 ACA 1 - ACA Mission Planning and Intel Execution      ----         X             ----
 IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                             ----         X             ----
 IE 2 - IE EIT Observation                             ----         X             ----
 IE 3 - IE ACA Observation                             ----         X             ----
 IE 4 - IE Proficiency                                 ----         X             ----
