BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2E-8,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 1

                                                                               18 APRIL 2013
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 5 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                      E-8 UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
Supersedes:   AFI14-2E-8V1,                                                             Pages: 38
              12 December 2008


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in E-8 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting E-8 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. This
publication requires the collection or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974. Privacy Act System of Records Notice F011 AF AFMC B, Patriot Excalibur, covers
required information. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be
supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the
OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847
through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
 2                                                                                             AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to
the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                   4
       1.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................   4
       1.2.    Waivers. .................................................................................................................    4
       1.3.    Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
       1.4.    Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................                7
       1.5.    Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            7
       1.6.    Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                      8
       2.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.    IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION AND CONTINUATION TRAINING -
            GENERAL                                                                                                                           9
       3.1.    General-Mission Qualification Training. ...............................................................                        9
       3.2.    General - Continuation Training. ...........................................................................                  10

Chapter 4—MISSION QUALIFICATION AND CONTINUATION TRAINING -
            OPERATIONS INTELLIGENCE                                                                                                          11
       4.1.    MQT Knowledge-based Tasks—Operations Intelligence. ....................................                                       11
       4.2.    MQT Performance-based Tasks—Operations Intelligence. ..................................                                       11
       4.3.    CT Tasks—Operations Intelligence. ......................................................................                      14
       4.4.    RIP Requirements—Operations Intelligence. ........................................................                            15
Table 4.1.     Operations Intelligence Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements. ....                                                15

Chapter 5—MISSION QUALIFICATION AND CONTINUATION TRAINING - GEOINT
            ANALYST                                                                                                                          17
       5.1.    MQT Knowledge-based Tasks—GEOINT Analyst. .............................................                                       17
       5.2.    MQT Performance-based Tasks—GEOINT Analyst. ...........................................                                       17
       5.3.    CT Tasks—GEOINT Analyst. ...............................................................................                      17
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                                                         3


      5.4.   RIP Requirements—GEOINT Analyst. .................................................................                    18
Table 5.1.   GEOINT Analyst Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements. .............                                        18

Chapter 6—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                     19
      6.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................   19
      6.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                19
Table 6.1.   External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................                           20
      6.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................                  21

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                     23

Attachment 2—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                                                                                             27

Attachment 3—E-8 MQT GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS – OPERATIONS
             INTELLIGENCE                                                                                                          28

Attachment 4—E-8 MQT GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS – GEOINT ANALYSTS                                                                        35

Attachment 5—E-8 SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS                                                                         36

Attachment 6—E-8 MQT, ST AND RIP REQUIREMENTS                                                                                      37
 4                                                                AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013



                                             Chapter 1

                                     GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
     1.1.1. Scope. This volume outlines the basic policy and guidance for training E-8 unit
     intelligence personnel. Together with the cited references, it establishes the requirements and
     procedures for intelligence personnel to attain the qualifications and maintain the currencies
     to support E-8 unit operations. These requirements are the minimum and can be
     supplemented with additional unit-level written guidance. Unit-level guidance may expand
     upon these basic procedures, but in no case will it be less restrictive.
     1.1.2. References. The primary references for E-8 unit intelligence training are AFI 14-2 E-
     8, Volume 2, E-8 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 3, E-8 Unit
     Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat
     Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.JSTARS, Tactical
     Employment—E8C JSTARS; and this publication. Training will be current with the latest
     editions. These references can be supplemented with other classified and unclassified
     authoritative publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center products,
     Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc., as long as the source is
     appropriately referenced.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2 will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all subordinate unit waiver
requests and responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver
correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and
guidance.
1.3. Responsibilities.
     1.3.1. ACC/A2 Responsibilities. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified
     in AFI 14-202 Volume 1, ACC/A2 will:
        1.3.1.1. Coordinate with user MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
        requirements for E-8 intelligence personnel training.
        1.3.1.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
        training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
        (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST).
            1.3.1.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop/maintain and provide a
            training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for IQT through formal course
            reviews IAW AFI 14-202 Volume 1.
            1.3.1.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide,
            baseline threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral forces
            aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAM), surface to air missiles (SAM), air defense artillery
            (ADA),electronic warfare (EW), directed energy weapons (DEW), ground forces and
            associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations
            and employment techniques.
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                     5


         1.3.1.2.3. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
         softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer generated graphics and digital
         audiovisual visual recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide adversary,
         neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of battle as well
         as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and camouflage,
         concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
     1.3.1.3. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIO) and
     MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
     Provide feedback on lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability
     of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes
     in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level
     'best practices' exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
     1.3.1.4. Assist ACC subordinate units in developing training programs.
     1.3.1.5. Assist MAJCOM/A2s with E-8 units in providing support to unit training
     programs.
  1.3.2. Other MAJCOM/A2 Responsibilities.            Other MAJCOM/A2s with unit-level
  intelligence personnel providing support to E-8 units will:
     1.3.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
     requirements for intelligence personnel and supporting training materials.
     1.3.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs.
     1.3.2.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
  1.3.3. Unit SIO Responsibilities. The unit SIO will:
     1.3.3.1. Develop and execute programs to meet minimum training requirements for
     intelligence personnel. Provide guidance to flying squadron intelligence sections
     regarding execution of training. (T-2)
     1.3.3.2. Appoint an intelligence personnel training program manager (IPTPM) to oversee
     accomplishment and documentation of IQT, MQT, CT, and ST of unit personnel. When
     assigned, the USAF Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course graduate will provide input
     into the training programs. (T-2)
     1.3.3.3. Designate the qualification to which each intelligence position will train. All
     intelligence personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.
     Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with
     a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions. (T-3)
     1.3.3.4. Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
     1.3.3.5. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all intelligence personnel.
     Assigned Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) will be trained and equipped
     according to established standards for their respective active duty counterpart. (T-3)
     1.3.3.6. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and
     current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or
     perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current. (T-2)
6                                                                 AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


       1.3.3.7. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
       MAJCOM/A2 and courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable. See
       Attachment 2 for an example report. (T-2)
       1.3.3.8. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
       lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training
       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
       opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level “best practices” exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
    1.3.4. IPTPM Responsibilities. The unit IPTPM will:
       1.3.4.1. Develop intelligence personnel training programs with written guidance
       detailing how programs will be conducted. Design training programs to achieve the
       highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and resource availability.
       Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, unit mission and
       capabilities. (T-2)
       1.3.4.2. Use lead MAJCOM-developed training materials to assist in the development
       and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training
       materials to meet unit needs. (T-3)
       1.3.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include
       delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
       1.3.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports IAW local procedures for tracking
       overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.3.4.5. Provide individuals a copy of their qualification training and evaluation records
       when they change station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing current
       qualifications and training requirements. (T-2)
    1.3.5. Work Center Supervisor Responsibilities. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.3.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
       1.3.5.2. Assist the IPTPM in developing and executing unit intelligence qualification
       training programs. (T-3)
       1.3.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel
       and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
       achieve the qualifications required for their assigned duty position. (T-2)
    1.3.6. Intelligence Personnel Responsibilities. Intelligence personnel will:
       1.3.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       publication and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.3.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                       7


       1.3.6.3. Hand-carry or electronically deliver a digital copy of qualification training and
       evaluation records when changing station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in
       assessing qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
1.4. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is a venue intended to
facilitate achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. While the SIO
is ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training; professional
development, including intelligence-specific and mission-specific training is the responsibility of
the trainee and supervisor. Training received during internal training is achieved via skills
practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics or as otherwise
devised by the IPTPM. The internal intelligence training plan will include all identified training
requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
1.5. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks
and achieve CMR status. CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST
qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be
conducted in conjunction with skill-level upgrade training. For detailed explanation of IQT,
MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202 Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this AFI.
1.6. Documentation. All intelligence training must be documented. Units will document
qualification training on the AF Form 4381 and in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes
regarding online documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                              AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


                                           Chapter 2

                           INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. IQT for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training (i.e., the Air
Force Specialty Code awarding courses) and concludes with successful completion of the E-8
Intelligence Initial Qualification Course (IIQC).
2.2. IQT Requirements.
     2.2.1. IQT will be conducted at the unit using the E-8 IIQC syllabus and training courseware
     provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2)
     2.2.2. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the E-8 IIQC syllabus. Failure to
     complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2 with
     person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated completion date. (T-3)
     2.2.3. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the E-8 IIQC training standard. IQT
     will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on the individual’s
     proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-3)
     2.2.4. Evaluation and certification will be annotated IAW AF/A2 guidance and approved
     processes regarding online documentation. (T-3)
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                          9


                                             Chapter 3

     MISSION QUALIFICATION AND CONTINUATION TRAINING - GENERAL

3.1. General-Mission Qualification Training. MQT provides intelligence personnel the
training needed to perform in their assigned duty positions supporting E-8 missions/operations.
This chapter provides guidance to assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program
for all individuals. MQT execution will take into account the assigned duty position, current
qualifications, prior experience and training, currency, documented performance and/or formal
training achieved by each individual. Accomplish MQT through one-on-one instruction from a
qualified trainer, external courses, or other training opportunities that satisfy the requirements for
MQT. Use applicable portions of MQT to create a requalification program for personnel who
are non-CMR or BMC status. (T-2)
   3.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT,
   however in special situations determined by the SIO and Intel Weapons Officer, intelligence
   personnel may begin MQT before completion of IQT where training events and timelines
   make this option practical. MQT will be completed within the time specified below. (T-3)
   3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
   ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the
   completion of IQT. Timelines for completion of MQT for each MAJCOM and reporting
   requirements are specified in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
       3.1.2.1. For active duty units, MQT will be completed within 120 days after start. Notify
       MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
       3.1.2.2. AFRC units and IMAs will complete MQT within 120 days with seasoning days.
       If no seasoning days are available, complete MQT within 180 calendar days. Notify
       AFRC/A2F, NAF/A2 and gaining MAJCOM if training exceeds these timelines. For
       IMAs, notify MAJCOM Intelligence IMA Program Manager, ACC/A2, and AFRC/A2 if
       training exceeds 180 calendar days. (T-2)
       3.1.2.3. ANG units will complete MQT within 120 days with seasoning days. If no
       seasoning days are available, complete MQT within 180 calendar days. Notify the
       National Guard Bureau/A2 and gaining MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline.
       (T-2)
   3.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
   timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis. (T-3)
   3.1.4. AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet. The AF Form 4381 will be used to
   document the trainee’s progression through each individual training item. Specific MQT
   intelligence gradesheet elements are located in Attachments 3 and 4. (T-2)
   3.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT, a successful Initial
   (INIT) Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN) IAW AFI 14-202 Volume 2, AFI 14-2E-8,
   Volume 2, and SIO endorsement. Refer to AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2 for a more detailed
   explanation of evaluations.
 10                                                             AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


   3.1.6. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
   covering areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-
   developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area
   procedures and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task
   proficiency. The MQT program for E-8 intelligence personnel will include, but not be
   limited to, the MQT areas and concepts contained in Chapter 4 and Chapter 5 based on their
   assigned duty position (Attachment 6 lists the minimum MQT requirements outlined in these
   chapters). (T-2)
3.2. General - Continuation Training. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic
intelligence knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure
familiarization with E-8 capabilities, threat systems, and unit intelligence functions. The second
aspect of CT is the Ready Intelligence Program (RIP), which consists of specific mission-related
training required to accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
   3.2.1. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel perform specific mission essential
   tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their duty positions. In order to
   maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, conduct RIP tasks in conjunction
   with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. Specific CT and RIP
   requirements are contained in Chapter 4 and Chapter 5. (T-2)
   3.2.2. This guidance provides a baseline and may be supplemented by the SIO based on unit
   requirements. IPTPMs will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and other
   resources as needed to provide the most effective and efficient training. Compile basic
   knowledge examinations from the unit MQF. Annotate completion of CT tasks using the
   approved online training documentation system. (T-2)
   3.2.3. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training
   cycle, they will be regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC, as applicable. The SIO will direct the
   member who fails to demonstrate proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Document
   regression and the steps taken to correct the situation in the individual's training record.
   Intelligence personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved
   recertification program to return them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished
   during the re-certification program will be credited toward task requirements for the training
   cycle. (T-3)
   3.2.4. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to
   AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                      11


                                           Chapter 4

   MISSION QUALIFICATION AND CONTINUATION TRAINING - OPERATIONS
                           INTELLIGENCE

4.1. MQT Knowledge-based Tasks—Operations Intelligence. Trainees must demonstrate
knowledge specific to unit missions for all areas listed below by successfully completing a test
from the unit master question file (MQF) (85 percent minimum to pass). (T-2)
   4.1.1. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable area of
   responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Identify details of aircraft,
   AAMs, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEW, ground and naval forces and associated equipment, cyber
   and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations. Describe employment techniques of
   adversary/threat forces, in the operational environment. Describe how these threats could
   affect unit mission accomplishment.
   4.1.2. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
   applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks: Identify
   details of aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA/AAA, EW, DEW, ground and naval forces and
   associated equipment, and asymmetric capabilities and limitations. Describe employment
   techniques of friendly and neutral forces in the operational environment.
   4.1.3. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role intelligence
   personnel play in preparing aircrew for the possibility of survival, evasion, resistance, escape
   (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Identify theater-specific isolated
   personnel report (ISOPREP) and evasion plan of action (EPA) requirements based on unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Identify environmental, operational and combat
   search and rescue information contained in unit special instructions (SPINS) that will drive
   intelligence requirements during PR operations.
4.2. MQT Performance-based Tasks—Operations Intelligence. Training will ensure the
trainee is able to accomplish tasks IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2.
(T-2)
   4.2.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in researching specific threat
   systems and tailoring the information to the E-8 airframe and countertactics. Specific Tasks:
   Research specific threat systems. Compile data and develop a concise briefing with focus on
   the threat to the E-8 mission Tailor information to the E-8 airframe and countertactics. Use
   computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
   tools. Deliver a threat briefing.
   4.2.2. Situation Displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing, posting,
   updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without intelligence system
   support IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit mission and
   OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Select the proper medium to use for
   constructing a situation display. Identify the proper components to be included on a situation
   display IAW AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 3. Research, analyze and plot situation display elements
   using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army
   Field Manual /US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02,
   Operational Terms and Graphics).
12                                                                AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


        4.2.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in updating
        and maintaining OB on situation displays without intelligence system support IAW OB
        standards established by the SIO and based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
        tasking. Specific tasks: Research, analyze and plot OB using correct symbology.
        Extract military grid reference system (MGRS) and geographic coordinates. Identify
        critical elements of the table of organization and equipment for potential
        enemy/adversary nations. Identify OB production sources for the AOR.
        4.2.2.2. Automated OB. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing intelligence
        support systems to download, update, purge and control quality of automated OB used on
        situation displays. Specific tasks: Verify accuracy of computer generated symbology.
        Identify critical elements of the table of organization and equipment for potential
        enemy/adversary nations. Identify OB production sources for the AOR. Use intelligence
        software applications to post and maintain OB and convert between coordinate systems.
     4.2.3. Initial Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing IAW unit standards.
     Specific tasks: Conduct effective intelligence preparation of the operational environment
     (IPOE) research and analysis. Identify significant events leading to the crisis. Identify
     adversary, neutral, friendly and/or US political decisions or diplomatic initiatives that impact
     the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the deploying unit. Identify relevant
     enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity,
     most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary course of action (COA). Identify Force
     Protection Intelligence (FPI) for the local area. Tailor information in the briefing based on
     unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, and the audience. Determine intelligence gaps
     and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual
     and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Deliver initial situation briefing.
     4.2.4. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     the intelligence portion of a situation briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Extract
     relevant updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and
     analysis. Identify changes in the operational environment since the last update. Identify any
     enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or diplomatic initiatives that
     impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the deployed unit. Identify
     changes to enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
     and activity. Identify FPI for the local area. Determine the most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary COA for the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours. Tailor information in the
     briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, and the audience. Identify
     relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Use computer,
     web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Deliver
     a situation briefing.
     4.2.5. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting a changeover briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Organize and
     prioritize key information. Compile data and develop a concise briefing with focus on events
     to prepare personnel for their shift. Identify issues needing immediate attention. Include a
     situation update, review of threat levels/conditions, briefing schedules, work and flying
     schedules, OB display, crisis action team (CAT) directives, mission report (MISREP) status,
     and other pertinent items. Tailor information in the briefing based on unit mission. Use
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                   13


  computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
  tools. Construct and deliver a changeover briefing.
  4.2.6. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
  presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing IAW unit standards and the
  requirements of the deploying commander. Specific tasks: Identify unit taskings (e.g.,
  warning order (WARNORD), execution order (EXORD)) and/or Air and Space
  Expeditionary Forces (AEF) tasking. Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis.
  Develop a synopsis of political-military situation generating the deployment. Identify
  relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
  activity along deployment route. Determine the most dangerous and most likely
  enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment. Identify FPI for the local area.
  Determine en route hazards to flight and alternate landing sites. Identify reporting
  instructions, essential elements of information (EEI), and additional items as dictated by the
  local situation. Tailor information in the briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN
  tasking, and the audience. Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers
  to the gaps. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
  dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a deployment briefing.
  4.2.7. ATO/Air Control Order (ACO)/Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition
  (RSTA) Annex/SPINS and other tasking documents. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
  obtaining, identifying and extracting applicable elements of tasking documents IAW unit
  procedures. Specific tasks: Locate and obtain correct ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/SPINS and
  other tasking documents as applicable. Determine unit tasking unit tasking, airspace control,
  PR information and intelligence related data from tasking orders/messages. Breakout unit
  tasking from tasking documents using manual and automated techniques and tools.
  4.2.8. Collection Deck Breakout. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the collection
  management process to include fundamental terms and concepts related to the command and
  control of ISR. Specific tasks: Describe how a collection requirement is generated and
  ultimately becomes part of a collection deck. Identify the steps of the collection management
  process. Interpret a collection deck and explain the significance to E-8 operations. Locate
  current collection decks and extract mission taskings and locations, reporting information,
  and EEIs.
  4.2.9. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
  providing intelligence support to mission planners IAW with unit procedures. Specific
  Tasks: Describe the mission planning process. Review of the tactical problem/scenario.
  Conduct an Integrated Air Defense System (IADS) threat study.                  Analyze the
  ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/SPINS, breakout and derive specified and implied intelligence
  requirements (including mission materials). Analyze operating area threats (e.g., IADS, air,
  SAMs, ADA, asymmetric threats) and terrain Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments
  of likely answers to the gaps.. Coordinate with operations to recommend mission route and
  orbit based on threats and terrain analysis. Use mission planning software to assess mission
  routing.
  4.2.10. Mission Planning Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
  presenting the intelligence portion of a mission planning briefing IAW unit standards.
  Specific tasks: Extract updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE
 14                                                             AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


   research and analysis. Identify changes in the operational/tactical environment. Determine
   en route, objective area, and egress threats (e.g., air, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEW, ground and
   naval, and asymmetric), FPI for the local area;, EEIs, in-flight report requirements, debrief
   location, and other factors essential to mission success. Tailor information in the briefing to
   the mission. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
   dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a mission planning briefing.
   4.2.11. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting an
   intelligence step briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Identify critical last minute
   changes in the threats (e.g., air, air defense, ground), new tactics, PR data changes, latest
   threat update code, and any other changes impacting the mission. Tailor information in the
   briefing to the mission Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
   display and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a step briefing.
   4.2.12. Near Real-Time Mission Support.         Objective:    Demonstrate proficiency in
   monitoring mission execution and in communicating with other agencies and coordination
   centers IAW unit procedures. Specific tasks: Effectively monitor and use communication
   systems including collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of ongoing
   missions. React as necessary to support the mission. Enter communications in locally
   developed mission tracking log. Ensure all missions are debriefed and reported upon. Make
   provisions for diverted missions.
   4.2.13. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
   conducting a post-mission debriefing IAW with unit standards. Specific tasks: Prepare
   appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist. Extract relevant mission intelligence from
   crews, including all pertinent mission information from end of mission logs. Identify time-
   sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently. Ask amplifying
   questions relevant to the mission and MTI Requests for Information and data. Control the
   flow and pace of the debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and accurate information
   collection without wasting time. Be aware and control of environmental factors that may
   distract aircrew or impede the debriefing process. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual
   and/or manual information display and debriefing tools.
   4.2.14. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
   transmitting MISREPs and other intelligence reports (e.g., intelligence summary (INTSUM)
   and intelligence report (INTREP)) unit standards and theater reporting directives. Specific
   tasks: Describe the purpose and content of theater reporting directives. Analyze and extract
   information from in-flight reports (INFLTREP) and other aircrew formats. Generate,
   intelligence reports using computer and/or manual information systems. Validate accuracy
   and completeness of reports. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
   intelligence dissemination tools. Draft and transmit intelligence reports using US Message
   Text Format when reporting directives do not exist.
4.3. CT Tasks—Operations Intelligence. The CT program must reinforce MQT tasks and
facilitate RIP requirements. At a minimum, the following topics will be covered during CT: (T-
2)
   4.3.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                    15


   4.3.2. E-8 Weapons Systems and Operations – to include capabilities and limitations,
   employment and defensive tactics, and mission types/profiles.
   4.3.3. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA, DEW, EW, naval, cyber and ground threat system capabilities and
   limitations with respect to E-8 operations.
   4.3.4. Visual Recognition – to include identification features and employment characteristics
   of enemy/adversary, friendly or neutral weapon systems.
   4.3.5. Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence systems, software
   applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit mission.
   4.3.6. Briefings – to include preparing and presenting in-garrison and employment operation
   required briefings.
   4.3.7. Mission Planning – to include ATO/RSTA Annex/ACO/SPINS breakout, mission
   planning software applications and mission materials.
   4.3.8. Situation Displays – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating
   and maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.3.9. Debriefing – to include preparing for and techniques for conducting a debriefing,
   handling time-sensitive information, and proper debriefing tools/products.
   4.3.10. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
   4.3.11. Personnel Recovery – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater
   ISOPREP/EPA requirements and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
4.4. RIP Requirements—Operations Intelligence. The task requirements listed in Table 4.1,
E-8 Operations Intelligence Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements, establish
the minimum frequency requirements for CMR and BMC. Failure to accomplish these
requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC status and additional training will be
required as determined by the SIO. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks
to maintain currency. If an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the
individual may not perform that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are
responsible for documenting RIP task completion. (T-2)

Table 4.1. Operations Intelligence Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
 SUBJECT                            Frequency to Maintain         Frequency to Maintain BMC
                                    CMR Status                    Status
 Situation Displays                 Semi-Annually                 Annually
 Manual OB                          Semi-Annually                 Annually
 Automated OB                       Semi-Annually                 Annually
 Initial Situation Brief            Semi-Annually                 Annually
 Situation Briefing                 Semi-Annually                 Annually
 Changeover Briefing                Semi-Annually                 Annually
 Deployment Briefing                Semi-Annually                 Annually
16                                                           AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/
SPINS and Other Tasking            Semi-Annually                 Annually
Documents
Collection Deck Breakout           Semi-Annually                 Annually
Intelligence Support to Mission
                                   Semi-Annually                 Annually
Planning
Mission Planning Briefing          Semi-Annually                 Annually
Step Briefing                      Semi-Annually                 Annually
Near Real-Time Mission
                                   Semi-Annually                 Annually
Support
Debriefing                         Semi-Annually                 Annually
Intelligence Reports               Semi-Annually                 Annually
Note: For the purposes of this publication semi-annually is once every 6 months and annually
is once every 12 months.
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                       17



                                           Chapter 5

MISSION QUALIFICATION AND CONTINUATION TRAINING - GEOINT ANALYST

5.1. MQT Knowledge-based Tasks—GEOINT Analyst. Demonstrate knowledge specific to
unit missions for GEOINT Analyst by successfully completing a test from the unit MQF (85
percent minimum to pass) on data attributes analysis. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
basic facts and terms regarding image and geospatial information, data composition, anomalies,
malfunctions, metadata, formats and compression. Specific tasks: Explain how data attributes
are key to the determination of optimal sets or combinations of GEOINT products and/or
services that apply in support of analysis, decision making, modeling and simulation, COA,
concept of employment development/evaluation/testing, planning, execution, and assessment.
Define criteria for evaluation of GEOINT data attributes against specific tasks in planning,
execution, and assessment of air operations. (T-2)
5.2. MQT Performance-based Tasks—GEOINT Analyst. Training will ensure the trainee is
able to accomplish tasks IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2. (T-2)
   5.2.1. Imagery Analysis and Products. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing,
   coordinating, and disseminating an imagery product. Specific tasks: Fulfill an imagery
   product request and perform analysis on the Area of Interest, assign a confidence level of the
   area/objects, and annotate the image properly. Create an account for all Image Product
   Library’s currently in use and download images from the server. Use imagery viewers for
   exploitation and reference purposes. Deliver an imagery product IAW prescribed local
   timelines, format and content requirements.
   5.2.2. Ground Moving Target Indicator (GMTI) Analysis and Products. Objective:
   Demonstrate proficiency in developing, coordinating, and disseminating a GMTI product.
   Specific tasks: Provide a GMTI product that satisfies as many as possible essential elements
   of information (EEI) submitted within the given timeline. Provide examples of the general
   different types of GMTI products that are used and understand their benefits, to include but
   not limited to; density plot, delta density plot, historic look back, rat lines, border crossings
   and pattern of life. Create Keyhole Markup Language, shape, and draw files within multiple
   analysis tool sets, and create GMTI products IAW prescribed local timelines, format, and
   content requirements.
5.3. CT Tasks—GEOINT Analyst. The CT program must reinforce MQT tasks and facilitate
RIP requirements. At a minimum, the following topics will be covered during CT: (T-2)
   5.3.1. E-8 Weapons Systems and Operations – to include capabilities and limitations,
   employment and defensive tactics, and mission types/profiles.
   5.3.2. Visual Recognition – to include identification features of enemy/adversary, friendly or
   neutral weapon systems.
   5.3.3. Imagery Analysis and Products – to include system and procedural updates, current
   product development and taskings.
   5.3.4. GMTI Analysis and Products – to include system and procedural updates, current
   product development and taskings.
 18                                                             AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


5.4. RIP Requirements—GEOINT Analyst. The task requirements listed in Table 5.1, E-8
GEOINT Analyst Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements, establish the
minimum frequency requirements for CMR and BMC. Failure to accomplish these requirements
will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC status and additional training will be required as
determined by the SIO. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP to maintain
currency. If an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not
perform that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for
documenting RIP task completion. (T-2)

Table 5.1. GEOINT Analyst Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
                                   Frequency to Maintain         Frequency to Maintain BMC
 SUBJECT
                                   CMR Status                    Status
 Imagery Analysis and Products Semi-Annually                     Annually
 GMTI Analysis and Products        Semi-Annually                 Annually
 Note: For the purposes of this publication semi-annually is once every 6 months and annually
 is once every 12 months.
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                     19



                                            Chapter 6

                                 SPECIALIZED TRAINING

6.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines the minimum ST requirements for the
specialized qualifications necessary to support mission needs. Not all intelligence personnel are
required to complete ST. Tailor these requirements for intelligence personnel with current
qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training. Unless
governed by a formal syllabus, these programs will consist of unit-developed academics and
scenarios. Document ST on the AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 5 for the appropriate gradesheet
elements). Attachment 6 lists the minimum ST requirements outlined in the following
paragraphs. (T-2)
6.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duties as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. (T-2) All
intelligence personnel assigned or attached to a flying squadron must be qualified trainers. (T-3)
   6.2.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel selected to be an EIT trainer must:
       6.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       6.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       6.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
       listed.
   6.2.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Profiles.
       6.2.2.1. EIT 1 – EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
       instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks: Modify
       training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of delivering training using
       visual, auditory and physical application. Demonstrate one-on-one, small group and
       large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify trainee achievement.
       6.2.2.2. EIT 2 – Threats and Countermeasures. Objective: Demonstrate ability to
       provide threat training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 3.
       Specific tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer, web-
       based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Prepare
       and deliver an instructional session for a threat based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       6.2.2.3. EIT 3 – Collection and Reporting. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide
       C&R training based on reporting directives and SIO guidance. Specific tasks: Identify
       collection requirements and EEIs. Describe the use of aircrew-originated reports
       (INFLTREP or other formats) and intelligence-generated reports (e.g., INTREP,
       MISREP, INTSUM). Prepare and deliver an instructional session on C&R based on unit
       mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       6.2.2.4. EIT 4 – Visual Recognition. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide VR
       training. Specific tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use
 20                                                          AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


       computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
       tools. Prepare and deliver an instructional session on VR based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       6.2.2.5. EIT 5 – Personnel Recovery. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide PR
       training in coordination with tactics, aircrew flight equipment, and SERE personnel.
       Specific tasks: Develop and deliver an instructional session on intelligence PR
       operational support processes as required based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
       tasking. Where possible, PR EIT trainers should be graduates of SV-80A Survival
       Training. Units with an assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1) may omit this block.
       6.2.2.6. EIT 6 – Force Protection Intelligence. Objective: Demonstrate ability to
       provide FPI training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 3.
       Specific tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer, web-
       based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Prepare
       and deliver an instructional session for FPI based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   6.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT Trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT trainers upon
   successful completion of required tasks, an INIT EIT trainer evaluation and SIO
   endorsement.
   6.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 6.1, External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and
   Currencies, defines the currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
   maintain EIT trainer status. EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT
   trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2. If a trainer loses currency in a particular
   area, the individual will not conduct EIT unsupervised until currency is regained. Trainers
   who are non-current must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by another
   current and qualified EIT trainer in the same training event. (T-2)

Table 6.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
 Event                Specialized Training                    Currency Requirement
 Threat Knowledge     Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific       Instruct one threat training
                      tasks.                                  event quarterly.
                      Pass MQF test (threat specific).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 C&R                  Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 specific       Instruct one C&R training
                      tasks.                                  event annually.
                      Pass MQF test (C&R specific).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 VR                   Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 specific       Instruct one VR training event
                      tasks.                                  semi-annually.
                      Pass VR test.
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 PR                   Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 specific       Instruct one PR training event
                      tasks.                                  annually.
                      Pass MQF test (PR specific).
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                     21


                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 FPI                   Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 specific         Instruct one FPI training event
                       tasks.                                    annually.
                       Pass MQF test (FPI specific).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 Note: For the purposes of this publication quarterly is defined as once every three months;
 semi-annually is defined as once every six months and annually is defined as once every 12
 months.
6.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform IE duties within the unit.
Only qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to grade
standardization and evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   6.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel selected to be an IE must:
       6.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       6.3.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-
       2E-8, Volume 2.
       6.3.1.3. Meet task certifier requirements as outlined by AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
       Program.
   6.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator training consist of two steps: observation and performance
   proficiency. They must complete one or more of the observation profiles and the proficiency
   profile listed below.
       6.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Gain knowledge of evaluation
       techniques and procedures. Specific tasks: Observe a mission evaluation. Describe the
       evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT MSN
       or MSN evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues,
       and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       6.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Observation. Objective: Gain knowledge of evaluation
       techniques and procedures. Specific tasks: Observe an EIT trainer evaluation. Describe
       the evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT
       EIT Trainer or EIT Trainer evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations,
       objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       6.3.2.3. IE 3 – IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in conducting
       intelligence evaluations. Specific tasks: Conduct an evaluation and provide a thorough
       debrief with the person being evaluated. Use evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
       proper techniques in documenting evaluation forms.
   6.3.3. IE Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
   14-2E-8, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized training is completed.
   The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after completing training,
   successful completion of the INIT IE evaluation and SIO endorsement.
22                                                       AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


  6.3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Currency. IEs must conduct both an MSN and EIT evaluation
  annually to remain current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE evaluations
  IAW AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2. (T-2)




                                        Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                        Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                        Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                             23


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2E-8, Volume 1, E-8C Aircrew Training, 7 June 2010
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 4 May 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2, E-8 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria, 18 April 2013
AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 3, E-8 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 18 April 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFTTP 3-1.JSTARS, Tactical Employment—E-8C JSTARS, 22 August 2013 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
Operational Terms and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation
AF Form 4350, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AEF—Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
 24                                                  AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
BQ—Basic Qualified
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Course of Action
CONPLAN—Concept Plan
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
DLO—Desired Learning Objective
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EW—Electronic Warfare
EXORD—Execution Order
FP—Force Protection
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
GMTI—Ground Moving Target Indicator
IADS—Integrated Air Defense System
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                     25


INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT—Initial
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IPTPM—Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
JSTARS—Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPORD—Operations Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SF—Security Forces
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
USMTF—US Message Text Format
 26                                                          AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
VR—Visual Recognition
WARNORD—Warning Order

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC level.
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                           27


                                    Attachment 2
                         TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

Figure A2.1. Example Training Shortfall Report.
 28                                                            AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


                                         Attachment 3
       E-8 MQT GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS – OPERATIONS INTELLIGENCE

A3.1. E-8 MQT Performance Task Grade Sheet Elements - Operations Intelligence. The
MQT performance task gradesheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the
AF Forms 4381. Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the
trainee’s progress through MQT. The MQT grade sheets will be filed in the trainee’s training
record. Intelligence evaluators will also use these gradesheets in the conduct of evaluations IAW
AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2. (T-2)

Table A3.1. E-8 Threat Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Primary threat countries
 2.2. Capabilities and limitations
 2.3. Employment characteristics
 2.4. Countertactics
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. E-8 Situation Displays Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Understanding of current situation and creating situation displays
 2.1. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
 2.2. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
 2.3. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Geographic coordinates
 3.2. MGRS and UTM
 3.3. Coordinate conversion
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Updated and maintained situation displays
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.3. E-8 Manual OB Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Understanding of OB production sources
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                           29


 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Geographic coordinates
 3.2. MGRS and UTM
 3.3. Coordinate conversion
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Updated and maintained OB on the situation display
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. E-8 Automated OB Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Ability to use intelligence systems for OB
 1.1. Updated and Maintained OB on the situation display
 1.2. Performed coordinate conversion
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. E-8 Initial Situation Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
 2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
 2.4. Potential enemy COAs
 2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
 or AFOSI
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.6. E-8 Situation Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 30                                                               AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Changes to IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
 2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
 2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
 2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
 or AFOSI
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. E-8 Changeover Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. Presented situation briefing
 3. Addressed relevant areas
 3.1. Issues requiring immediate attention
 3.2. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
 3.3. Reviewed briefing, work and flying schedules
 3.4. Reviewed situation displays
 3.5. Reviewed CAT directives
 3.6. Review incoming/outgoing messages
 3.7. Reviewed MISREP status
 4. Delivery
 4.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 4.2. Effective use of visual aids
 4.3. Appropriate level of detail
 4.4. Applicability to audience
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.8. E-8 Deployment Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                    31


 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Unit tasking (e.g., WARNORD, EXORD, AEF tasking)
 2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
 2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
 and activity
 2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
 2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion
 threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
 2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
 2.7. Personnel recovery
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. E-8 ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents Grade
Sheet Elements.
 1. Accessed correct ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/SPINS or other tasking document
 2. Identified and extracted unit specific information using manual and automated processes
 2.1. Mission tasking information
 2.2. Applicable SPINS information
 2.3. Correct RSTA annex information
 2.4. Correct ACO information
 3. Adherence to unit standards
 4. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. E-8 Collection Deck Breakout Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Access/location
 2. Information extraction
 2.1. Mission tasking
 2.2. Mission locations
 2.3. Reporting information
 2.4. EEIs
 3. Classification markings

Table A3.11. E-8 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Organization/preparation
 1.1. Analysis of ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/SPINS breakout
 32                                                            AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


 1.2. Review of tactical scenario
 1.3. Defined intelligence gaps and submit RFIs
 2. Presented mission planning briefing
 3. Identified and plotted unit tasking
 3.1. Route/track recommendations
 3.2. Considered threats/terrain/weather
 3.2.1. Ingress/Divert/Alternate location threats
 3.2.2. Orbit/Mission area
 3.2.3. Egress
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. E-8 Mission Planning Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
 2.2. Enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
 activity
 2.3. En route threats (e.g., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW and DEW threats)
 2.4. FPI (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
 2.5. PR information
 2.6. EEIs
 2.7. INFLTREP requirements
 2.8. Threat update code
 2.9. Debrief location
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.13. E-8 Step Briefing Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Changes in threat that affect the mission
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                         33


 2.2. New threats and/or threat tactics
 2.3. PR data changes/reminders
 2.4. Latest Threat Update Code
 2.5. GMTI products affecting mission
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.14. E-8 Near Real-Time Mission Support Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Performed mission tracking
 1.1. Monitored and used communication systems
 1.2. Maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions
 1.3. Reacted as necessary to support the mission
 1.4. Logged all communications
 1.5. Ensured all missions were debriefed and reported upon
 1.6. Made provisions for diverted missions
 2. Adherence to unit standards
 3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. E-8 Debriefing Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Debriefing preparation
 1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General performance
 2.1. Extracted relevant mission intelligence from aircrew
 2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
 2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
 2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
 2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
 2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
 3. Effective use of communications equipment to conduct debrief
 4. Time management
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.16. E-8 Intelligence Reports Grade Sheet Elements.
 1. Report preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
34                                                             AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


2. Generate reports
2.1. Proficient using computer systems to draft and transmit intelligence reports
2.2. Proficient in drafting and transmitting USMTF intelligence reports
3. Time management
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                  35


                                           Attachment 4
               E-8 MQT GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS – GEOINT ANALYSTS

A4.1. E-8 MQT Performance Task Grade Sheet Elements - GEOINT Analysts. The MQT
performance task gradesheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF
Forms 4381. Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the
trainee’s progress through MQT. The MQT grade sheets will be filed in the trainee’s training
record. . Intelligence evaluators will also use these gradesheets in the conduct of evaluations
IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2E-8, Volume 2

Table A4.1. Imagery Analysis and Products Grade Sheet Elements.
 1.   Navigated all Image Product Libraries
 2.   Download
 3.   Exploitation
 4.   Proper image annotation/callout
 5.   Product matrix
 6.   Dissemination
 7.   Time management
 8.   Adherence to unit standards
 9.   Followed security guidelines

Table A4.2. GMTI Analysis and Products Grade Sheet Elements.
 1.   Understanding/knowledge of GMTI
 2.   Near real time data feed setup/creation
 3.   Downloaded historical data
 4.   Exploitation
 5.   Creation
 6.   Dissemination
 7.   Time management
 8.   Adherence to unit standards
 9.   Followed security guidelines
 36                                                            AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


                                        Attachment 5
                E-8 SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADE SHEET ELEMENTS

A5.1. E-8 ST Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The ST performance task grade sheet
elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence
qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST.
The ST grade sheets will be filed in the trainee’s training record. Intelligence evaluators will
also use these gradesheets in the conduct of evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
14-2E-8, Volume 2. (T-2)

Table A5.1. E-8 External Intelligence Training Trainer Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 8.   Follow security guidelines

Table A5.2. E-8 Intelligence Evaluator Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 8.   Follow security guidelines
AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013                                                                        37


                                         Attachment 6
                         E-8 MQT, ST AND RIP REQUIREMENTS

Tables A6.1 and A6.2 consolidate the E-8 MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be
used by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A6.1. E-8 Operations Intelligence: MQT, ST and RIP Requirements.
 Requirement                                        MQT        ST                     RIP
 Threat Knowledge                                   X
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems               X
 PR Academics                                       X
 Threat Briefing                                    X
 Situation Displays                                 X                                 X
 Manual OB                                          X                                 X
 Automated OB                                       X                                 X
 Changeover Briefing                                X                                 X
 Deployment Briefing                                X                                 X
 Initial Situation Brief                            X                                 X
 Situation Briefing                                 X                                 X
 ATO/ACO/RSTA Annex/SPINS and Other Tasking
 Documents                                          X                                 X
 Collection Deck Breakout                           X                                 X
 Intelligence Support in Mission Planning           X                                 X
 Mission Planning Briefing                          X                                 X
 Step Briefing                                      X                                 X
 Near Real-Time Mission Support                     X                                 X
 Debriefing                                         X                                 X
 Intelligence Reports                               X                                 X
 EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods                              X
 EIT 2 -Threat Training                                        X
 EIT 3 - Collection & Reporting                                X
 EIT 4 - Visual Recognition                                    X
 EIT 5 - Personnel Recovery                                    X
 EIT 6 - Force Protection Intelligence                         X
 IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                                     X
 IE 2 - IE EIT Observation                                     X
 IE 3 - IE Proficiency                                         X
 38                                                 AFI14-2E-8V1 18 APRIL 2013


Table A6.2. E-8 GEOINT Analyst: MQT, ST and RIP Requirements.
 Requirement                                   MQT        ST        RIP
 GEOINT Data Attributes Analysis               X
 Imagery Analysis and Products                 X                    X
 GMTI Analysis and Products                    X                    X
 IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                                X
 IE 3 - IE Proficiency                                    X
