Administrative Changes to AFI 10-1202, Space Test Program (STP) Management
OPR: SAF/AQSL

References to OPNAVINST 3913.1A should be changed to OPNAVINST 3913.1B
References to “SNDL Chief of Naval Operations (N091, N63)” should be changed to “SNDL
Chief of Naval Operations (N2N6, N84)”
References to “Commander Naval Space Command” should be removed

1 JUNE 2012
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARIES                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1202 (I); AR
OF THE AIR FORCE, THE ARMY, AND                             70-43; OPNAVINST 3913.1A
THE NAVY
                                                                        15 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                                   Operations

                                                                    SPACE TEST PROGRAM
                                                                      (STP) MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQSL                                                           Certified by: SAF/AQS
Supersedes: AFI10-1202, 1 April 1998,                                         (Brig Gen Hyten)
            AR 70-43 1 April 1998,                                                    Pages: 21
            OPNAVINST 3913.1
            30 Nov 1985




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive AFPD10-12 Space. This instruction
implements guidance on the Department of Defense (DoD) Space Test Program (STP), which
was formally established in 1965, as well as the DoD Space Experiments Review Board (SERB;
in this instruction, SERB refers to the DoD Board). It captures the revised management and
funding policies, and reaffirmation of the Air Force as the Executive Agent for STP in the 2002
Deputy Secretary of Defense (DepSecDef) Memorandum, Space Test Program Management and
Funding Policy. Additionally, it incorporates guidance to STP outlined in the 2004 Air Force
Space Command (AFSPC) Memorandum, Auxiliary Payload Approval Policy and 2004 Space
and Missile Systems Center (SMC) Memorandum, Implementation Plan for Rideshare Missions
on EELV DoD Assets. Send comments and refer recommended changes to SAF/AQSL, 1060
Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1060. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                                                                 AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication substantially revises the combined Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-1202, Army
Regulation (AR) 70-43, and Operational Naval Instruction (OPNAVINST) 3913.1A (dated 1
April 1998). It incorporates revisions to the original management and funding policy as stated in
the 2002 DepSecDef Memorandum. Additionally, it provides further guidance on SERB
processes and membership. This publication adds the responsibility for STP management as it
applies to DoD auxiliary payload rideshare opportunities, and for STP to execute non-SERB
reimbursable missions as requested. It aligns with Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-12,
Space, updates action agencies, and responsibilities, and adopts three DoD forms. This
publication does not apply to the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard (ANG), or Civil Air
Patrol.

        1.      INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................      2
        2.      APPLICABILITY ..................................................................................................    3
        3.      ORGANIZATION, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES .....................................                                      3
        4.      MISSION PHASES (PROCESSES, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES) ........                                                    7
        5.      PROGRAMMATIC ...............................................................................................       16
        6.      PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS ...........................................................                           17

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                     18


1. INTRODUCTION
     1.1. General. OSD establishes overarching policy and assigns responsibilities and
     authorities for Space Test Program (STP) planning, programming, and acquisition within the
     DoD. As of the date of this publication, OSD has established the United States Air Force as
     Executive Agent (EA) for Space. The AF has designated SAF/AQS as the EA for the STP.
     Similarly, the AF has designated Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) responsibility for
     space launch. AFSPC provides policy and guidance for space launch operations conducted
     on both the Eastern and Western Ranges to include; roles and responsibilities, operational
     requirements, and launch scheduling and forecasting procedures.
     1.2. STP Authority. The STP has been designated as the “front door” for all DoD auxiliary
     payloads (APLs) on DoD, civil and commercial launches, and for all non-DoD APLs seeking
     launch opportunities on DoD missions. The STP is the primary provider of mission design,
     spacecraft (SC) acquisition, integration, launch, and on-orbit operations for the DoD’s Space
     research and development (R&D) community. Offices assigned responsibilities within the
     STP will guide potential sponsors and R&D Principal Investigators (PIs) in preparing and
     submitting spaceflight requests, and define the relationship among sponsors, PIs, and STP
     managers. Additionally, STP is the single manager for all DoD payloads on the Space
     Shuttle, the International Space Station (ISS), future manned and unmanned National
     Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) launch vehicles (LV), and all auxiliary
     payloads (APL) on Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) rideshare opportunities. STP may
     assist DoD APLs in securing rideshare opportunities on non-DoD flights.
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                    3


  1.3. Space Experiments Review Board (SERB). The multi-service Space Experiments
  Review Board (SERB) provides a formalized means to evaluate DoD sponsored payloads
  and experiments for consideration for subsidized spaceflight (fully or partially) through STP
  dedicated funding. This process includes; prioritization of R&D proposed experiments based
  primarily on DoD utility, and providing programmatic guidance to the STP for developing
  and managing proposed missions.
2. APPLICABILITY
  2.1. This instruction applies to all DoD organizations that the STP supports, DoD
  organizations supporting the STP, and the STP Management Office (hereafter referred to as
  the STP Office). Federal agencies outside the DoD requesting support from the STP Office
  must abide by this instruction. DoD or other Federal agencies receiving support from the
  STP Office may issue directives for STP procedures within their organizations; however
  those directives must not be less restrictive than this instruction. In cases of conflict, this
  instruction will have precedence.
3. ORGANIZATION, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
  3.1. The STP Executive Agent (EA) will:
     3.1.1. Implement OSD policy concerning STP.
     3.1.2. Designate SERB members.
     3.1.3. Provide the Program Element Monitor for STP.
     3.1.4. Manage the overall DoD SERB process, chair the DoD SERB meetings, and
     approve and publish the resulting prioritized experiment list. A copy of the results will
     be provided to the DoD EA for Space.
     3.1.5. Approve SERB Space Flight Plans (SFP) for missions that require an expenditure
     of more than $10M per Fiscal Year (FY) in STP funds or more than $10M annually in
     government provided launch or operations services. If after 15 working days after
     receipt of a SFP from the STP Office, the STP EA does not notify the STP Director of a
     reason to delay approval of the SFP, the STP Program Director or his/her designee may
     approve the SFP and send a copy of that approval to STP EA. (Note: The $10M annual
     threshold does not include funds provided by experimenter or customer provided
     funding).
     3.1.6. Resolve, if required, disputes on priorities, experiment selection, or experiment
     duplication among Departments, Organizations, or Agencies.
  3.2. Air Force, Army, Navy, other DoD Agencies, and Organizations (involved with the
  STP process) will:
     3.2.1. Establish, as needed, a Service, Agency, or Organization focal point for approval
     of SERB proposals, which will provide a prioritized list of SERB proposed experiments
     to STP Executive Agent (STP EA) prior to each annual DoD SERB meeting. Each
     affected organizations should establish internal procedures for reviewing and approving
     SERB proposals prior to sending them to the DoD SERB.
4                                                          AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


       3.2.2. Assign (specifically the Air Force, Army, and Navy) qualified personnel to the
       STP Office. Any support/manpower funding requirements for these positions are the
       responsibility of the providing organization.
       3.2.3. Provide SERB members, as required.
       3.2.4. Serve as Sponsors for experiments, as appropriate.
    3.3. Headquarters Air Force, Directorate of Space Operations and Integration
    (AF/A3/A5) will:
       3.3.1. Advocate for future mission needs and operational utility that STP-demonstrated
       technologies will lead to or enable.
       3.3.2. Assist, if appropriate or requested, STP in satellite operations matters with other
       Air Force space programs, the NRO, Navy, and Army space programs.
    3.4. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) will:
       3.4.1. Designate an office to track activities associated with STP.        This office is
       responsible for:
          3.4.1.1. Defending the STP Program Objectives Memorandum (POM) submission
          developed in conjunction with the STP Office.
          3.4.1.2. Coordinate with appropriate launch vehicle Program Element Monitor
          (PEM) to advocate for funding consistent with the an STP dedicated small launch
          class mission every two years and a medium launch class mission every four years.
          3.4.1.3. Advocate for funding to provide adequate to take advantage of APL
          opportunities on AFSPC launches.
       3.4.2. Maintain an organizational element to manage the planning, engineering and
       operational functions necessary to execute SERB-approved programs. Currently, this
       organization is the Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), Space Development and
       Test Wing (SDTW), Space Development Group (SDTW/SDDG). The STP Director
       leads the STP Office. Currently the STP Director is also dual-hatted as commander of
       the Space Development Group within SDTW.
       3.4.3. Provide voting members to the DoD SERB (AFSPC and SMC).
       3.4.4. By way of the Air, Space, and Nuclear Operational Directorate (currently
       AFSPC/A3), grant approval for STP APL missions associated with AFSPC operational
       payloads when operationally, technically, financially, and contractually feasible.
    3.5. Air Force Program Executive Officer – Space (AFPEO/SP, currently the SMC/CC)
    will:
       3.5.1. Manage and provide programmatic oversight for Air Force STP programs and
       monitor programmatic status of other STP programs throughout development and launch
       of STP missions.
       3.5.2. Direct the STP Office to perform the necessary development, acquisition, program
       management, and planning to launch and operate STP missions from the DoD-approved
       SERB list.
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 5


     3.5.3. Manage execution year funding and interface with appropriate Air Force
     organizations to ensure STP efforts are properly funded and executed.
     3.5.4. Provide fiscal and programmatic direction to the STP Office and provide HQ
     AFSPC the information needed to plan, program, and budget for STP programs.
  3.6. Space Test Program Office will:
     3.6.1. Provide mission design, spacecraft acquisition, integration, launch, and on-orbit
     operations for the maximum number of SERB experiments consistent with priority,
     opportunity, and available funding.
        3.6.1.1. Manage programmatic, technical, schedule, cost, and mission operations risk
        for all missions executed by STP.
        3.6.1.2. Perform tasks, as required, to maximize mission success to include
        compiling information, conducting studies and cost analyses, processing and
        executing SFPs, assigning payloads, integrating experiments into SC, obtaining LVs
        (as required) and services.
        3.6.1.3. Advise the PI on preparation of SERB briefings, spaceflight requests, and
        experiment or payload requirements documentation.
        3.6.1.4. Explore the potential for both dedicated missions and joint missions with the
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), commercial, foreign, and
        other DoD organizations.
        3.6.1.5. Coordinate between Sponsor, PI, and the host vehicle office for STP APLs
        (SERB and non-SERB) on the host LV or SV.
        3.6.1.6. Collect, archives, and provides access to experiment final reports.
        3.6.1.7. Ensure AFSPC/A3 is aware of APL risks and impacts to AFSPC primary
        missions and request operational approval.
     3.6.2. Approve (STP Director, or designee) SFPs for: (1) SERB missions that require an
     expenditure of less than $10M in STP funds and (2) SFPs for reimbursable missions.
     SERB missions that exceed the $10M threshold are approved or disapproved by
     SAF/AQS, the STP EA.
     3.6.3. Provide mission design, spacecraft acquisition, integration, launch, and on-orbit
     operations for reimbursable missions approved by the EA for STP.
     3.6.4. Verify a Mission Director (MD) is appointed IAW established AFSPC launch
     operations requirements identified in AFSPCI 10-1208. For STP funded and dedicated
     launch operations, AFPEO/SP may delegate selection authority for an “STP Mission
     Director” to STP or SDTW.
     3.6.5. Serve as the primary DoD program supporting human spaceflight payload
     integration and operations and, as such, act as the single manager for all DoD payloads
     on the Space Shuttle, ISS, and other human-rated spaceflights such as unmanned ISS
     service flights. This includes training flight crews and flight controllers for these
     operations needed to support STP missions.
6                                                             AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


       3.6.6. Serve as the DoD focal point for all APL services on AFSPC missions. Coordinate
       between Sponsor, PI, and the host vehicle office for non-SERB APLs on the host LV or
       SV.
    3.7. Sponsor will:
       3.7.1. Act as the primary advocate for the technology or experiment to be flown. This
       includes ensuring that all parties understand the benefit of spaceflight to either the state of
       technology, information about the environment, or to other important areas. They shall
       make such information available upon request to ensure proper decision-making
       throughout the STP process.
       3.7.2. Approve and submit experiment requests to the SERB or directly to STP for
       reimbursable missions. Any DoD organization may sponsor spaceflight experiments.
       Multiple DoD and non-DoD agencies may co-sponsor experiments. For SERB
       experiments, one organization is chosen to be the lead and will be in charge of all
       coordination with the process and STP via the Principal Investigator.
       3.7.3. Designate a PI for each experiment proposed to the DoD SERB. Submit PI
       change notifications to the SERB in a timely fashion, including an updated DD Form
       1721-1. The sponsor may change the PI without impacting the status or SERB ranking of
       the experiment.
       3.7.4. Oversee the program, project, or task being supported by the STP Office, as well
       as the development, fabrication, qualification, and integration support (if applicable) of
       the APL spaceflight hardware.
       3.7.5. Ensure sufficient funding (including Funding Certification Letter) and provide
       resources for experiment development, fabrication, testing, data reduction, and reporting.
       3.7.6. Provide the experiment team to support the STP Office in its efforts to manifest,
       integrate, launch, and operate their experiment.
       3.7.7. Assist in development and approval of the necessary documentation (per STP
       User’s Guide) for mission planning, execution, and post-launch/flight.
    3.8. Principal Investigator (PI) will:
       3.8.1. Serve as the primary point of contact with the STP Office concerning an
       experiment’s status and funding. (Note: An experiment may have more than one
       Sponsor; however, each experiment will have only one PI.)
       3.8.2. Assist in experiment development, fabrication, testing, data reduction, and
       reporting.
    3.8.3. Lead the experiment team to support the STP Office in its efforts to manifest,
    integrate, launch, and operate their experiment.
       3.8.4. Get sponsor approval. Prepare (with advice from the STP Office) and submit
       spaceflight requests. Provide briefs to the SERB for experiments seeking to be subsidized
       by STP.
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                  7


     3.8.5. Assist development and approval of (and when required submit) the necessary
     mission planning (per STP User’s Guide), execution, and post-launch/flight
     documentation.
     3.8.6. Verify that the SERB, the appropriate services, COCOMs or space system
     program offices understand and acknowledge the contributions of the flight experiment
     as it improves the state of technology required to develop tomorrow’s operational
     systems or the understanding of the space environment.
4. MISSION PHASES (PROCESSES, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES)
  4.1. General. The overall process for obtaining either subsidized or reimbursable space
  flight services for a DoD space experiment is detailed in this section. Experiments can fall
  into several categories or types dependent upon the support needed from STP. An
  experiment may be brought to STP in a variety of forms. It may be an instrument requiring
  integration to a SC or may be a complete SV. A variety of support may be desired to
  include launch, flight operations, data recovery, interactions with ground- or space-based
  assets, or other activities. STP will evaluate the specific experiment requirements and where
  feasible design a mission that best accomplishes its scientific objectives.
     4.1.1. Launch resources may be manned or unmanned. Unmanned launches can be
     human-rated but are usually ELVs and can include sounding rockets and balloons.
     NASA executes human spaceflight. The STP Office serves as the primary DoD program
     supporting human spaceflight payload integration and operations and, as such, acts as the
     single manager for all DoD payloads on the Space Shuttle, ISS, and other human-rated
     spaceflights.
     4.1.2. From an LV payload standpoint, an experiment can be the Primary SV or an
     Auxiliary Payload. APLs shall not adversely impact the primary SV.
     4.1.3. STP missions may be categorized by the method of funding. If subsidized support
     from STP is required for accomplishing the objectives of a space experiment, the
     experiment must go through the SERB process.
         4.1.3.1. SERB missions may be partially or completely subsidized through STP
         funds with the exception of the experiment development. In addition to subsidizing
         the cost of the mission, STP may be able to provide launch opportunities on dedicated
         launch vehicles provided to the program in accordance with the “DepSecDef STP
         Management and Funding Policy” goal of launching a Small Launch Vehicle-Class
         mission every two years and a Medium Launch Vehicle-Class mission every four
         years.
         4.1.3.2. Reimbursable missions are fully funded by the payload sponsor and STP
         services may be negotiated directly with the STP Office. STP estimates for sponsor
         funding should fully account for any additional SDTW overhead costs, including
         additional manpower resources or facility upgrades if required.
  4.2. Flight Requests. Customers can request STP support via two methods: through the
  SERB or by agreement with STP for reimbursable services. Any Service, DoD Agency, or
  DoD Organization may propose experiments requesting STP support. Note: These
8                                                           AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


    organizations should establish internal procedures for reviewing and approving SERB
    proposals prior to sending them to the DoD SERB.
       4.2.1. DoD SERB. The SERB process provides an equal opportunity for all DoD space
       R&D experiments to be considered for subsidized spaceflight. The review process
       ensures military relevance, reduces experiment duplication, and promotes cooperation
       among PIs.
          4.2.1.1. Website. A website (https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/) has been established that
          contains SERB data to include guidance, previous results/history, forms, sample
          briefs and instructions, ranking criteria, and associated links. Electronic copies of the
          DD Form 1721 Space Test Program Flight Request, DD Form 1721-1 Space Test
          Program Flight Request (Executive Summary), and DD Form 1721-2 Space Test
          Program After Action Report can be downloaded from the site. Hereafter, this site
          will be referred to as the SERB Website.
          4.2.1.2. SERB Meetings. The SERB meets yearly to review all requests for
          subsidized spaceflight, to create an experiment priority list, and to hear status reports
          from the STP Office on the progress of manifesting and flying SERB experiments.
          Approximately six months after this annual meeting, the SERB may meet for a mid-
          year review (outlined later). The SERB is organized and chaired by STP EA.
          4.2.1.3. SERB Members. All members of the SERB are voting members.
             4.2.1.3.1. The members (number of members per organization is in parenthesis)
             are the OSD (2), U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM (1)), Army (3), Air
             Force (3), Navy (3), the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA
             (1)), the Missile Defense Agency (MDA (1)), National Reconnaissance Office
             (NRO (1)), and NASA (1).
             4.2.1.3.2. Recommendation for members to be added or removed will be
             proposed in a formal request to STP EA.
          4.2.1.4. Funding to Support SERB Experiments.
             4.2.1.4.1. The STP Office, within its annual budget, may fund for the integration,
             launch, and orbital support of SERB approved experiments. The STP Office will
             follow the guidelines set out within STP’s Program Management Directive
             (PMD) and in the President’s Budget Documentation to define restrictions or
             funding limitations. Note: The STP Office will not fund experiment
             development.      This typically excludes costs of designing, fabricating,
             documenting and testing any experiment or set of experiments.
             4.2.1.4.2. The STP Office will support all SERB approved experiments within its
             resource limitations. When feasible, the STP Office will identify and arrange for
             SERB experiment spaceflight opportunities based on cost-sharing agreements
             documented in the SFPs and Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). In the case of
             these arrangements, the participating Sponsors must pay the STP Office in a
             timely manner or risk having their experiment removed from the mission.
          4.2.1.5. SERB Requests. To begin the process that may lead to STP spaceflight, the
          PI must present an experiment to the SERB along with a spaceflight request. This
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                  9


        includes new experiments, experiments not currently approved for STP spaceflight, or
        an experiment currently manifested but requesting additional flights not previously
        approved. Specifically, any experiment seeking spaceflight that is not manifested on
        an STP launch must be briefed at each and every SERB until it is manifested. For an
        experiment to be considered for STP subsidized support, it must have:
           4.2.1.5.1. A DoD Sponsor.
           4.2.1.5.2. Potential military benefit either as a DoD or Federal Agency research,
           development, test, and evaluation activity.
           4.2.1.5.3. A need for spaceflight to meet experiment objectives.
           4.2.1.5.4. Funding to support experiment development, fabrication, and unique
           orbit operations (if necessary), and data analysis.
           4.2.1.5.5. Submitted DD Forms 1721 and 1721-1, through the appropriate
           channels, to the appropriate STP EA Division. Electronic copies of the forms can
           be obtained at the SERB Website.
        4.2.1.6. SERB Approval. At the end of the annual SERB meeting, the board
        develops a prioritized list based on criteria provided by STP EA (criteria can be found
        at the SERB Website). Military relevance will be the primary consideration in
        determining experiment priority. Military relevance can mean that an experiment is a
        direct test of a new military system or component, an investigation into the potential
        to enhance an existing military system or field a new system, or even an investigation
        of space phenomena that affects or might affect military activities. The SERB
        forwards its recommended prioritized list of experiments to STP EA for final
        approval. STP EA publishes the list and forwards it to the STP Office to serve as
        guidance for spaceflight until a subsequent list is published. Once STP receives the
        SERB approved list, the Mission Design process begins.
        4.2.1.7. Mid-Cycle SERB Review. Approximately six months after annual SERB
        meeting, a Mid-Cycle SERB review may be convened. The purpose of the review is
        to bring the SERB members up to date on the status and financial health of the
        experiments on the SERB list, and the progress the STP Office has made at
        manifesting and flying SERB experiments.
           4.2.1.7.1. On a case-by-case basis, a PI may brief an experiment, at the Mid-
           Cycle SERB if he can demonstrate an immediate need for STP support prior to
           the next annual SERB. Acceptable examples of immediate need include: (a)
           flight opportunity would be missed if the experiment did not get on the list
           immediately or (b) there is a time-critical military need for the experiment.
           4.2.1.7.2. The SERB may vote to add a new unranked experiment to the bottom
           of the SERB list. For this new experiment, the SERB will consider only the
           experiment’s military relevance and quality, as a service ranking will not be
           available.
        4.2.1.8. Changing an Experiment’s Scope. Once an experiment has been presented
        to the DoD SERB and ranked, it must not significantly change its scope and
        objectives.
10                                                       AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


            4.2.1.8.1. Sponsors or PIs may send minor updates directly to the STP Office
            with an information copy to STP EA.
            4.2.1.8.2. If the Sponsors or PIs need to significantly change the scope or
            objectives of an experiment, or if the support requested from STP changes, then
            the Sponsor must update both DD Forms 1721 and 1721-1, send the forms
            through their departmental approval authority, and re-brief the experiment to the
            SERB for approval.
        4.2.1.9. Experiment Retention Due to Flight Failure or Termination. If a SERB-
        ranked experiment was included on an approved SFP and that mission is terminated
        prior to flight or is unsuccessful in providing the experiment an opportunity to collect
        its data in flight, the experiment will be placed at the bottom of the current SERB
        priority list until the next DoD SERB meeting. The Sponsor must then brief the
        SERB to be considered for retention on the SERB list and future flight opportunities.
        4.2.1.10. Additions to the SERB Approved List. Experiments may be added to the
        SERB approved list by STP EA resulting from the Mid-Cycle SERB or on rare
        occasions, out of cycle. To be added to the list, the experiment must have a
        Sponsor’s written endorsement, approved DD Forms 1721 and 1721-1, and specific
        justification for adding the experiment prior to the next annual SERB meeting.
        Experiments will be added to the bottom of the approved list without a ranking.
     4.2.2. Reimbursable Flight Requests (Non-SERB). The STP Office is authorized to
     support non-SERB government customers. STP will work with non-SERB customers as
     appropriate to identify collaborative opportunities to fly the reimbursable experiment
     with SERB experiments.
        4.2.2.1. Request. Customers choosing not to compete for subsidized spaceflight
        through the SERB process can contact the STP Office directly with their spaceflight
        request. The STP Office will provide the customer with a cost Reimbursable Flight
        Request form (similar to the DD Form 1721) identifying the basic information
        required to evaluate flight opportunities. Upon completion and submittal of this
        information to the STP Office, the STP Office will generate a preliminary
        identification of flight options.
        4.2.2.2. Funding. Once an initial identification of potential flight opportunities has
        been provided to the customer at no charge, the customer will be responsible for
        funding STP for all additional costs incurred to explore, manifest, and execute the
        non-SERB mission.
  4.3. Mission Design and Manifest.
     4.3.1. Ground Rules. An APL must not induce unreasonable cost, schedule, or
     performance risk to the primary payload or its mission. This requires coordination with
     and approval from the operational community, such as AFSPC/A3 for AFSPC primary
     missions.
        4.3.1.1. The primary payload will determine mission profile, flight trajectory, and
        authority to determine deployment sequence for the primary payload in relation to the
        APLs.
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                11


        4.3.1.2. A violation of the flight opportunity constraints as defined in the manifest
        package is grounds for de-manifesting.
     4.3.2. General. Missions are selected based on flight opportunities, available funds, and
     payload priorities.
        4.3.2.1. The STP Office develops missions around key experiments from the
        approved SERB list, reimbursable payloads, and guidance from STP EA. Missions
        will be formalized in a SFP Package. To establish a mission, additional data will be
        gathered and used to conduct studies. The studies will lead to selection of STP
        missions. A mission may be developed for a single-experiment payload or for
        multiple payloads based on what best serves DoD R&D goals. All factors are
        weighed in selecting the optimal mission. This process will ultimately lead to the
        selection of a flight configuration.
        4.3.2.2. Funding Commitment. A funding commitment in the form of a letter or
        memorandum (not the Cost Reimbursable Agreement) is required of every PI and
        Sponsor (SERB and non-SERB) to verify the realism of the experiment. STP will not
        manifest SERB experiments without certification of support by the Sponsor.
        Furthermore, STP can de-manifest an experiment if it becomes evident the Sponsor
        does not have the funds needed to build and deliver the experiment (either as
        approved by the SERB or in the MOA between STP and a non-SERB customer). The
        STP EA will enforce reimbursement to STP by the Sponsor for any sunk/closure
        costs directly resulting from that Sponsor’s inability to deliver a payload which
        negatively impacts the execution of the mission on which it was previously
        manifested.
     4.3.3. Mission Designator. The STP Office will establish a unique mission designator
     that permanently identifies all STP-approved missions.
     4.3.4. Mission Director (MD). MD appointment and responsibilities will be IAW
     established AFSPC procedures for AFSPC missions. For STP dedicated missions,
     AFPEO/SP will assign or delegate appointment of “STP MD” to STP Director or
     SDTW/CC.
     4.3.5. Mission Studies. The STP Office gathers and compiles all flight request
     information from customers to serve as basis for planning and mission design. The STP
     Office will perform systems performance and cost analyses, and design studies to identify
     compatible experiments for a mission and to quickly identify suitable experiment
     complements for flight opportunities that may arise. The STP Office will work with the
     PIs to determine trade space in the experiment’s requirements that might allow an
     experiment to be more readily manifested. Experiments will be grouped into compatible
     “bundles” or conceptual missions. In order to support these efforts, additional
     information beyond the DD Forms 1721 and 1721-1 or Reimbursable Flight Request will
     be requested as required.
        4.3.5.1. Unmanned Flights. PIs complete and return an Experiment Requirements
        Document (ERD). An example of an ERD can be found on the SERB website.
        4.3.5.2. Manned Flights. PIs complete and return a Payload Requirements Document
        (PRD) for experiments flown on human spaceflight missions. This differs from a
12                                                       AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


        Payload Requirement Document (PLRD) which is included in the SFP Package for
        experiments flown on Expendable Launch Vehicles (ELV).
     4.3.6. Flight Assignment. With the completion of the requirements documents, mission
     studies, and evaluations, the STP Office will oversee payload flight assignments
     (manifesting), including as required, designation of Primary SVs and APLs, LV
     selections and procurements, SC and support equipment procurements, payload
     integration, launch scheduling and services, flight operations preparation and orbital
     support, and data handling.
        4.3.6.1. Launch scheduling and forecasting will be performed IAW established
        AFPSC procedures.
        4.3.6.2. Because of fiscal constraints, flight assignment priorities will generally be
        given to the least expensive flight opportunity that will accomplish the majority of the
        experiment objectives.
        4.3.6.3. STP will not be constrained to make flight assignments in strict adherence to
        the SERB rankings. Rather, all factors (funding, flight opportunities, priority, etc.)
        will be considered to design missions in the best interests of DoD. In some instances,
        this may result in a mission consisting of several lower ranked experiments rather
        than one or two high ranked experiments. Reimbursable mission activities will
        normally be scheduled on a non-interference flight assignment basis unless the STP
        Executive Agent determines that prioritizing the reimbursable payload above/along
        with the SERB-ranked payloads substantially benefits STP or DoD overall.
     4.3.7. Auxiliary Payloads. STP is responsible for managing all unused capability for
     APLs on AFSPC missions. In this capacity, it will collect, screen, and propose manifest
     options to AFSPC leadership for approval of potential risk and operational impacts. In
     addition, STP may assist DoD APLs in securing rideshare opportunities on non-AFSPC
     missions. To support this, the STP Office will:
        4.3.7.1. Evaluate all user requests (SERB and non-SERB) for APL launch
        opportunities. To aid in this effort, the Launch and Range Systems Wing will provide
        STP data of excess capability that may be available for secondary APLs on all EELV
        missions. The primary SV SPOs will provide STP with data of excess SC or SV
        capability available to host piggyback APLs.
        4.3.7.2. Resolve conflicts for requested services, perform feasibility assessments, and
        propose a preliminary STP APL manifest.
        4.3.7.3. Request technical and programmatic approval via the STP Director and the
        appropriate Primary SV and LV SPOs, as required.
        4.3.7.4. Evaluate funding, identify the risks and impacts to the primary mission, and
        coordinate via the STP Director with the SMC Commander for APL mission risk
        approval.
        4.3.7.5. Request via the STP Director final STP APL manifest approval from
        Headquarters AFSPC Director of Air, Space and Information Operations
        (AFSPC/A3) to launch an APL on a specified mission.
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                               13


     4.3.8. SFP Package. The SFP package provides guidance for conducting the mission and
     authority to expend STP resources.      It will contain the SFP, MOA, and other
     requirements related documents per STP User’s Guide.
        4.3.8.1. SFP Package development. The STP Office prepares SFP Packages in
        accordance with its budget and ensures that mission plans, costs, schedule, and risks
        are defined and understood, and that STP resources are used in a cost-effective
        manner consistent with the interests of the DoD.
        4.3.8.2. Multiple Flights and Re-flights. At STP’s discretion, an SFP can encompass
        multiple flights. If experiment Sponsors would like to re-fly an experiment
        previously flown, the re-flight will be handled as a new experiment, and the Sponsors
        will be required to make a new spaceflight request.
        4.3.8.3. Implementation. The STP Office will implement the SFP Package and may
        begin as soon as it is approved.
     4.3.9. Reimbursement for Experiment Changes. The Sponsor must reimburse the STP
     Office for cost increases resulting from modified experiment requirements, damage to
     support hardware, or delays caused by the experiment. It is incumbent on the PI to
     inform the STP Office of changes so that an agreement between the STP Office and the
     Sponsor/PI can be negotiated. The STP Office shall not be liable for damage to, or loss
     of, experiment hardware due to accident or other events beyond its control.
        4.3.9.1. Reimbursement for Experiment Withdrawal. The Sponsor must reimburse
        the STP Office for the cost of withdrawing from an approved SFP. The
        reimbursement requirements should be documented in the MOAs.                  The
        reimbursement must cover the costs of mission termination or experiment de-
        manifesting as deemed appropriate by the STP Office. De-manifesting could mean
        replacing the withdrawn experiment with another experiment or mass simulator.
            4.3.9.1.1. The withdrawing Sponsor must send a letter of intent to withdraw to
            the STP Executive Agent (cc: to the STP Office), signed at the appropriate staff
            level that can make funding decisions on behalf of the Service, Organization, or
            Agency component.
  4.4. SC Development, Test, and Integration.
     4.4.1. General. STP Office can use internal contracts or contracts of other agencies to
     acquire hardware (including advanced hardware for future spaceflight and payload
     support), SC and payload integration services, LVs, and mission data handling services,
     including ephemeris and SC health data. STP may utilize or support development of new
     lift capabilities or SC when this capability or support proves cost-effective.
     4.4.2. Services. Management services provided by the STP Office to the PI will include:
        4.4.2.1. Program management and systems engineering to ensure information is
        provided to all organizations involved in the program.
        4.4.2.2. Risk management, including flight safety management for an individual
        mission or among multiple mission elements or SC.
14                                                          AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


        4.4.2.3. Planning and management of the integration and test of the experiment with
        the SC or launch system.
        4.4.2.4. Coordinating among Sponsors, PIs, SC, and LV managers.
        4.4.2.5. Documentation that identifies a standard set of hardware, capabilities, and
        services for manned and unmanned missions.
     4.4.3. Interface Control
        4.4.3.1. Payload Integration Meetings. The STP Office organizes meetings to ensure
        that crucial activities such as design, fabrication, testing, spaceflight qualification,
        safety, and integration of the payload are proceeding on schedule. STP provides
        assistance by helping resolve problems, guiding the resolution of compromises
        among experiment requirements, and getting timely and detailed information from all
        of the participants who must cooperate to make a spaceflight successful. PIs are
        expected to support the STP contractor's design reviews. The STP Office will
        support the experiment contractor's design reviews as required.
        4.4.3.2. Interface Design Freeze. While the STP Office aims to accommodate
        experiment changes that offer better performance, it must establish an interface
        design freeze date that all agencies contributing to the spaceflight must recognize.
        Agencies that cannot meet an interface design freeze date (according to the Interface
        Control Document (ICD)) must pay any additional costs caused by the delay or SC
        design changes.
  4.5. Launch.
     4.5.1. The STP Office manages SV-to-LV integration for launches on which STP has
     provided the LV. Responsibilities for integration on launches not owned by STP will be
     specified in the MOAs between the STP Office and those organizations carrying STP
     payloads. The PI will support the experiment at the launch site as required during pre-
     and post-flight operations. The STP Office normally provides:
     4.5.2. Risk management, to include minimizing risk to the experiment by managing
     launch interfaces and launch-related risks, and providing flight safety management
     among mission elements (e.g.; multiple SC deployed from a single LV) and with resident
     space objects (RSOs).
     4.5.3. Support services and equipment on the LV.
     4.5.4. Pre-launch system checkout.
     4.5.5. Payload test and storage facilities at the launch site.
     4.5.6. Launch services.
  4.6. On-Orbit Support.
     4.6.1. The responsibility for orbital support is specified in the associated MOAs found in
     the SFP Package.
        4.6.1.1. SERB Experiments. The STP Office may support on-orbit operations for
        SERB payloads for up to one year. Standard one-year operations includes normal on-
        orbit checkout and activation of the SC and experiment (up to 30 days after launch),
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 15


        followed by collection of a full year of seasonal data, if required. On a case-by-case
        basis, SERB experiments that require on-orbit operations beyond one year may have
        support extended by approval of the STP Director. Extended operations agreements
        should be documented in a new or amended MOA. The experiment Sponsor will
        provide status updates to the STP Office during extended operations. Should a third
        party request extended on-orbit operations of a particular experiment, this
        arrangement will be documented in a new MOA between the STP Office and the
        requesting organization. The requesting organization will be wholly responsible for
        the costs of the extended support. The STP Director will serve as the satellite control
        authority (SCA) for all complete SC STP sponsors for flight through the first year of
        operations consistent with STP funding. The STP Director may delegate all or part of
        SCA authority on a case-by-case basis as necessary to ensure safe operations.
        4.6.1.2. Reimbursable Experiments. On-orbit support for reimbursable (non-SERB)
        customers will be tailored to the needs of the customer.
     4.6.2. When the STP Office procures or arranges orbital support for SERB payloads, it
     also:
        4.6.2.1. Provides risk management to include minimizing risk to the experiment
        through conservative flight planning and scheduling, maximizing on-orbit
        opportunities for the PI to perform experiment operations, and providing flight safety
        and orbital safety management among mission elements (e.g., multiple SC deployed
        from an LV) and with RSOs.
        4.6.2.2. Trains flight crews and flight controllers for manned missions (e.g. Shuttle
        and ISS payloads) as required.
        4.6.2.3. Provides experimental data, ephemeris, and appropriate SC data to the
        experiment PI or Sponsor for up to one year (or other approved period) of operation.
     4.6.3. The STP Office may arrange for orbital operations support for SERB experiments
     and reimbursable STP missions via a variety of methods including utilization of SMC
     SDTW ground segment resources, commercial providers, or development of new
     capabilities. The method will be selected based upon its ability to achieve mission
     objectives and provide best value to the DoD.
     4.6.4. The Sponsor or PI:
        4.6.4.1. Supports STP and the operations team in initialization, checkout, flight
        controller and flight crew training as applicable, routine operations, and anomaly
        resolution involving their experiment.
        4.6.4.2. Reduces, analyzes, interprets, and disseminates data.
        4.6.4.3. Provides funds for orbital operations beyond 1 year if extended operations
        are desired. In accordance with paragraph 3.7.1.1
  4.7. Post-Launch and Post-Flight.
     4.7.1. Post Launch Assessment. The STP Office, Sponsors, and PIs meet after each
     launch to exchange data and experience, offer recommendations, and document lessons
     learned.
16                                                       AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


  4.7.2. .After Action Reports.
         4.7.2.1. SERB payloads. After a spaceflight, Sponsors and PIs must document
         results by sending DD Form 17212 (or a similar results-orientated report) to the STP
         Office within six months of the completion of the one-year STP mission. For shorter
         missions such as one-week Shuttle missions, the report is due six months after
         receiving mission data. As a courtesy, PIs will also provide copies of all papers and
         reports associated with the experiment to STP for retention in the STP Library. The
         1721-2 can be obtained on the SERB Website.
         4.7.2.2. Reimbursable payloads. Not required, but are encouraged.
     4.7.3. Data Exchange Meetings. Data Exchange Meetings are held periodically to
     update STP, SAF, and the DoD community on the results of SERB experiments. When
     convenient, STP Data Exchange meetings will be held in conjunction with a major
     professional aerospace conference. This allows STP to disseminate information about
     their programs, and PIs can publish their work in a recognized professional proceeding.
5. PROGRAMMATIC
  5.1. Management Reports.
     5.1.1. The STP Office must prepare the following reports to inform STP EA of STP
     activities:
         5.1.1.1. Program Status Reports. The STP Office prepares STP status reports as
         required by the Program Management Directive (PMD)
         5.1.1.2. Launch Activity. The STP office notifies STP EA immediately of any
         change in SERB STP mission launch dates and provides launch reports to STP EA, as
         the PMD requires.
         5.1.1.3. Funding Status. The STP Office provides reports to STP EA on funding
         status for all SERB STP missions as changes occur per the PMD.
  5.2. History File. The STP Office is directed to maintain an STP Library that includes
  copies of all approved DD Forms 1721, 17211 and 1721-2, list of experiments flown, launch
  history, costs, and pictures. The STP Office will maintain any other information needed to
  properly provide a historical file for the STP program.
  5.3. Security. STP is an unclassified program and does not publish an overall security
  guide. However, STP works with appropriate classified payload offices and their respective
  security guides when dealing with classified data or payloads.
  5.4. Safety. Sponsors and PIs must consult applicable DoD, AF, AFSPC, and NASA safety
  regulations early in the experiment design phase with help from the STP Office. Sponsors
  and PIs must provide the technical documentation required to confirm that the experiment
  meets safety criteria.
  5.5. Radio Frequency License.
     5.5.1. For SERB missions which STP acquires the SC, the STP Office arranges for radio
     frequency licensing for the entire system, including the SC, experiments, and ground
     sites. The PIs support this effort by providing necessary information in a timely manner.
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 17


     5.5.2. When the SERB experiment consists of a complete SC requesting only launch or
     operations support from STP, the experiment Sponsor must arrange for radio frequency
     licensing. This is still true even if STP arranges with the Sponsor to manifest another
     experiment onboard the SC as a piggyback.
     5.5.3. When the SERB experiment is a piggyback on a non-STP host SV then the
     organization responsible for the host SV arranges for the frequency license for the SV. If
     the piggyback SERB experiment uses a communications link separate from the SV then
     the PI must arrange for the frequency license for their experiment.
     5.5.4. For non-SERB payloads, the Sponsor/customer is responsible for all radio
     frequency allocation coordination and approval.
  5.6. Information Release. SMC, Office of Public Affairs (SMC/PA) provides the policies
  and procedures for releasing public information about STP launches. PIs, Sponsors, support
  program offices, and LV offices must comply with applicable MOAs for release of all
  information associated with an STP program. MOAs will comply with all appropriate
  operational security and freedom of information act requirements.
6. PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS
  6.1. Changes. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
  SAF/AQSL using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                          Philip Breedlove, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS, Operations, Plans, and Requirements

                                          Thomas H. Killon
                                          Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for
                                          Research and Technology

                                          Nevin P. Carr Jr. Rear Admiral, U.S. Navy,
                                          Director Test and Evaluation and Technology
                                          Requirements
 18                                                      AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-12, Space, 1 Feb 1996
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
DoDD 5101.2, DoD Executive Agent for Space, 3 Jun 2003
DepSecDef Memorandum, Space Test Program Management and Funding Policy, 8 Jul 2002.
National Security Space Acquisition Policy 03-01, Guidance for DoD Space System Acquisition
Process, 27 Dec 2004
SMC SDTW, Space Test Program (STP) User’s Guide, Nov 2004
Department of Defense Space Experiments Review Board Website,
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC— Air Force Space Command
APL— Auxiliary Payload
AR— Army Regulation
DARPA— Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
DepSecDef— Deputy Secretary of Defense
DoD— Department of Defense
EELV— Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle
ELV— Expendable Launch Vehicle
ERD— Experiment Requirements Document
FOA— Flight Opportunity Agreement
ICD— Interface Control Document
ISS— International Space Station
LV— Launch Vehicle
MDA— Missile Defense Agency
MOA— Memorandum of Agreement
NASA— National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NRO— National Reconnaissance Office
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                   19


OPNAVINST— Operational Naval Instruction
OSD— Office of the Secretary of Defense
PI— Principal Investigator
PLRD— Payload Requirements Document (for ELV flights)
PMD— Program Management Directive
PMRWP— Preliminary Mission Risk White Paper
POCWP— Preliminary Operations Concept White Paper
PRD— Payload Requirements Document (for human spaceflight)
R&D— Research and Development
RSO— Resident Space Object
SAF/US— Under Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AQS— Office of the Assistant Secretary (Acquisition), Director of Space Acquisition
SC— Spacecraft
SERB— Space Experiments Review Board (in this instruction refers to DoD SERB)
SFP— Space Flight Plan
SMC— Space and Missile Systems Center
SMC SDTW— Space and Missile Systems Center, Space Development and Test Wing
SPO— System Program Office
STP— Space Test Program
STP EA— Space Test Program Executive Agent
SV— Space Vehicle
TRD— Technical Requirements Document
USSTRATCOM— United States Strategic Command

Terms
Auxiliary Payload— A payload utilizing mission capability not required by the primary
mission. An APL may be of two types: secondary or piggyback.
Experiment— A scientific, technological, or developmental investigation or test. An
experiment may include several instrument packages from the same or different sponsoring
agencies.
Launch Vehicle— An aerospace vehicle that places SV into space. A LV can be expendable
(e.g.; Pegasus) or reusable (e.g.; Space Shuttle).
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)— The MOA will identify responsibilities and funding
obligations of each organization for the planned mission and for termination of the agreement. It
will be based on a standard STP format. The STP Office will prepare and sign (STP Program
 20                                                        AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010


Director, or designee) an MOA with each of the experiment sponsors prior to the submittal of a
SFP package. In addition, MOAs may be written between STP and a government SV, LV, or
operations support provider.
Payload— A load that a launch vehicle places into space. This term can be used to describe all
or part of the entire collection of experiments, SCs, and SVs.
Piggyback APL— An instrument or operation that makes use of excess capability of a host SV
or LV for power, data downlink, pointing, etc. It is not deployed as a free-flier.
Piggyback payload— Experimental SV or experiment/instrument that accomplishes its mission
while remaining attached to a host SV or LV.
Primary payload— A SV that defines the primary objective of a launch and usually drives the
launch requirements.
Primary Space Vehicle— The SV that supports the primary objective of a launch and usually
drives the launch requirements.
Principal Investigator— Serve as the primary point of contact with the STP Office concerning
an experiment's status and funding. (Note: An experiment may have more than one Sponsor;
however each experiment will have only one PI.).
Research— All effort directed toward increased knowledge of natural phenomena and
environment and toward the solution of problems in all fields of science. This includes basic and
applied research
Secondary APL— A complete SV that makes use of excess LV lift capability. It is deployed as
a free-flying SV typically after the Primary SV is deployed.
Secondary payload— Experimental SV that shares a LV with a Primary payload and separates
from the LV and/or primary payload.
Spacecraft— A satellite bus with subsystems that is capable of carrying one or more
experiments.
Space Flight Plan— A 1-2 page document that gives a brief overview of the mission, and
authorizes the expenditure of STP dedicated resources. It contains at least the following: LV and
date, experiment complement, orbit, SC and support equipment, and STP cost per fiscal year for
SC development, payload integration, the LV, and launch and orbital support.
Space Flight Plan Package— A collection of documents deemed necessary for the manifest of
an STP mission. STP User’s Guide provides specific documents to be included in the SFP
Package.
Space Vehicle— A vehicle consisting of a SC with integrated experiments including all
instruments and mission elements.
Sponsor— The agency responsible for oversight of an experiment to include approving it for
SERB presentation or, in the case of reimbursable, STP assistance.
STP— considers and employs a variety of spaceflight modes, including opportunities on the
Space Shuttle, ISS, and other military, civil, and commercial missions. For those experiments
that cannot be accommodated by auxiliary opportunities, STP may provide a dedicated SC and
launch opportunity on an expendable launch vehicle (ELV) based on availability and funding.
AFI10-1202 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                       21


Technology— The application of science or scientific method or material to achieve an
objective. These are tested through experiments.




Interservice Publication Distribution List
Army: Distribute in accordance with DA Form 12-9A requirements for R&D.
Active Army: D
USAR: None
ARNG: None
Navy:
SNDL Chief of Naval Operations (N091, N63)
Chief of Naval Research (OCNR 4000)
Naval Research Laboratory (NRL 1000, 7000, 8000)
Commander, Naval Space Command (Code VN00T)
Stocked:
(SNDL FKM22)
NAVPUBFORMCEN
5801 Tabor Ave
Philadelphia PA 19120-5099 (100)
