BY ORDER OF THE                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-202 VOLUME 1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              10 MARCH 2008
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 17 September 2012

                                                                                      Intelligence

                                                                   INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A2FM                                                                 Certified by: AF/A2F
                                                                             (Mr. Neil R. Greene)
Supersedes:    AFI14-202, 28 March 1994                                                  Pages: 16


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures. It establishes the Air Force Intelligence Personnel Training (IPT) Program and is
applicable to all Air Force active, Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve officer,
enlisted, and civilian intelligence personnel assigned to Air Force intelligence functions and
activities. As part of the IPT Program, this instruction establishes Initial Qualification Training
(IQT), Mission Qualification Training (MQT), Specialized Training, and Continuation Training
(CT) requirements for intelligence personnel to support Air Force objectives. AFI 14-202,
Volume 1, Intelligence Training, does not apply to personnel currently on flying status.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. The WICC-TDS record-keeping system referenced in this
instruction holds System-of-Record Notice (SORN) number F014 AF/A2FM A, WICC-TDS.
Restrictions expressed in an instruction can be made more, but not less, restrictive by
supplement. The provisions of higher-level publications take precedence over lower-level
publications. This policy document supports all Air Force Intelligence Training Transformation
(IT2) efforts as mandated by DoD and other national policy directives.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements new guidelines that clarify terms and concepts for intelligence
training, clarify requirements/procedures to document training, clarify procedures to perform
training without a 14-2 MDS, describe training programs in Multi-MDS wings and describe
 2                                                                AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008


procedures to deal with personnel with previous qualifications in the same MDS. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.
1. General. This instruction prescribes basic policy and guidance for training intelligence
personnel according to AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures. This instruction takes
precedence over mission design series (MDS), weapons system, intelligence function or activity-
specific instructions. Unique, customized, and/or specialized training programs are defined in
AFI 14-2 MDS, weapons system, intelligence functional, activity-specific, Volume 1,
Intelligence Training, instructions.
     1.1. Program Goals. The Intelligence Personnel Training (IPT) Program ensures all
     personnel conducting intelligence duties in an intelligence function or activity attain and
     maintain the qualifications and currencies needed to support their unit's mission effectively.
     There are several levels of training required for development of the intelligence and military
     skills to prepare intelligence personnel to complete their assigned mission. Attachment 3
     illustrates the flow of events for initial qualification and mission qualification training which
     will be explained in this instruction.
     1.2. Waiver Authority. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, the AF CFM is the
     waiver authority for training issues as related to this instruction. Submit waiver requests to
     the basic guidance in this instruction through applicable training channels to MAJCOM/A2
     or designated level. MAJCOM/A2s will forward requests in message or memo format to AF
     CFM. Waivers to supplemental guidance will be handled by the MAJCOM agency that
     generated the supplement.
     1.3. Responsibilities:
        1.3.1. AF/A2:
            1.3.1.1. Sets policy for conducting and executing IPT programs to include oversight
            of the Intelligence Formal Training Units (IFTU) and Formal Training Units (FTU),
            as applicable.
            1.3.1.2. Delegates office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this instruction to
            AF/A2F.
            1.3.1.3. Monitors and reviews MAJCOM Mission Design Series (MDS), weapons
            systems, intelligence functional, activity-specific IPT programs, ensuring
            MAJCOM/A2 policies, guidance and instruction supplements are consistent with this
            directive.
        1.3.2. MAJCOM/A2s. MAJCOM/A2s are responsible for the overall management of the
        command's intelligence training program. The Air National Guard (ANG) is considered a
        MAJCOM for the purpose of this instruction.
            1.3.2.1. Theater Indoctrination Training. Ensure the Numbered Air Force (NAF)/Air
            Force Forces (AFFOR A-2) or equivalent unit develops and provides theater
            indoctrination training as needed for their AOR to ensure intelligence personnel are
            trained on unique theater requirements. As a minimum, this training will include a
            thorough review of specific theater requirements and procedures, theater threat status
            and weapon systems, reporting instructions, connectivity requirements, host nation
            agreements and applicable OPLANs/CONPLANs.
AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008                                                                     3


        1.3.2.2. Lead MAJCOM. AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, establishes
        a lead MAJCOM and user commands for each MDS, weapons system, intelligence
        function and activity. When a lead MAJCOM is not identified, then AF/A2 will
        designate the lead MAJCOM.
           1.3.2.2.1. AFI 14-2 MDS, weapons system, intelligence function, activity -
           specific, Volume 1, Intelligence Training (Referred to as AFI 14-2(MDS)v1
           throughout the remainder of this instruction). The lead MAJCOM, in coordination
           with user commands, will develop and manage the appropriate AFI 14-2(MDS)v1
           to standardize intelligence training requirements, regardless of mission
           designation and command of assignment. AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 may be more but not
           less restrictive than this instruction. Unresolved differences between lead and user
           commands will be elevated to AF/A2F for final resolution.
           1.3.2.2.2. AFI 14-2(MDS)v1-Specific Training Conference. Lead commands will
           host MDS, weapons system, intelligence function, activity-specific training
           conferences every other year, or more frequently if required, in the form of an
           Intelligence Realistic Training Review Board (IRTRB). The training conference
           will review all training programs for currency, applicability, compliance and
           effectiveness, and address issues in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. Attendees should include
           training representatives from user commands, formal schools, training and
           standardization offices (as applicable), and select unit representatives. When
           possible, MAJCOMs should schedule IRTRBs in conjunction with other events to
           minimize travel costs.
           1.3.2.2.3. Program Guidance Letters (PGL) will follow guidance provided in AFI
           36-2201 Volume 2.
           1.3.2.2.4. Master Question File (MQF) and Training Materials. The lead
           MAJCOM/A2 will develop and maintain the MQFs for the MDS, weapons
           system, intelligence functions and activities for which they are designated lead
           MAJCOM IAW AFPD 14-2. Likewise, the lead MAJCOM/A2 will develop and
           maintain standardized training materials to be used in qualification training. The
           MAJCOM MQF is the baseline. Units may augment the MQF with their unit
           specific questions.
        1.3.2.3. Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU)/Formal Training Unit (FTU). The
        lead MAJCOM for training is the command tasked with providing formal training
        (HQ AETC or lead MAJCOM, as applicable). The lead MAJCOM for training is
        responsible for execution of the IFTU/FTU program to include ensuring adequate
        resourcing and funding for sustainment of existing IFTUs/FTUs, excluding TDY-to-
        school costs. The using MAJCOM which requests stand-up of a new IFTU/FTU or
        increases the requirements of an existing course will also be responsible for
        identifying and providing all funding related to start-up costs unless already funded as
        part of a weapons system package.
        1.3.2.4. Formal School Courses. The lead MAJCOM for training and user
        MAJCOMs will coordinate formal school courses and syllabi to ensure training
        requirements of user MAJCOMs are met. Coordination will be conducted IAW AFI
        36-2201 Volume 5 procedures. These courses and syllabi should be developed to
4                                                              AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008


           support the Air Force Mission Essential Task List. Send proposals for amending
           existing course prerequisites and syllabi or deleting obsolete courses through the
           appropriate headquarters to the lead MAJCOM for training for approval. The lead
           MAJCOM for training will process the approved changes in coordination with the Air
           Force Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA) OPR. Access the
           ETCA website at https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
           1.3.2.5. Formal Course Review (FCR). Training commands will convene FCRs
           annually or more frequently if required. The FCR reviews formal training programs
           and syllabi for currency, applicability, compliance and effectiveness. Attendees
           should include training representatives from user commands, curriculum developers,
           formal schools, training and standardization offices (as applicable), and selected unit
           representatives. When possible, schedule FCRs in conjunction with an IRTRB to
           minimize travel cost and maximize participation.
           1.3.2.6. MAJCOMs providing intelligence related training will, within their
           intelligence courses, establish student progress review procedures and outline
           processes to address student elimination when students fail to progress.
       1.3.3. Unit Senior Intelligence Officers (SIOs). SIOs, supervisors or their designated
       representatives will ensure individuals receive training to successfully support the unit's
       mission and maintain individual proficiency. The SIO is the oversight authority in
       determining when qualification for intelligence service is subject to review due to an
       individual’s questionable duty performance. Questionable duty performance includes, but
       is not limited to, lack of proficiency in intelligence duties, failure to meet stan/eval
       criteria, failure to meet currency requirements, lack of progress or lack of judgment.
           1.3.3.1. For units who do not have a published AFI 14-2(MDS) vol 1-3 series, the
           SIO will ensure there is local written guidance that directs the local qualification
           training program in accordance with AFI 14-202 Vols 1-3. The SIO will use
           MAJCOM provided guidance and instruction to develop a local qualification training
           program. The local guidance will cover qualification training, the standardization and
           evaluation program to validate training and general intelligence procedures.”
       1.3.4. Intelligence Personnel. Intelligence personnel are responsible for monitoring and
       completing all training requirements.
    1.4. Qualification Training Time Limitations. Intelligence personnel entered in an in-unit
    qualification training program, with the exception of upgrade training, should be dedicated to
    that program; i.e., training requirements have priority over non-training related duties.
    Training time limitations for qualification training completion are contained in applicable
    AFI 14-2(MDS)v1s. In-unit training will begin no later than 45 days (90 days for AFRC and
    ANG) after reporting to a new duty station or unit, unless waived by the MAJCOM/A2.
       1.4.1. Every effort must be made to afford the trainee an opportunity to complete
       qualification training with as few competing commitments as possible.
       1.4.2. First term airmen are encouraged to complete the First Term Airman Course
       (FTAC) or equivalent at their gaining unit prior to beginning in-unit qualification
       training.
AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008                                                                      5


   1.5. Trainer Requirements. The unit SIO will designate in writing those intelligence
   personnel certified to conduct qualification training (IQT/MQT/Specialized Training) for
   intelligence personnel. Trainers should be selected based upon their qualifications, currency,
   and areas of expertise. The SIO will ensure trainers are qualified in areas on which they
   provide instruction prior to conducting training. Trainer qualification will be in accordance
   with AFI 36-2201 Volume 3 and AFI 14-2(MDS)v1, as applicable.
   1.6. Recurrency Training. Reference applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 for duty position specific
   currency requirements.
       1.6.1. Loss of Currency up to 6 Months. Intelligence personnel (and non-intelligence
       personnel assigned to intelligence functions and activities) must demonstrate proficiency
       in all delinquent items with an intelligence qualification trainer or SIO-designated
       supervisor.
       1.6.2. Loss of Currency Exceeding 6 Months. AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 establishes which items
       will result in unqualified status if an individual is not current and will require
       requalification according to paragraph 1.7.
   1.7. Requalification Training. Intelligence personnel revert to unqualified status upon
   expiration of their qualification evaluations or loss of currency exceeding 6 months (for
   currency items specified in applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 according to paragraph 1.6.2),
   whichever occurs first. This includes specialized qualifications and currencies. For all
   intelligence personnel, unless made more restrictive in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1, requalification
   requirements are as follows:
       1.7.1. Unqualified up to 2 Years. Complete training in all delinquent items (as
       applicable), as well as any additional training as directed by the Senior Intelligence
       Officer and be task evaluated.
       1.7.2. Unqualified 2 to 5 Years. Complete appropriate formal requalification course and
       be task evaluated. When a requalification course does not exist or quotas are not
       available, units will request waivers as specified in the AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
       1.7.3. Unqualified Over 5 Years. Complete the appropriate MDS specific IFTU (basic
       (B) or transition (TX)) or in-unit IQT as determined by the MAJCOM/A2.
       1.7.4. Currency issues described above are independent of the award/retention of an Air
       Force Specialty (AFS). For guidance on these issues consult AFI 36-2101, Classifying
       Military Personnel Officer and Enlisted.
2. Initial Qualification Training (IQT). IQT prepares intelligence personnel for basic
qualification to perform basic duties in an assigned position for a specific MDS, weapons
system, intelligence function or activity, without regard for a unit's specific mission. The
Intelligence Qualification Evaluation (QUAL) is administered at the conclusion of IQT.
Evaluation specifics are addressed in AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization and
Evaluation Program.
   2.1. General Requirements. Unless specified in applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1, the primary
   method of initial qualification is to attend and complete the appropriate formal training
   courses listed in the Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Completing the
   appropriate formal IQT courses satisfies all unit initial qualification training requirements.
 6                                                              AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008


     When a formal course does not exist or quotas are not available, units will request waivers as
     specified in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 to conduct in-unit initial qualification training,
     using formal school courseware (see paragraphs 1.4 and 2.3). The lead MAJCOM will
     incorporate IQT program requirements into the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
     2.2. IQT Prerequisites. Before attending formal training courses, intelligence personnel must
     comply with the appropriate formal course training prerequisites prescribed in the ETCA.
     2.3. In-Unit IQT Requirements. For in-unit initial qualification training, commanders will
     obtain and use the current formal school courseware as the baseline reference for their
     programs.
        2.3.1. Academic Training. Accomplish academic training requirements as directed in
        applicable courseware.
        2.3.2. Written Examinations. Satisfy requirements of AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
        Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v2.
        2.3.3. Task Evaluations. Satisfy requirements of AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence
        Standardization and Evaluation Program, and applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v2.
3. Mission Qualification Training (MQT). MQT follows IQT and is training needed to qualify
intelligence personnel to perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. The
applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 and other relevant AFIs prescribe minimum MQT requirements.
Completion of Specialty Training Standard task and knowledge training requirements may be
accomplished concurrently with MQT.
4. Continuation Training (CT). Continuation training provides the volume, frequency, and mix
of training necessary for intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency at their assigned
qualification. Applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 prescribes minimum CT training requirements.
     4.1. Intelligence Personnel Status. Intelligence personnel (and non-intelligence personnel
     assigned to intelligence functions or activities) may be assigned Mission Ready, Combat
     Mission Ready, Basic Mission Capable, or Basic Qualification status.
        4.1.1. Mission Ready (MR)/Combat Mission Ready (CMR) is the status of intelligence
        personnel who have satisfactorily completed MQT and maintain qualification and
        currency in the appropriate tasks and knowledge required by their respective AFI 14-
        2(MDS)v1 and other applicable instructions.
        4.1.2. Basic Mission Capable (BMC) is the status of intelligence personnel who have
        satisfactorily completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain
        MR/CMR status. BMC personnel must be able to attain MR/CMR currency status within
        30 days, or as otherwise specified in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. BMC personnel
        may not deploy without attaining MR/CMR currency status prior to deploying in support
        of unit operations. Personnel deploying to support other than unit taskings may deploy in
        BMC status.
        4.1.3. Basic Qualification (BQ) is the status of intelligence personnel who have
        satisfactorily completed IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not
        perform mission duties unsupervised. The member must perform at a minimum level as
        established in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. BQ personnel may not deploy without
        additional training.
AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008                                                                    7


  4.2. Training Events. Intelligence personnel training events are tracked and updated using
  the on-line documentation system.
  4.3. Currency. The Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) and currency requirements are listed
  in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. RIP outlines the minimum CT requirements and is designed to focus
  training on capabilities needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. RIP events are
  specific to an MDS, intelligence function or activity. BMC and MR/CMR intelligence
  personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks identified in the applicable AFI 14-
  2(MDS)v1.
     4.3.1. MAJCOM/A2, or equivalent SIO, may adjust currency requirements for training
     events unique to an organization. For example, assume AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 directs
     specific intelligence training tasks in support of the air-to-ground mission for that MDS,
     but a particular unit which has this same MDS assigned is unique in that it only has an
     air-to-air mission.
     4.3.2. Temporary Duty (TDY). Individuals preparing to depart on an extended TDY
     (e.g., professional military education (PME)) should ensure all training requirements are
     current prior to departure. Members should complete a proportionate amount of training
     requirements by the end of the month preceding the date of departure for TDY. When
     possible and practical, trainers and trainees should be proactive in obtaining and
     completing necessary training that may expire while TDY.
     4.3.3. Permanent Change of Station (PCS). Upon PCS to the same or like MDS,
     weapons system, intelligence function or activity, individuals meeting the requirements
     specified in the gaining MAJCOM intelligence directives (if applicable) will retain
     current qualifications. The gaining unit will note the member’s evaluation due dates and
     enter the member into the local MQT. Upon completion of MQT, the member will be
     entered into CT/RIP. The member will complete the mission evaluation as previously
     scheduled. Unless directed by the SIO there is no requirement to do a mission evaluation
     (MSN) ahead of the already scheduled MSN suspense. The member’s next evaluation
     due date will remain the same from the losing unit. Members should complete a
     proportionate share of training requirements by the end of the month preceding the date
     of departure for PCS. Upon PCS to a different MDS, weapons system, intelligence
     function or activity, individuals will enter qualification training beginning with IQT per
     the specific AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 and prepare to progress through the requisite training and
     stan/eval events until becoming mission ready as directed by the SIO.
  4.4. Proration of Training. Prorate training requirements for personnel not available for
  training events (for example, PCS, TDY, or emergency leave). Prorate requirements in direct
  proportion to the number of days of non-availability. Do not prorate for non-availability of
  15 days or less. For every 30 days beyond 15 days, prorate training requirements one month,
  but not to less than one event. Additional proration guidance may be established in each AFI
  14-2(MDS)v1. For example, an individual is granted emergency leave for 20 days in Jan. He
  then goes to the NCO Academy Feb-Mar and is gone for 45 days (65 days cumulative). His
  SIO authorized him a total of 2 months proration from his training cycle. Since AFI 14-
  2(MDS)v1 requires a debrief be done quarterly (i.e., once every 90 days), the individual now
  has 150 days from his last debrief to complete the debrief requirement. (2 months/60 days
  proration + 90 days for the requirement = 150 days)
 8                                                             AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008


Table 1. Proration Allowance.

 CUMULATIVE DAYS OF NON-                MONTHS OF PRORATION
 AVAILABILITY                           ALLOWED
 0-15                                   0
 16-45                                  1
 46-75                                  2
 76-105                                 3
 106-135                                4
 136-165                                5
 166-195                                6
 196-225                                7
 226-255                                8
 256-285                                9
 286-315                                10
 316-345                                11
 over 345                               12


     4.5. Failure to Complete Continuation Training Requirements. Report individuals in AEF
     Reporting Tool (ART) and/or SORTS (as applicable) non-mission ready (N-MR), if they fail
     to complete periodic continuation training requirements as defined in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
     Waiver requirements and waiver authorities will be specified in AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
5. Specialized Training. Specialized Training is training in any skill necessary to carry out the
unit’s assigned missions that is not required for every intelligence unit member. Specialized
Training is accomplished after Mission Qualification Training and after the member has attained
MR/CMR or BMC qualification, and is in addition to MR/CMR or BMC requirements. For
example, an External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) requires Specialized Training and a specialized
evaluation (referred to as an “EIT” evaluation) to conduct intelligence training for non-
intelligence AFSC personnel (e.g., pilots, aircrew, civil engineers). EITs have additional
qualification and currency requirements to maintain proficiency in conducting intelligence
training. All members will complete MQT before entering Specialized Training unless it is
specifically directed as part of MQT in applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. See applicable AFI 14-
2(MDS)v1 for Specialized Training requirements. If a unit has responsibility for providing
intelligence training to non-intelligence AFSC personnel, the unit must have written guidance
outlining its EIT specialized training in the form of an AFI 14-2(MDS) series, MAJCOM or local
guidance.
6. Multiple Qualifications at a Multi-MDS Location. In multi-MDS wings, it may be more
effective for the SIO to determine intelligence personnel hold qualification to support more than
AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008                                                                    9


one MDS. In this case, MQT for each additional MDS would train to satisfy the MQT events not
previously addressed and already trained in earlier MQT. The member would then be tested by
written examination and be task evaluated on those training items via a mission evaluation. The
AF Form 4350 would be annotated with the specific areas evaluated. Units wishing to exercise
this method must author local written guidance to outline program requirements and staff to
MAJCOM/A2 for approval. At a minimum, the MAJCOM/A2 will review the written guidance
biennially or when the unit updates the guidance.
7. DELETED.




                                           DAVID A. DEPTULA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           DCS/Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 10                                                          AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 3305.02, General Intelligence Training
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel Officer and Enlisted
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training
AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation
AFI 36-2201, Volume 2, Air Force Training Program Training Management
AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On the Job Training Administration
AFI 36-2201, Volume 5, Air Force Training Program Career Field Education and Training
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AIA—Air Intelligence Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
BQ—Basic Qualification
AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008                                                            11


CCP—Consolidated Cryptologic Program
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CT—Continuation Training
CTC—Combat Targeting Course
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer/Training
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement
FCR—Formal Course Review
FTU—Formal Training Unit
FYDP—Future Years Defense Plan
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
IPT—Intelligence Personnel Training
IRM—Intelligence Resource Manager
IROC—ISR Operations Course
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
N-BMC—Non-Combat Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
N-MR—Non-Mission Ready
OJT—On-the-Job Training
PGL—Program Guidance Letters
PR—Progress Review
PSU—Primary Support Unit
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RTRB—Realistic Training Review Board
SCE—Service Cryptologic Element
SRB—Student Review Board
USAFWS—United States Air Force Weapons School

Terms
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain MR/CMR status.
 12                                                              AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008


Personnel must be able to attain MR/CMR currency status within 30 days, or as otherwise
specified in the applicable AFI 14-2-(MDS)v1.
Basic Qualification (BQ)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not perform mission duties
unsupervised. BQ is a prerequisite for all personnel to enter MQT. The member must perform at
a minimum level as established in the applicable AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks and knowledge
required by their respective AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. See Mission Ready (MR).
Continuation Training (CT)—Additional training exceeding the minimum upgrade training
requirements. Continuation training provides the volume, frequency, and mix of training
necessary for intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency in their assigned qualification. AFI
14-2(MDS)v1 prescribes minimum CT requirements.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a
given event.
Formal Course—Training courses listed in the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcement (ETCA).
Initial Qualification Training (IQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel for
basic duties in an assigned position for a specific MDS, weapons system, intelligence function or
activity, without regard for a unit's specific mission.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel to
perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. AFI 14-2(MDS)v1 prescribes
minimum MQT requirements.
Mission Ready (MR)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily completed
MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks and knowledge required
by their respective AFI 14-2(MDS)v1. See Combat Mission Ready (CMR).
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having the
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Proficiency—The quality of having competence and a command of the fundamentals derived
from practice and familiarity. A measure of how well a task is completed. An individual is
considered proficient when he/she can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed,
accuracy, and safety.
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP)—Program that outlines the minimum CT requirements and
is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions.
RIP events are specific to an MDS, intelligence function or activity. BMC and MR/CMR
intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks identified in the applicable AFI 14-
2(MDS)v1.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)—The highest-ranking Air Force officer holding the 14N3 or
14N4 Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) or Series 0132 Civilian and serving in an Air Force
AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008                                                                         13


intelligence position. The SIO's authority extends to all directly subordinate and tenant
intelligence units within the organizational chain of command. Installations with intelligence
activities in different chains of command will have separate SIOs. In this capacity, the SIO
provides senior guidance on all policy development, interpretations, and applications. Further,
the SIO serves as the chief advisor and mentor for AF intelligence officers, enlisted and civilians
(as appropriate) in terms of career development and progress.
Training Command—The MAJCOM assigned responsibility for formal school training (not
necessarily AETC) in each MDS, weapons system, intelligence function or activity.
Specialized Training—Training in any skill necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions
that is not required for every intelligence unit member. Specialized Training is accomplished
after MQT and after the member has attained MR/CMR or BMC status, and is in addition to
MR/CMR or BMC requirements. For example, as outlined in AFI 14-2F-16, Volume 1, F-16
Unit Intelligence Training, an External Intelligence Trainer (EIT) requires Specialized Training
and certification to conduct intelligence training for pilots. EITs have additional qualification and
currency requirements to maintain proficiency in conducting intelligence training.
 14                                                           AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008


                                        Attachment 2
                     INTELLIGENCE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

Figure A2.1. Intelligence training requirements
 Qualification   Training        Ready Intelligence Program Standardization & Evaluation
 Status          Requirement     (RIP)/Continuation Training (Stan/Eval) Check Requirement
                 for Status      (CT)3 Currency Requirement
 BQ6             IQT1            No                             QUAL4
 MR/CMR7         IQT + MQT2+ Yes                                Initial (INIT MSN) and Periodic
                 Certification                                  (20 month cycle) (MSN) 5
 BMC8            IQT + MQT + Yes                                Initial (INIT MSN) and Periodic
                 Certification                                  (20 month cycle) (MSN)
 Notes:
 1IQT consists of AFSC awarding courses and IFTU/FTU


 2MQT is a unit-developed training program specific to the unit’s mission


 3CT consists of internal intelligence training and Ready Intelligence Program requirements


 4QUAL—Qualification Evaluation—the evaluation administered to ensure basic qualification
 in the duty position of the intelligence professional.


 5MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation—the evaluation administered to ensure the
 individual’s ability to support full mission planning and employment in accomplishing the
 unit’s operational mission. Note: The periodic cycle upon which evaluations are given is based
 on the 20-month Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) rotation cycle. Evaluations coming due during
 a unit’s AEF vulnerability period must be completed prior to entering the window. See AFI 14-
 202 Volume 2, Table 5.1.


 6BQ—Basic Qualification—Upon completion of IQT, intelligence personnel attain BQ status.
 BQ is a prerequisite for MQT. BQ is not a long-term qualification status.


 7MR/CMR—Combat Mission Ready—The status of intelligence personnel who have
 satisfactorily completed MQT and maintain qualification and currency in the appropriate tasks
 and knowledge required by their respective AFI 14-2(MDS)v1.
AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008                                                               15


 8BMC—Basic Mission Capable—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
 completed training (MQT), are qualified in the unit mission but do not maintain MR/CMR
 status. Personnel accomplish training required to remain familiarized in all the primary
 missions of their unit. These personnel may also maintain specialized qualifications.
 16                                                   AFI14-202V1 10 MARCH 2008


                                       Attachment 3
                   QUALIFICATION TRAINING FLOW OF EVENTS

Figure A3.1. Qualification training flow of events
