BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-2501
AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF                            AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON                                                                Supplement

                                                                                 30 APRIL 2010
                                                             Certified Current on 18 March 2013
                                                                                     Operations

                                                AIR FORCE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
                                                       (EM) PROGRAM PLANNING AND
                                                                      OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.af.mil/e-publishing

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFDW/A7X                                                  Certified by: HQ AFDW A4/7
                                                                       (Col Brian C. Bellacicco)
                                                                                      Pages: 19


AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, is
supplemented as follows. This supplement implements Air Force District of Washington
(AFDW) policy by supplementing specific processes and procedures that are unique to this
command and it applies to all AFDW Active Duty units. It applies to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units when noted. Non-AF tenant
organizations with an EM program requirement will coordinate with Host EM Program Manager
to ensure compliance with DOD policy. Installation commanders will publish local EM program
requirements in base supplements and plans as necessary. Send comments and suggested
improvements to this supplement on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through channels, to HQ AFDW/A7X, 1535 Command Drive, Suite D309, Andrews AFB MD
20762. This supplement is numbered to match the AFI. The word ―       ADDED‖ indicates addition
of new paragraphs, tables, or attachments not listed in the basic AFI. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management system (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.myaf.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

1.4. The HQ AFDW Readiness and Emergency Management Division (HQ AFDW/A7X) is the
office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the AFDW EM program and for developing AFDW
guidance to this instruction.
 2                                                  AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


1.4.1. EM program waiver requests from AFDW installations will be submitted under the
signature of the process owner. Those processes related to Civil Engineering, Prime BEEF, or
Readiness & Emergency Management (R&EM) Flight program management will be signed by
the CES/CC. Installation processes (i.e. unit SAV program, CBRNE Defense Training, shelter
programs, etc) must be submitted under the signature of the Installation Commander. Submit
waivers to HQ AFDW/A7X.
2.3.1. AFDW EM planning and management structure is supported by and supports the AFDW
Corporate Structure which is led by the Corporate Council, managed by the Corporate Board,
and consists of numerous working groups including the Threat Working Group (TWG), the Anti-
Terrorism Working Group (ATWG), and the combined Emergency Management/Counter-
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Working Group, called the EM/CWG. AFDW
EM program requirements will be addressed in conjunction with the EM/CWG.
2.3.1.2. The AFDW Corporate Council and Board are the executive-level groups with AFDW-
level responsibilities similar to those of the AF FPSG. See AFI 10-245, Air Force Antiterrorism
(AT) Standards.
2.3.1.3. Within AFDW the EM/CWG is co-chaired by HQ AFDW/A7X and A5Q. Items that
need to be elevated will be staffed through the appropriate directorate for senior leader
attention/resolution and/or raised through the AFDW Corporate Structure for resolution. AFDW
EM/CWG includes representation from the following [Note, membership below supersedes
existing AFDW EM/CWG Charter]:

Table 2.1. Membership in AFDW EM/CWG.
 A1S Services                                       A7X Fire Emergency Services
 A2 Intelligence                                    A7X Explosive Ordnance Disposal
 A3Y Exercise and Training                          A8 Programs and Financial
                                                    Management
 A3O Current Operations                             A9 Lessons Learned
 A4R/M Logistics                                    Surgeon General
 A5X Plans & Programs                               Inspector General
 A5Q Special Missions (Co-Chair)                    Public Affairs
 A6 Communications                                  Safety
 A7X Emergency Management (Co-Chair)                AFOSI
 A7S Security Forces                                Judge Advocate
2.3.1.4. The AFDW ATWG is required IAW AFI 10-245 and supports the AFDW Corporate
Council/Board on FP enterprise management. The ATWG works AT/FP issues assigned or
proposed through the Corporate Structure, and agreed upon by the members. The AFDW
ATWG coordinates efforts with the AFDW EM/CWG to prevent duplication of effort. The HQ
AFDW/A7S chairs the ATWG. The AFDW ATWG is an action officer group that meets to
work AT/FP issues.
2.3.2. AFDW Instruction 10-2, AFDW Command Center, details the roles and responsibilities of
AFDW during Homeland Operations and exercises. Crisis, contingency, exercise, and wartime
operations require continuous HQ AFDW attention as well as timely response to Joint Forces
Headquarters National Capitol Region (JFHQ-NCR) requirements.
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                                                                  3


3.5.2. HQ AFDW/A7X is the command OPR for WMD funding (PEC 27574) and CBRN
defense funding (PEC 27593).
3.6.1. Director of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (A4/7). HQ AFDW/A7X is the
OPR for the AFDW EM Program, performing all MAJCOM-level EM functional area
management.
3.6.1.5. AFDW installations will use the CEMP 10-2 template developed by AFCESA and
available   through     the   AFCESA       EM    Community     of    Practice (CoP):
https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-EN-CE-A9.
3.6.1.7. Attachment 8 outlines AFDW contingency response organizations and procedures.
3.6.1.13. HQ AFDW/A7X will develop, review, and consolidate any EM assessment criteria.
3.6.1.18. See Attachment 9 (Added) for staff assistance visit program guidelines and criteria.
3.10.3.1. (Added) Each installation will develop an installation instruction or Wing supplement
to 10-2501 to codify, at a minimum, the elements of the installation EM program identified in
this Supplement for inclusion in an installation instruction or Wing supplement.
3.10.3.2. (Added) Each installation will identify the units required to maintain EM programs to
include unit EM representatives, EOC representatives, UCCs, shelter-in-place programs,
specialized team members, and unit training schedulers. Installations will also address in an
installation instruction or Wing supplement to 10-2501 specific requirements or exemptions for
individual tenants, when applicable.
3.10.9. Installation commanders will ensure primary and alternate EOCs are established and
meet the requirements stated in AFI 10-2501, para 3.11.15, as supplemented.
3.10.16. 316th Wing will ensure COLPRO operations are addressed in appropriate installation
guidance.
3.10.25. (Added) Ensures R&EM Flight personnel (3E9X1) and assigned RST members are not
subject to additional duties or details conflicting with their ability to prepare for and respond to
emergencies. Emergency Management becomes an RST member’s primary duty when
scheduled for training, exercises, or during actual emergencies. This policy applies during
peacetime and wartime contingencies. Bioenvironmental Flight personnel should not have duties
or details conflicting with their ability to prepare for and respond to emergencies.
3.10.26. (Added) In conjunction with unit commanders, will ensure installation adopts
Emergency Management Common Output Level Standards in accordance with OSD-directed
joint basing implementation schedule.
3.11.1. AFDW installations will use their installation instruction or Wing supplement to identify
units responsible for EM Representatives. Units will appoint both primary and alternate EM
representatives.
3.11.1.1. Both primary and alternate representatives must meet training requirements.
3.11.1.2.4. Units will also keep training records for all appropriate unit personnel in their EM
program folder. AFDW R&EM Flights will use their installation instruction or Wing supplement
to identify additional unit EM program folder requirements.
 4                                                   AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


3.11.3. AFDW installations will use their installation instruction or Wing supplement to identify
units responsible for EOC members. The commander/flight chief of those organizations/units
who have functional OPRship for an Emergency Support Function (ESF) (e.g., CEF, CEO, CEV,
CEX, CS, LRS, MDG, PA, SF, SVS) is the primary ESF representative. Alternates will be
appointed in writing giving them the full authority of the commander/flight chief to commit unit
resources in support of contingency/emergency situations.
3.11.4. AFDW installations will use their installation instruction or Wing supplement to identify
team requirements and team composition required in support of their installation CEMP 10-2.
3.11.5. AFDW installations will use their installation instruction or Wing supplement to identify
the requirements to establish and maintain a UCC in support of CEMP 10-2.
3.11.9. R&EM Flight will provide attendance feedback to unit commanders. Attendance data
will be briefed at the EMWG.
3.11.12. As part of the Installation EM program, units will display, at a minimum, the following
information on unit bulletin boards: EM representative(s) name and contact information, AFVA
10-2510, USAF Emergency Notification Signals, and appropriate facility shelter information.
3.11.13. Logistics Readiness Squadrons and Life Support functions will send CBRN defense
budget requirements (C-Bags and D-Bags, respectively) through the R&EM Flight to HQ
AFDW/A7X for funding from PE 27593. HQ AFDW/A3OH will validate aircrew individual
protective equipment (IPE) requirements prior to POM submissions. WMD response budget
requirements will be consolidated by the R&EM Flight and forwarded to HQ AFDW/A7X for
funding from PE 27574.
3.11.15. "Interoperable communications‖ is defined as the ability of emergency response
providers and relevant Federal, State and local government agencies to communicate with each
other as necessary, using information technology systems and radio communications systems;
and exchange voice, data, or video with each other on demand, in real time, as necessary.
Primary ICC and EOC must have this capability, to include video tele-conferencing.
3.11.21. Use SAV checklist located in the AFDW folder on the Readiness and Emergency
Management Flight CoP. This checklist may be amended by a base instruction or installation
supplement.
3.11.22. (Added) All required representatives, special team members, and alternates, including
but not limited to, EM reps, EOC reps, EET members, and unit training schedulers, will be
appointed in writing. Letter of appointed individuals should be signed by unit commander and
kept in the Unit EM binder as part of their support to the Wing EM program.
3.12.1. AFDW installations will use their installation instruction or Wing supplement to identify
team requirements and team composition required in support of CEMP 10-2.
3.12.1.1. Each AFDW installation will identify the number of RST required to support EM
operations based on the mission. This will be included in the installation instruction or Wing
supplement. These teams are for in-garrison response, not deployed operations.
4.3. The installation should analyze what resources are made available under MOAs or MOUs.
An installation can augment its resources through cooperation with local or regional agencies,
other nearby Air Force and DoD resources. These additional support elements might include
HAZMAT teams, fire departments, emergency medical services, public health offices, law
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                                                                  5


enforcement agencies, environmental agencies, communications capabilities, and contracted
response and remediation companies. 11th Wing and 316th Wing will coordinate their CEMP 10-
2 to determine response support and distances of travel for initial response requirements. AFDW
installations will ensure HQ AFDW/A7X receives a copy of their CEMP 10-2 and corresponding
checklists on CD-ROM. Copies will be provided annually at a time corresponding to the
installation CEMP 10-2 review cycle.
4.3.2. Each AFDW R&EM Flight will include in their installation instruction or Wing
supplement guidance for the following areas at a minimum: R&EM Flight Operations, EM
Branch Program Management, Prime BEEF Program Management, EM SAV Program
Administration, and Readiness Proficiency Training Program Administration.
4.3.3. HQ AFDW uses the 316 WG CEMP as their EM plan and maintains checklists as
required by the host Wing’s EM program.
4.3.7.3. Annex C is not required in the CEMP 10-2 for AFDW installations.
4.9.5. (Added) CEMP 10-2 will include procedures for contacting the nearest FBI office to
report any CBRNE incidents.
5.5. AFDW installations will include specific guidance on unit EM response equipment in their
installation instruction or Wing supplement. This will include all supplies/materials used for
shelter-in-place (SIP) activities as well as procedures for establishing shelters.
5.5.3. (Added) The R&EM Flight Chief establishes inspection intervals for all EM equipment
and supplies maintained by the R&EM Flight IAW applicable technical data. When technical
data is not available, establish a 180-day inspection interval to ensure resource serviceability and
accountability. Inspections must be documented.
5.7.2.1. Each AFDW installation will develop local procedures for storage and issue of
operational IPE.
5.7.2.6. Each AFDW installation will develop local procedures for storage and issue of CBRNE
training assets.
5.8.1. The Mobility Inventory Control and Accountability System (MICAS) will be used to
account for all groundcrew MOBAGS. Aircrew bags are tracked using either the Automated
Life Support Management System (ALSMS) or the Aircrew Life Support Equipment and
Records Tracking System (ALERTS). Units that issue cold weather gear to individuals and do
not bulk store B-bags will develop local procedures to show that the gear has been issued to unit
personnel and is being tracked and managed.
5.8.2.1. (Added) MOBAG reporting will be accomplished quarterly to applicable MAJCOMs
IAW AFMAN 23-110, Vol II, Part Two, Chap 26, Section F). The host base supply unit will
report AD tenant MOBAG totals to HQ AFDW/A4R/M. The latest version of MICAS will be
used for the roll-up reporting. MAJCOMs will tailor their reports for Air Staff using the current
reporting format. Installations will send reports via email attachment to HQ AFDW/A4R/M,
who will then consolidate the reports and send a single report to HQ USAF/A4RM.
5.8.2.2. (Added) The one base, one report concept is used for active duty units for funding
requirements. A-bags (general purpose) and B-bags (cold weather) components will continue to
come from unit O&M funds. C-bags and D-bags components will continue to be centrally
funded using program element 27593 and dispersed to HQ AFDW/A7X for allocation to
 6                                                   AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


individual bases. All active duty units, including tenant units, report their funding requirement
through the host base R&EM Flight for reporting to HQ AFDW/A7X. Active Duty tenant units
will no longer report their funding requirements to their respective MAJCOMs. For example, if
a base has a funding requirement for 100 C-bags, that total will be reported to HQ AFDW/A7X,
regardless of how many of those bags are required by tenant units (one base, one report).
6.4.1. Each AFDW R&EM Flight will ensure a minimum of two assigned 3E9X1 personnel in
the flight have attended formal training course J3AZP3E971-005, CBRN Cell Operations.
Request training quotas through HQ AFDW/A7X. Any exemptions to this must be approved by
HQ AFDW/A7X.
6.4.3.1. (Added) Unit commanders will ensure personnel attending EM training at the R&EM
Flight complete pre-requisite requirements. Documentation will be maintained in the unit and
reviewed during annual EM SAVs. Unit training schedulers are responsible to provide
attendance/no-show information to their respective commanders.
6.4.3.2. (Added) Unit schedulers, to include supported units, will provide R&EM Flight with the
total number of personnel requiring CBRNE Defense Training. R&EM Flight will use this
―baseline‖ information to establish their training schedule and program sufficient quotas to
ensure all personnel are trained within the required time frame.
6.6.1. R&EM Flight Superintendents will ensure that the training section develops an annual (at
a minimum) CBRNE Defense Training schedule which identifies training days, dates, projected
class duration, and instructors. Base number of CBRNE Defense classes required on the total
number of personnel requiring training plus an additional 10%. Allocate sufficient quotas to
each unit to ensure all personnel requiring training are accommodated.
6.6.1.13. Units will ensure individuals are trained to operate vehicles in chemical warfare gear,
as required. See AFI 24-301, paragraph 8.19.4 for further guidance. Installation functional SMEs
will identify the mission critical vehicles their respective functional area is required, as an
additional training task, to drive in Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment (CWDE). Supervisors
should keep record of TQT completion in their Unit’s EM Binder.
6.6.5.2. The unit EM representative will document and track all required DRF training course
completion, including ERO, and exercise or actual response participation for required unit
personnel.
6.6.5.3. (Added) HQ AFDW Staff members who are assigned as primary or alternates to the
following groups are required to complete the knowledge-based ERO CBT located at
https://golearn.csd.disa.mil: AFDW Command Center, Contingency Support Center,
EM/CWG, AFDW Exercise Team, and IG personnel. Personnel will complete this requirement
NLT 45 days after assignment in that function. Certificates of completion will be maintained by
each AFDW directorate and forwarded to the AFDW EM Program representative, who will
forward to 316 CES/CEX.
6.6.6. Each AFDW installation will identify the number of RST members required to support
R&EM operations as well as the tasked units in their installation instruction or Wing supplement.
6.6.7. On AFDW installations, shelter management training will address shelter-in-place (SIP)
and natural disaster shelter requirements. Shelter programs will be reviewed as part of the
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                                                           7


annual EM SAV 6.6.11. Within AFDW, requests for the AFIM Course will adhere to priorities
in Table 6.5.

Table 6.5. (Added) AFDW AFIM Course Priorities.
   Priority                               Individual/Function
      1         EOC Director
      2         Alternate EOC Director(s)
      3         EOC Managers (RFO/Readiness Superintendent (3E9X1))
      4         Senior Fire Officials (Fire Chiefs, Assistant Chief of Operations and
                Readiness, and Assistant Fire Chief for Operations)
      5         EET Chief or other EET member who will evaluate EOC Director, EOC
                Manager, or IC
      6         MSG/CC
      7         BCE, Security Forces Commander, and SF Operations Officer
6.9. (Added) R&EM Flight Proficiency Training. Proficiency training (―
                                                                     in-house training‖) for
R&EM Flight members is crucial for preserving technical proficiency.
6.9.1. (Added) R&EM Flights will develop a training plan delineating at least 8 hours of in-
house training per week. The 3E9X1 CFETP is a good source for training topics.
6.9.2. (Added) Flights will obtain BCE signature of their in-house training schedules.
Proficiency training plans and schedules will be forwarded with the EM Quarterly Report to HQ
AFDW/A7X by the 15th of the first month of each quarter.

Table 7.1. AFDW Emergency Management (EM) Program Exercise Requirements –
Installation Exercises.
Type of          Frequency          Andrews                  Bolling
Exercise
Major            Two Annual         The following            The following
Accident         FTXs               scenarios must be        scenarios must be
                                    covered within a 24      covered within a 24
                                    month period: air        month period: mass
                                    show, aircraft           casualties, HAZMAT,
                                    accident, mass           off-base7
                                    casualties,
                                    HAZMAT,
                                    munitions, off-base7
Natural          Annually – can     Scenarios should be      Scenarios should be
Disasters        be TTX as long     dictated by threats      dictated by threats
                 as requirements    indicated in             indicated in installation
                 in AFI 10-229      installation CEMP        CEMP 10-2
                 are met            10-2
Terrorist Use    Two annual         Within a 24 month period, scenario must cover
of CBRNE         FTXs               Chemical, Radiological, and high-yield
                                    Explosive at least once. Biological will be
                                    exercised in accordance with AFI 10-2603 and
 8                                                      AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


                                     10-2604
CBRNE            One Quarterly       1.     Can be combined with any other
Response         FTX                        exercise scenario.
Force (CRF)                          2.     Must include combined forces from
                                            Bolling and Andrews at least twice
                                            annually.
Note 6 – AFDW OREs cannot be combined with other types of exercises.
Note 7 (ADDED) – Off-base must be covered annually and can mean AFDW forces
going off base or off base forces coming on base.
Note 8 (ADDED) – At least one exercise annually must include direct interaction
with HHQ, such as HQ AFDW and/or HQ JFHQ-NCR
7.3.1. AFDW/A3Y will be the primary office for planning and coordinating the AFDW Exercise
Program.
7.6.4. The EET Chief will ensure all details of off-base exercises will be forwarded to HQ
AFDW PA no later than 14 days prior to exercise.
7.6.8. (Added) Installation EET Chiefs will forward a copy of the wing exercise schedule for the
following calendar year to arrive at AFDW/A3Y NLT 1 October of each year.
7.7. AFDW/A3Y will help coordinate and monitor the AFDW EET program.
7.8. AFDW/A3/5 will manage the AFDW Remedial Action Program.
7.9. (Added) AFDW/A9 will collect or manage the lessons learned process for all exercises and
real world events.
8.2.2.1. AFDW installations will forward their annual report to HQ AFDW/A7X.
8.3. Include HQ AFDW A3/5; A7S; A7X; SG as addressees.
8.3.1. Include HQ AFDW/A7X as an addressee. If the incident involves HAZMAT, include HQ
AFDW/A7A as well.
8.3.1.1. (Added) Notification of AFDW. The appropriate AFDW offices will be notified of any
release that meets one or more of the following criteria:
8.3.1.1.1. (Added) Results in injury or loss of life.
8.3.1.1.2. (Added) Results in loss of aircraft or facility.
8.3.1.1.3. (Added) Causes interruption of flying operations.
8.3.1.1.4. (Added) Causes environmental contamination extending beyond installation
boundaries.
8.3.1.1.5. (Added) Creates financial impact exceeding $50K.
8.3.1.1.6. (Added) May result in litigation, publicity or media coverage.
8.3.1.1.7. (Added) Other reasons, as specified by local commander.
8.3.2. Include HQ AFDW/A7X as an addressee.
8.4. AFDW/A9 will work with exercise/real world event participants to capture lessons
observed and forward after action report to AFDW/A7X.
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                                                             9


8.5. (Added) AFDW EM Program Reporting Requirements. Installation R&EM Flights will
provide HQ AFDW/A7X with quarterly reports detailing the Wing EM program to include
tenant participation. Quarterly reports will be submitted to HQ AFDW/A7X on the 15th of the
first month of each quarter. The template for the AFDW Quarterly EM Report can be found in
the AFDW folder on the Readiness and Emergency Management Flight CoP.
8.5.1. (Added) All units and tenants will follow the EM program quarterly reporting
requirements as outlined in AFI 10-2501 and their installation/host wing instruction or
supplement to AFI 10-2501.
8.5.2. (Added) 316 CES/CEX will provide monthly operational status updates on the Installation
Protection Program (IPP) capability on Andrews AFB to 316 CES. HQ AFDW/A7X will be
copied on all of these reports. For any IPP systems that are not fully operational, report will
annotate the cause as well as the status of system repairs.
9.3. AFDW installations will use LAN over-ride messages, commander’s access channel, public
address systems, and telephone/cell phones in addition to other warning methods as needed.




                                           DARRELL D. JONES, Maj Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
 10                                               AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDWI 10-2, AFDW Command Center, 15 October 2007
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 30 March 2009
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
January 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events, 15 October 2003
AFI 10-2603, Emergency Health Powers On Air Force Installations, 7 December 2005
AFI 10-2604, Disease Containment Planning Guidance, 6 April 2007
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEW—Air Expeditionary Wing
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
AFIMC—Air Force Incident Management Course
ALERTS—Aircrew Life Support Equipment and Records Tracking System
ALOHA—Areal Locations of Hazardous Atmospheres
ALSMS—Automated Life Support Management System
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
C2—Command and Control
CAMEO—Computer-Aided Management of Emergency Operations
CATS—Consequence Assessment Tool Set
CHARM—Chemical Hazard Assessment and Risk Management
CoBRA—Chemical Biological Response Aid
COOP—Continuity of Operations
CoP—Community of Practice
CRC—Contingency Response Cell
CRF—CBRNE Response Force
EM/CWG—Emergency Management and CBRNE Working Group
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                   11


EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
FTX—Field Training Exercise
GPS—Global Positioning System
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HPAC—Hazard Prediction and Assessment Capability
IHT—In-House Training
IWS—Installation Warning System
JWARN—Joint Warning and Reporting Network
JOA—Joint Operations Area
LAN—Local Area Network
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOBAGS—Mobility Bags
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NCR—National Capitol Region
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OPCON—Operational Control
OSC—On-Scene Commander
PEC—Program Element Code
RAM—Random Antiterrorism Measure
SFO—Senior Fire Official
SIP—Shelter In-Place
TACON—Tactical Control
TTX—Table Top Exercise
VLSTRACK—Vapor, Liquid, Solid Tracking
 12                                                  AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


                                         Attachment 4
                        INSTALLATION FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT

Table A4.9, Item 2. Serves as the HAZMAT emergency program manager, and oversees the
installation HAZMAT emergency planning and response activities.

Table A4.12, Item 3. Provides CBRN-related RAM actions to Wing AT/FP OPR for inclusion in
installation AT/FP plan. As a minimum include:

Table A4.12, Item 3.1. (Added) Detection network set-up and activation.

Table A4.12, Item 3.2. (Added) Installation entry point detection protocols.

Table A4.12, Item 3.3. (Added) Biological sampling protocols.

Table A4.12, Item 3.4. (Added) Increased contact with local emergency management agencies.

Table A4.12, Item 23. AFDW installations will prepare and use a CBRN sector/zone map. If
the map is already sectored for another purpose (e.g., security or evacuation), these sectors may
be used for CBRN events, or new sectors may be developed.

Table A4.12, Item 31. Submits training funding as a separately identified line item to
HQ AFDW/A7X for PE 27593 POM submission.

Table A4.12, Item 45. Base the checklist on areas identified for review in Attachment 9 of this
supplement.

Table A4.24, Item 11. Assessments will be coordinated with the R&EM Flight.

Table A4.34, Item 1. Use 48 to 72 hours as the sheltering time for peacetime planning purposes.
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                                                               13


                                    Attachment 8 (Added)
                            AFDW CONTINGENCY RESPONSE

A8.1. Command and Control. HQ AFDW organizations with major roles in contingency
response include the AFDW Command Center, AFDW Contingency Support Center (CSC),
AFDW TWG, and other AFDW Directorates and contingency cells as necessary to support
installations during an EM situation. Further guidance is included in AFDWI 10-2, AFDW
Command Center. Guidance in this supplement supersedes the AFDW Chemical, Biological,
Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield Explosive Response Force (CRF) Concept of Operation,
signed 17 Mar 08.
A8.2. CBRNE Response. CBRNE response within AFDW is based on an organizational
construct called the CBRNE Response Force (CRF). The CRF aligns the major non-medical
care, operational components of AFDW CBRNE response under a ―         one-force‖ employment
concept. The concept covers how existing AFDW first and emergency responders organize,
train, equip and deploy in support of AFDW missions. The AFDW CRF matrixes the
organizations with a direct response role in the Warm/Hot Zone of a CBRNE incident scene into
an integrated response force. These organizations include Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE),
Emergency Management (EM), Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), and Fire Emergency
Services (FES). The purpose of the CRF construct is to enable and support a more flexible and
efficient CBRNE response capability that will enhance AFDW’s ability to continue its core
missions. The CRF construct does not include the acceptance of any missions beyond the scope
of existing AFDW or AF response missions and guidelines.
A.8.2.1. Operational Concept. The CRF is a multi-functional, scalable CBRNE response
capability providing a functionally integrated response to CBRNE events.
A.8.2.1.1. The CRF combines the CBRNE response assets of the 316 WG, 11 WG, and 79
MDW into a ―    one-force‖ employment concept. It allows for the CBRNE first and emergency
(non-medical care) responder communities on Andrews and Bolling to operate more efficiently
on base, share resources for mutual gain, and respond in a flexible, scalable manner. It will also
help ensure that resources are available to respond to concurrent CBRNE incidents, if required.
A.8.2.1.2. The CRF will conduct detection, monitoring, initial identification, crime-scene
preservation, sample collection, CRF team immediate decontamination, and consequence
management and hazard assessment, to include plume modeling and hazard duration analysis.
The CRF will also provide situational analysis to deter and mitigate hazards, recommend
protective actions, and present operational and health risk management options to the
commander to help manage the effects of the event, minimize the impact on the local populace,
and assist in facilitating recovery efforts. EOD will provide explosive support according to their
capabilities. FES also provides fire suppression and hazard containment.
A.8.2.2. Organization. The CRF is composed of three functional components: EOD operations,
FES HAZMAT operations, and C-CBRN operations. Within AFDW, this involves six flights:
316 CES/CEX, 316 CES/CED, 316 CES/CEF, 11 CES/CEX, 779 AMDS/SGPB and the 579
AMDS/SGPB. The CRF represents less of a procedural shift for these responders, and more of
an evolution of the Organize, Train, and Equip standard operating procedures.
A.8.2.2.1. EOD operations will be conducted by the 316th Civil Engineer Squadron Explosive
Ordnance Disposal Flight. EOD will follow their normal operating procedures and will carry out
 14                                                 AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


the ―  E‖ response of the CRF at the scene of a CBRNE incident as outlined in AFI 10-2501.
EOD will exercise with the other elements of the CRF annually, at a minimum.
A.8.2.2.2. FES HAZMAT operations will be conducted by the 316th Civil Engineer Squadron
Fire Emergency Services Flight for activities on Andrews. (The Navy District of Washington
will provide FES HAZMAT services on Bolling AFB. They are currently not a part of the CRF
but will be partnered with the CRF as appropriate.) The FES HAZMAT Team will provide
traditional HAZMAT support to include initial identification, plugging, patching, damming,
diking, diverting and other containment actions according to established internal and external
operating procedures. FES will exercise with the other components of the CRF annually, at a
minimum.
A.8.2.2.3. C-CBRN operations will be conducted by a cross-functional pool of CBRN
technicians. The C-CBRN component of the CRF will consist of multiple capabilities-based
force constructs, the employment of which can be tailored to respond to a specific situation.
C-CBRN component members will consist of:
A.8.2.2.3.1. Personnel from BE, EM, and FES.
A.8.2.2.3.2. All EM and BE technicians from the 316 WG, 11 WG, and 79 MDW, as well as a
minimum of ten FES personnel, will be trained to be C-CBRN component members.
A.8.2.2.3.3. This ― pool‖ concept allows for flexibility in manning the C-CBRN component
capitalizing on the combined manpower strengths of the five flights involved (EM and BE at
Bolling, EM, BE, and FES at Andrews).
A.8.2.2.3.4. Personnel will not be assigned duty positions by name to allow for flexibility when
staffing CRF operations. In this way, concurrent mission taskings and AEF deployments can
still be accomplished in conjunction with CRF response operations.
A.8.2.2.3.5. The C-CBRN component will be organized under a team construct.
A.8.2.2.3.5.1. Teams will be composed of capabilities-based elements, e.g., initial monitoring,
sampling, decontamination, etc., and the number of personnel will depend on the nature of the
incident.
A.8.2.2.3.5.2. The CRF Playbook, containing CRF TTPs, will further define the composition,
functions and operations of the C-CBRN component. The playbook will be produced and
maintained as a collaborative effort between the flights involved in the C-CBRN component.
316 CES/CEX will be the OPR and 779 ADMS/SGPB will be the OCR. AFDW/A7X,
AFDW/A5Q, and AFDW/SG will facilitate playbook maintenance as needed.
A.8.2.2.3.6. Ancillary support to the C-CBRN component will be requested and provided in
accordance with standard operating procedures. This would include, but is not limited to, use of
the RST in non-responder specific roles, for example, as a radio operator and/or recorder.
A.8.2.2.4. Each installation will posture and source as many functional components of the CRF
as they have the manpower and specialties to support. Specifically:
A.8.2.2.4.1. Bolling AFB will posture a C-CBRN component comprised of BE and EM
personnel. EOD support will continue to be provided by the 316 CES/CED. FES HAZMAT
support will continue to be provided by the Navy.
A.8.2.2.4.2. Andrews AFB will posture an EOD component, a FES HAZMAT component and a
full C-CBRN component.
A.8.2.3. Equipment.
A.8.2.3.1. All homestation (non-deployable) CBRN response equipment, including 4F9WM
mobility packages, and AFDW-purchased response equipment and personal protective
equipment, will be used during CBRN responses. AFDW-purchased equipment will be stored,
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                                                           15


maintained and sustained by the primary CRF functional user. Accountability of the equipment
is the responsibility of the functional user daily, and the senior CRF Logistics member during
CRF responses. The CRF response trailer will be stored, maintained and sustained by 316
CES/CEX.
A.8.2.3.2. Homestation CBRNE response equipment/PPE requirements, including replacement
equipment and expendables, will be consolidated by the installation R&EM Flight who will
forward to HQ AFDW/A7X. HQ AFDW/A7X will advocate for PE 27574 funding based upon
these requirements.
A.8.2.3.3. PPE requirements. Include Level A suits with Firehawk mask, Level B suits and other
PPE as needed will be maintained, one each per responder. (OSHA/NIOSH approved)
A.8.2.3.4. Detection Equipment. At a minimum, the CRF will maintain and sustain equipment
that can detect and identify the presence of radioactive isotopes, chemical warfare agents,
biological warfare agents, TICs/TIMs, and explosives.
A.8.2.3.5. CRF Trailer Requirements. The equipment listed in Table A8.1. will be maintained
and sustained by the 316 CES/CEX. The communications equipment listed will be used to
provide CRF on-scene communications.



Table A8.1. CRF Trailer Minimum Requirements.

   Qty                                      Item(s) and Purpose
  1 ea     Reflective stenciling ―AFDW CBRNE Response Force‖
  1 ea     Public address system
           Mobile weather station with computer data link providing temperature, dew point,
  1 ea
           wind direction and speed, and atmospheric pressure (WeatherPac or equivalent).
  1 ea     Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation receiver
  2 ea     Handheld GPS receivers
           Software. Include current versions of: Windows, Microsoft Office, Joint Warning
           and Reporting Network (JWARN), including NBC Analysis (only install NBC
           Analysis on properly marked standalone laptop due to security requirements),
           VLSTRACK, and HPAC; EPA-certified toxic industrial material plume plotting
  1 ea     software, such as ALOHA, CHARM, or equivalent; GEOBASE capability to view
           on- and off-base digital maps. Consider government off-the-shelf incident
           management software such as CAMEO and Consequence Assessment Tool Set
           (CATS); and commercial equivalents such as the Chemical Biological Response Aid
           (CoBRA).
           Portable generator(s) capable of providing continuous power to all installed/
  1 ea
           supported systems.
  2 ea     100 ft extension cord and power strips
  1 ea     Sheltered (from weather) work area for IC and key staff
  1 set    Area lighting (portable and mounted), capable of 150 sq ft of lighting
  1 set    On-base and off-base grid maps and off-base road maps.
  1 ea     First Aid Kit
  1 ea     Tool box/kit, road kit, jumper cables
  1 pr     Night Vision Goggles
 16                                                      AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


  1 ea      Laser Range Finder
            Digital camera to record critical activities. Must be capable of interfacing/
  1 ea
            downloading photos to laptop computers, if not prevented by AF regulations.
  1 pr      Binocular, prism type, individual 7 x 50
            Level A suits with Firehawk mask (OSHA/NIOSH approved) – 1 ea per responder
  1 ea      Vehicle capable of safely towing the CRF Trailer
Support items: Admin supplies (paper/pens/pencils/grease pencils/floppy disks/clip boards/plastic trash
bags), clock, compass, flagging ribbon, radio and cell phone battery chargers, flashlights or lanterns,
AM/FM radio with batteries, water, foul weather gear, sunscreen, and insect repellent.




A.8.2.3.6. Decontamination. The CRF will be prepared to decontaminate CRF personnel and
equipment and may assist in decontaminating first responders, if requested.
A.8.2.4. Training and Exercise.
A.8.2.4.1. All CRF personnel will be trained and certified to conduct the CRF mission as it
relates to their functional component (EOD, FES HAZMAT and C-CBRN). Traditional training
for EOD and FES HAZMAT is well defined and is not altered other than the requirement for
those components to train and exercise as a combined CRF.
A.8.2.4.2. The C-CBRN functional component will capitalize on a combined manpower pool by
training EM, BE and selected FES personnel to a common core knowledge base and technical
ability. Training requirements for members of the C-CBRN component are consistent with the
minimums set in AFI 10-2501. Additional training requirements are approved by the CRF
Working Group, a standing sub-committee of the AFDW EM/CWG. All BEEs are required to
obtain National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) HAZMAT Operations certification. It is
strongly recommended that all 7-level BEEs obtain NFPA HAZMAT Technician certification.
NFPA certifications can be obtained through 316 CES/CEF or through an outside source.
A.8.2.4.3. Proficiency training (― in-house training‖) for Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
and R&EM Flight members is crucial for preserving technical proficiency. All CRF components
will update their In-House Training (IHT) to reflect CRF TTPs and equipment. The C-CBRN
component will conduct IHT as a combined team at least once a month, four hours minimum.
The Bolling and Andrews C-CBRN components must conduct joint IHT sessions quarterly,
typically alternating between installations. These joint training sessions will focus on
operational response such as through mini-exercises.
A.8.2.4.4. Exercise. Refer to Table 7.1 of this supplement for CRF exercise requirements.
A.8.2.5. Employment. The CRF employment concept includes definition of the area of
responsibility, command relationships, and execution guidelines.
A.8.2.5.1. Area of Responsibility (AOR). The CRF’s primary AOR is AFDW installations. As
with any AFDW assets, the CRF may also be tasked to respond within the NCR, HQ AFDW’s
AOR, in accordance with all appropriate AFDW and HHQ guidance.
A.8.2.5.2. Execution. Execution guidelines include employment, deployment, redeployment and
reconstitution, and response times.
A.8.2.5.2.1. Employment. Responses will be conducted according to installation plans and
procedures. For an on-base event, the resident installation CRF capability will respond
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                                                          17


following standard C2 procedures. Should additional CRF support be required, the IC can
request additional CRF components and/or elements through the AFDW Command Center or, in
time-sensitive situations, a direct request can be made from wing to wing.
A.8.2.5.2.2. Redeployment and Reconstitution. Upon tasking from higher military headquarters,
the CRF will redeploy to home station. After any major CBRN response operation, sufficient
time and resources will be provided for CRF reconstitution. CRF will provide an inventory of
depleted items to HQ AFDW/A7X and AFDW/SG within 10 days after return to home station.
Costs associated with deployment (equipment, consumables, etc.) must be captured during the
course of execution. A detailed cost report will be provided to HQ AFDW/A8 within 10 days
after return to home station.
A.8.2.5.2.3. Response times. From initial indication and warning to tasking/response for a
CBRNE incident within the NCR JOA, response time may be a matter of hours to several days.
All CRF components will respond in accordance with local operating procedures or task orders.
Additional guidance on response times will be detailed in the CRF Playbook.
A.8.2.6. Reporting. Installation R&EM and BE Flights will provide HQ AFDW with quarterly
reports detailing the Wing CRF training and equipment status. Quarterly reports will be
submitted to HQ AFDW/A7X and AFDW/SG on the 15th of the first month of each quarter. The
templates for reporting CRF status can be found in the AFDW folder on the R&EM Management
Flight CoP.
 18                                                  AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010


                                    Attachment 9 (Added)
            STAFF ASSISTANCE VISIT REQUIREMENTS AND CRITERIA

A9.1. Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) Requirements. The AFDW SAV philosophy is based on
assisting the units in producing a better EM capability and aiding in mission accomplishment,
not on inspecting for compliance. R&EM Flights should refer to the AFDW SAV Program
Administrative Guide, posted in the AFDW folder on the Readiness & Emergency Management
Flight CoP, for specific SAV guidance and templates.
   A9.1.1. As part of the installation EM Program, R&EM Flights will perform SAVs on all
   assigned and tenant units on an annual (calendar year) basis (ANG and ARC units follow a 2
   year schedule). Flights will develop and publish an annual SAV schedule. Waiver requests
   to the annual SAV requirement must be signed by the Installation Commander and forwarded
   to HQ AFDW/A7X for submission to HAF/A7CXR.
   A9.1.2. AFDW R&EM Flights should use the R&EM Flight Self Assessment & SAV
   Checklist in the AFDW folder on the Readiness & Emergency Management Flight CoP as a
   guideline for their annual HQ SAV.
   A9.1.3. Installations should use their installation instruction or Wing supplement to add
   detail to the major areas below concerning installation specific EM program requirements.
A9.2. Unit SAV Criteria. The major areas that enhance a unit’s EM capability are training,
planning, equipping, exercising and funding.
   A9.2.1. Training. This area provides units with the foundation to build an effective EM
   capability. The following should be reviewed and worked:
       A9.2.1.1. Commanders and unit personnel have been identified and trained to
       accomplish mission requirements involving EM situations.
       A9.2.1.2. Specialized team personnel are assigned and trained to accomplish mission
       requirements involving EM situations.
       A9.2.1.3. Unit schedulers are assigned and appropriately tracking all required training.
   A9.2.2. Planning. This area provides units with the format for effective EM capability. The
   following should be reviewed and worked:
       A9.2.2.1. Commanders and control centers representatives (including ESFs) have
       identified and established all required plans and checklists to accomplish mission
       requirements involving EM situations.
       A9.2.2.2. Units have identified, in writing, all required representatives and specialized
       team members.
       A9.2.2.3. Units meet all requirements of the EM information program, including
       documentation.
   A9.2.3. Equipment. This area provides units with the tools for an effective EM capability.
   The following should be reviewed and worked:
       A9.2.3.1. Commanders and unit personnel have identified, procured, and trained on
       equipment required for EM situations.
AFI10-2501_AFDWSUP 30 APRIL 2010                                                          19


      A9.2.3.2. Specialized teams have been equipped to accomplish mission requirements
      involving EM situations.
      A9.2.3.3. Designated units adequately store and maintain their Individual Protective
      Equipment.
   A9.2.4. Funding. This area provides units with the ability to have an effective EM
   capability. The following should be reviewed and worked as necessary:
      A9.2.4.1. Commanders have identified and prioritized funding to accomplish mission
      requirements involving EM situations.
      A9.2.4.2. Commanders advocate for funding to ensure EM capability exists within their
      units.
A9.3. SAV Program Guidelines and Checklists. The AFDW SAV Program Administrative
Guide and checklists for both unit EM Program SAVs and R&EM Flight self inspections can be
found in the AFDW folder on the Readiness and Emergency Management Flight CoP. This
checklist may be added to by an installation instruction or Wing supplement.
   A9.3.1. Installations can add to the Unit Self-Assessment & SAV checklist as appropriate
   using their installation instruction or Wing supplement.
   A9.3.2. Use of the Installation SAV Trend Analysis, also located in the AFDW folder on the
   R&EM Flight CoP, is mandatory.
