BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 15-182
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                19 APRIL 2011

                                                                                       Weather

                                                                  WEATHER ENTERPRISE
                                                               CAPABILITY MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-WP                                            Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O-W
                                                                           (SES Fred P. Lewis)
Supersedes:   AFI15-182,                                                             Pages: 16
              7 December 2007


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 15-1, Air Force
Weather Operations, and should be used in conjunction with AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based
Planning & Requirements Development and AFPD 33-4, Enterprise Architecting. It provides
guidance for developing weather functional capabilities-based requirements; managing weather
systems; constructing Air Force Weather architectures; managing Air Force weather equipment
allowances; and providing Air Force input to modify (or make changes to) Army-provided
equipment and facilities for personnel conducting Air Force weather operations in support of the
U.S. Army (Army Regulation (AR) 71-32, Force Development and Documentation,
Consolidated Policies, AR 420-1, Army Facilities Management, and AR 210-20, Real Property
Master Planning For Army Installations). This AFI applies to individuals who participate in
capabilities-based activities within the Air Force weather operations community, including the
Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the major command (MAJCOM) weather functional
manager. This publication may be supplemented at any level; forward copies of any supplements
to the OPR upon certification and approval.
 2                                                               AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Summary of
major changes include: Removed Chapter 2 – Processes and Document Descriptions, and the
discussion of capability-based planning; revised and abbreviated the description of weather
requirements and architecture instructions; added procedures for providing Air Force input to
modify (or make changes to) Army-provided equipment and facilities for personnel conducting
Air Force weather operations; and corrected roles and responsibilities to match the current
organization.
AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011                                                                           3



                                            Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. Overview. Chapter 1 describes general roles and responsibilities for Air Force Weather
(AFW) enterprise capabilities-based activities. Chapter 2 illustrates the weather functional
requirements process and details roles and responsibilities to ensure Air Force weather units
receive adequate equipment and facilities, particularly Army equipment and facilities in support
of the weather functional Army support mission. Chapter 3 describes the AFW architecture
processes in support of capabilities-based activities. This document highlights several
capabilities roles and responsibilities resulting from Air Force weather support for the Army; see
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 15-157/ Army Regulation (AR) 115-10, Weather Support for the
U.S. Army for details. Note: The acronym AFW refers to the Air Force’s weather enterprise that
supports air, ground, space, cyberspace, and intelligence operations. It includes all forces, units,
and specialties involved in conducting weather operations and providing weather services. It
does not imply any organizational or unit alignment, nor an Air Force specialty. Specific
organizations, specialties, and units are cited when critical to understanding and technical
accuracy within this document.
1.2. Roles and Responsibilities. This document distinguishes three entities in AFW: 1) Air
Force weather functional--the Air Force Director of Weather (AF/A3O-W) and staff, and the Air
Force Weather Agency (AFWA), 2) Major Command (MAJCOM) weather functional--the lead
weather Airman at a MAJCOM and associated staff and 3) AFW (see previous note).
   1.2.1. Air Force Weather Functional
       1.2.1.1. Director of Weather (AF/A3O-W)
           1.2.1.1.1. Directs AFW capabilities-based planning (CBP) activities including
           strategic vision and guidance.
           1.2.1.1.2. Directs Air Force weather functional planning, requirements and
           acquisition.
           1.2.1.1.3. Approves Air Force weather functional and enterprise architecture
           viewpoints and models.
       1.2.1.2. Integration, Plans, and Requirements Division (AF/A3O-WX)
           1.2.1.2.1. Provides guidance and assistance for the development of AFW CBP
           documents and ensures CBP products support the planning and programming and
           requirements processes.
           1.2.1.2.2. Provides guidance and assistance for the Air Force weather functional
           capabilities-based analyses to develop and implement the best solutions across the
           Doctrine, Operations, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, and
           Facilities (DOTMLPF) spectrum.
           1.2.1.2.3. Directs Air Force weather functional participation in Air Force-level
           analyses, e.g., Capability Review and Risk Assessment.
4                                                                AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011


       1.2.1.2.4. Provides guidance and assistance for Air Force weather functional Joint
       Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) document development.
       1.2.1.2.5. Serves as Director of Weather staff focal point for architecture issues and a
       member of the AFW Architecture Council (AFWAC).
       1.2.1.2.6. Invites Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQ DA), Deputy Chief of
       Staff (DCS) for Intelligence, Operations and Plans Directorate, Surveillance Division
       (DAMI-OPS) to participate in the Air Force weather functional CBP and architecture
       development.
    1.2.1.3. Weather Resources and Programs Division (AF/A3O-WR)
       1.2.1.3.1. Directs Air Force weather functional resource and program execution.
       1.2.1.3.2. Provides programming, communications, manpower and systems subject
       matter expertise during development and execution of Air Force weather functional
       JCIDS documents.
       1.2.1.3.3. Participates in the Air Force weather functional CBP and architecture
       development.
    1.2.1.4. Weather Policy Division (AF/A3O-WP)
       1.2.1.4.1. Develops Air Force weather functional operational policies.
       1.2.1.4.2. Ensures the Air Force weather functional addresses Army weather
       requirements and capability gaps when appropriate.
    1.2.1.5. Director of Weather, Deputy for National Intelligence (AF/A3O-W
    DEPFOR NI)
       1.2.1.5.1. Provides Air Force weather functional expertise to the national intelligence
       planning communities.
       1.2.1.5.2. Participates in the Air Force weather functional CBP and architecture
       development.
       1.2.1.5.3. Advocates for the intelligence communities’ weather priorities and
       requirements.
    1.2.1.6. Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA)
       1.2.1.6.1. Develops JCIDS documents to provide the best solutions across the
       DOTMLPF spectrum.
       1.2.1.6.2. Conducts data collection and analysis to support Air Force weather
       functional CBP.
       1.2.1.6.3. Coordinates and provides the Air Force weather functional inputs to other
       supported and supporting documents, e.g., Air Force Command and Control (C2) and
       MAJCOM CBP analyses.
       1.2.1.6.4. Provides the Chief Architect, AFWAC Chair and leads AFW architecture
       development.
AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011                                                                   5


        1.2.1.6.5. Manages development and fielding of weather capabilities in accordance
        with applicable Air Force mission directives and other applicable documents.
  1.2.2. MAJCOM Weather Functional (includes Air National Guard and Air Force
  Reserve Command)
     1.2.2.1. Provides weather functional expertise to their respective planning communities
     during MAJCOM CBP processes, e.g., incorporates appropriate AFW strategic planning
     information in capabilities-based analyses and MAJCOM strategic plans.
     1.2.2.2. Participates in Air Force weather functional capabilities-based analyses to
     develop and implement the best solutions for required capabilities for AFW across the
     DOTMLPF spectrum.
     1.2.2.3. Develops, through their respective MAJCOM, weather operations capabilities-
     based requirements and champions the capabilities-based requirements through their
     command and the Air Force, and the Air Force weather functional, as appropriate.
     1.2.2.4. Advocates their command’s weather priorities.
     1.2.2.5. Participates in AFW architecture development.
  1.2.3. Air Force Weather Units. Provide weather requirements to their respective
  MAJCOMs for vetting and validation for planning and programming activities at the
  MAJCOM and/or Air Force weather functional.
 6                                                                     AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011


                                           Chapter 2

                         CAPABILITIES-BASED REQUIREMENTS

2.1. Weather Functional Capabilities-Based Requirements. The AF/A3O-W is the Air Staff
functional to facilitate weather operations capabilities-based requirements. The development of a
weather capability or solution to a capability shortfall, deficiency, or gap is accomplished
through JCIDS by a lead command, usually AFWA. This section details the Air Force weather
functional capabilities-based requirements process, which exists within the context of DOD,
Joint, and Service JCIDS.
     2.1.1. Information needs are addressed using a support assistance request in accordance with
     AFMAN 15-129, Air and Space Weather Operations - Processes and Procedures.
     Information needs in excess of the supporting unit’s mission capability or resources will be
     staffed through weather support channels for resolution, e.g., additional resources. Other
     needs across the DOTMLPF spectrum are processed in accordance with the appropriate
     command’s direction and can be resolved either through the command’s resources or
     potentially through the Air Force weather functional.
     2.1.2. This instruction does not prescribe or describe the internal requirements processes
     conducted at combatant commands or MAJCOMs. To use the Air Force weather functional
     process, units must have their requirement(s) forwarded through command channels to be
     validated by a Requestor, given in Column A of Table 2.1, Staffing Weather Requirements,
     below.

Table 2.1. Staffing Weather Requirements
                   A                     B                    C                     D
 ITEM         Requestor           Staff through            Staff to     Additional Information
   1        Federal Offices   Assistant Secretary of   AF/A3O-W         Provide a courtesy copy
                              Defense (Networks &      (Needs can       to Air Force Director of
                              Information              be provided      Weather, Deputy for
                              Integration)             to AFWA/CC       Federal Programs
                              (ASD/NII) to Joint       as the           (DEPFOR FP)
                              Staff Deputy Director    manager of
                              for Global Operations    the Air Force
                              (JCS J3 DDGO)            weather
     2      Combatant         JCS J3 DDGO              functional       Alternately staff through
            Command (see                               equipment        Air Component
            Note)                                      requirements     Commander to the
                                                       process).        MAJCOM
     3      Army (e.g.,       Deputy Chief of Staff,   AFWA will        Air Force organizations
            Statements of     G-2 (DAMI-OPS)           ensure           supporting the Army
            Requirements                               AF/A3O-W         submit their needs
            per                                        is informed      through their Air Force
            AFI 15-157/                                of the need      chain of command to the
            AR 115-10)                                 and obtains      MAJCOM/Field
AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011                                                                          7


                A                       B                   C                      D
 ITEM        Requestor           Staff through           Staff to      Additional Information
                                                      appropriate      Operating Agency for
                                                      adjudication.    validation and
                                                                       forwarding to AF/A3O-
                                                                       W
   4      MAJCOM (See                                                  MAJCOM to AF/A3O-
          note)                                                        W either directly or
                                                                       through the appropriate
                                                                       Air Staff office as
                                                                       directed by the
                                                                       MAJCOM
   5        National            ASD/NII to JCS J3                      Provide a courtesy copy
            Intelligence        DDGO-ROD                               to AF/A3O-W DEPFOR
            Community                                                  NI
            (external to the
            Services)
 Note. If a requirement is related to modeling & simulation of the natural environment or its
 effects, the requestor staffs the requirement through the DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S)
 Air and Space Natural Environment (ASNE) office and DoD ASNE Executive Agent
 (AF/A3O-W) for action or further staffing to an appropriate Service or DoD M&S office.
2.2. Management of Allowance Documents and Real Property Requests.

Table 2. 2 describes actions and responsible activities for managing allowance documents
and Army real property requests.
   2.2.1. Air Force Allowance Standards. The Air Force weather functional identifies
   equipment allowance standards as part of developing materiel solutions to warfighter needs.
   The Air Force weather functional will review applicable Air Force allowance standards
   (Allowance Source Codes (ASC) 786/789) aperiodically to ensure proper authorization
   standards.
   2.2.2. Army Tables of Organization and Equipment (TOEs) and Modified Tables of
   Organization and Equipment (MTOEs). The Army documents standard Army equipment
   for use by Air Force weather personnel in the appropriate TOE and provides recommended
   MTOE.
       2.2.2.1. Submitting Staff Weather Officer (SWO) TOE/MTOE Changes. Changes
       can be submitted as needed but are usually reviewed and approved or disapproved during
       the annual TOE/MTOE validation.
       2.2.2.2. Annual TOE/MTOE Validation. AF/A3O-W will convene a review board
       comprised of Special Operations Forces (SOF) and Combat Air Forces (CAF) MAJCOM
       weather functionals to review each MTOE and any requests for change. Each MAJCOM
       weather functional may request subject matter experts attend from the affected weather
       units. AF/A3O-W may request unit audits of on-hand MTOE equipment for review
       during the verification meeting to identify deficiencies that might be systemic and require
       Air Staff/HQ DA intervention. AF/A3O-W will compile suggested changes and
 8                                                                 AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011


         recommendations and provide the appropriate documentation to AF/A3/5 for
         endorsement to HQ DA.
      2.2.3. Army Real Property. Air Force weather organizations that receive facility support
      from their Army host will submit requests for real property to their supporting community
      activity.

Table 2.2. Management of Allowance Documents and Real Property Requests
                A               B                C                D                     E
                                                                                   Additional
                                                                                Information and
                                                                                   Prescribing
ITEM     Subject              OPR         Action             Forward to:            Directives
1.   Air Force            AF/A3O-WR Aperiodically          Allowance           AFMAN 23-110,
     Allowance                      review ASC 786         Manager, Air        USAF Supply
     Standards                      / 789 and develop      Force               Manual, Volume
                                    recommended            Equipment           4, Part 1, Chapter
                                    changes                Allowance           4
                                                           Division (405
                                                           SCMS /GULB)
                                                           through the
                                                           applicable
                                                           system program
                                                           director, product
                                                           group manager,
                                                           or materiel
                                                           group manager
2.       Army TOE and                                                          AF/A3O-W is
         MTOE                                                                  AF/A3/5 lead for
                                                                               SWO
                                                                               TOE/MTOE.

                                                                               AFI 15-157 and
                                                                               AR 71-32, Force
                                                                               Development and
                                                                               Documentation—
                                                                               Consolidated
                                                                               Policies
2.1                       SWO            Ensure                                AFI 10-201,
                                         authorized                            Status of
                                         equipment is on-                      Resources and
                                         hand and                              Training System,
                                         reported                              Table 4.4, rule 44a
2.2                       SWO            Submit           MAJCOM/A3            Provide
                                         recommended      (or designated       justification and
                                         changes          representative)      supporting
AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011                                                                    9


            A              B              C                  D                   E
                                                                             Additional
                                                                         Information and
                                                                            Prescribing
ITEM      Subject         OPR          Action          Forward to:           Directives
                                                                        documentation
                                                                        through Air Force
                                                                        channels; include
                                                                        endorsements by
                                                                        squadron, group,
                                                                        etc.
2.3                 MAJCOM/A3 Review SWO              AF/A3O (see
                    (or designated recommendations    Item 2)
                    representative) and submit
                                    changes
2.4                 A3O-W           Annually review   A3/5 for          SOF) and CAF
                                    and verify the    transmittal to    MAJCOM
                                    SWO TOE/          HQ DA Deputy      weather
                                    MTOE and          Chief of Staff    functionals will
                                    validate new      for Operations,   ensure that all
                                    requests or       Director of       requests for
                                    changes           Force             TOE/MTOE
                                                      Management        changes are
                                                      (DAMO-FM)         forwarded to
                                                                        AF/A3O-W
3.     Army Real                                                         AF A3O-W is
       Property                                                         AF/A3/5 lead for
                                                                        submitting Staff
                                                                        Weather Officer
                                                                        Army Real
                                                                        Property actions
                                                                        through the
                                                                        Army’s process.

                                                                      AFI 15-157, AR
                                                                      420-1, Army
                                                                      Facilities
                                                                      Management and
                                                                      AR 210-20, Real
                                                                      Property Master
                                                                      Planning For
                                                                      Army Installations
3.1                 SWO           Submit requests     Supporting      SWO will provide
                                  for real property   community       copies of all
                                                      activity in     requests through
                                                      accordance with their MAJCOM to
 10                                                 AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011


         A           B             C                D                   E
                                                                   Additional
                                                                Information and
                                                                  Prescribing
ITEM   Subject      OPR          Action         Forward to:        Directives
                                              local procedures AF/A3O-W
3.2              AF/A3O-W   Annually,         AF/A3/5 for      Used to support
                            AF/A3O-W will endorsement to HQ DA budget
                            compile Real      HQ DA DCS        requests
                            Property requests G3/5/7
AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011                                                                             11



                                             Chapter 3

                          CAPABILITIES-BASED ARCHITECTURE

3.1. Purpose of Architecture. Air Force weather functional and AFW architectures are
constructed under the guidelines of integrated architectures found in AFI 33-401, Implementing
Air Force Architectures. Architecture is a framework or structure that portrays relationships
among all the elements of the subject force, system, or activity. It is developed to meet specific
objectives. Identifying and prioritizing the intended uses of the architecture is the first step in the
architecture development process.
   3.1.1. Architectures inform and capture DOTMLPF decisions for a portfolio of existing and
   desired capabilities, and goals are established that lead to specified outcomes and activities.
   The defined set of activities is the heart of the architecture, especially for the ―to-be‖ state.
   3.1.2. The Air Force weather functional and AFW architectures address the full range of
   weather operations capabilities required by the warfighters, consistent with DoD, Joint, and
   Service guidance. AFW Architecture:
       3.1.2.1. Documents and conveys capability, data and information, operational, project,
       services, standards, and systems viewpoints of the Air Force weather functional and
       AFW.
       3.1.2.2. Supports migration of multiple legacy programs and systems to a single
       integrated architecture that is accessible via the Global Information Grid and
       interoperable with Air Force and Army C2 systems.
       3.1.2.3. Facilitates interoperability with other required DOD, national, government, and
       commercial services and systems.
       3.1.2.4. Supports AFW programming recommendations that are forwarded to the Air
       Force Corporate Structure.
       3.1.2.5. Provides context for integrating efforts with other domain architecture
       comments.
   3.1.3. Figure 3.1 illustrates integration of architectures into acquisition processes with AFW
   community processes shown in green. The figure shows some of the interactions that occur
   within an architecture-guided acquisition process. The planning and mission-type (red)
   activities occur within the Air Force weather functional. The systems activities (orange)
   typically occur within the supporting program offices. Experimentation (in blue) is not
   always a required activity, but when employed, does tie back to architecture and planning
   processes. Tied either directly or indirectly to all the activities represented is the supporting
   architecture in grey, comprised of a series of Department of Defense Architecture
   Framework (DoDAF) viewpoints.
 12                                                                   AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011


Figure 3.1. Planning Process for AFW Architecture-Guided Acquisition.




3.2. AFW Architecture Development and Verification, Validation, and Approval (VV&A)
Process. The Air Force weather functional uses the development and VV&A process identified
in Figure 3.2. The AFWAC performs the verification and validation of all architecture
viewpoints and models. The approval authority is the AF/A3O-W. In accordance with AFI 33-
401, the Air Force Chief Architect certifies all approved architecture products. See AFI 33-401
for details of the Air Force certification and approval process. All certified architectures will be
posted to the Air Force Architecture Repository.
AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011                                                               13


Figure 3.2. AFW Architecture Development and Verification, Validation, and Approval
Process.




3.3. Prescribed Forms.
    None.
3.4. Adopted Forms.
    AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                        HERBERT J. CARLISLE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                        DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
 14                                                               AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather Operations, 19 February 2010
AFPD 33-4, Enterprise Architecting, 27 June 2006
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, 13 April 2006
AFI 15-157/AR 115-10, Weather Support for US Army, 6 February 2010
AFI 33-401, Implementing Air Force Architectures, 14 March 2007
AFMAN 15-129, Air and Space Weather Operations - Processes and Procedures, 21 June 2004
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFMAN 33-363 Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AR 210-20, Real Property Master Planning for Army Installations, 16 May 2005
AR 71-32, Force Development and Documentation—Consolidated Policies, 3 March 1997
AR 420-1, Army Facilities Management, 12 February 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AFWAC—Air Force Weather Architecture Council
AFW—Air Force Weather
AFW—Air Force Weather
AR—Army Regulation
CAF—Combat Air Forces
C2—Command and Control
CBP—Capability-Based Planning
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
DAMI—OPS—Headquarters, Department of the Army, Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence,
Operations and Plans Directorate, Surveillance Division
AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011                                                                         15


DAMO—FM—Headquarters, Department of the Army, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations,
Director of Force Management
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
DEPFOR—Deputy For, as in Deputy for Federal Programs (FP) or Deputy for National
Intelligence (NI)
DOD—Department of Defense
DoDAF—Department of Defense Architecture Framework
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Operations, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel,
and Facilities
FP—Federal Programs
HQ DA—Headquarters, Department of the Army
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
MAJCOM—Major Command (Air Force)
MTOE—Modified Table of Organization and Equipment
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SOF—Special Operations Forces
SWO—Staff Weather Officer
TRADOC—Training and Doctrine Command (Army)
TOE—Table of Organization and Equipment
VV&A—Verification, Validation and Approval

Terms
Architecture—A framework or structure that portrays relationships among all the elements of
the subject force, system, or activity.
Capability—The combined capacity of personnel, materiel, equipment, and information in
measured quantities, under specified conditions, that, acting together in a prescribed set of
activities, can be used to achieve a desired output.
Enterprise—An organization supporting a defined business scope and mission. An enterprise
includes interdependent resources (people, organizations, and technology) that must coordinate
their functions and share information in support of a common mission (or set of related
missions).
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System—A Joint concepts-centric
process that supports the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Requirements Oversight Council in
identifying, assessing, and prioritizing Joint military capability needs and identifying integrated
 16                                                            AFI15-182 19 APRIL 2011


DOTMLPF solutions (materiel and non-materiel) to fill those needs within the DOD CBP
process.
Requirement—An established need justifying the timely allocation of resources to achieve a
capability to accomplish approved military objectives, missions, or tasks.
